The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19549
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETIQN REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FINANCIAL SECTOR AND ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2221-MAI)
June 30, 1999
Private Sector Finance Group
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfornance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Malawi Kwarha(MK)
US$ 1 = MK 2.65 (Exchange rate of January 1991)
US$ I = MK 43.23 (Exchange rate of June 1999)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
April I - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DCA            Development Credit Agreement
FIAS           Foreign Investment Advisory Service
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
IDA            International Development Association
INDEBANK   Investment and Development Bank of Malawi
LFC            Leasing and Finance Company of Malawi
MDC            Malawi Development Corporation
MIPA           Malawi Investment Promotion Agency
MOP            Memorandum of the President
MPTC           Malawi Post & Telecommunications Company
MSB            Malawi Savings Bank
NBFI           Non-banking Financial Institutions
PFI            Participating Financial Intermediaries
POSB           Post Office Savings Bank
RBM            Reserve Bank of Malawi
SDR            Special Drawing Rights
SME            Small and Medium Scale Enterprises
,,#E ,i, i E f iiR iE ............... E iEREE  i F iD iSE iTE,fj iER iDiR  .................-...............................-  .................  ........  .,.,,,.,,....
CuryDirector                                Baraa ::Kafka, AF ::!!
-~~~~~.. .geX m : :::.-T:, t :.     ;S :. -:,-   ;-:   : >....... ..  ............   ..........   ..............................,..,..::
.     ......-- .- ..  ...... e m -.  "'at   i     L-              t ! tii.tEe - -. S- -   ---d f 6bi E   -  -i
:-/ o r t ......     .        :i.  i                :gE.T    .2E.iEG)i2.wEz+EiAF1SS - i- 
T.al  uemLad:                                 (av  aa,AFTPI
TaskTe~m~                                       Elftha W. il.ia.ms.....  AF.T..
,.,+,,,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fh                       I,^, ,S.1 . , g,.... gi .wF-ssl at^u    



REPUBLIC OF MALAWI FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FINANCIAL SECTOR AND ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2221-MAI)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface .............................................                                        i
Evaluation  Summary  ................ .....................                                 ii
PART I -- PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ................                                 1
A. Background .........I...   I
B. Statement/Evaluation of Project Objectives ...................                  2
C. Achievement of Project Objectives .......................                       3
D. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project.  ........        8
E. Project Sustainability.                                                         9
F. Bank Performance .10
G. Borrower Performance             ..10
H. Assessment of Outcome             ..10
1. Future Operation ............................11
J.  Key  Lessons Learned    ........................ .....11
PART II -- STATISTICAL TABLES .13
Table 1 : Summary of Assessments .13
Table 2   Related Bank Loans/Credits .....................                        14
Table 3 Project Timetable .15
Table 4   Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .15
Table 5 : Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation ..     .        15
Table 6-A Project Costs .16
Table 6-B    Project Financing ...........................                        16
Table 6-C: Institutional capacity Building Costs .................                16
Table7: Economic Analysis ........................                                17
Table 8 : Status of Legal Covenants .......................                       18
Table 9: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .....................                       29
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Missions ...................                      29
APPENDICES
A. ICR Mission's Aide-Memoire
B. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
C. Characteristics of Sub-Loans
D. Investment Projections of Projects Assisted by Malawi Investment
Promotion Agency (MIPA)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ii
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FINANCIAL SECTOR AND ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2221-MAI)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
The Financial Sector and Enterprise Development Project was prepared at a time when
Malawi was implementing a comprehensive reform program. The system of rigid and direct
controls of the 1980s was being transformed to a more robust, market-oriented economic strategy
aimed at poverty alleviation, improved fiscal and monetary management and enhanced structural
reforms to, inter alia, strengthen the financial sector and develop the private sector. The Project
was the result of extensive preparatory work, which included an Industrial Sector Memorandum, a
Financial Sector Review and, in 1990, a FIAS diagnostic review of Malawi's investment climate.
Reforms in the financial sector were expected to focus on a market-oriented system of monetary
policy management and enhancing competition by allowing new financial institutions to enter the
market and by licensing existing institutions to broaden the scope of their activities. Reforms in
the industrial sector were expected to focus on: encouraging new investment especially in export-
oriented industries; developing the institutional framework for investment promotion; and
focusing Government policies on promoting development of Small and Medium Enterprises.
Project Objectives
The objectives of the project were to support Government efforts to expand exports and
improve the policy and institutional framework relevant to private sector investment. These
objectives would be achieved by: (a) encouraging the commercial banks and non-bank financial
intermediaries to engage in term financing of viable enterprises in the productive sectors,
including SMEs and enterprises owned by women; (b) improving the institutional framework for
export finance and investment promotion, including support for a proposed investment promotion
agency, and an industrial infrastructure and factory shell development program; (c) supporting the
strengthening and operational diversification of financial institutions; and (d) improving monetary
policy management.
The project consisted of three components to achieve these objectives: investment finance
component; industrial estates component; and institutional capacity development component.
The investment finance component was under-designed with regard to financial management
systems and procedures. The industrial estates component was undesigned and some key sub-
components under the institutional capacity component were also undesigned or not sufficiently
designed.



iii
Implementation Experience and Results
The investment finance component succeeded in getting financial institutions to
undertake term financing to firms in the productive sectors as well as in generating additional
investment from the firms and other co-financiers. The Project financed 152 sub-loans to 126
firms, through four financial intermediaries: the Investment and Development Bank of Malawi
(INDEBANK), the Malawi Development Corporation (MDC), the Leasing and Finance Company
of Malawi (LFC) and the National Bank of Malawi (NBM). Sub-loan amounts ranged from MK
7,900 to MK 20.0 million. INDEBANK sub-loans represented 42 percent of the IDA Investment
Credit, followed by LFC with 33 percent and MDC with 24 percent. In terms of sector
distribution, the largest share of the total investment and number of sub-loans was in the
manufacturing sector, representing 52 percent of the total, with services and transport representing
15 percent each respectively.
Achievement of project objectives - especially with regard to the investment finance
component - was impacted by three major exogenous factors (political transformation, droughts
and economic management) which had a serious impact on achievement of objectives. The
political transition changed the country from 30 years of one-party rule to a multiparty
democracy; in 1992, there was withdrawal of donor support for non-humanitarian assistance and
re-imposition of exchange rate and other controls. This was exacerbated by the most severe
drought in thirty years. In 1994, there was deterioration of fiscal discipline during the months
leading to the elections as a result of expenditures related to a referendum and elections as well as
a firther drought. The Malawi kwacha depreciated by 70 per cent and continued to decline further
thereafter while inflation accelerated to 83 per cent in 1995. All of these further undermined the
investment climate macroeconomic stabilization process. The uncertainty associated with
political change translated into sagging private sector confidence and a "wait-and-see" attitude of
private investors. Finally, between mid-1997 and mid-1998 (the end of the project), there was
once again deterioration of fiscal discipline, reduction in prices for the major export crop
(tobacco) and significant adjustment in the exchange rate. The private sector was, hence, subject
to the several economic "shocks" and, at project end, there were significant levels of arrears -
measured both as arrears from firms to the PFIs and from the PFIs to the RBM. Hence, while the
component was partially successful in achieving its objectives with regard to expanding term
financing, the arrears raise concems regarding the sustainability of the results.
The macro-economic factors affecting the project were further exacerbated by
implementation shortcomings including: (a) the Reserve Bank of Malawi's (RBM) inability to
manage and monitor the investment credit; and (b) poor financial management, weak overall
project accounting and audit deficiencies resulting in part from the absence of a project
implementation unit to coordinate project activities and serve as an interface between IDA and the
multiple project counterparts.
The industrial sites component expenditures were considerably reduced through re-
allocation to other components (from US$7 million to around US$0.5 million) and as a result it is
considered as having achieved its objectives in only a negligible manner. The capacity building
component is considered to have partially achieved development objectives. Certain activities
were completed in a satisfactory manner (e.g. improvement in the institutional framework for
investment promotion through the creation of the Malawi Investment Promotion Agency (MIPA)
and technical assistance and training for RBM) while in the case of other components, it is



iv
difficult to make further judgements regarding the developmental impact in the absence of
detailed impact evaluations (e.g. the SME sub-component).
The sustainability of the Project is unlikely primarily because the sustainability of the
Investment Credit Component - which is the largest component - is rated as unlikely. The
sustainability of the underlying investments in 152 projects in the agriculture, manufacturing and,
service and commercial sectors is uncertain; the current high levels of arrears on sub-loans raise
serious but unanswered questions regarding viability. The arrears from the firms to the PFIs
suggests that either the investments are not financially viable at the firm level or if they are viable,
there is either a short-term liquidity problem or willful non-payment. At the level of the PFIs,
the project sustainability is judged to be unlikely since as funds from the line of credit become
depleted through devaluation/inflation and non-repayment, there has been no significant increase
of alternative sources of term savings in the economy. As far as the capacity building component
is concerned, while support and technical assistance to MIPA and to the banks have been
beneficial, for other sub-components, such as the SME Support Fund, it is more difficult to assess
their sustainability and developmental impact.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
Project objectives are assessed to have been achieved only partially but the project is rated
as unsatisfactory primarily because it is rated as unsustainable.
The agenda initiated under the project has continued to be part of the structural
adjustment program and the associated First and Second Fiscal Restructuring and Deregulation
Projects. The transformation of the financial sector continues with the Government committing
itself to more competition and withdrawing itself directly and indirectly from the existing
financial institutions. The focus on private sector development activities under FRDP I and II has
been threefold: addressing infrastructure constraints, continuing focus on privatization especially
of agriculture and related activities; and addressing constricting regulations especially in the area
of temporary employment permits. The Government is also in the process of preparing a Private
Sector Development Project. The focus of project preparation will be initially on assessing
competitiveness of major sectors of the economy and addressing the key constraints based on this
analysis. Hence, it is likely that the unfinished agenda under this project (factory shells,
industrial estates, export financing) may be addressed by the future operation although at this
initial stage of project preparation it is unclear which precise activities would be included.
The following are some of the lessons learned from this operation which should help in
the preparation of future similar projects:
*  instability in the macro-economic environment has a substantial impact on financial
intermediary lending. Where such instability arises after the commencement of
project implementation, there is a self-correcting mechanism built into the line of
credit since demand for credit slows down due to higher interest rates and lower
demand for products. However, where there is frequent volatility in the macro
environment, the Bank needs to work with the Borrower in assessing the impact on
the private sector and, if appropriate, finding a mutually agreed method of scaling
down or terminating the line of credit;
* sustainability of a term lending operation requires that the project design should
explicitly address issues of medium-term savings in the domestic economy;



v
* project appraisal needs to address design issues at the component level and in the case
of multi-component projects, linkages across components. Specific assessments
should be undertaken - as are now routinely required - of the Borrower's
institutional and implementation capacity. Project covenants - especially with regard
to prior review - should be based on this appraisal of Borrower capacity. Further,
project administration, financial management and procurement procedures need to be
explicitly documented in a Project Inplementation Plan; and
* in the case of financial intermediation operations, monitoring indicators should
include, in addition to the financial viability of the sub-projects, the viability of the
institutions (PFIs and firns).



REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FINANCIAL SECTOR AND ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2221-MAI)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART I -- PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND
1.    The Financial Sector and Enterprise Development Project (the Project) was prepared at a
time when Malawi was implementing a comprehensive reform program. The system of rigid and
direct controls of the 1980s was being transformed to a more robust, market-oriented economic
strategy aimed at poverty alleviation, improved fiscal and monetary management and enhanced
structural reforms to, inter alia, strengthen the financial sector and develop the private sector. The
Project was the result of extensive preparatory work, which included an Industrial Sector
Memorandum, a Financial Sector Review and, in 1990, a FIAS diagnostic review of Malawi' s
investment climate.
2.    Financial Sector. At the time of project appraisal, commercial banks extended little or no
term financing and did not service the Small and Medium Scale Enterprise sector (SME) because
of high administrative costs and the perceived high risk associated with SME clients. The
insurance companies and the Post Office Savings Bank (POSB), the main mobilizers of term
savings, were obliged to invest in Government securities. Finally, the Investment and
Development Bank of Malawi (INDEBANK) and the Malawi Development Corporation (MDC)
depended almost exclusively on external borrowing to fund their lending activities and the other
Non-Banking Financial Institutions (NBFIs), that potentially represented the most innovative part
of the financial market, were constrained by the lack of adequate term resources and economic
regulations. Reforms in the financial sector were expected to focus on a market-oriented system of
monetary policy management and enhancing competition by allowing new financial institutions
to enter the market , by licensing existing institutions to broaden the scope of their activities and
by enhancing the macro economic conditions to allow savings mobilization and term
transformation.
3.    Private Sector. At the time of project appraisal, the private sector in Malawi was highly
concentrated in output and ownership; constrained by high transportation costs especially
resulting from closure of Mozambique trade routes and local transportation monopolies; and
considered to have a high efficiency in value added generated and good growth prospects in
exportable products. Reforms in the industrial sector were contained in an Investment Policy
Statement and were expected to focus on: (a) encouraging new investment by reducing the level
and dispersion of protection and simplifying import and export licensing requirements; reducing
delays in licensing and company formation; easing foreign exchange administrative procedures;
streamlining procedures for access to industrial land; and ensuring timely availability of ready-
made factory shells for potential investors; (b) encouraging export-oriented investment in non-
traditional export products; (c) developing the institutional framework for investment promotion;



2
and (d) focusing Government policies on promoting development of Small and Medium
Enterprises (SMEs).
B.  STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
4.    The objectives of the project were to support Government efforts to expand exports and
improve the policy and institutional framework relevant to private sector investment. These
objectives would be achieved by: (a) encouraging the commercial banks and non-bank financial
intermediaries to engage in term financing of viable enterprises in the productive sectors,
including SMEs and enterprises owned by women; (b) improving the institutional framework for
export finance and investment promotion, including support for a proposed investment promotion
agency, and an industrial infrastructure and factory shell development program; (c) supporting the
strengthening and operational diversification of financial institutions; and (d) improving monetaly
policy management.
5.    The Project, which involved $32.0 million equivalent (SDR 22.0 million), consisted of
the following three components:
(a)   an Investment Finance Component ($20.4 m.) to provide term finance to projects
in productive sectors promoted by foreign and indigenous private sector
entrepreneurs, including SMEs and businesses owned and operated by women;
(b)   an industrial sites component ($7.0 m.) to provide industrial infrastructure to
industrial sites and factory shells to facilitate investment by indigenous
enterprises and foreign investors, especially those investing in export-oriented
activities; and
(c)    a multi-faceted institutional capacity development component ($4.6 m.) to
support implementation of the reform program in the financial and industrial
sectors. Activities supported by this component would include staff training for
participating financial intermediaries and SME support institutions; strengthening
Reserve Bank of Malawi's (RBM) capacity to manage monetary policy;
investment promotion; and supporting and deepening of the financial sector by
helping with the diversification and re-orientation of several financial institutions.
6.    Project objectives were too ambitious, particularly given the Government's
implementation capacity. Furthermore, the project objectives were not well integrated with each
other, a critical factor, given the large number of components included in the Project.
7.    The Project was prepared during a period of time when there was an extensive discussion
ongoing within the Bank on financial sector policies and operations which eventually resulted in a
widely disseminated report in 1991 and an Operational Directive (8.30) in 1992. h line with this
evolving thinking, the project departed from previous interventions for term financing in Malawi
which allocated term financing to separate sectors through specialized financial institutions at
different interest rates, terms and conditions. Instead, the Project used the apex approach which
resulted in: consolidation of IDA's term lending in Malawi for all productive sectors; and
utilization of multiple financial intermediaries. Similarly, there was emphasis on moving towards
a market based structure of interest rates by utilizing a reference lending rate which was calculated



3
as an average of all prevailing interest rates on long-term deposits in commercial banks.
However, despite these movements towards potential changes in Bank policies, the project design
did not deal with a key issue of sustainability i.e. increasing the supply of long-term domestic
savings so that the financing gap met during the project period by the line of credit would be
reduced by the project end.
C.  ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
8.    Context. Achievement of project objectives - especially with regard to the investment
finance component - was impacted by three major exogenous factors (political transformation,
droughts and economic management) which had a serious impact on achievement of objectives.
The political transition changed the country from 30 years of one-party rule to a multiparty
democracy; in 1992, there was withdrawal of donor support for non-humanitarian assistance and
re-imposition of exchange rate and other controls. This was exacerbated by the most severe
drought in thirty years. In 1994, there was deterioration of fiscal discipline during the months
leading to the elections as a result of expenditures related to a referendum and elections as well as
a further drought. The Malawi kwacha depreciated by 70 per cent and continued to decline
thereafter while inflation accelerated to 83 per cent in 1995. All of these also further undermined
the investment climate. The uncertainty associated with political change translated into sagging
private sector confidence and a "wait-and-see" attitude of private investors. Finally, between mid-
1997 and mid-1998 (the end of the project), there was once again deterioration of fiscal discipline,
reduction in prices for the major export crop (tobacco) and significant adjustment in the exchange
rate. The effects can be seen through the movements in the exchange rate and the Consumer Price
Index:
(a)    Between project appraisal in 1991 and project completion in 1998, the Malawi
Kwacha devalued from 2.65 to 25.7 per US$1. There were several devaluations
with the most significant movements in exchange rates occuring in 1992/93 when
the kwacha went from 2.65 to 4.5, during 1994 when it went from 5 to up to 15
and between July 1997 to end June 1998 when it went from 15 to 25.7.
(b)    During the years of project implementation - 1992 through 1998 - the average
Consumer Price Index increased over the previous year's average by 13%, 23%,
20%, 83%, 38%, 9% (estimated) and 16% (estimated).
9.    The investment finance component succeeded in getting financial institutions to
undertake term financing to firms in the productive sectors as well as in generating additional
investment from the firns and other co-financiers. These firms were, however, subject to the
several economic "shocks" described above and, at project end, there were significant levels of
arrears - measured both as arrears from firms to the PFIs and from the PFIs to the RBM. Hence,
while the component was partially successful in achieving its objectives with regard to expanding
term financing, the arrears raise concerns regarding the sustainability of the results which are
discussed in the relevant section (Section E). Given the reduction in funds expended under the
industrial sites component as a result of re-allocation to other components, this is considered as
having achieved its objectives in only a negligible manner. The capacity building component is
considered to have partially achieved development objectives. Certain activities were completed
in a satisfactory manner (e.g. improvement in the institutional framework for investment



4
promotion through the creation of the Malawi Investment Promotion Agency (MIPA) and
technical assistance and training for RBM) while in the case of other components, it is difficult
to make furtherjudgements regarding the developmental impact in the absence of detailed
impact evaluations (e.g. the SME sub-component). Project objectives are, hence, assessed to
have been achieved only partially. The component-by-component evaluation is provided below.
Investment Finance Component
10.   The objective of this component was to make IDA funds available to eligible financial
intermediaries through an apex arrangement at RBM. The PFIs would on-lend these funds to
viable enterprises to finance investment in productive activities through normal term financing
mechanisms such as leasing, equity finance and term loans. The sub-projects would range from
small to large scale and from private to public, foreign or Malawian or mixed ownership. Initially,
no one financial intermediary would have access to more than 20 percent of the total funds under
this component, although this ceiling would be reviewed regularly. The PFIs bore the credit risk
for the full value of the sub-loan and were thus the ones responsible for assessing the sub-
borrowers' creditworthiness. The interest rate charged by RBM to the PFIs was a reference rate,
calculated quarterly by RBM, based on a simple average of all prevailing interest rates on long-
term deposits in commercial banks. The component was under-designed especially with regard
to: the financial management system in the APEX unit which would be utilized in monitoring
disbursements made at a sub-loan level; criteria for putting sub-loans into non-accrual status; and
impact monitoring at the APEX unit and by PFIs.
11.   By project completion, an equivalent of US$ 25.3 million was disbursed through four
PFIs: INDEBANK, MDC, the Leasing and Finance Corporation (LFC) and the National Bank of
Malawi (NBM). Highlights of the sub-projects financed include:
(a)    152 sub-loans were extended to 126 firms ranging in amounts from MK 7,900 to
MK 20.0 million;
(b)   sub-projects financed by LFC represented 70 percent of the totality of firms but
only 33 per cent of the IDA credit amount. INDEBANK sub-loans represented
42 percent of the credit amount and MDC - 24 percent (see Graph I and
Appendix B). NBM financed only one sub-loan equivalent to about $180,000;
(c)   in terms of sector distribution, the largest share was in the manufacturing sector
(52 percent) with services and transport representing 15 percent each respectively
(see Graph 2).
(d)    Sub-projects financed by MDC and INDEBANK created 4,296 jobs at an average
investment cost perjob of US $9,595. 1
LFC could not provide relevant information.



5
Distribution of INDEBANK, MDC and LFC Sub-loans
Graph I                                      Graph 2
Sub-loan Distribution by PFI               Sub-loan Distribution by Sector
15%   3%        Agrihin
15%        ~~0 Manufating
33%                                                            0 Services
42%                              1Tracing
*Tra'mport
_   %J MINDEBANK                                          520h
24%       *MDC
o LFC
12.   The demand for term financing was high and by the Project Mid-Term Review in 1996,
an additional $6.0 million had been re-allocated to the Investment Finance Component from the
Industrial Sites Component, which was not disbursing. In a subsequent effort to satisfy this
demand for financing, it was also agreed to recycle loan recoveries received by the Apex Unit
(principal and interest).
13.   Impact Assessment at Firm Level. The project monitoring system was very weak and
did not continuously track the indicators of the investment finance component which could be
used as benchmarks to measure the achievement of the objectives. There was lack of data from all
the PFIs which made it difficult to make a quantitative assessment of the current profitability of
all the finns. An impact assessment, though not completely adequate, was undertaken during the
Mid-Term Review of the project. RBM agreed to carry out a detailed assessment in cooperation
with the Ministry of Finance at the end of the project. This was not completed by the time of
writing the ICR; the Government's contribution to the ICR provides percentage changes in some
indicators but this is not sufficient for a thorough analysis. An additional study - including a
survey - being undertaken by IDA and the Government on the impact of the adjustment program
on the manufacturing sector is underway at this time and also not completed by the time of the
writing of this ICR.
14.    For purposes of the ICR, the task team analyzed progress reports provided by
INDEBANK for a sample of seventeen fimns. The conclusions are overall mixed. The main
financial information available is as to whether the firms had been servicing their debt or not,
giving little information about overall perfornance. Once the sub-loan was paid in full, no further
(and more recent) financial data was collected. Firms in the sample experienced severe economic
and financial difficulties during the mid-1990s since as a result of the devaluation of the Kwacha
and the increased inflation - as discussed earlier - there were resulting increases in interest rates.
As of June 1998, about half of the seventeen firms in the sample were still facing financial,
operational and management difficulties.
15.   Impact Assessment at PFI level. During project implementation, record-keeping,
accounting and financial reporting on the Investnent Credit (and Industrial Sites) components
progressively deteriorated. In May 1998, during the ICR mission, the IDA team was informed
that PFIs had significant overdue repayments to the RBM; these had been reported earlier as being



6
up to date in payments. Based on infornation provided by INDEBANK, LFC and MDC, as of
mid-1998, arrears represented 30 percent, 44 percent and 87 percent of the IDA sub-loan portfolio,
respectively. About 53 percent of all sub-loans, as of June 1998, were in arrears. Infonnation
contained in the Government's contribution which shows overdue interest as of April 1999 would
appear to confirm that this situation remains. 2
16.   The Financial Sector. In terms of increasing sustainability in the term finance segment of
the financial sector, the results of this component are unsatisfactory. Overall, the component has
not led to any discernible increase in the volume of privately generated and managed term finance
in the economy. INDEBANK has been partially successful and has established a separate
subsidiary (Indefinance) through which it is mobilizing funds on a commercial basis. MDC has
not been able to develop long-term sources of local currency financing and is currently facing
serious financial difficulties. Its performance has recently been deteriorating and its prudential
standards compromised. While LFC has been able to mobilize deposits, it remains dependent on
the IDA Credit facility for local currency term financing.
Industrial Sites Component
17.   The objective of this component was to provide financing to PFIs for on-lending to
eligible developers of industrial sites and to ensure timely availability of infrastructure and factory
shells to domestic and foreign investors, especially for export-oriented activities. The objectives
of this component were only marginally achieved. This component was added on during project
negotiations and was un-designed until the start of implementation. Given that no demand
assessment was made during project preparation, the level of funding allocated to this component
(US$7.0 million) was determined lO be too high especially given the time frame for
implementation.
18.   The key issue was access to land and the administrative barriers to acquiring land in
developing the industrial estates; this issue still remains unresolved up to this date. Even
assuming that this issue could have been satisfactorily resolved, the macro-economic enviromment
from 1994 through 1996 would have made financing for this type of activity prohibitively
expensive given the medium-term amortization period required for infrastructure projects and the
alternative high retums available on Government Treasury Bills. Further, the Project design
would have needed to address how the industrial estate would have coordinated satisfactory
services to the estate from public utilities which were otherwise ineffective in the delivery of
roads, water, sewer, telephone and electrical services.
19.   Under the component, two factory shells were financed as was the development of the
Maone Park, representing 13% of the amount available. The component was scaled down and the
amount reduced from US$ 7.0 m. equivalent to US$0.5 m. Late in project implementation,
Government institutions (MIPA and MDC) proposed to channel funding through the Ministry of
Lands and Valuation for site upgrading in Lilongwe. IDA did not agree given the short period
remaining under the Project.
2   The data is unclear as to the extent of principal also overdue.



7
Institutional Capacity Development Component
20.   INDEBANK and MDC. The technical assistance and training provided for
strengthening the managerial and institutional capacity of these two financial institutions was
assessed to have achieved its objectives.
21.   Malawi Savings Bank (MSB). The objective of this component, namely to convert the
Post Office Savings Bank (POSB) into an independent, commercially-oriented financial
institution and full-service savings bank, was not achieved. The Project financed a consultant to
design this component during project implementation; the design is assessed as not having
addressed the inherent difficulties in the mobilization of small-sized savings deposits on a cost-
effective basis. The implementation of the component was also poor and contributed to the
component's failure to achieve its objectives. A law was passed providing for the legal
incorporation of the Malawi Savings Bank (MSB) but was not implemented because of lack of
reconciliation of funds owed to MSB by Malawi Post and Telecommunications Company
(MPTC). Further, agreement was not reached between Govemnment, RBM and MPTC on the
proposed separation of deposit-taking operations of MSB from MPTC, including the designation
of secured operating premises at select post offices.
22.   Support to the RBM in Macro-economic Management. Initial support was provided
for RBM staff in macro modeling. Funds were also provided in the drafting of Securities
legislation and associated regulations. The sub-component is assessed as having achieved its
objectives.
23.   Export Credit Guarantee Scheme. This component was not sufficiently appraised
although funds were allocated to this component for Technical Assistance, training and support in
the establishment of operating policies and procedures of an export credit guarantee scheme. No
funding was provided for the guarantee scheme itself. This sub-component was not implemented.
24.   SME Support Fund. The objective of this component was to provide training to Small
and Medium Scale Enterprises (SME) and to SME support institutions. There were two design
deficiencies: first, project appraisal did not focus on whether in the overall sectoral context,
technical training was the principal constraint facing SMEs; and second, the fund provided 100%
support and the absence of a matching grant element makes it difficult to determine what the
priorities should have been across institutions. Taking into account these constraints,
implementation seems to have been reasonably successful. Indications are that 4,610 persons,
consisting of both trainers and entrepreneurs, were trained in business-related subjects. Site visits
and discussions with heads of professional associations and training institutes suggest that the
benefits of the training provided have been significant. An evaluation of the achievement of
objectives of the SME Fund, including an assessment of the impact of the training on the
institutional capacity of organizations supported as well as on ultimate SME beneficiaries was
repeatedly requested by IDA from the Borrower. This evaluation was never carried out.
In the absence of such an assessment, it is difficult to make further judgements regarding the
developmental impact of this component.
25.   Support to MIPA. This component helped create MIPA, which is generally regarded as
an effective organization. The component has also provided MIPA with extensive financial
support in the form of operating costs, training and studies. MIPA's early achievements were
limited mostly because of the unstable macro-economic environment and continuing difficulties



8
with the investment regime and with the country's infrastructure. However, it has now become a
key player in investment promotion in Malawi and its capacity to provide assistance to investors
is demonstrable. In addition to its investment promotion missions, MIPA has been active in
assisting enterprises, including SMEs and has established a large database which is accessible to
finns. It has also worked with other government agencies and ministries to reduce some of the
investment barriers. Preliminary data provided by MIPA, indicate that MIPA has, so far, assisted
over sixty enterprises, representing investments equivalent to US$ 198.0 million equivalent, and
resulting in the creation of 6,347 jobs. Appendix D provides more details on MIPA's activities.
D.    IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE
PROJECT
26.   As noted earlier, the macro-economic environment was unfavorable throughout the
project. Despite the unfavorable environment, early project implementation progressed well, and
disbursements were on target, although progress on individual components varied widely.
Demand for the investment line of credit was periodically strong despite the unattractive business
environment, drought and political uncertainty. However, some components such as the
construction of the factory shells and assistance to SMEs experienced serious delays.
27.   A mid-term review was carried out in October 1996. The Government prepared an
assessment of the impact of the line of credit and of the main sub-projects - which up to that time
- were still few in numbers. The information was, however, inadequate in being able to measure
global increases in investment, employment and output attributed to the finns which benefited
from the IDA line of credit. The Investment Credit Component was assessed as progressing
satisfactorily, with full repayment by sub-borrowers to PFIs. Disbursements under the industrial
sites component had been limited to two MDC factory shells and support of development at
Maone Park with no demand found for this facility under the existing terms and conditions of the
financing. Given the lack of progress of the Industrial Sites Component and the need to satisfy the
demand for additional sub-projects under the investment component, an agreement was reached
between IDA and the Governmentto amend the legal documents to reallocate US$ 5.5 million
from the Industrial Sites Component, which was not disbursing, to the Investment Credit
Component. Other legal amendments focused on providing greater operational flexibility to the
PFIs by raising the threshold under which international competitive bidding for sub-projects
would be required; and eliminating review of sub-projects by RBM, leaving the judgment of sub-
project merit to the PFIs.
28.   Conclusions of the Mid-term Review as they related to the Institutional Capacity
Building Component included the following: (a) a recommendation that the management of the
SME Fund carry out an evaluation of the achievements of objectives of the Fund, including the
net impact of training provided on the institutional capacity of organizations trained and on the
ultimate beneficiaries; and (b) that IDA would need to agree with the Government on a Business
Plan for the restructuring of Malawi Savings Bank, before approval of further funding under the
POSB Component,. The Bank expressed concern over the weak administration and record-
keeping under the Project and suggested that the Ministry of Finance put in place corrective
measures, to which the Government agreed in writing. These measures included: (a) undertaking
a reconciliation of accounts to ensure consistency between the borrower's and IDA's records; (b)
delineating clearer lines of responsibility for maintenance of updated commitment and
disbursement infonmation for the Institutional Capacity Building Component; and (c) instituting a
requirement under the Project that all subsequent approvals of non-objection requests are copied



9
to the relevant parties for them to update their record. The Mid-term Review also concluded that
the technical assistance provided to INDEBANK and MDC had achieved its objective.
29.   Deficiencies in record keeping and monitoring of project accounts were, early on, limited
to the Ministiy of Finance, which was responsible for the institutional capacity component.
Monitoring and supervision of the Investment Credit by the Apex Unit did not seem to present a
particular problem at the time. As noted earlier, by project completion, however, there was a
serious deterioration in the level of record-keeping maintained by the Apex Unit as well.
Reporting documentation was out-of-date, incomplete, lacked adequate support documents and, in
some cases was inaccurate. Furthermore, PFIs did not monitor regularly arrears, resulting in
unhealthy increases as early as 1994. While some counterpart agencies, such as MIPA, kept
relatively accurate and up-to-date records, other counterpart agencies did not, with little oversight
and reconciliation by the Ministry. Since disbursements in the World Bank are recorded
according to disbursement category and not according to sub-component, IDA could only monitor
total use of funds and had to rely on the borrower's records for further details.
30.   The macro-economic factors affecting the project were fiuther exacerbated by
implementation shortcomings including: (a) the Reserve Bank of Malawi's (RBM) inability to
manage and monitor the investment credit; and (b) poor financial management, weak overall
project accounting and audit deficiencies resulting in part from the absence of a project
implementation unit to coordinate project activities and serve as an interface between IDA and the
multiple project counterparts.
E.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
31.   The sustainability of the Project is unlikely primarily because the sustainability of the
Investment Credit Component - which is the largest component - is rated as unlikely. The
sustainability of the underlying investments in 152 projects in the agriculture, manufacturing and,
service and commercial sectors is uncertain; the current high levels of arrears on sub-loans raise
serious but unanswered questions regarding viability. The arrears from the firms to the PFIs
suggests that either the investments are not financially viable at the frm level or if they are viable,
there is either a short-term liquidity problem or willful non-payment. At the level of the PFIs,
the project sustainability is judged to be unlikely since as funds from the line of credit become
depleted through devaluation/inflation and non-repayment, there has been no significant increase
of alternative sources of term savings in the economy. As far as the capacity building component
is concerned, while support and technical assistance to MIPA and to the banks have been
beneficial, for other sub-components, such as the SME Support Fund, it is more difficult to assess
their sustainability and developmental impact.



10
F.    BANK PERFORMANCE
32.   Bank performance during identification, preparation and appraisal was unsatisfactory.
Appraisal was deficient as the objectives of the Project were too broad, several components were
un-designed or under-designed and the numerous components were not well integrated.
Furthennore, no evaluation benchmarks were identified during appraisal and no mechanisms were
established to monitor the different project activities. The Bank did not adequately ensure that the
Borrower had the capacity to coordinate project activities and the absence of a Project
Implementation Unit meant that each counterpart agency was ultimately responsible for record
keeping, financial management and procurement.
33.   Bank supervision was satisfactory; it overcame design deficiencies and monitored
implementation fairly well based on the data made available to it by the RBM Apex Unit and the
PFIs. The limitations of the Bank's ability to supervise arose from: a high prior review threshold
which limited the amount of information which was required to be sent to the Bank; and a
deficient accounting and control system which did not capture sufficient information at the
Borrower's level which could be subjected to post review.
G.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
34.   The Borrower's performance has, overall been unsatisfactory. With the exception of
MIPA and the SME Fund sub-components which were managed relatively well, the performance
of the other counterparts was unsatisfactory. The performance of RBM and the Apex Unit which
was satisfactory initially became deficient during the last year and a half of project
implementation not only in the management and monitoring of the Investment Credit Component
but also in its compliance with legal covenants and audits (see Table 9 for details on compliance).
High staff tumover in the Apex Unit created severe operational difficulties and lack of
institutional memory and also contributed to the Unit's unsatisfactory performance. By project
completion there was a serious deterioration in the record keeping, accounting and financial
reporting of the Investment Credit and Industrial Sites components.
H.    ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
35.   The overall outcome of the Project is unsatisfactory especially since sustainability is
unlikely.
1.    FUTURE OPERATION
36.   The agenda initiated under the project has continued to be part of the structural
adjustment program and the associated First and Second Fiscal Restructuring and Deregulation
Projects (FY96 and FY99 respectively). The transformation of the financial sector continues with
the Government committing itself to more competition and withdrawing itself directly and
indirectly from the existing financial institutions. The Government has sold part of its shares
(and MDC' s shares) in the National Bank of Malawi through a public offering. The Government
is also undertaking a review to provide an adequate regulatory framework in the post-privatized
financial sector. Finally, the Govermment is in the process of divesting its remaining shares in the



11
National Bank of Malawi and the Commercial Bank of Malawi. It should also be noted that
Government shareholdings in some other institutions in the financial sector would be divested as
part of the privatization program and that a number of the state owned enterprises in which MDC
has made investments are also in the process of privatization.
37.    The focus on private sector development activities under FRDP I and II has been
threefold: first, addressing infrastructure constraints - the reform of the telecommunications
sector, the planned divestiture of the telecommunications entity and the refonn and restructuring
of the power sector are a central part of the agenda; second, there has been a continuing focus on
privatization especially of agriculture and related activities to provide a focus for new investment
in the economy; and finally, there has been continuing work to address constricting regulations
especially in the area of temporary employment permits.
38.    Finally, the Government is in the process of preparing a Private Sector Development
Project. The focus of project preparation will be initially on assessing competitiveness of major
sectors of the economy and addressing the key constraints based on this analysis. Hence, it is
likely that the unfinished agenda under this project (factory shells, industrial estates, export
financing) may be addressed by the future operation although at this initial stage of project
preparation it is unclear which precise activities would be included.
J.     KEY LESSONS LEARNED
39.    The following are some of the lessons learned from this operation which should help in
the preparation of future similar projects:
* instability in the macro-economic environment has a substantial impact on financial
intermediary lending. Where such instability arises after the commencement of
project implementation, there is a self-correcting mechanism built into the line of
credit since demand for credit slows down due to higher interest rates and lower
demand for products. However, where there is frequent volatility in the macro
enviromment, the Bank needs to work with the Borrower in assessing the impact on
the private sector and, if appropriate, finding a mutually agreed method of scaling
down or terminating the line of credit;
* project appraisal needs to address design issues at the component level and in the case
of multi-component projects, linkages across components. Specific assessments
should be undertaken - as are now routinely required - of the Borrower's
institutional capacity. Project covenants - especially with regard to prior review -
should be based on this appraisal of Borrower capacity. Further, project
administration, financial management and procurement procedures need to be
explicitly documented in a Project Implementation Plan; and
* in the case of financial intermediation operations, monitoring indicators should
include, in addition to the financial viability of the sub-projects, the viability of the
institutions (PFIs and firms).



12
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FINANCIAL SECTOR AND ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2221-MAI)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART II -- STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial         Partial          Negligible     Not Applicable
Macroeconomics policies                  El                O                  O                 0
Sector policies                          O                 EZ                O                  O
Financial objectives                     O                 El                 0                 El
Institutional development                O                                    El               OO
Physical objectives                      0                 O                  O                 0
Poverty reduction                        O                 0                  0                 0
Gender concerns                          0                 0                 0                  0
Other social objectives                  O                 O                  Cl                0
Environmental objectives                 0                 0                  0                 E
Public sector management                 0                 O                  O                 El
Private sector development               0                 OE 0                                 0
B. Project sustainability         Likely                Unlikely                    Uncertain
0                     0                            0
C. Bank Perfornance          Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory                 Deficient
Identification                      O                      El                          E0
Preparation assistance              0                      OE 0
Appraisal                           E                      E                            0
Supervision                         O                      0 EO
D. Borrower Performance      Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory                 Deficient
Preparation                         0                      0                            0
Implementation                      El                     0                            0
Covenant compliance                 0                      0                            E0
Operation                           E                      E                            0
E. Assessment of Outcome   Highly Satisfactory   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory    Highly Unsatisfactory
0                 0                0                    0



13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title                   Purpos                      Year of     Status
Approval
Preceding Operations
Industrial and Trade Adjustment Credit       FY 88      Closed
ITPAC                   *  Improve policy environment for the
(Credit 1920-MAI)           manufacturing sector to increase efficiency
of resource use, including imports and
expand exports
EDDRP                   Entrepreneurship Development and Drought      FY 92      Closed
(Cr. 2396-MAI)          Recovery Program
* improve the environment for entrepreneurial
activity;
* expand access to financial capital and deepen
financial markets;
+ re-orient the fiscal and labor policy towards
human capital development; and
*  import maize.



14
Table 3 Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle            Date Planned            Date actual
Initial Executive Project Summary                              05/02/90
Appraisal                                                      06/30/90
Negotiations                                                   02/15/91
Board presentation                                             03/26/91
Signing                                                        06/24/91
Effectiveness                                                  08/29/91
Credit closing                        06/30/97                 06/30/98
Table 4: Credit Disbursements Cumulative Estimated and Actual *
US$ million   1991    1992    1993     1994       1995       1996      1997     1998    1999
Appraisal      1.2     5.1      6.8      6.8       6.2        4.6        1.3      0.0     0.0
estimate
Actual         3.3     2.2      4.0      5.4       2.7        3.0        8.7      0.9     0.0
Actua as %   275%    43%      59%      79%       44%        65%        669%     NA       NA
of estimate
Date of final disbursement: February 21, 1999
* The amounts differ from the original amounts of the Credit in terms of US$ due to changes
in the SDR/US$ exchange rates.
Tables 5 : Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation
The Project did not include specific performance indicators for implementation and operation.



15
Table 6-A: Project Costs
(US$ million)
Category                   Appraisal estimate                Actual
Local   Foreign    Total  f[Local  [Foreign    Total
Line of Credit                     11.9     20.0      31.9      6.9      26.1      33.0
Industrial Sites                   2.9       7.0      9.9                 0.5       0.5
Institutional Capacity Development  2.8      2.6       5.4                3.9       3.9
Total Project cost         17.6      29.6      47.2      6.9      30.5      37.4
Table 6-B: Project Financing
(US$ million)
Financing Plan               Appraisal estimate    |            Actual
Local   Foreignf   Total    Local   Foreign J  Total
-.                                            _
Sub-borrowers                     14.7                14.7      6.9                 6.9
Govemment                          0.4        -       0.4        -         -         -
IDA                                2.4      29.6      32.0                30.5      30.5
Co-financier (EEC)                 0.1        -       0.1                  -         -
Total                 17.6     29.6      47.2      6.9       30.5      37.4
Sub-borrower contributions: IDA staff estimate



16
Table 7: Economic Costs and Benefits
Indicator                 Appraisal Estimate               Latest Estimate
Line of Credit: FRR   All Sub-projects with minimum FRR of         Not available
12%
No ERR was indicated
during project appraisal



17
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Credit
Agreement     Covenant      Present            Description of Covenant               Comments
Section        Type        Status
1.02 (h) -    Management  C            "PFI" means any one of the following:    No conunents
General       aspects                  INDEBANK, the Commercial Bank of Malawi
Conditions                             Limited, the National Bank of Malawi, the
Leasing and finance Company of Malawi
Limited, and MDC or such other institution(s)
as may be added from time-to-time by RBM
on the basis of eligibility criteria satisfactory
to IDA.
1.02 (n) -     Management  C            "Lease Agreement" means an agreement    No comments
Conmitment   aspects                    entered into by a PFI and an Investment
& Efficiency                            Enterprise whereby the PFI leases to the
Investment Enterprise an Investment Project
financed from the proceeds of the Credit, for
periods which, unless otherwise agreement by
IDA, shall not exceed twelve years.
1.02 (i) -     Management  CP           "Reference Rate" means the rate determined by  Apex had agreed to use
Commitment   aspects                    RBM from time to time, for on-lending by  the rates of four banks in
to RBM                                  RBM to PFIs reflecting the prevailing average  the calculation of the
Performance                             cost of term borrowings in the financial  reference rate instead of
system.                                 the current two. This
agreement was never
implemented resulting in
a slight understating of
the reference rate.
2.01 (b)       Accounts/    CP          The Borrower shall, for the purposes of  No comments
audits                   Category (1) open and maintain in dollars
Special Account (A) in a commercial bank
(US$0.75m).
2.01 (c)      Accounts/     CP          The Borrower shall, for the purposes of  No comments
audits                   Category (1) open and maintain in dollars
Special Account (B) in a commercial bank
(US$0.75m).
2.01 (d)      Accounts/     C           The Borrower shall, for the purposes of  No comments
audits                   Categories(2) through (5) open and maintain in
dollars Special Account (C) in a commercial
bank (US$0.25m).
2.03          Implement-   C                                                     Closing date established
_____________   ation                                                            as June 30, 1998



18
Credit
Agreement      Covenant     Present             Description of Covenant               Comments
Section        Type        Status
2.09           Management  C            RBM is designated as representative of the  No comments
aspects                  Borrower in respect of Parts, A, B and C. 1
through C.3 of the Projects for the purpose of
taking any action required orpemnitted to be
taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
3.01 (a)      Implement-   CP           The Borrower shall carry out Parts C.4 through  Financial management
ation                    C.7 of the Project with due diligence and  and reporting has been
efficiency.                              weak.
3.01 (b)      Implement-   NC           The Borrower shall carry out Parts C.4 through  No comments
ation                    C.7 of the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule
4.
3.01 (c)      Flow & util   CP          The Borrower shall make available SDR     Mission identified
of funds                 19,000,000 from the Credit to RBM under the  principal and interest
RBM Agreement to be entered into between    arrears from PFIs to the
the Borrower and RBM, under terms and    Apex resulting in
conditions which shall include, inter alia, (i) an  effective subsidies. Funds
undertaking by RBM to make loans to PFIs    have been relent through a
under PFI Agreements to be entered into with  revolving fund.
each PFI for fmancing Investment Projects
under Parts A and B of the Project, under the
tenns and conditions specified in the Project
Agreement; and (ii) that the proceeds of the
Credit shall be relent at the Reference Rate;
(iu) an undertaking by RMB to collect from
and transfer to the Borrower, all payments of
interest and repayments of principal from PFIs
under PFI Agreements after retaining as a
service charge, an amount not exceeding one-
half of one percent from the interest paid by
PFI's; and (iv) an undertaking by the Borrower
to bear the foreign exchange risk.
3.03 (d)      Flow & util   C           The Borrower shall make available as grants:   No comments
of funds                 (i) to RBM (A) SDR 280,000 for Part C. 1; (B)
SDR 625,000 for Part C.2; and (C) SDR
125,000 to finance technical assistance under
Part C.3 of the Project; (ii) to INDEBANK
SDR 245,000 for Part C.6; and (iii) to MDC
SDR 485,000 for Part C.6.



19
Credit
Agreement      Covenant      Present            Description of Covenant                Comments
Section        Type         Status                                                                     l
3.04           Flow & util    C          The Borrower shall, by April 30, 1992, take all No comments
of funds                 measures necessary to establish an Investment
Promotion Agency with terms of reference,
including staffing levels, costs and procedures,
satisfactory to IDA.
4.01 (a)       Accounts/     CP          The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be  Accounting and financial
audits                   maintained records and accounts adequate to    management weak,
reflect in accordance with sound Accounting   including a lag in the
practices the operations resources and   input of new
expenditures in respect of Part C.4 through  comnnitments and
C.7.                                     disbursements into the
financial reporting
system. Project accounts
audited.
4.01 (b)       Accounts/     NC          The Borrower shall: (i) have the records and    RBM Project accounts
audits                   accounts referred to in 4.01(a) including those  audited but audit does not
for the Special Account for each fiscal year    fully indicate the
audited; (ii) fiunish to IDA not later than six    construction of separate
months after the end of each such year, a certi-  project accounts. Special
fied copy of the report of such audit; (iii) fur-   Accounts audited but no
nish to IDA such other information concerning  documentation provided
said records, accounts and the audit thereof as  on the level of scrutiny of
IDA requests.                            the documentation
supporting withdrawals
and disbursements. IDA
request for updated
project documentation
pending. IDA request for
special project audit in
addition to that
undertaken refused by
project counterparts



20
Credit
Agreement       Covenant      Present              Description of Covenant                  Comments
Section         Type         Status                                                                         l
4.01 (c)        Accounts/     NC           The Borrower shall: (i) maintain or cause to be  Backup records reviewed
audit                      maintained records and accounts reflecting  for SOEs by supervision
expenditures on SQE; (ii) retain, until at least   mission. Auditors
one year after IDA has received the audit  indicated review of
report (iii) enable IDA's representatives to  procedures and internal
examine such records; and (iv) ensure that  controls, but review by
such records and accounts are included in the   Mission found that several
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this  withdrawal applications
Section and that the report of such audit   had inadequate supporting
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as  documentation, reflected
to whether the statements of expenditure    highly aggregated
submitted during such fiscal year, together  accounts, had
with the procedures and internal controls   misplacement of
involved in their preparation, canbe relied  withdrawals into the
upon to support the related withdrawals.   incorrect special accounts,
and indicated levels of
disbursement per
subproject exceeding
limits set forth in the
DCA. Audit of RBM
project accounts, special
account, and SOE
inadequate
6.01 (a, b)    Management                  The following events are specified as       Staff turnover in Apex has
aspects                    additional conditions to effectiveness: (a)  created severe operational
RBM has appointed staff to manage its Apex    difficulties and lack of
Unit; and (b) the Borrower has appointed the   institutional memory.
committee referred to in paragraph 3 of
Schedule 4
Schedule 2     Implement-    Other         Description of the Project. The objectives of    No comments
ation                     the Project are: (i) to assist the Borrower in
financing such productive facilities and
resources in Malawi as will contribute to the
economic and social development of the
country; and (ii) to support the Borrower's
efforts to expand exports and improve the
policy and institutional framework for private
sector investment.
2.02 (a)        Implement-    CP           RBM shall enter into PH Agreements with each PHI No comments
ation                     to enable PFIs to make Sub-loans, Investments and
provide Lease Financing to hnvestment Enterprises
for hnvestment Projects including industrial sites.
The terms and conditions of the PFH Agreements
shall be approved by the Association and shall
conform to the terms and conditions stipulated in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.



21
Credit       Covenant      Present             Description of Covenant                  Commentsl
Agreement        Type         Status
Section
2.02 (c)c      Implement-    C            No withdrawals shall be made by a PFI from    No comments
ation                     the Credit Account unless such PFI shall have
submitted to, and obtained the approval of, the
Association of at least one appraisal report
prepared by said PFI for Investment Projects.
2.03 (a)       Inplement-    CP           RBM undertakes that, unless the Association    Principal and interest
ation                     shall otherwise agree, Sub-loans, Investments  arrears were identified
and Lease Financing shall be made in      from the Apex to PFIs.
accordance with the procedures and on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
Schedule I to this Agreement.
2.04           Monitoring &    CP         RBM shall: (i) cause PFIs to calculate (A) fnacial  Financial rate of return
report.                   rates of return of Investment Projects for which  requirement eliminated
Sub-loans are made or proposed to be made in  through amendment.
amounts exceeding $100,000; and (B) econonuc    Although individual
rates of return of Investment Projects for which  subloans did not exceed
Sub- loans are made or proposed to be made in  US$ 2,000,000, loans to
amounts exceeding $500,000; and (ii) unless     ,  ,  w
otherwise agreed by the Association, ensure e  one company were found
PFLs will not make sub-loans in an amount  to exceed such a limit.
exceeding the equivalent of $2,000,000 in respect
of any one Investment Project or to any single
Investment Enterprise.
2.05 (a)       Flow & util    C           RBM shall promptly transfer to the Borrower   IDA agreed to allow
of funds                  all payments received from PFIs under PFI  reflows to be relent.
Agreements.
2.05 (b)       Flow & util    C           RBM may after retaining the service charge    No comments
of funds                  utilize part of any amounts received from a PFI
under a PFI Agreement for loans to be made to
PFIs for Sub-loans, Investment, or Lease
Financing.
2.10 (a)       Monitoring &  NC           RBM shall cause PFIs to subnit to the      No comments
report.                   Association, from time to time at the
Association's request, appraisal reports
prepared by the PFI for Investment Projects.
2.10 (b)       Monitoring &   C           RBM shall cause PFIs to make improvements   No comments
report.                   or adjustments in their appraisal methodology
and practices as may be reasonably
recommended by the Association
Credit
Agreement      Covenant      Present              Desciption of Covenant                  Comments
Section         Type        Status
3.01 (a)       Monitoring &   NC          RBM shall maintain procedures and records  Finacial records found to be



22
report.                    adequate to monitor and record the progress of Parts inadequate since last
A, B and C.1 through C.3 of the Project and of each  supervision mission with
Investmenet Project (including its cost and the  accounting data not updated.
benefits to be derived from it) and to reflect in  Apex was unable to
accordance with consistently maintained sound  reconcile project accounts.
accounting practices the operations and financial
condition of RBN.
3.01 (b)        Accounts/     CP           RBM shall: (i) have the records and accounts   Audit submitted, but upon
audits                     referred to in Section 3.01(a) for each fiscal    review jointly with
year audited; (ii) fumiish to the Association not  project accounts, found to
later than six months after the end of each such  be inadequate. Auditors
year: (a) certified copies of its records and  did not review underlying
accounts for such year as so audited; and (b)    procedures and supporting
the report of such audit by said auditors.  accounts with any
acceptable level of
thoroughness. Audit
claims to be a project, soe
and special account audit.
However, project accounts
not fully constructed.
Schedule 1     Financ.        C            Procedures for and Terms and Conditions of    No comments
performance                Sub-loans, Investments and Lease Financing:
Schedule 1     Financ.        C            1. Sub-loans shall: (a) have maturities (i) not   No comments
performance                exceeding twelve years including grace periods
of up to three years under Part A and (ii) 20
years, including a grace period of up to five
years under Part B; and (b) be at the market
rate of interest.
Schedule 1     Financ.        C            Procedures for and Terns and Conditions of    No comments
performance                Sub-loans, Investments and Lease Financing
Schedule 1     Financ.        C            2. Existing Investment Enterprises shall    No conuments
performance                contribute a minimum of 10% of Investment
Project costs and new Investnent Enterprise
shall contribute at least 20% of such costs.
Schedule 1     Flow & util    C            3. Existing Investment Enterprises shall have a  No comments
of funds                   debt service ratio of not less than 1.3:1, and a
debt/equity ratio not exceeding 4:1.



23
Credit
Agreement       Covenant      Present              Description of Covenant                  Comments
Section         Type         Status
Schedule I     Management  C               4. Investment Enterprises shall carry out initial  No comments
aspects                    preparation of Investment Projects. Each PFI
shall review the Investment Project in
accordance with its own analysis procedures
(technical soundness, financial viability,
economic efficiency and managerial capacity
as well as loan security requirements).
Schedule 1     Financ.        C            5. Except as the Association shall otherwise  Although subprojects in
performance                agree, ivestment Projects shall meet the    excess of US$ 2,000,000
following criteria: (a) not exceed: (i)     not found, cumulative
$2,000,000 equivalent under Part A; and (ii)   lending to one
$2,800,000 equivalent under Part B; (b) be  subborrower found to
supported by an appraisal of the Investment    exceed such amount.
Project's technical viability, and market
analysis, and the Investment Enterprise's
managerial capacity; (c) present a summary
cash flow analysis to indicate the Investment
Enterprise's viability and ability to service the
debt; and (d) for sub-loans of more than
$100,000 equivalent, a financial rate of return
of at least 12% on total Investment Project
costs.
Schedule 1     Flow & util    C            6. No expenditures for goods or services    No comments
of funds                   required for an Investment project shall be
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
Credit unless the Sub-loan, Investment or
Lease Financing for such Investment Project
shall have been approved by RBM and such
expenditures shall have been made not earlier
than ninety days prior to the date on which
RBM shall have received the application and
infonnation required under paragraph 7 (a) of
this Schedule in respect of such Sub-loan,
Investment or Lease Agreement.
Schedule I      Implement-    C            7. (a) PFIs shall funish to RBM an application, in
ation                      form satisfactory to RBM and the Association,
together with: (i) a description of the Investment
Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment
Project, including a description of the expenditures
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the
Investment, Sub-loan or Lease Agreement,
inchlding the appropriate schedule of amortization
of the Sub-loan or termn of the Lease Agreement;
and (iii) such other information as RBM shall
reasonably request.



24
Credit       Covenant      Present            Description of Covenant                 Comments
Agreement        Type        Status
Section  _                                                                                            l
Schedule 1     Implement-    C           8. Sub-loans and Investments shall be made on  No comments
ation                    terms whereby PFIs shall obtain, by written
contract with the Investment Enterprise or by
other appropriate legal means, rights adequate
to protect the interests of the PFI, RBM and
the Association and, including, in the case of
any Sub-loan or Lease Agreement and, to the
extent that it shall be appropriate, in the case of
any Investment, the right to: (a) require the
Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate
the Investment Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with sound
technical, financial and managerial standards
and to maintain adequate records; (b) require
that: (i) the goods and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
procured in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit
Agreement and (ii) such goods and services
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of
the Investment Project; (c) inspect, by itself or
jointly with representatives of RBM and the
Association, if the Association shall so request,
such investment Project, the operation thereof,
and any relevant records and documents; (d)
require that: (i) the Investment Enterprise shall
take out and maintain with responsible insurers
such insurance, against such risks and in such
amounts, as shall be consistent with sound
business practice; and (ii) without any
I;mitation upon the foregoing, such insurance
shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery of goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit to the place of
use or installation, any indemnity thereunder
to be made payable in a currency freely usable
by the Investment Enterprise to replace or
repair such goods; (e) obtain all such
information as the Association or RBM shall
reasonably request relating to the foregoing
and to the administration, operations and
financial condition of the Investment
Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived
from the Investment Project; and (f) suspend
or terminate the right of the Investment
Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the
Credit upon failure by such Investment
Enterprise to perform its obligations under its
l_______  contract with the PFI.
Credit



25
Agreement      Covenant      Present            Description of Covenant                Commer-t s
Section        Type         Status
Schedule 2     Financial                 Terms and Conditions of PFI Agreements:  No comments
.___ _  performance
Schedule 2 -    Monitoring &   C         (3) PFI Agreements shall specify that PFIs: (a)  No comments
Terms and     report.                    perform satisfactory appraisals of Investment
Conditions of                            Projects; (b) supervise Investment Projects
PFI                                      financed under the Credit to ensure that
resources are used for the intended purposes
and repaid; (c) make periodic reports to the
Apex Unit within RBM; (d) comply with the
Borrower's rules and regulations on
environmental aspects of Investment Projects;
(e) assist small- and medium-scale enterprises
to identify technical assistance needs wherever
necessary; (f) provide the Apex Unit within
RBM and the Association with such
information as they may reasonably request;
and (g) designate qualified staff to manage the
Investment Projects financed under the Credit.
Schedule 2     Monitoring &   C          The first sub-project from each PFI shall be    No comments
report.                  submitted to the Association for prior review
and approval. Thereafter the Association shall
review a sample of sub-projects on an ex-post
basis.
Schedule 3     Management                Implementation Program:                   No comments
l ______________  aspects
Schedule 3     Management  C             Under the overall supervision of the Ministry   No comments
aspects                  of Finance, RBM shall be responsible for the
implementation of Parts A, B and C.1 through
l _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _            _ _ _ _ _ _ _   C .3.
Schedule 3     Management  C             The Apex Unit within RBM, headed by the  No comments
aspects                  Director of Research and Statistics, and
including an Assistant Director, and four core
staff, shall be responsible for the
implementation of Parts A and B of the Project
Schedule 3     Management  CP            RBM shall promptly notify the Association of  Reference rate re-
aspects                   any changes in the Reference Rate.        evaluated periodically but
notification of IDA has
been poor.
Schedule 3     Management  NC            The Apex Unit shall be responsible for    Accounts maintained for
aspects                   disbursement and the maintenance of accounts  Part C of the project
in respect of Part C of the Project.      found to be inadequate.



26
Credit
Agreement       Covenant      Present              Description of Covenant                  Comments
Section         Type         Status
Schedule 3     Management   CD             RBM shall ensure that, with the assistance of   Restructuring and
aspects                    consultants, the Post Office Savings Bank's re-  strategic plan undertaken
structuring and strategic plan is completed by   but both inadequate.
not later that September 30, 1991.          Policy decisions never
take to enable the
institution to become
sustainable.
2.04                          C            The Closing Date shall be 30th June, 1997.  Closing date extended to
June 30, 1998. Project
closed on such date.
2.05           Monitoring &   C            RBM will make loans to PFIs to finance      No comments
report.                    Investment Projects specified in Parts A and B.
PFI Agreements will conform to Schedule 2 to
the Project Agreement and will be subject to
approval by IDA.
3.01           Implement-    C             A condition for disbursement of the Subsidiary  No comments
ation                      Credit: (c) the Sub-loan, Investment or Lease
Financing shall have been made in accordance
with Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement;
IDA to approve one appraisal report prepared
and submitted by such PFI.
4.01 (a)(b)    Flow & util    C            RBM shall place all repayments of principal and    IDA has encouraged and
of funds                   payments of interest received from PFIs in a  Government has agreed to
separate Malawi Kwacha special account and shall  recycle/relend funds
promptly transfer to the Government all such  received from Sub-loans.
amounts after retaining a service charge (1/2%). Not
withstanding the provisions of 4.01(a), RBM may
utilize part of the special account for further Sub-
loans, Investments or Lease Financing.
4.02            Management   C             The government bears the foreign exchange   Principal repayments to
aspects                    risk.                                       IDA not yet due.
7.02            Implement-    C            RBM further undertakes: (c) to ensure that the  No comments
ation                      claims of the Government in respect of the
Subsidiary Credit shall rank at least pari-passu with
claims of unsecured creditors of the PFIs; (e) not
later than six months after the Closing Date, to
furnish the Government with a report on the
execution and initial operation of Parts A and B of
the Project.
7.02            Flow & util    C           The Govemnment will make available to RBM    No comments
of funds                   the Grant from the Credit for Parts C. 1, C.2
and C.3.
Credit



27
Agreement      Covenant     Present             Description of Covenant                Comments
Section        Type         Status                    .                                        ._l
1.01 (b)      Management  C             'Grant' means (i) SDR 280,000 for Part C. 1;    No comments
aspects                  (ii) SDR 625,000 for Part C.2; and (iii) SDR
125,000 for Part C.3.
Other         C          The Closing Date shall be 30th June, 1997 or   Closing date extended to
such later date as IDA shall establish.  June 30, 1998.
5.02 (c)       Monitoring  NYD          RBM furither undertakes: not later than six  No conunents
& report.                months after the Closing Date, or such later
date as may be agreed for that purpose between
the Government and RBM, to furnish the
Government with a report on the execution and
initial operation of Parts C. 1, C.2 and C.3.
*  Present status:    C  =   complied with
CD =   complied with after delay
CP =   complied with partially
NC =  not complied with



28
Table 9   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle                               Actual                        Actual
Staff Weeks                   US $ (000)
Pre-appraisal                                                        59.1                        154.9l
Appraisal through Board                                              47.6                        120.0
Supervision through Completion                                     123.4                         308.6
Total                                                              230.1                         583.5
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Missions
_                    ~~~~~~~PerEormanc   Rating  |
Stage of     Month i   Number   Days    Specialized Staff                                     Types of Problems
Project Cycle    Year       of        in    Skills Represented   Implementati   Development
Persons   Field                        on Status       Impact
Identification   07/I9       2        14  I           _                         a
Pre-Appraisal    03/90       4        21
Appraisal      06/90         7        26
3   Key to status as shown in Supervision Form 590: ratings are S (satisfactory) or from 1 (highest) to 4
(lowest).



29
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Missions (contd.)
_________   ________  _______  |____  ___________ _  Pesformance  Rating
Project Cycle    Year     of       in    Skills Represented  Implementaii Development
Persons   Field                    on Status     Impact
Supervision
I       12/1991       2       10   Financial spec.        2            2        Project Launch
Workshop
ll      04/1992       1       5    Financial spec.        2             2        Commercial Banks
were reluctant to use
the Line of Credit
because they found the
interest rate too high
I        11/1992      1        9    Financial spec.       2             2        No majorproblem
IV      02/1993       I       15   Financial spec.         2            2        APEX Unit start-up
1       7    SSE spec.                                    difficulties
V       05/1993       1 *      6    Financial Spec.      not           not       Country Implement.
available    available    Review
VI       08/1993      1*      19   Financial SSE           2            2        No majorproblems
Specialist
No major problems.
VII      02/1994       1       5    Financial Spec.        2             2       Mission objective to
participate in the
MIPA strategic
planning workshop
VIII      10/1994      2        5    Financial Spec.       S             S        No major problems
IX       03/1995       1      12   Financial Spec.         S            S        No major problems
X       05/1996       2       12   Financial Spec.        S             S        Mid-tenn Review
XI       10/1996      2       11   Financial Spec.         S            S        No majorproblems
SME Finance
Spec.
XII      01/1997       2       12   Financial Spec.        S             S       No major problems
SME Finance
Spec.
XIII     10/1 997      1       1 8   Financial Spec.       S             S        No major problems
ICR      06/1998       2       12   Financial Spec.        U             U        Discussion/preparation
Mission                                                                             of ICR
* Mission also participated in the supervision of other operations.



APPENDIX A
ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
1.    A mission consisting of Mark Dorfman (Task Manager, AFTP1) and Eleftheria C.
Williams (Operations Officer, AFTPI) traveled to Malawi from June 9-23, 1998 in order to
undertake the final supervision mission, initiate project completion, and begin preparation of an
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the above project. Discussions were held with
representatives of the Ministry of Finance, Reserve Bank of Malawi (RBM), Ministry of
Commerce and Industrv, participating financial intermediaries (PFIs), private sector
representatives and non-governmental organizations. The mission would like to thank all the
organizations consulted and, in particular, the Ministry of Finance and the RBM. This Aide
Memoire reviews: (i) the status of project components or subcomponents with outstanding
issues; (ii) provides an initial review of the achievement of project objectives, appropriateness of
design and success in implementation; and (iii) reviews actions necessary prior to project closure
and required for the completion of the ICR.
I. Project Status
2.    Investment Credit and Industrial Sites Components. The mission noted the following
developments and concerns: (i) a material increase in new commitments and disbursements since
the last supervision mission; (ii) a significant deterioration in the level of record-keeping by the
RBM Apex such that project reporting documentation is out-of-date, incomplete and, in some
cases, inaccurate; (iii) inadequate supporting documentation was identified for select project
withdrawal applications; (iv) some subloans previously reported to IDA as current were learned
to indeed be in arrears or have been renegotiated; and (v) some willful non-payment by
Participating Financial Intermediaries (PFIs) to the RBM Apex was noted, in spite of repayment
by subborrowers. In reference to Apex record-keeping, the mission requested updated project
reporting forms including disbursements by subloan, repayments (principal and interest), arrears
and outstanding balances between the Apex and PFIs, listed by subproject. Consistent with the
financial covenants of the project, the mission requested that a full external project audit of Parts
la and lb of the project be completed as soon as possible. Although RBM officials refused to
commission an audit in addition to that which was already undertaken, they did agree to provide
reconciled project information as soon as possible. With respect to disbursement back-up
documentation, the mission requested from the Apex a breakdown of the individual subloans
which pertain to each withdrawal. This was followed-up by the disbursement officer who
traveled to Malaw; following the mission. Finally, the mission requested documentation from
each PFI consistent with that requested from the Apex (disbursements by subloan, repayments,
arrears and outstanding balances, listed by subproject).
3.    Institutional Capacity Development Component - MIPA Subcomponent.  The
mission held discussions with MIPA staff regarding the progress in this subcomponent in
achieving its objectives as well as reviewed sample disbursement documentation in the Ministry
of Finance claims unit. The mission requested an updated copy of MIPA's corporate plan and
noted the importance of MIPA's contribution to the Borrower's Assessment of the ICR.
4.    SME Support Fund Subcomponent. The mission noted the following: (i) continued
disbursements for operational expenses for the SME Support Fund even though the last approval



Financial Sector and Enterprise Development Project                       Aide Memoire
Completion Mission - June 23, 1998                                              Page 2
by the Fund's Executive Committee was almost one year ago; (ii) sampling of expenditure
documentation found instances of expenditures exceeding the amounts approved under the -'no-
objection" request approvals. These discrepancies will be reviewed further based on
documentation provided to the mission; and (iii) the mission reiterated its request made in the
Aide Memoire of October 24, 1997, namely the need for an evaluation of the achievement of
objectives of the SME Support Fund, including an assessment of the impact of the training on the
institutional capacity of organizations supported as well as on ultimate SME beneficiaries. This
evaluation was not carried out. The mission emphasized that neither the IDA ICR nor the
Borrower's Assessment can be prepared without this evaluation.
II. Preliminary Assessment
5.    Overall, the project's objectives were broad and not well integrated. As a result, it is
difficult to measure the achievement of such project objectives. Project implementation was also
generally weak, with problems of project manage1nent and record-keeping. However, being that
most of the subprojects supported under the Investment Credit component are understood to have
performed well and proven sustainable and the Institutional Development component has
demonstrated some sustainable results, the project will likely merit an overall rating of "partially
satisfactory" for the achievement of development objectives. Project implementation varied by
project component and was significantly hampered by the absence in project design of a project
implementation unit to coordinate project activities and serve as an interface between IDA and
the multiple project counterparts. As a result, each counterpart agency became ultimately
responsible for financial management and procurement, without central guidelines or
coordination or standards. Poor financial management, weak project accounting, and audit
deficiencies were noted. Project implementation will therefore likely be rated as "unsatisfactory."
A. Investment Credit Component
6.    The objective of this component was to provide a vehicle for medium-term investment
financing. When viewed from the vantage point of providing term finance to companies on a
sustainable basis, preliminary data suggests that the results were largely satisfactory.  An
estimated total of 82 firms were supported under the project resulting in a material increase in
output from the industrial, agro-industrial, service and commercial sectors. A better assessment
of the results of the performance of firms supported will be possible when additional information
is received from PFIs. In addition to information on sub-borrowers, PFI representatives agreed
to send IDA reconciled project account data. This will enable IDA to better evaluate the
utilization of project funds.
7.    When viewed in terms of financial sector sustainability, the results of this component are
less satisfactory. Indebank did continue to diversify its sources of finance, including the
mobilization of funds on a commercial basis through Indefinance. Indebank proper still has
limited sources of local currency term funding. MDC is also far more robust than when the
project was appraised, although it has not been able to develop long-term sources of local
currency financing. Leasing and Finance Co. has been able to mobilize deposits, albeit remains
dependent on the credit facility for local currency term financing.



Financial Sector and Enterprise Development Project                       Aide Memoire
Completion Mission - June 23, 1998                                              Page 3
B. Industrial Sites Component
8.    The objective of this component was to provide financing to PFIs for onlending to
eligible developers of industrial sites and ensure timely availability of infrastructure and factory
shells to domestic and foreign investors, especially for export-oriented activities. Because of the
considerable market barriers and lack of progress during early project implementation, this
component was scaled down and the amount reduced from US$ 7.0 million equivalent to US$1.0
million. Only one small MDC project and the development of the Maone Park were financed
under this component, representing 13% of the amount initially allocated. No new sites were
financed during 1996 and 1997 although Maone Park sites upgraded with project funds were sold
during that period. The mission's overall view is that this component did have some effect in
meeting its objectives of increasing the volume of serviced industrial sites. However, there were
major deficiencies in the project design: (i) the US$ 7.0 million was too large for a reasonable
level of industrial site development during the projected project life; (ii) the actual costs and
logistical issues associated with off-site development of industrial sites were not adequately
reviewed during project appraisal and thus did not anticipate the delays and additional
investment required; and (iii) appropriate financial instruments were not designed into the project
to accommnodate the variable cash flows of real estate finance. There were also deficiencies in
implementation such as the poor repayment record by MDC to the Apex for sites in which it had
invested.
C. Institutional Capacity Development Component
9.    Support to MIPA. The objective of this subcomponent was to improve the environ-
ment for new investment by developing an investment promotion agency. Extensive support was
provided to MIPA in the form of operating costs, training and studies. The results of MIPA's
capacity to provide assistance to investors is demonstrable. Since 1993, MIPA has assisted over
60 enterprises, representing investments equivalent to US$198.0 million equivalent, and resulting
in the creation of an estimated 6,350 additional jobs. It has also worked with other Government
agencies and ministries to reduce some of the investment barriers. In spite of the latter efforts,
serious barriers to efficient deployment of new investment remain. Preliminary data indicates
that MIPA's assistance to entrepreneurs has been positive.
10.   SME Support Fund. The objective of this component was to provide training to Small
and Medium Scale Enterprises (SMEs) and SME support institutions. Based on preliminary
data, 4,610 persons, consisting of both trainers and entrepreneurs, were trained in business-
related subjects. Although site visits and discussions with heads of professional associations and
training institutes suggest that the benefits of the training provided has been significant, because
the objectives of this facility were not clearly articulated and because the training existed without
any framework for supporting the SME sector, . it is virtually impossible to measure the
developmental impact of this component. Another deficiency of this component was that the
grant provided 100% support, not a matching grant element. As such, very little accountability
existed at the level of the trainers or SMEs in terms of the quality of training provided nor on the
sustainability of the results. Finally, it is not clear whether technical training was the principal
constraint facing SMEs during project appraisal.



Financial Sector and Enterprise Development Project                    Aide Memoire
Completion Mission - June 23, 1998                                          Page 4
11.   Malawi Savings Bank (MSB). This subcomponent had as its objective the conversion
of the Post Office Savings Bank (POSB) to a full-service savings bank. The subcomponent was
inadequately designed during project appraisal and did not give adequate consideration to the
inherent difficulty in the mobilization of small-sized savings deposits on a cost-effective basis.
Implementation of the component was also poor and thus did not achieve the objectives set out in
the Staff Appraisal Report. Funds were provided for initial studies to facilitate the transition of
the POSB into a full-service savings bank. Principal problems were, first, that exercises which
withdrew passbooks from circulation were not matched with the adoption of ledger accounting
and financial control systems so that when new passbooks were issued the institution could still
not reconcile its accounts.  Second, although a law was passed providing for the legal
incorporation of the MSB, decisions were never taken to: (i) reconcile MSB's funds receivable
from MPTC and thus provide desperately needed liquidity; (ii) reach an agreement between
Government, RBM and MPTC on the proposed separation of deposit-taking operations of MSB
from MPTC, including the designation of secured operating premises at select post offices; (iii)
Government reconciliation of its deposit mobilization strategy in MSB with that of the Malawi
Rural Finance Company (MRFC); (iv) establish a stringent limit on the size of deposits in the
MSB which are eligible for tax exemption; and (v) draft and articulate a corporate strategic plan
including detailed projections by Government. Administrative problems included the interest of
MSB in using project funds, yet the inability to apply IDA procurement guidelines so as to make
such expenditures eligible.
12.   Support to MDC and Indebank. Support was provided under this subcomponent for a
feasibility study for diversifying Indebank's funding sources, including private placement of a
local bond issue and expansion into wholesale domestic deposit-taking. Additional funding was
provided for consultant support and computerization in developing merchant banking functions.
Indebank management has indicated that the assistance provided under the project has had a
sustained impact. Indebank has since continued in wholesale domestic deposit-taking (via its
subsidiary Indefinance) and foreign exchange finance.
13.   Support was provided to MDC under this subcomponent for: (i) an experienced projects
advisor; (ii) a finance director; (iii) short-term training of select staff in financial analysis and
project appraisal; and (iv) select equipment. Although a detailed review has not been conducted
of MDC's institutional capacity, MDC's management has indicated that the assistance provided
under the project has had a sustained impact. MDC's operations department has since continued
to utilize its project appraisal capacity and MDC has therefore been able to approve more
medium-tern investment financing.
14.   Export Credit Guarantee Fund. Use of these funds was first postponed in light of
earlier PTA Bank facility, then never utilized. The objectives and design for this sub-component
were not sufficiently considered in project preparation. Were funding for an Export Credit
Guarantee Facility found to be justified, the amount allocated to this sub-component would not
have been sufficient. Considerable additional funding of a backstopping mechanism would have
been required.
15.   Support to the RBM in Macroeconomic Management. Initial support was provided
for RBM staff in macro modeling. Funds were also provided in the drafting of Securities
legislation and implementing regulations. Both exercises appear to have been useful.



Financial Sector and Enterprise Development Project                     Aide Memoire
Completion Mission - June 23, 1998                                            Page 5
III. Next Steps: Project Closing and Preparation of The Implementation Completion
Report (ICR)
16.   The mission informed counterpart agencies that withdrawal applications for expenditures
incurred up to and including June 30, 1998, will be processed until October 31, 1998.
Expenditures after June 30, 1998 will not be eligible for reimbursement.
17.   The mission informed counterpart agencies that IDA will be preparing an ICR which will
assess whether and how the objectives of the project have been achieved as well as review
project design and its implementation While IDA prepares its ICR, the Government should
simultaneously prepare its own evaluation (a "borrower's assessment"), as specified in the
General Conditions of the project. If the report is longer than 10 pages, it would be useful to
include a summary, which would be attached to the final ICR. The borrower's assessment
should evaluate: (i) whether and how the project achieved its objectives; (ii) factors that affected
project implementation; (iii) the overall project outcome and sustainability; (iv) evaluate IDA
performance; (v) evaluate Government and counterpart's own performance; and (vi) review key
lessons learned. Government is also expected to review the draft ICR prepared by IDA and
indicate comments it may have. In addition, Government should prepare an Operational Plan
describing the measures and actions proposed to assure the sustainability of activities
implemented under the project. Government agreed to submit its Completion report to IDA for
review by September 15, 1998. IDA will send its draft ICR for Government review by
September 30, 1998. Government agreed to provide comments on IDA's assessment by October
20, 1998. Table I summarizes the measures to be taken, timing and responsible parties.



Financial Sector and Enterprise Development Project                                            Aide Memoire
Completion Mission - June 23, 1998                                                                    Page 6
Table 1: Summary of Actions Required for Project Completion and ICR Preparation-
Responsible     Actions                                                                       Timing
Party
Ministry of      * Coordination of inputs into and the Drafting of the Borrower's Assessment for the   Sept 15, 1998
Finance            Implementation Completion Report (ICR);
* Review of, and comments on, IDA's draft ICR;                           Oct. 30, 1998
* Drafting and submission to IDA of Operational Plan; and                Sept. 15, 1998
* Oversight of the submission of project audits.                         ASAP
Apex Unit        * Documentation backing-up each subloan disbursement included in Withdrawal  ASAP
applications;
* Reconciliation of disbursement and repayment data;                     ASAP
* Review by Apex of Increases in Investment, Output and Employment by Firms  July 20, 1998
supported; and
* Transmission to Ministry of Finance its assessment of the Investment Credit  Aug. 20, 1998
Component and Industrial Sites Component for incorporation into the final
completion report.
SME Support     * An evaluation on the impact of training on the capacity of institutions supported    July 31, 1998
Fund               and final SME entrepreneurs;
* Transmit to Ministry of Finance its assessment of the SME Support Fund Sub-  Aug. 20, 1998
component for incorporation into the final completion report
MDC              * Reconciliation of subloans financed (by enterprise) including disbursements,  ASAP
repayments (principal and interest) and amount outstanding;
* Reconciliation of payments (principal and interest) to the Apex;        ASAP
* Submit to Apex Unit data by subloan and firm on increases in investment, output   July 31, 1998
and employmerit by firms supported;
* Transmit to Apex an assessment of the Investment Credit Component and   Aug. 20, 1998
Industrial Sites Component for incorporation into the final completion report; and
* Drafting of short review of assistance under Institutional Capacity Development    Aug. 20, 1998
Subcomponent and submission to Ministry of Finance for Review and
incorporation into final completion report.
INDEBANK        * Reconciliation of subloans financed (by enterprise) including disbursements,  ASAP
repayments (principal and interest) and amount outstanding;
* Reconciliation of payments (principal and interest) to the Apex;        ASAP
* Submit to Apex Unit data by subloan and firm on increases in investment, output   July 31, 1998
and employment by firms supported;
* Transmit to Apex an assessment of the Investment Credit Component for   Aug. 20, 1998
incorporation into the final completion report; and
* Drafting of short review of assistance under Institutional Capacity Development    Aug. 20, 1998
Subcomponent and submission to Ministry of Finance for Review and
incorporation into final completion report.
Leasing and     * Reconciliation of subloans financed (by enterprise) including disbursements,  ASAP
Finance            repayments (principal and interest) and amount outstanding;
Company          * Reconciliation of payments (principal and interest) to the Apex;        ASAP
* Submit to Apex Unit data by subloan and firm on increases in investment, output   July 31, 1998
and employment by firms supported; and
* Transmit to Apex an assessment of the Investment Credit Component for   Aug. 20, 1998
incorporation into the final completion report.
MIPA             * Drafting of short review of assistance under Institutional Capacity Development    Aug. 20, 1998
Subcomponent and submission to Ministry of Finance for Review and
incorporation into final completion report.
Malawi Savings   * Drafting of short review of assistance under Institutional Capacity Development    Aug. 20, 1998
Bank               Subcomponent and submission to Ministry of Finance for Review and
incorporation into final completion report.



APPENDIX B
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
AND ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.0   PREFACE
This Project Completion Report (PCR) has been prepared by the Apex Unit of the
Reserve Bank of Malawi (RBM) based on the discussions held with the World
Bank visiting mission, Project credit documents and visits to the Participating
Financial Institutions (PFIs) and some of the projects financed by this line of
credit. The report is intended to give an account of the project design and
implementation by analyzing the extent to which Project objectives have been
achieved.
The FSED Project started in June, 1991 with funds amounting to SDR 22,300,000
(USD 32.0 million). The closing date originally 30 June, 1997 was later extended
to 30 June, 1998 to allow for full utilization of funds. Furthermore, in view of the
high demand for financing of projects under investment finance, in October, 1997,
World Bank granted approval to RBM to recycle the counterpart Malawi Kwacha
already received from PFIs on the same terms and conditions. The recycling of
funds will end in year 2000 while repayments by the Malawi Government of the
loan to IDA start in year 2001 and end in 2015.
2.0   BACKGROUND
On 24 June, 1991, the Government of Malawi (GOM) signed a Development
Credit Agreement (DCA) with the World Bank for the FSED Project. The purpose
of this line of credit was to assist the Malawi Government meet its foreign
exchange gap and, in the process, contribute to the economic and social
development of the country, and to assist efforts aimed at expanding exports and
improve the policy and institutional framework for private sector investment and
growth. These objectives were to be achieved through two ways: (i) term
financing by PFIs where funds were provided for financing viable enterprises in
the productive sectors; and (ii) export finance and investment promotion where
funds were made available for improving institutional framework for support of
industrial structure.
Besides the DCA, several ancillary Agreements were signed: (i) Project
Agreement between the IDA and RBM which specifies the way the funds should
be disbursed and the period within which such disbursements should take place;
(ii) Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOM and RBM which outlines the
relationship between the RBM and the GOM and the responsibilities of the RBM
under the loan facility; and (iii) PFI Agreements between RBM and individual
PFIs which clarifies the responsibilities of each party in terms of loan
administration to final beneficiaries. The PFIs which participated were Malawi
Development Corporation (MDC), Leasing and Finance Company (LFC),
INDEBANK, and National Bank of Malawi (NBM). The funds were on lent to
clients at market rates.



Page 2
3.0 PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION
The Table below shows initial allocations to various components of the project as
well as reallocations, which were made by the World Bank on 22 June, 1997
Categories              Initial allocations (SDRs)   Reallocations (SDRs)
1. Goods and Services
a)  Investment  Projects 14,200,000               17,600,000
under Part A of the Project_
b) Industrial Sites     4,800,000                 670,000
2. Equipment and vehicles
under Part C of the Project
a) Under Part C 4       140,000                   140,000
b) Other                140,000                   140,000
3. Civil works under Part
C of the Project
a) Under Part C 4       210,000                   210,000
b) Other                140,000                   140,000
4. Technical assistance  1,325,000                2,414,000
under Part C of the project
5. Incremental operating  835,000                 835,000
costs
6.  Refund  of  Project 510,000                   151,000
Preparation Advance
Total                   22,300,000                22,300,000
Thresholds of IDA expenditures for the various components were as follows: (i)
Investment Projects and Industrial Site (90 per cent for investment projects in an
ongoing investment enterprise and 80 per cent for investment projects in a new
investment enterprise); (ii) equipment and vehicles under Part C of the Project
(100 per cent); (iii) Civil works (80 per cent); (iv) Technical assistance (100 per
cent); Incremental operating costs (80 per cent).



Page 3
4.0 PROJECT COMPONENTS AND ALLOCATIONS
4.1  Investment Finance
USD 20.4 million was allocated to RBM for on-lending to PFIs to provide
medium-and long-term financing for Investment Projects in the industrial,
transport, tourism, commercial and agro-industrial sectors. Some PFIs
(INDEBANK and MDC) accessed funds for long-term projects and others
((LFC and NBM) for short-term projects.
4.2  Industrial Site
Only MDC accessed funds under this component and USD 7.0 million
was allocated for the construction of industrial sites, factory shells and
support of development of Maone Park to encourage investment by
indigenous and foreign investors especially those wishing to invest in
export-oriented activities. Very little progress was made in this component
and the resources were finally reallocated to the other components at the
end of 1996.
4.3  Institutional Capacity Development
The overall allocation for this component was USD 4.6 million of which
US$580,000.00 was allocated to RBM as follows:
a)    US$400,000.00  for strengthening  RBM's monetary  policy
management capacity through technical assistance, training and the
acquisition of office equipment.
b)    USD 180,000 to operate an export credit guarantee scheme.
The rest was allocated to and supervised by supervision of the Ministry of
Finance for the following:
IUSD 900,000 for restructuring the Post Office Savings Bank to
function as an autonomous commercially oriented financial
institution, consultants' services, and acquisition of vehicles and
equipment.
* USD 1,400,000 for institutional capacity building including the
establishment and operation of an investment promotion agency. The
set up of Malawi Investment Promotion Agency (MIPA) is a clear
achievement for utilization of part of these funds.
5.0 PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Implementation of the project commenced during the second half of 1992 and was
on course until mid 1994. Disbursement dropped after 1994 due to dwindling
demand for investment funds. This was coupled with growing finance costs due to
high interest rates. The project was therefore extended to 30/6/98 to allow for full



Page 4
disbursement of the proceeds Resources provided under some components
became very attractive compared to others.
5.1   Disbursements
5.1.1  Investment Finance
By January 1998 all funds under investment finance sub-
component were fully disbursed and RBM started the recycling
program. The total amount disbursed under the Investment Finance
and Factory Shell components is MK432,318,857.89 as indicated
in Table 1. This includes K165,547,418.81 disbursed under the
recycling program.
The recycling program provided a relief to many investment
enterprises as evidenced by the high figures disbursed just under a
year. The actual break down of allocation of the recycled funds is
as   follows:  INDEBANK    (MK37,833,821.64),   MDC
(MK47,135,602.28), and LFC (MK80,577,994.89).
Table I shows, among other things, (i) total drawdowns by PFI,
and (ii) repayments as well as arrears of principal and interest.
There has been some progress on loan repayment recently.
However, some PFIs have not performed well and have been given
notice to clear all arrears as soon as possible otherwise they will
lose their eligibility under the facility.
5.1.2  Factory Shells
Resources made available under the Factory Shell Component
were not as attractive as those of Investment Finance. By October
1996, only K8,055,273.92 had been disbursed to Maone Park
Limited and MDC. This represented less than 20 percent utilization
and the resources were reallocated to other components.
5.1.3  Strengthening of RBM Capacity
Proceeds under this sub-component were used for setting up the
Apex Unit including the acquisition of equipment and computers
for proper administering of donor funds. Furthermore, the funds
were for consultancy on the Capital Market Reform Program. This
was implemented in April, 1997 when Mayer Brown & Platt of
USA were engaged to, among other things, (i) review financial
sector legislation, (ii) review draft regulations and (iii) evaluate and
develop the institutional framework for securities and capital
markets activities including matters relating to the establishment of
a Securities Commission, and the operational aspects of the



Page  5
Malawi Stock Exchange. The outcome of the technical assistance
was a draft of a new Malawi Securities Act.
5.1.4 Export Credit Guarantee Scheme
The funds remained unutilized to the end of the Project due to non-
establishment of the scheme resulting from lack of proper
coordination between RBM and World Bank on the roles which the
two institutions were expected to play. RBM was to work out
operational guide-lines for the scheme while IDA was to provide
terms of reference and engage a consultant to design a pre-
shipment export credit guarantee facility.
6.0   ECONOMIC IMPACT ASSESSMENT
Officials from the Apex Division have conducted a series of visits to the PFIs and
investment enterprises since June, 1998 to assess the extent to which the project
achieved its objectives. The last major visit was conducted from 10 to 20 March,
1999. Among the aspects considered were: (i) increase in output in the
manufacturing sector, (ii) growth in employment levels, and (iii) levels of
enterprise sustainability. Data on selected enterprises visited is presented in Table
3 and are briefly explained hereunder.
6.1   Expansion of Output
The FSED resources were mostly used to restore productivity and growth
in the private sector of the economy by facilitating rehabilitation of plant
and equipment. This has had strong impact on the manufacturing and
transport sectors as a result of acquisition of machinery, trucks and buses
which otherwise would not have been procured.
6.2   Employment creation
It was learnt during the visit that most of the companies did not make
significant achievement in this area because project funds were borrowed
mainly to replace old machinery/equipment. Portland Cement and
Stagecoach Malawi Limited can be cited as examples.
It is hard to make an impact assessment in certain cases because: (i) the
projects were still under construction e.g. Mwaiwathu Private Hospital
hence it was premature to make an assessment on employment creation,
(ii) lack of activity on the project site. MDC's factory shells are a good
example. The shells remained unoccupied until recently due to high
rentals. During the visit it was learnt that only one company (Kiwi
Brands) had occupied some of the shells but it was premature to assess its
impact on employment creation.



Page 6
6.3   Export Potential
Again no significant achievement has been made. Of all the projects
financed, Universal Industries was the only firm which stated that it
exports its products to regional markets such as Zambia and Tanzania.
The rest are mainly domestic-oriented. Discussions with proprietors
indicated that prospects of penetrating the export markets in future are
bleak due to economies of scale already enjoyed by companies in this
region.
High cost of production partly due to escalating costs of imported raw
materials as a result of high transport costs, the depreciation of the Malawi
Kwacha and high cost of borrowing due to rising interest rates, among
other factors, make locally produced goods less competitive in the foreign
markets.
6.4   Sustainability
In spite of the general adverse economic conditions in Malawi, it was
encouraging to note during the visit that almost 70 per cent of the projects
financed by FSED line of credit are sustainable although their
sustainability greatly depends on continued financial support from
financial institutions.
7.0   FURTHER GENERAL ASSESSMENT OF THE FSED PROGRAM
a)    Some of the projects have not performed well because they were initiated
prior to ascertaining private sector demand. An example in this case is
factory shells which MDC proceeded to construct when the private sector
was not prepared to take up space for productive activities.
b)   The factory shells themselves were ill designed in terms of the type of
anticipated investors. This is evidenced in the fact that rentals being
charged on the shells are on the higher side particularly for local investors.
It is unfortunate than even foreign investors have not been attracted to
occupy the shells.
8.0   OTHER  PROJECT  CONDITIONS FULFILLED  BY  THE  MALAWI
GOVERNMENT
The following are conditions that were to be fulfilled by the RBM on behalf of the
Malawi Government as per the Project Agreement:
a)    RBM was mandated to enter into PFI Agreements with each PFI pursuant
to section 3.01 of the DCA to enable PFIs make sub-loans to final
borrowers. RBM fulfilled this condition by entering into Agreements with
various PFIs already alluded to in this report.
b)   RBM was to ensure that records and accounts of the Project for each fiscal
year are audited in accordance with appropriate auditing principles by



Page  7
independent auditors acceptable to IDA. To fulfil this requirement, RIaM
has, throughout Project implementation, engaged the auditors, Deloitte &
Touche to audit the Project. The audit report FYE 31 March, 1998 was
finalized submitted to IDA while a final report covering the period April to
October 1998 is being prepared and will be submitted soon.
c)   The implementation of the Project involved opening and maintaining in
dollars, Special deposit Accounts offshore by the borrower. To fulfil this
condition, the RBM opened three Special Accounts with Citibank, New
York. Account Number 36951107 and Account Nunber 36951115
(managed by Apex Unit) were opened to facilitate transactions for
procurement of goods and services for investment projects and industrial
sites, respectively. The third Special Account (36086379 managed by
Ministry of Finance) was opened to facilitate transactions made under this
Ministry.
d)   Project Agreement and IDA Staff Appraisal Report required RBM to
calculate periodically the reference rate as cost of borrowing for sub-loans
to PFIs. This condition was fulfilled during Project implementation
whereby RBM calculated the said rate quarterly as a simple average of all
prevailing interest rates on long-term deposits at commercial banks.
e)    RBM was also responsible for preparing and submitting requests to World
Bank for the replenishment of the Special Accounts. In meeting this
requirement, RBM made arrangements for replenishment of Special
Accounts 36951107 and 36951115 during Project implementation.
9.0   CONCLUSION
The project met the set objectives. However, there were implementation problems
largely due to lack of an appropriate institutional framework. In particular, the
capacity of the Apex Unit in the RBM was not sustained throughout the project
period, thereby undermining its ability to effectively monitor the PFIs and the
sub-projects. It is for this reason that the data necessary for a more comprehensive
assessment of the project's economic impact has been very much lacking. And
the repayment performance of the PFIs has received due attention only recently.
This however, does not mean that the project was ill-conceived but rather that its
contribution to the availability of term finance enterprises was not continuously
evaluated.
RESERVE BAK OF MALAWI
MAY, 1999



T,able I
InNANCLAL SECTOR AND ESTATE DEVELOPMENT PROJECr
CREDrr NUMR 2221 - MM
DRl      77FN  AMD LOANR8PA YMBNT BY PARI7C4PA 7ING PFIVAVCIAL lNSlMMONSAS A r 3W5s99                                                  Rur Dat   -   11-Jun-99
NAME OF PI                         EFFECITVE   DRAWDOWNS  REPAYMENTS   IBALANCE                      INTEREST         DATE       INTEREST         INTEREST
.____________________ DATE                                                                          PAYABLE                        PAID             DUE
lodebnk Ltd                            17-Jul-92    167,973,482.12   25,288,03t44    142,685,443.68    63,793,704.33              61,267,698.54    2,526,005.79
Ma21a%i Dcvlopmot Co!poratio Ltd      15-Deo-92     81,433,183.06    11,953,329.31   69,499,853.75    40,566,129.57               25,035,153.74   15,530,975.83
Laswt4 ud F _nm   Compony of MaavM    01.Aig-97    178,04,192.71   835,791,074.71    92,251,11.00     25,693,641.62                2,489,826.16   23,203,815.46
Naienal Bank of M                     06-May-94      4,850,000.00    4,850,000.00            0.00       2,369,425.91               2,369,425.91           0.00
Grand Totalr                                       432,518,57M9  Iu7a4442.46    304,436,15.4         132,422,901.43           i   91,162.104.35   41,260,797.08
NB Fgres include disburwsnntmade nder the rtcydingPrograne
Source: Proect papm  and dimbr  t doc_omta
RESERVE BANK OF MALAVM
JUNE, 1999
F.nancial Secto, and Ent.,pcre- Do nop ment PCR- May, 1999
Page 1 of 4



Page 1 of 2
Table 2
FINANCIAL SECTOR AND ESTATE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDrr NUMBER 2221 - MIM (CATEGORY 1 A & B)
Pmovement of reference rate since december 1992
EFFECTIVE DATE               REFRENCE RATE
01-Dec-92                        19.53
01-Oct-93                       24.38
01-May-95                        34.89
01-Jul-96                      26.65
01-Sep-96                       20.90
01-Nov-96                        10.59
01-May-97                         9.18
01-Apr-98                       11.53
01-Sep-98                       16.30
01-Dec-98                        19.97
01-Mar-99                        26.68
RESERVE BANK OF MALAWI
JUNE, 1999
Financial Sector and Enterprise development PCR- May, 1999



Th.6 3
FINANCLAL SECTOR AND ESTATI DVELOlPMNT PROJECT
CRFDT NUMR 2221- MA
ZCONOMC       ACr ON0SEUCTED ENTERASZSASASAr T3O'99
NAME OF ENTERPRISE                            NA3dl OF             DRAVWDOWNS    IPACT ON    IMPACT ON                       IMPACT ON               GENIRAL
PPI                  O(MiK1 r% *6  EIXPORIS(%) *   MPWLYMNT%) *                                    RMMARKS
Montfort P     & PopA. Puitis Ltd  11113BANK                            B,102,492 31             1a 60              0.00                50.00 D 0tic anaeted
S9r*heo B, ti-(MW) Ltd                UCEBANK                          15,000,000.00             17.00              NIA                 14.00 Dm c nented
M..e Chemici=                                       MDC                 5,249,000.00             56.D0              WIA                 35.20 Fcraen edawpueing
Restc Pm&>d. Ltd                      MDC                               2,210,567,76             20.00              4.00                15.50 Im-.door0i.,mnm
antapmeeContors                       LNDEBANK                         21,206,812.42              N4A               NiA                 19.00  craan udwap  ng
Tom Desd1nvt sud hve e Et Co.    1RAK                           12,500,000.00             30.00             20.00                 NVA           flbWbdter
P       Th&*ndietL-ited               MDC                               7,63.141.26              10.00              7.00                 NA }ran excha , ing
ChemoRSd A U.k.bng                   tMDC                               6,000,000.00              0.00              0/00                 5.00
Rab Procx                                EAN                            1,700,000/00              0.00              5.50                 1.00
ChdVt- AgmA                           NDC                               2,933,22g99              15190              0.00                3&30 Fcaein exdtrp wiW
Pr- Bckcr.c                           DOIEBANK                          7,044,000.00              2 00              0.00                 0.00
Lak- hoc Hdidcy Rert                  DNMERANK                           1,165,265.40            0e00               0.00                40.00 BedTafftingf    pocr
UivenS Yndhdt.6.                      14DERANK                          4,9S2,392 02             1300               0.00                17.00 daceic  dantd
NB:   Thnar p-rcatag incrae,
NIA eadfcrNotAppicbl.
Siurc. Skbnisnrinfr,m pocrqj
Page I o14



APPENDIX C
CHARACTERISTICS OF SUB-LOANS



Appendix C
Characteristics of Sub-Projects
Malawi
Financial Sector and Enterprise Development Project
Credit 2221-MAI
Amount of     % of Total     % of Total
Sectoral Distribution         Number   IDA Sub-loans       Number        Amount
Manufacturing                    50       187,244,406        0.33           0.52
Trading                          31       35,603,765         0.20           0.10
Services                         28       47,346,889         0.18           0.13
Transport                        26        53,219,245        0.17           0.15
Construction                      8        5,284,000         0.05           0.01
Agriculture                        6       10,250,000        0.04           0.03
Mining                            3       20,355,311         0.02           0.06
T o t a 1                        152      359,303,616        1.00           1.00
Distribution by Size of Sub-Loan
Less than MK 1.0 million          69       44,282,146         0.45           0.12
1.01 to 2.0 MK million            41       59,440,055         0.27           0.17
2.01 to 5.0 MK million            22       69,763,270         0.14           0.19
5.01 to 10.0 MK million           14       95,070,052         0.09           0.26
10.01 to 20.0 MK million           6       90,748,093         0.04           0.25
T ota1                           152      359,303,616        1.00           1.00
Distribution by Investment Cost
Less than MK 5.0 million          19       24,233,613         0.13           0.07
5.01 to 10.0 MK million           10       44,794,196         0.07           0.12
10.01 to 20.0 MK million           9       77,303,601         0.06           0.22
20.01 to 30.0 MK million           4       27,273,265         0.03           0.08
30.01 to 100.0 MK million          3       22,666,093         0.02           0.06
Over 100.0 MK million              3       41,254,250         0.02           0.11
Data not available               104      121,778,598         0.68           0.34
T o t a 1                        152      359,303,616        1.00           1.00
Project TYDe
Expansion                        36      194,676,371         0.24           0.54
New                              10       45,068,647         0.07           0.13
Data not available               106      119,558,598         0.70           0.33
T o t a 1                        152      359,303,616        1.00           1.00



APPENDIX D
Investment Projections of Projects Assisted by
Malawi Investment Promotion Agency (MIPA)



APPENDIX D INVESTMENT PROJECTIONS OF PROJECTS ASSISTED BY MIPA 1993.1998 (AMOUNTS IN USS)
YEAR  SECTOR             COMPANY                 TYPE   STATUS  EMPLOY                 TOTAL INVESTMENT COST                                    TOTAL
______________                                  ________sFx Loan                        Fx Equity       Total Fx      Total Cost
1993   Industrial Estates    Maone Park          New   Operational                  2,300,000      1,700,000       4,000,000      2,500,000         6,500,000
Total                                                                               2,300,000      1,700,000       4,000,000      2,500,000          6,500,00
1994   Agriculture       Cheetah Limited         New   Operational      10                           126,000        128,000       -                  126,000
Horticulure      Zikorno Flowers          New   Operational      23           300,000        224,000         524,000        133,500           657,500
Manufacturing    Chirimba Garments (SA)    New  Oerational     205          1,365,000       150,000       1,515,000        400,000         1,915,000
Mining            Shayona Cement Corp     New   Operational     213          2,000,000      1,333,333      3,333,333      1,400,000         4,733,333
Other             Lusako Enterpriose      New  Operational  ,_, 0                                ,-         -                10,000            10,000
Professional Services Boitze              New   Operational       4                         -                  5,000                            5,000
Social Services   Gomonda Music Co.       New   Operational       3             2,000          10,000         12,000         12,000            24,000
Social Services   City Centre Clinic      New   Operational      96          3,025,000       548,700       3,573,700      2,701,700         6,275,400
Tourism           Water King              New   Operational       2                             6,000          6,000                            6,000
-    Tourism             Kayak Africa            New   Operational       8                                           70,000         20,000            90,000
Total                                                                   564         6,692,000      2,398,033       9,165,033      4,677,200        13,842,233
1995   SECTOR            COMPANY                                  EMPLOY               TOTAL INVESTMENT COST                              TOTAL
Fx Loan        Fx Equit        Total Fx      Total Local
Agro-Processing    Natures Gift           New   Operational       7                            13,333         13,333                           13,333
Financial Services   First Merchant Bank  New   Operational      45          1,000,000       450,000       1,450,000                         1,450,000
Financial Services   Finance Bank         New   Operational      43        _                1,500,000      1,500,000                         1,500,000
Manufacturing     Mphanga Holdings        New   Operational      151           24,737           8,579         31,315         59,211            90,527
Manufacturing     Parental Drugs Ltd      New   Operational     271          2,200,000        800,000      3,000,000      1,500,000         4,500,000
Manufacturing     Mfumu Clothing Ltd      New   Operational     522          1,000,000      1,250,000      2,250,000                         2,250,000
Manufacturing     Bakelines Ltd           New   Operational      80           100,000         33,333         133,333         40,000           173,333
Manufacturing    SA Druggists             New   Operational      59         -                              9,000,000                         9,000.000
Manufacturing    Aped Engineering         New  Opetaonal                                                                    100,00C           100,000
Manufacturing     Crerars Minerals        New   Operational                                                                        I
Tourism           Chembe Lodge            New   Operationalt                                                  60,000                           60,000
TOTAL                                                                 1,042         4,324,737       4,053,245     17,437,982      1,699,211        19,137,193
SECTOR            COMPANY                                  EMPLOY            TOTAL INVESTMENT COST                                 TOTAL
Fx Loan        Fx Equity       Total Fx      Total Local
1996   Horticulture      Maravi Flowers           New   Operational     101           307,000        331,200        638,200        307,000            945.200
Manufacturing     Southern Bottles ltd.   Exp.  Operational     999                         6,000,000      6,000,000      3,000,000          9,000,000
Manufatunng       Gurmair Ltd             New   Operational     466           825,000         375,000      1,200,000       -                 1,200,000
Manufacturing     Bentex Ltd              New   Operational     154                            71,895        143,797       .                  143,797
Manufacturing     Harps Limited           New   Operational       0                                                                                 0
Mining            Portland Cement Ltd    Expans. Operational    800          2,600,000      5,600,00o      8,200,000                         8,200,000
Mining            Minex                   New   Operational      66                           653,595      1,307,190                         1,307,190
Mining           Chimwadzulu Gemston      New   0peratbonal      67 _    _                  _   _         21,000,000                 _      21,000,000
Social Services   Mwaiwathu               New   Operational      70                                                       __                 4,887,000
Social Services   Medical Rescue Service  New   OpeMational      38                           300,000        300,000                          300,000
Tourism           Makomo Safaries         New  O2perabional       6                                           20,000                           20,000
TotalI                                                                2,767         3,732,000      1 3,33i,690    38,809,187      3,307,000        47,003,1187
SECTOR          ICOMPANY                                  EMPLOY            TOTAL INV'ESTMENT COS1                                 TOTAL
gricufture  I                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fx Lon I FEuly     Ttlx          TtaLcl
1 997   Agrir uiture   Chulu Dairy Farm    New IOperabonal         0                  |                                      180,0001           180,000
MIPA: INVESTOR TRACKiNG SYSTEM



APPENDIX D: INVESTMENT PROJECTIONSOP PROJECTSASSISTED BY MiPA 1993-1998 (AMOUNTS IN US$)
_ Agriculture     Lonjezo Investment       New   Operational       20                                                         480,000            480,000
Agriculture       Domue Poultry Farm       New   Operational      11                                          -                12,000            12,000
Constructiun      Unified Holdings         New   Operational      28                                         1,900,000       -                 1,900,000
Horticufture      Duwa Patch               New   O perational     30                                                                            200,000
Manufacturing     dirosa Holdings          New   Operational      33                           100,000         100,000                          100,000
Manufacturing     Koli                     New   Operational       0                                             1,000                             1,000
Manufacturing     Bonila Ltd               New   Operational      20                                          340,000                           340,000
Manufacturing     Malawi Beverages co.     New   Operational     151                        1 1,173,000     11,`173,000     4,975,000         16,148,000
Manufacturing     Maone Chemicals          New   Operational      21t                                                      11,434,459         11,434,459
Tourism           Digs Little Ways         New  Oerational       15 _                                                         50,000            50,000
Tourism           Taurus International     New   Operational      76         -                                                                   30,000
405                       11,273000       1 3,514,000    17,131,459         30,875,459
SECTOR            COMPANY                                   EMPLOY           TOTAL INVESTMENT COST                                         TOTAL
Fx Loan         Fx Equity       Total Fx      Total Local
1998   Agriculture       Britz                    New   Operational    1,000                                                                         26,000,000
Agro-processing   Meadow Feeds Ltd         New   Operational       0                                           270,000                          270,000
Construction     Investec                  New   O perational      0                                         1,200,000                         1,200,000
Financial Services   Standard Bank of SA   New   Operational       0                                        10,000,000                        10,000,000
Manufacturing     Alpha Plus Ltd.          New   Operational
Manufacturing     Shieldoote Paints        New   Operational       3                                           50,000                            50,000
Manufacturing    International Breweries   New   Operational     100                                         5,000,000                         5,000,000
Manufacturing     Gathic Fashions          New   Operational      20                                                0          70,0001           70,000
Manufacturing    Nyika Chemicals          New   Operational       21                                          750,000                           750,000
Manufacturing     Lilongwe Textiles        New   Operational     215           436,400          90,600         527,000                          527,000
Mmino             Kim's Chemicals          New  Oerational       11                                           250,000                          250,000
Other             Wood Pecker              New   Operational      12                                                                            400,000
Other             Pep Stores               New   Operational      55                                         9,800,000                         9,800,000
Professional Services AGS Ltd.             New   Operational      10                                          .                                 100,000
Tourism           River side hotel         New   Operational     100                                                        1 1,385,000        1,385,000
Tourism           Mbachi Air & Ground S    New   Operational       7                                          .                               25,000,000
Tourism           Lim's Club               New   Operational      15                                            20,000                           20,000
TOTALI                                                                 1,569           436,400          90,600      27,867,000      1,455,0001       80,822,000
GRAND TOTALS                                                           6,3471        17,485,1371    32,846,5681    110,793,2021    30,769,8701      19,180,072
Source: MIPA
INDUSTRY          EMPLOYMENT                       TOTAL
INVESTMT
Agriculture                         1,041         26,798,000
Agro.lndustry                          7            283,333
construction                          28           9,600,000
Manufacturing                       3,355         62,693,116
Financial Services                    88          13,050,000
Mining                              1,157         35,490,523
Horticulure                          154           1,802,700
Tourism                              229          26,661,000
Professional Services                 14            105,000
Social Service                       207          11,486,400
Other                                 67          10,210,000
TOTALS                              6,347        198,180,072
MIPA: INVESTOR TRACKING SYSTEM



