Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFIC IAI. USE ONLY
Report No. 9096-MAI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MALAWI
FINANCIAL SECTOR AND ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FEBRUARY 25, 1991
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Southern Africa Department
This document has a restricted distribution and mas be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents mav not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



C'IJRKENCY EQUIVALENTi S
Currency Unit = Malawi Kwacha (MK)
USS 1.00      = MK 2.65 (January 1991)
MK 1.00       = US$ 0.38
MK 1.00       = 100 tambalas
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADMARC                    Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation
ASAC                      Agriculture Sector Adjustment Credit
CBM                       Commercial Bank of Malawi
DEVPOL                    Statement of Developmenit Policies
DFI                       Development Finance Institutions
ECMAC                     Entrepreneurship  and  Capital  Market  Adjustment
Credit
EEC                       European Ecomomic Community
ECGF                      Export Credit Guarantee Facility
Africa
ESAF                      Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
FIAS                      Foreign Investment Advisory Services
IFC                       International Finance Corporation
INDEBANK                  Investment and Development Bank of Malawi
INDEFUND                  Investment and Development Fund
IMF                       International Monetary Fund
ITPAC                     Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment Credit
LFC                       Leasing and Finance Company of Malawi
MDC                       Malawi Development Corporation
MEPC                      Malawi Export Promotion Council
MIM                       Malawi Institute of Management
MOA                       Ministry of Agriculture
MTIT                      Ministry of Trade, Industry and Tourism
NBM                       National Bank of Malawi
NBS                       New Building Society
NBFIs                     Non-banks Financial Institutions
PFIs                      Participating Financial Intermediaries
PPF                       Project Preparation Facility
POSB                      Post Office Savings Bank
RBM                       Reserve Bank of Malawi
SEDOM                     Small Enterprise Development Organization of Malawi
SME                       Small and Medium Enterprise
SSIU                      Small Scale Industry Unit
USAID                     United States Agency for International Development
WWBM                      Women's World Banking of Malawi
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - Marchi 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAWI
FINANCIAL SECTOR AND ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .i-ii
I.   SECTORAL ENVIRONMENT   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Economic  Setting   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  1
Structural Adjustment Policies   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
The Financial Sector   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Institutional Structure  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Monetary Developments  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Resource Mobilization .................... 5
Resource Allocation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Issues in the Financial Sector   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Conclusions   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    12
Industrial Sector  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
Issues in the Industrial Sector  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
Demand for Investment Credit   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
Government and Bank Strategy   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
II.  PROJECT RELATED INSTITUTIONS   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  19
Introduction    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    19
The Reserve Bank of Malawi   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Commercial  Bank    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    21
Leasing and Finance Corporation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Investment and Development Bank of Malawi
(INDEBANK)   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  I  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    23
The Malawi Development Corporation (MDC)   . . . . . . . . . 24
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited Malawi in June 1990. The mission comprised Vincent M. Rague (Mission
Leader), Mr. Simon Bell, Financial Economist (AF6IE); Mr. Roy Karaoglan,
Sr. Banking Specialist (AFTTF); Ms. Catherine Seibert covered Small and
Medium Enterprise  issues  (AF6IE);  and Messrs.  Paak    , Benvenisti and
Lethbridge  (Consultants).    Messrs.  Paul  Ballard,   ;.icipal  Industrial
Economist and K. J. Walraven (AFTIE) were the peer reviewers for the
operation.   Secretarial support was provided by Mesdames Irene Chacon and
Nuria Plaza (AF6IE). Messrs. David Cook (AF6IE) and Stephen Denning (AF6DR)
are the managing Division Chief and Department Director, respectively.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performrance
of their offlcial duties Its contents mas not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



MALAWI
FINANCIAL SECTOR AND ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont.)
III. THE PROJECT  . . . . . . . . .   .   o .  . . . . . . . . . .   25
Project Origin and Rationale   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
Project Objectives and Design  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Project Description  ....  .  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  26
Sector Policy Measures and Conditions . . . . . . . . . . . .. 28
Eligibility Criteria for PFls  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  30
Eligibility Criteria for Subprojects   .   . . . . . . . . .    31
Subloan Processing and Administration  . . . . . . . . . . .  32
Institutional Capacity Development Component   . . . . . . . 33
Project Cost, Financing and Co-financing   . . . . . . . . . 36
Terms and Conditions   ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  37
Project Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  37
Environmental Assessment   ... .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  38
Procurement and Disbursement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  38
Special Account  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
Auditing, Accounting and Reporting Requirements  . . . . . .  42
IDA Supervision  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  42
Project Benefits and Risks   ... .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  43
IV.  AGREEMENTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
LIST OF TEXT TABLES
Table 1   Loans Advanced: Informal and Formal
SME Credit Sources  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
Table 2   Estimated Project Cost and Financial Plan . . . . . . . 36
Table 3   Procurement Arrangements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Table 4   Allocation of IDA Credit  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41



lIST OF ANNEXES
Annex I       Gross Domestic Product by Industrial Origin 1973-89
Annex II      Distribution of Financial Sector Assets, 1985-88
Annex III     Principal Interest Rates
Annex IV      Commercial Banks:  Advances by Main Sectors
Annex V       Credit Extended by Non-Bank Financial Institutions
Annex VI      Commercial Banks in Malawi
Annex VII     Leasing and Finance Company of Malawi
Annex VIII    Investment and Development Bank of Malawi Limited
Annex IX      Comparison of Ratios of Operating Costs of Banks
in Selected Sub-Saharan African Countries
Annex X       Malawi Development Corporation
Annex XI      TOR for Consultancy on Monitoring and
Forecasting Monetary Aggregates
Annex XII     TOR for Consultancy on the Restructuring of the
POSB
Annex XIII    Export Credit Guarantee Facility
Annex XIV     TOR for Investment Promotion Agency
Annex XV      SME Technical Assistance and Training Fund
Annex XVI     Apex Unit
Annex XVII    Schedule of Disbursements
Annex XVIII   Supervision Plan



MALAWI
FINANCIAL SECTOR AND ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Republic of Malawi
Beneficiaries:        Reserve   Bank   of  Malawi   (RBM),   participating   financial
intermediaries (PFIs), Ministry of Trade, Industry and Tourism
(MTIT), the Post Office Savings Bank (POSB), the Chamber of
Commerce and lddustry, 'lalawi Development Corporation (MDC),
Investment and  .e-lpmenc Bantc of Malawi (INDEBANK), and various
local SME-Suppor: institutions.
Amount:               SDR 22.3 icillion, US$32 million equivalent
Terms:                Standard IDA, witvi  4'! years maturity
Onlending Terms:      RBM would through an Apex Ur:it onlend IJS$27.4 million equivalent
of the IDA Credit to eligible PFIs in local currency at a pre-
determined reference rate. The reference rate would be determined
by RBM as the prevailing average cost of term borrowing in The
financial system (about 13.625 percent in December 1990,
calculated as a simple average of all prevailing interest rates
on term deposits in Malawi).  PFIs would relend the funds  at
market rates to finance viable subprojects in the productive
sectors. RBM would pass to the Government the interest received
from PFIs, less a 0.5 percentage point fee to cover RBM's
administrative costs for operating the Apex Unit. The Government
would bear the foreign exchange risk out of the interest received
from PFIs. The Government would provide US$4.6 million equivalent
through  RBM   for   institutional   capacity   development   to
beneficiaries on a grant basis.
Project
Obiectives:          The objectives of the project are to support Government efforts
to expand exports and improve the policy and institutional
framework relevant to private sector investment. These objectives
would be achieved by: (i) encouraging the commercial banks and
nonbank financial intermediaries (NBFIs) to c,igage in term
financing of viable enterprises in the p-oductive sectors,
including SMEs and enterprises owned 1y womin; (ii) improving the
institutional framework for export ,inance and investment
promotion, including support for a p.oposed investment promotion
agency  and  an  industrial  infrastructure  and  factory  shell
development program; (iii) supporting the strengthening and
operational diversification of financial institutions; and (iv)
improving monetary policy management.



- ii -
Proiect
Description:        The project would have three components.  The Investment finaace
component (USS2C.4 million equivalent) would be onlent to eligible
PFIs through an apex arrangement at the RBM to finance projects
in the productive sectors promoted by foreign and indigenous
entrepreneurs. FFIs would make subloans through mechanisms such
as leasing, equity finance and term loans.  Equity investments
would give preference to new ventures and be channelled through
the development finance institutions (DFIs). The industrial sites
component (US$7 million), as an apex arrangement at the RBM,
would ensure timely availability of industrial infrastructure to
industrial sites and factory shells to encourage investment by
indigenous and foreign investors, especially those investing in
export-oriented activities. To qualify as PFIs under these two
components, financial institutions would have to be in compliance
with the provisions of the revised Banking Act and meet additional
eligibility criteria  acceptable  to IDA.   The  institutional
capacity development component (US$4.6 million) would provide
technical assistance and training to:   (i) strengthen RBM's
monetary policy management capability; (ii) assist Government
to develop the institutional framework for the promotion of
foreign and domestic investmen.t; (iii) support programs for MDC's
reorientation, and INDEBANK's diversification into merchant
banking and; (iv) to restructure the Post Office Savings Bank
(POSB) into an autonomous and efficient financial institution;
and (v) train local financial institutions' staff in project
appraisal-related issues, especially the institutions that support
SMEs and women entrepreneurs.
Benefits
and Risks:          The proposed IDA Credit would fill a major gap in term financing
for the productive sectors in Malawi. Using the existing
intermediaries, including the commercial banks and NBFIs, the
project would help strengthen institutional capabilities to
promote, appraise and supervise viable projects. By increasing
competition and the range of financial instruments, the project
would enhance efficiency in term resource mobilization and
allocation.    Broader access  to credit  for  investment will
encourage real sector supply response and contribute significantly
to the Government's growth and adjustment strategy. Investment
promotion would help diversify Malawi's base for foreign exchange
earnings by encouraging investments in export oriented activities.
Initial investments are likely to be in labor intensive productive
activities that would help alleviate the unemployment problem.
Support for SMEs will also benefit women, three quarters of whom
engage in some form of off-farm income generating activities.
The major risks are the possibility of an economic slowdown,
(which would discourage new investment), the conservative attitude
of banks and large enterprises, and Government slackening on
reforms. Malawi has in the past achieved high rates of growth,
primarily through a steady expansion in agriculture. The risk



- iii -
is  alleviated  by  Government's  continued  emphasis  on  the
development of agriculture as the mainstay of the economy, recent
adjustment measures, and its strong commitment to implementing
the reform program.   Recent industrial and financial sector
reforms have introduced competition in both sectors, which is
changing conservative attitudes and making banks and enterprises
more responsive to market forces. Another risk is the possibility
of low investor response. This risk is mitigated by the favorable
investment climate which is being created by the Government.
Proiect Cost Suzmnary
Estimated Costs:                       Local      Foreign         Total
(US$ Million)_
Invest. Finance Comoonent:             11.9      20.0             31.9
Industrial Sites Component              2.9        7.0             9.9
Institutional Capacity Development   2.8           2.6             5.4
Total                      17.6       29.6            47.2
Financing Plan:
IDA                              2.4       29.6            32.0
Government                       0.4        ---              0.4
Co-financing                     0.1        0.0              0.1
Project Sponsors                14.7        -               14.7
Total                      17.6       29.6            47.2
Estimated Disbursements:
Fiscal Year                            FY91 FY92 FY93 FY94 FY95 FY96 FY97
Annual                                 0.5  2.9  6.3   7.3  6.1  5.1  3.5
Cumulative                             0.5  3.4  9.7  17.0 23.4 28.5 32.0
*Including the Repayment of PPF advances.
Estimated Completion Date:       June 30, 1997
Economic Rate of Return:         Not Applicable



MALA.
FINANCIAL SECTOR AND ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. SECTORAL ENVIRONMENT
Economic Setting 1/
1.01      Malawi, with a population of 8 million and pe. capita income of
USS170, remains one of the poorest countries in the world. The economy has
a fragile and narrow resourse base that is dependent upon a few exports and
a small domestic market. Such features make Malawi's economy vulnerable to
external shocks, with the result that real growth in GDP fluctuates markedly
from year to year. On average, the economy performed better during the 1960s
and 19'70s, led by higher investment in agriculture and infrastructure, than
in the 1980s.  Between 1964 and 1979 real GNP per capita growth averaged
3 percent per annum, making it one of the fastest growing economies in the
region. However, in the late 1970s, Malawi experienced a series of exogenous
shocks and domestic policy weaknesses that substantially reduced per capita
income growth.   These shocks included a deterioration in terms of trade,
ribing oil prices, and a civil war in Mozambique that disrupted traditional
external transpo:t routes and led to higher transport costs that posed a
seriou,s challenge to an economy that has historically been characterized by
pragmatic management.   In addition, prolonged drought in the early 1980s
further exacerbated the situation by severely reducing export volumes. The
Government's economic recovery program was impeded by further external shocks
starting in the mid-1980s, which included the closure of the main external
transport routes, worsening terms of trade, and an influx of displaced
persons from Mozambique.
Structural Adiustment Policies
1.02     The Government launched a series of structural adjustment programs
throughout the 1980s in response to the repeated external shocks. Ultimately
in 1987, the Government introduced a comprehensive structural adjustment
program, which was supported by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) under
its Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility, and two World Bank operations:
Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment Credit (ITPAC) and the Agriculture
Sector  Adjustment  Credit  (ASAC).    The  macroeconomic  objective  of  the
adjustment effort is the resumption of higher levels of economic growth on
a sustainable basis.
1/   A detailed review of the Malawi's economy is contained in the Country
Economic Memorandum entitled "Malawi, Growth Through Poverty Reduction,"
(Report No.  8140-MAI),  dated March 22,  1990.   A Third-Year Policy
Framework Paper (PFP), was reviewed by the Committee of the Whole in
August 1990.



-  2  -
1.03     In_the External Sector,  the liberalization of foreign exchanige
allocattion and flexible management of the exchange rate are proceeding well
and have resulted in substantial gains, by stimulating investment and
increasing capacity utilization. In general, the Gov rnment growth strategy
romains to ensure further liberalization of trade and payments system and the
.ILtinlellanCe of external competitiveness.
1.04     Fiscal Policy under the program aims at reducing public sector
deficits and macroeconomic imbalances caused by expansionary fiscal policy
in previous years, and helping to mobilize domestic resources to support
private sector investment. Higher revenues and lower expenditures have been
achieved through expenditure controls, specific tax reforms and improvement
in administration. The budget deficit excluding official transfers declined
to 6.6 percent of GDP in 1988/89 from 9.6 percent in 1987.   A further
reduction was expected in 1990.
1.05     Sectoral Policies.   The Government also introduced  reforms  in
several  sectors.   In agriculture,  the reforms  emphasize enhanced  food
security and efficient resource use by improved producer prices, elimination
of crop restrictions and increased support of the smallholder sector. In the
financial sector, reform is focusing on increasing the role of market forces
in resource mobilization and allocation and in the conduct of monetary
policy.    Reforms  are also being  implemented to  improve  the  financial
performance of the parastatal sector.
1.06     Implementation of the adjustment program has already had a favorable
impact on economic performance as reflected in a reversal of negative GDP
growth in 1987 to positive levels from 1988 through 1990 (GDP grew by 4.3
percent in 1989 and is estimated to have grown by 4.8 percent in 1990).
Annex I shows the structure of GDP.   Inflation decelerated from over 30
percent in 1988 to 15.7 percent in 1989. The import liberalization program
has led to a strong recovery in manufacturing, construction and financial
services, supported by an expansion in fixed investment, which increased from
13 percent of GDP in 1987 to 16 percent  in 1989.   About half of the
investment was financed through national savings.
1.07     Despite the breadth of the reforms, Malawi's future growth faces
uncertainty because of some remaining structural weaknesses that constrain
development of a sustainable response.   The specific reforms needed tc
address these structural weaknesses are highlighted in the following brief
review of the financial and industrial sectors. The proposed project would
support the implementation of the reform objectives in both sectors.



-3-
The Financial Sector 2/
Institutional Structure
1.08     The financial sector in Malawi is small and not yet well developed,
but operates with very few distortions.  The sector consists of formal side
informal market  segments.   The formal sector comprises a central  bank
(Reserve Bank of Malawi); two commercial banks (the Nationa' Batik of Malawi
and the Commercial Bank of Malawi); two finance houses (Mercantile Credit anid
Leasing and Finance Company of Malawi Limited - LFC); a building society (Nt,w
Building Society - NBS); four development finance institutions (DFIs); two
savings institutions; an insurance industry comprising a series of insurance
companies and brokers as well as several pension and provident fund managers.
Securities markets are almost non-existent and the issue of treasury bills
and Government local registered stoAk (LRS) is limited to institutional
investors.   The DFIs are the Investment and Development Bank of Malawi
(INDEBANK), the Malawi Development Corporation (MDC), the Investment and
Development  Fund  (INDEFUND),  and  the  Small  Enterprise  Development
Organization of Malawi (SEDOM).   The savings organizations are the Post
Office Savings Bank (POSB) and the Malawi Union of Savings and Credit
Cooperatives Limited  (MUSCCO).   Annex II provides  summary data on the
distribution of financial sector assets.
1.09     The Reserve Bank of Malawi (RBM) was established at the time of
independence in 1964 and provides all the normal central banking services.
RBM is charged with the responsibility of managing Malawt's foreign exchange
reserves and the exchange rate, promoting monetary stability and a sound
financial system, and acting as banker and ad-. isor to the Government.  In
addition, the central bank administers Malawi's exchange control regulations,
issues and underwrites Government securities and regulates and supervises the
activities  of most  Cinancial institutions.   Regulatory and supervisory
functions are being strengthened to respond to the new responsibilities and
powers of the RBM under the revised RBM Act (para 2.05).
1.10     Recent Performance.  The health of the financial system in Malawi
tends to mirror the health of the overall economy. The commercial banks and
all the major non-bank financial intermediaries (NBFIs) appear to be sound
financially. The financial system in Malawi has recovered from a period of
uncertainty and general decline in the mid-1980s and has emerged stronger and
more efficient. The good performance is a tribute to the non-interventionist
policies of the Government of Malawi that have allowed the fina.cial
institutions to make autonomous operating and lending decisions based on
commercial considerations.
2/ A detailed description and analysis of the financial sector is available
in the Financial Sector Report No. 9009-MAI.  This section of the SAR
gives a brief overview of the financial sector and highlights issues to
be addressed under the proposed IDA credit.



-4-
1. 11    The two Commercial Batiks the National Bank of Malawi (:iM) and th1e
Cotmmnercial HanK of Malawi (CBM), have a long history of opera>'CInIS in Malawi
andl are generally well regar-led by the banking public.   Tho wicle branch
network and the use of mobile units in rural areas, lhas helped to gonerate
a large deposit  base.   Both banks have  competent management  and  sound
professional staff, who run the institutions on a commercial basis atnd
profitably.   In the early 1980s, the banks faced liquidity and portfolio
probleva;  because  of  over-expo3ure  to  estate  agriculture  (tobacco).
Throughout the mid-1980s, management focused on rebuilding the banks inito
viable financial institutions with strong balance sheets.  The process was
completed in 1987.   In the last five years, both banks earned an average
return on assets of becween 1 and 1.5 percent per annum. In the process of
rebuildirng the banks, management followed a highly conservative approachi to
lending and business development, focusing on cash flow leieding for shlort-
term working capital, supported by adequate collateral.
1.12     The larger NBFIs also appear to be in sound financial condition and
have played an important role in allocating and mobilizing fin.ancial
resources in Malawi. Even the smaller financial institutions have performed
reasonably well.   INDEFUND, which targets medium scale enterprises,  for
example, has operated cautiously and managed to achieve profitable operations
in 1988 and 1989. The DFIs among the NBFIs also play an important role in
resource allocation, their capacity has been constrained by the lack of
access .o term funds. For those DFIs targeting Small and Medium Enterprises
(SMEs) (such as INLEFUND and SEDOM), the constraint has been weak
institucional capacity to promote, evaluate and monitor projects and to
provide effective technical assistance to SME entrepreneurs.
Monetary Developments
1.13     Monetary developments in Malawi have tended to reflect underlying
macroeconomic and fiscal developments. Short-term fluctuations in the main
monetary aggregates are pronounced, responding to changes in the countr-'s
external position and fiscal policy stance under the constraint of currency
inconvertibility. The direct transmission of monetary effect is due, on the
one hand, to the economy's narrow resource base and sensitivity to internal
and external shocks, and on the other hand, to the shallowness of the
financial system. Fiscal policy has exerted a major influence on the growth
of the monetary base, with the borrowing requirements of the public sector
being a consistent and increasing source of monetary growth. In most years
since 1979, credit extended by RBM to the Government and public enterprises
represented a large injection into the money base. Although the financial
system has permitted financial resources to move out of narrow money into
quasi money, the lack of depth has prevented the further diversification into
alternative financial instruments. This situation partly explains a build
up in excess liquidity in the commercial banking system.
1.14     Historically, monetary policy relied on the use of credit ceilings
and flexible administration of interest rates.   Other tools of monetary
policy were sparsely, if ever, used. Towards the end of the 1080s, however,
the Government and RBM initiated a process of reform thiat aimed to increase
the effectiveness of monetary policy and, thereby, improve the effiziency of



-  5  -
resource mobilization and allocation.  The main thrust of the reform, most
of which has already been implemented, is to move away from direct
quantitative monetary control mechanisms and toward the use of more flexible,
market-oriented and indirect monetary instruments.
1.15     Credit Ceilings.   A major element of the ongoing reform was the
abolition of credit ceilings by the end of 1990. Necessary as these ceilings
were during the difficult 1980s for bringing macroeconomic aggregates under
control, they have had a detrimental effect on the development of the
financial system.
1.16     Interest rates have been gradually liberalized during the second
half of the 1980s. From a system of complete administrative control before
1985, the monetary authorities gradually deregulated the interest rate system
by mid-1990.  This deregulation already has yielded positive real interest
rates, lower lending rates and higher deposit rates in the commercial banking
system. Principal interest rates in Malawi over the period 1985 to 1989 are
given in Annex III.
1.17     Excess  Liquidity reduces  the effectiveness  of monetary  policy
management. Commercial banks with excess financial resources are not reliant
upon the central bank for funding and monetary policy levers such as the bank
rate, and liquidity and reserve requirements, are rendered less effective.
This was the case in Malawi in the second part of the 1980s and forced the
monetary authorities to resort to the use of tools such as credit ceilings
and direct inte-est rate management.   Beginning in 1989, RBM started a
process of using more indirect methods of monetary management, such as
reserve  requirements  (since June  1989)  to sterilize  excess  liquidity.
Recently there has been a general decline in excess liquidity caused by
economic recovery.
1.18     Development of Money Markets. Discount and Advance Facilities of RBM1
have rarely been used in the past and have remained inoperative during the
recent period of excess liquidity. The decline in overall liquidity levels
and the move toward the use of indirect monetary instruments will increase
the importance of such facilities and thereby the ability of RBM to influence
the level of interest rates.  Primary sales of Government securities also
have been sparsely used but the lower level of liquidity and the ongoing
reforms will also foster the expanded use of the facilities and encourage the
development of a money market.   The IMF has provided an advisor on money
market development (para 2.06).
Resource Mobilization
1.19     Resource mobiliz. .- in Malawi has been hindered by many economic
uncertainties,  includint, e), -.l shocks and relatively  high  levels  of
inflation.   Although mobilization by NBFIs, especially the non-insurance
financial institutions, grew by 18.5 percent per annum over the 1980s, an
average annual rate of inflation of 16.9 percent meant that real growth was
considerably slower. Although there is seemingly not a strong relationship



6-
between deposit mobilization and the level of inflation, in the longer term
the real returns on savings have an impact on mobilization levels.  Hence,
the maintenance of positive real interest rates is an important determinant
of long-term savings patterns.
Resource Allocdtion
1.20     In general, the financial system tended to act as a conduit of funds
from the private to the public sector over the 1980s. This resulted from the
various economic shocks over the past decade which led to fiscal imbalances
and a growing reliance upon the domestic financial system as a sour:e of
public funding. This situation began to change in 1988 and increasingly more
finance was freed for use by private sector investment.  Nonetheless, the
oligopolistic nature of the economy and the skewed distribution of incomes
in Malawi will continue to provide some bias against the allocation of
resources throughout the economy.  The fragmented nature of the financial
system and the high level of specialization of financial services has also
tended to work against a better allocation of resources.  Introduction of
more institutions in the financial market and development of more multi-
purpose financial institutions could provide an element of competition with
benefits for both depositors and borrowers. As a longer term development,
the evolution of a wider selection cf marketable financial instruments will
also serve to raise additional funds and allocate them in a more appropriate
manner.
Issues in the Financial Sector
1.21     The Government's strategy for the financial sector, as outlined in
the Statement of Development Policies (DevPol) and in the Third-Year Policy
Framework Paper, involves   strengthening monetary control, deepening the
financial system and improving the efficiency of resource allocation for
private sector investment.   The major issue in the sector has been its
inability to respond with flexibility to investor financing needs.   The
Government of Malawi, therefore, with IDA support undertook a review of the
financial system that identified necessary policy reforms to deepen financial
markets and improve efficiency in resource mobilization and allocation.
Several of these reforms in monetary policy have already been implemented as
highlighted above, while others are in the process of being implemented.
1.22     Asset Concentration.    The financial sector has a high degree of
asset concentration. Most banks and NBFIs are effectively controlled by a
small  number  of  agricultural  and  industrial  conglomerates,  which  have
dominant market positions in Malawi through interlocking ownerships.   The
resulting concentration of deposits and loans goes against sound banking
principles of deposit and loan diversification and reduces intermediation
efficiency. Several steps have been initiated by the authorities that could
help mitigate the more perverse effects of excessive banking concentrations.
These include encouraging the entry of new players into the banking sector,
switching parastatal financing from the budget to the commercial banks, and
syndication of large loans so as to spread their risk.   Nonetheless, the



-  7  -
problem of concentration will remain into the future. In the medium term,
the authorities should also encourage the stronger financial institutions to
offer equity shares to the general public as a means of de-concentrating
ownership and broadening Malawian participation in the economy.
1.23     Lack of comietition.  The high concentration, has led to concerns
over the lack of competitive pressure  in the banking sector.   Several
developments are now occurring which make this less of an issue for the
future.  These developments, include emerging competition between the two
commercial banks; the aggressive entry by LFC into the market; the movement
by the commercial banks into non-traditional areas of activity such as term
lending; and the granting of a license to INDEBANK to engage in a wider range
of merchant banking and financial services. The authorities are also hoping
to attract more players into the market and gradually deconcentrate the
ownership  structure within  the banking  sector.    As  a  first  step  the
authorities plan to adopt an open and transparent process in the
consideration of applications for entry into the banking system by both
foreign and domestic financial institutions and NBFIs. The banking license
to INDEBANK was the first granted under the new process.   The proposed
Project would complement efforts to introduce competition by supporting the
reorientation and diversification of several NBFIs (paras 2.14 - 2.20).
1.24     Term Finance.  In the recent past, the commercial banks tended to
invest the excess of their liquid funds in Government securities. The excess
liquidity reflected both the very conservative lending policies of the
commercial banks as well as the attractive yield offered by Government
securities.   For the insurance companies and POSB, which are the main
mobilizers of term savings, investment in Government securities has in the
past been mandatory.  The other NBFIs that potentially represent the most
innovative part of the financial market, are constrained by the lack of
adequate  term resources.    INDEBANK and MDC have  in the past  depended
exclusively on external borrowing to fund their lending activities.   The
challenge is therefore to create effective intra-market intermediation
mechanisms in Malawi that facilitate the flow of resources between
institutions and enable some term transformation to take place.   In the
longer term, a likely solution will be to encourage the development of new
negotiable   instruments,   loan  syndications,   direct  domestic   deposit
mobilization by the DFIs and the issue of equity shares as a means of
mobilizing longer term resources.  The proposed Project would support the
development of new financial instruments (the project has already supported
the flotation of a bond by INDEBANK) and encourage the commercial banks to
undertake term lending.
1.25     Asricultural Finance.  Agriculture is a large and important part of
the Malawi economy.  This is reflected in a substantial proportion of the
commercial bank's loan portfolio allocated to agriculture.   However, bank
lending to agriculture is almost exclusively to the large estate sector while
medium and small-scale agriculturalists are locked out of the more formal
financial markets by a lack of security and an absence of an established
banking history. Outside the estate sector, the typical farmer is very small
with holdings of less than one hectare.  These farmers are served, to some
extent, by the Smallholder Agricultural Credit Administration (SACA) that is
managed by the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA).  Together with agricultural



- 8 -
services, SACA provides mainly short-term seasonal input loans. Thie 6clk ce,
which  has been  limited  to  larger  small-scale  farmere,  has  bee,, .ely
successful with collection ratios of between 75 and 95 percent.  Although,
the scheme has recently been expanded to cover a wider range of small-scale
farmers, further steps will be needed to cater fully for the needs of
smallholder agriculture. Under ASAC, the Government is reforming agriculture
to increase productivity of a broader range of small holders and estates
including changing laws to allow smallholders to grow high-value cash crops.
These reforms will increase smallholder access to credit.
1.26     Parastatal Finance.  The performance of the parastatal sector, whic1h
forma a large part of the total economy and contributes around one quarter
to national income, has been erratic. Poor performance in the mid-1980s led
to a World Bank survey of the seccor in 1987 that identifi2d the following
main problems:  a focus on bureaucratic detail at the expense of bigger
issues; a focus on smaller parastatals and inadequate monitoring of larger
ones; insufficient attention paid to efficiency; and an over centralization
by Government of decisions best made at the parastatal level.  Since then
rationalization and restructuring of many of the parastatals has led to a
substantially  improved  financial  position.    The  restructuring  of  the
parastatal sector included the reorganization of the Agricultural and
Marketing Corporation (ADMARC), MDC and the privately held Press Group (which
operates like a quasi-public entity).
1.27     The issues that remain of concern in parastatal finance inc)ude:
intermediated loans to private companies through parastatals by the RBM; a
lack of consistency in the passing of foreign exchange risk to parastatals
and the level of interest rates charged; streamlining and reorientating POSB
operations (para 1.29); the current dormant state of MDC; and the reliance
of parastatals  on Government  financing.    The  Financial  Sector  Report
recommended  that:    intermediated  loans  through parastatals  to private
companies should be discontinued; a consistent set of rules on interest rates
and exchange rate risk should be applied; MDC should be strengthened and
assisted to adopt a more aggressive and catalytic developmental role in both
the financial and industrial sectors; and, more parastatal financing should
be moved to the commercial banking sector and away from its current reliance
upon Government.   Measures to address several of these issues have been
initiated by Government with IDA support.
1.28     The Post Office SavinRs Bank (POSB) was established in 1911 tc
provide savings facilities for small rural and urban savers through the
Malawi post office system.   POSB plays an important role in mobilizing
savings by providing a geographically wide service through 158 post offices
and 126 agencies. As at the end of 1987, POSB had total deposits of K89.4
million against total liabilities of K104.1 million. All of POSB'S resources
are invested in Government securities. The POSB system apparently functioned
well until 1986 and, although it has faced technical difficulties since then,
it is still considered to be financially sound.
1.29     After 1986, POSB suffered from a major change in computing systems,
which resulted in a work backlog exceeding two years that has persisted until
now.   Other problems still exist such as determining the new sources of
investment for an institution traditionally reliant upon Government paper (in



-  9  -
an environment where such paper is in increasingly ohort tuppiy) ; the need
to eliminate provision of a tax exempt status on savings deposits to
corporate savers who are frequently holding multiple accotunits; and
determining the future role of the POSB in the evolving financial system.
In addition, the current organizational structure makes POSB management not
focussed and without necessary discretionary authority to successfully run
a commercially oriented institution.   The POSB currently operates as a
department of the Malawi Post Office, which in turn operates as a Treasury
Fund in the Ministry of Finance. The proposed Project would help Government
and the POSB address the operational issues and efforts to create the POSB
as a separate legal entity operating separately from the Malawi Post Office.
1.30     Small and Medium Enterprise Finance.   Financial services to the
sector are from three primary sources:   (a) DFIs which onlend donor or
Government   supplied  funds;   (b) the  informal   financial  sector;   and
(c) personal and internally generated savings. The two commercial banks are
hesitant to service the SME sector because of the high administrative costs
and the perceived high-risk associated with clients in the sector.   The
Government is committed to liberalize the financial sector in order to
provide adequate finance and ease access to credit for SMEs.
1.31     During the  1980s,  financial institutions  (SEDOM,  INDEFUND,  and
MUSCCO) were established to service the SME sector. These institutions had
provided as of end-1989 a combined total of K26 million (approximately
US$9.6 Million) through 1,076 term loans and 2,684 short term credits to a
total of 3,861 clients.  Most of the funds were largely disbursed as term
credits with average maturity of 60 months and interest rates ranging from
16.5 to 18.5 percent (slightly below prime).   Seventy-two percent of the
total number of loans disbursed have been working capital loans extended
through SEDOM.   These 12 month credits at 18 percent per annum are an
important source of funding for entrepreneurs given the limited availability
of commercial banking services for the smaller enterprise sector.   Agro-
industry is the principal sector served, ranging from 32 to 39 percent of the
portfolios of DFIs.
1.32     The Informal Credit Market provides a significant share of the SME
sector's capital requirements.  Although providing only 35 percent of the
total value of loans, more than 10,000 SMEs are estimated to have borrowed
from the informal institutions. Informal financial intermediaries provide
credit services that are suited to the needs of their borrowers, including
ease of access to credit, simple procedures, personal guarantees that are
consistent with the repayment ability of the borrower, absence of controls
and restrictions on the uses to which loans can be put, flexibility in
repayment terms, confidentiality, and low transaction costs to the borrower.
The very high interest rates do not seem to discourage borrowers (Table 1).



- 10 -
Table 1:
MALAWI - 1988 Loans Advanced From Informal & Formal SME Credit Sources
Amount                   Interest
Lender                       (KOOO)       Number       Rates
Money Lenders                2,106        10,582       50-100%  a/
Traditional Credit
and Savings
Association                 1,221       NA            10-13%
Targeted Formal
Lenders                 6,316        694          16-18%
Sources: Chipeta, C. The Informal Financial Sector as Survival Strategy.
Author's elaboration of data from 1988 financial statements for
INDEFUND, SEDOM, MUSCCO
a/ These interest rates may apply for periods varying from a few days to
several  months.    Consequently,  the  annualized  rates   end  to  be
substantially higher.
1.33     The recently established Malawi Mudzi Furd is modelled after the
successful Grameen Bank of Bangladesh will supplement the lending activities
of SACA in rural areas. Mudzi Fund only commenced operations in mid-1990 and
hence no assessment of its role has been possible. SACA, which lends through
farmers clubs, has demonstrated the benefits which can flow from group
lending activities. The development of the Mudzi Fund is a further extension
of the group  lending concept.   Group  financial activities have proved
themselves more amenable to repayment of loans and hence enhance the capacity
for further, future borrowing.
1.34     Technical  assistance  to  SMEs  for  the  development  of  new
entrepreneurs is provided by a number of programs subsidized by donor
agencies.   Delivery is undertaken by SEDOM, MUSCCO,  the Development  of
Malawian Traders Trust (DEMATT) and, to a lesser extent, the Malawian
Entrepreneurs Development Institute (MEDI), the Rural Trade School, the
Polytechnic and a technical training school at Salima. Program objectives
have so far been modest relative to demand and have favored new
entrepreneurs.   Existing entrepreneurs would benefit from more and better
structured business administration courses. Technical assistance is needed
particularly for the training of trainers.
1.35     Constraints to SME Borrowers.  Principal constraints to financing
SMEs through formal financial institutions include the ability of the
borrowers to meet project preparation requirements, equity contribution
ratios, collateral requirements and, at times, the viability of project



- 11 -
proposals.  Equally important is a policy environment that has been a major
constraint on SME development.   The reactivation of a credit guarantee
facility operated by SEDOM and possible establishment of venture capital or
equity funds might help to overcome local bankers' reluctance to lend to non-
prime borrowers.   The recent introduction of market-determined  interest
rates, together with modifications to the management of the money supply
outlined above, would improve incentives to lend to non-prime borrowers. The
Government is committed to encouraging lending to SMEs to be based on market
determined interest rates (with appropriate adjustments for risk). Equally
important the Government and the donors involved in the sector agree on the
need for DFIs supporting the SME sector to be self-sustaining in their
lending operations. The Government plans to introduce policy changes that
reduce key restrictions on the development of SMEs, including liberalizationl
of the blanket prohibition of any business activity in residential areas.
1.36     Particular Challenges of Women Borrowers.  A large number (about 75
percent) of women engage in some form of non-farm enterprise as an important
source of revenue. Nevertheless, women have limited access to the services
provided by most financial institutions. For SME assistance organizations
to better reach women, they need to broaden their target groups to include
the types of enterprises in which rural women participate, experiment with
assistance strategies that more effectively reach women and include more
women on their staffs. The recent initiatives such as the MUDZI Fund and the
newly established Women's World Banking of Malawi (WWBM) may help to address
some of these constraints faced by women entrepreneurs.
1.37     Capacity Constraints of SME Institutions.   Virtually all of the
institutions which service the SME sector are relatively new having began
their operations in the last dozen years.  A review of these institutions
demonstrates mixed performances.   Management talent is relatively scarce,
hindering the ability of the institutions to effectively deliver technical
assistance to SMEs.  For these institutions to reach their potential they
will have to develop an aggressive human development resource strategy which
will groom talent from within their ranks.   The newly established Malawi
Institute of Management (MIM) is a resource which can be more fully utilized
to foster depth in the management ranks (a write up on MIM is available on
Project File). The College of Accountancy also provides a variety of courses
that are well suited to strengthen the skills of lower-level professional
staff.
1.38     Development of Capital Markets.  Capital markets are underdeveloped
in Malawi, however, the Government is committed to encouraging the
development of money and capital markets. Although the types of instruments
that capital market development would provide are currently not available,
recent studies show that there would be a reasonable demand for these types
of instruments. In 1990, the passing of the Capital Market Development Act
and the issue of bonds in the local market by INDEBANK are a significanit
first step towards the development of a capital market in Malawi.  As the
market develops further, brokers/dealers need to emerge to provide a
secondary market to primary issues of capital market instruments. A major
issue in Malawi is the lack of incentives for private companies to issue
their shares to the public.   As a result there virtually are no public
companies  in Malawi.   Under current  legislation,  private companies  are



r  t i I                   Ic    r am'.. i he:  timr  mretm   U', or  h a vIrng  twr.(,   I '.inL  50
SlAroho I d(ora  !l afi/ /   makinz   g .iy Inv it at ion to the public t     mc qkiirc' any
charet (r (kmbeloa OLr (  of  liet com1panly.  Inlt ial] y, to stimulate tho market , t ho
aut horlt i (!3 may have  a O pvovl deo .neilm iven to companies t hat go p blic: and
to  individlime s. AnId toilpanies that purchase debt and equity thruugtl cpital
ma,ket mechaisiamu.  The ocitablishrnent of an investment or unit. trust, holding
the shareb of some parastataJi; to be privatized, could also assist In market
growth.  Thle propose-o IDA cdit would support the ongoing initiative., in
tialawi to develop a m;simla1l uimmrket, including the development of a prudential
regulatory and superVi;oYy tramework.  The authoritie6 will, by September 30,
1991, establish a stonci-ig committee, to provide guidance and oversight to
the  development  .2f  capital  markets  in  Malawi.    To  ensure  efficient
development of capital markets, the authorities plan to rationalize the tax
treatment of various financial instruments, including taxation of dividends
and capital gains, and the removal of the tax exempt status of interest
earned on deposits at POSB.
Conclusions
1.39     The new direction of monetary management and the development of the
financial system have been significant since late 1988, as the Government and
RBM have initiated a comprehensive financial sector reform program.   The
system of rigid and direct controls which was used for most of the 1980s is
being superseded by a more market-oriented system of monetary policy
management.
1.40     Recognizing  the strong linkages between an efficienL  financial
system and the quality of investment, the authorities are seeking to enhance
competition, by allowing new financial institutions (both local and foreign)
to enter the market and by licensing existing institutions to broaden the
scope of their activities.  Steps have already been taken on the latter by
granting a banking license to INDEBANK and by initiating measures to re-
orientate the operations of POSB.   It is also likely that other existing
financial institutions will branch out ineo new areas of activity, such as
lease financing.   If the financial sector is to become more dynamic and
contribute more to economic development, among issues which need to be kept
under active review are:  a reduction in direct or indirect public ownership
of financial institutions; Government maintenance of fiscal discipline in
order to avoid crowding out the privace sector; maintenance of market
determined  interest  rate  policy;  and  shifting  parastatal  borrowing
requirements to the commercial banks rather than the Government. As part of
the  ongoing  dialogue  with  Government,  IDA  will  work  toward  finding
appropriate means and ways of deconcentrating asset ownership and increasing
private participation in the economy. One of the most significant measures
recently taken is the enactment of the Capital Market Development Act, that
provides the legal framework for the longer term development of a capital
market in Malawi. Besides introducing competition, a capital market would
foster a more efficient intermediation process and direct financial flows in
appropriate maturities and price to investments with the highest return.
1.41     Basing  monetary  policy  and  future  developments  on  the  above
principles will help to ensure that the financial sector contributes more
efficiently to future economic growth. The proposed Project would support



I I
implementation of the reforms out Ii ned above and t e  &I 't i- I iV Of f OrtS
modernize and deepen the sector.
Industrial Sector 3/
1.42     Introduction.   The contribution of Ma3awi's 1i,0doitrial se.-tor to
econiomic growth, employment and exports was negligible dirliig thie 1980s.
This performance s-ands in sharp contrast to the sector's record during tlbe
1970s, wlheni manufactLuring output grew from abouit 9 percent to 12 percent of
CDP and employment.  Industry's strong performance during the late 1960s and
throughout the 1970s was in large measure a reflection of the underlyinl
macroeconomic developments.  The down ttirn in industrial performance has iel,n
in part the result of the external shocks anid lnterrial policy weaklinsseF.
1.43     The  pattern  of  industrial  production  in Malawi  is  typical  of
countries at an early stage of industrial development and relatively low
levels of per capita income. The bulk of industrial production stems from
five subsectors, food, beverages, tobacco, textiles, and clothing and leather
goods.
1.44     Concentration.   Malawi's  domestic  industrial  market,  like  the
financial sector, is characterized by a great concentration of output and
ownership.   The three holding companies  -- Press Holdings,  the Malawi
Development Corporation (MDC), and the Agricultural and Marketing Corporation
(ADMARC) -- own a sizable percentage of the sector's total equity.  Finally,
there are very close relations between industrial and financial institutions:
Press Holdings and ADMARC own controlling interests in the majority of
financial institutions in the country. The authorities recognize that the
degree of concentration is a problem and have in the past tried to address
it by restructuring the three major corporations, Press, MDC and AD11ARC.
1.45     The high degree of concentration is neither surprising nor, in the
short term, necessarily bad for a country with a small domestic market and
low per capita income. Domestic firms cannot be expected to provide a wide
range of goods at a reasonable cost because efficiency often requires long
production runs. The size of the market then dictates concentration on those
product  lines  that  can  be  produced  at  reasonable  cost.    However,
concentration implies that domestic competition cannot be expected to
engender pressure to reduce costs and improve quality.  These pressures must
come from imported products and in the medium term, from delibrrate efforts
by the authorities to deconcentrate the market by allowing .nd enc ourag r-'
entry by more efficient and viable import-txbstituting ^.,d oy;ort- i.tcc
producers.
1.46     Export Orientation and Import Dependence.   Malawi's  landlocked
position gives rise to high transport costs that provide a natural protect0on
against imports, but also acts as an obstacle to exports. In 1980, tlhe CIF
3/  Detailed description of the industrial sector is contained in the Wor:d
Bank's "Malawi, Industrial Sector Memorandum," Report No. 74302-MAI of
December 14, 1989.



-  14  -
value of imports was 38 percent higher than the FOB value.  As a result of
the clobure of the Mozambique trade routes during the 1980s, the CIF margin
is now about 40-45 percent. Such high transport costs markedly reduce the
profitability of industrial exports, especially those based on imported raw
materials,  and could discourage potential export producers.   At present
industrial exports account for about 3-8 percent of all exports.  Of this
proportion, about two-thirds are textiles and clothing products that are
primarily based on domestic raw materials and whose value-to-weight ratio is
high. The authorities are eager to encourage investment in export-oriented
production of high value added products.
1.47     There  appears  to be  reasonable  scope  for expansion  of export
oriented activities in Malawi. Although transportation costs will continue
to reduce Malawi's comparative advantages in export production compared to
countries in the region, it does have certain other export advantages. With
its low-cost and productive labor and fertile soils, Malawi can expand
production of agricultural export commodities with a low transport component.
Such high value, non-traditional export commodities include spices (chilies,
cardamoms, dhalls), specialty nuts (notably, macadamia nuts) and other
horticultural products. In addition, textile producers could make greater
use of the various export quota arrangements under the Lome Convention and
the Generalized System of Preferences, to export larger volumes of clothing
(as has been done successfully in Zimbabwe and Lesotho). In the medium term,
the normalization of operation of the Nacala railway line, means that
exporters should position themselves to take full advantage to expand export
production in concert with a greater carrying capacity on the line.
1.48     Industrial Efficiency.   About one-half of the country's export
earnings is used to import raw materials for industry. In addition, industry
imports fuel and capital goods. Considering that foreign exchange is likely
to be the most important growth constraint in the medium term, the efficiency
with which industrial enterprises transform inputs into outputs is a crucial
concern. Fortunately, the majority of Malawian firms are efficient from an
economic view point. About 90 percent of the value added generated in the
manufacturing sector in 1987 was done under clearly efficient conditions and
less than 3 percent under clearly inefficient ones (largely the result of low
capacity utilization because of foreign exchange scarcity for raw material
imports at that time). In 1987, this degree of efficiency places Malawi in
a select group of sub-Saharan African countries that includes Kenya and
Zimbabwe.
1.49     Growth Prospects.   Despite its lackluster performance in recent
years, manufacturing is capable of contributing to future growth of output,
employment, and exports. Growth prospects have improved with recent higher
inflows of foreign exchanga resources and an opening up of foreign exchange
for imports. In the short run, industrial output can expand to satisfy the
growing domestic market needs. In the medium- to longer-run, further growth
will have to come from exports, but a sustained export drive will require
substantial amounts of foreign exchange for investment in new lines of
production and further policy change. Malawi's wages are among the lowest
in the world,   consequently, Malawian industry has an advantage in labor-
intensive processes and could increase its exports even if only to the
region. Moreover prospects now appear brighter for reopening of Malawi's



-  15  -
traditional trade routes through Mozambique, with a consequent reduction in
transport costs.  With appropriate training of the labor force and the right
technology, the potential for diversification and increasing industrial
exports would be considerably enhanced.
Issues in the Industrial Sector
1.50     The Government has moved substantially towards creating a more
liberal trade regime. In 1988, under ITPAC and subsequent reform programs,
the Government introduced several reforms including trade liberalization,
deregulation of pricing,  flexible management of the exchange rate,  and
liberalization  of foreign exchange  allocation.   The  industrial sector,
however, still faces several constraints that hold back its contribution to
economic development. To encourage new investment, the Government plans to
further reduce both the level and dispersion of protection and simplify
import and export licensing requirements. As part of the project preparation
of the proposed IDA P.roject, the Government requested Bank assistance in
identifying these constraints and recommending measures that would hell
stimulate  investment  in Malawi.    In April  1990,  an  IFC/MIGA  Foreign
Investment Advisory Service (FIAS) mission carried out a diagnostic review
of Malawi's investment climate. In October 1990, the Government drafted an
Investment Policy Statement that outlines policies regarding taxation,
exports, exchange controls, investment protection, industrial land, and
investment  promotion.   A copy  of  the Investment  Policy  statement was
submitted to IDA by Government at negotiations.  The following is an overview
of the major issues identified and suggested solutions that would translate
the Investment Policy objectives in an implementable action program.
1.51     Regulatorv and Procedural Framework.  The FIAS review found that the
regulatory and administrative procedures for treating foreign investment have
not been liberalized to keep pace with the Government's macroeconomic policy
reforms.   The attitude of control continues to dominate and discourage
investment.   The attitude is prevalent, particularly in five key areas:
(a) industrial licensing; (b) company formation; (c) capital transfers (both
inward and outward);  (d) trade licensing; and  (e) access to land.   The
Government  is committed  to  reducing bureaucratic  delays  in  industrial
licensing and company formation to one step with the Registrar of companies,
eliminating the requirement of approval by Ministry of Trade, Industry and
Tourism  (MTIT)  and the Police.   The Government will also ease foreign
exchange  controls  to  facilitate  capital  flows  and  streamline  the
administrative procedures that delay access to industrial land. Access to
land is one of the most serious problems undermining the investment climate
in Malawi. To help reduce the delay, the Government proposes to provide for
the timely availability of ready-made factory shells for potential investors.
Leases for the factory shells would be speedily processed, because the land
already would have been properly zoned and surveyed, plus the necessary
building permits would have been obtained.   The proposed Project would
support these efforts by financing the commercial development of factory
shells program and the necessary supporting infrastructure.
1.52     Encouraging  Export-Oriented  Investment.        The  Government  has
introduced a series of measures to encourage export-oriented investment in
non-traditional export products.   The measures include:   a reduction of



16
protection  given  to) producers  for  the  domestic  market;  elimination  or
reduction  of  taxes  on  imported  inputs;  allowing  manutifacturing-in-bond;
provision of a syntem of duty drawbacks; and strengtheninig of the Malawi
Export  Promotion  Coonl-i; to  sutpport  export  promotion  and  development.
Additional measures to be taken include:
(a)  streamlinIng  adminiistration  of  the  current  incentive  system,
includinig manufactturinig-in-bond and the duty drawback system;
(b)  establishing a system for providing export credit and infrastructure
at. competitive and market-determined prices;
(c)  eliminating disincentives  to exports  including reduced domestic
protection through a rationalization of trade taxes and duties and
maintenance of an appropriate exchange rate; and
(d)  increasing incentives for exporters, including a lower competitive
corporate tax rate and possible development of aa export processing
zone.
1.53     DeveloRing the Institutional Framework for Investment Promotion.
Presently, Malawi lacks a centraJ office to promote investment in the
country.  Assistance to potential investors is ad hoc  and dispensed by a
large number of institutions. The lack of a central promotion office forces
investors to fend for themselves, without any sense that they are welcome in
the country. Although the absence of a professional promotion effort does
not undermine the investment environment, it probably reduces the amount of
investment flowing into Malawi.  The proposed IDA Project would assist the
Government establish an investment promotion agency to help investors
interact with the Government and obtain official support services, as well
as to promote local and foreign investment in Malawi.
1.54     Government Policies and Promoting SME Development.  The development
of SMEs remains a critical element in the Government's strategy to support
economic  growth,  employment  generation,  and  poverty  alleviation.    As
highlighted elsewhere in this report, the major constraints on the sector
are: limited access to credit for working capital; inadequate initial start-
up  capital;  and  restrictive  regulatory  policies.    Under  the  Lome  IV
Agreement, the EEC and KFW plan to assist the Government to significantly
expand the pool of resources available to SMEs.   USAID is also providing
significant funding for the sector. The amount to be provided, which has not
yet been determined, would be provided as parallel cofinancing to the
proposed IDA project.   The Government, with funding from UNDP and support
from other donors including UNIDO, GTZ, EEC and the World Bank, will review
regulations regarding business locetion and licensing, land use zoning and
introduce measures aimed at stimulating growth in the sector. Progress has
been made in recent years in the policy framework for SMEs.  The proposed
Project would support SME development by providing technical assistance for
training and dissemination of information on business opportunities and
technology.



1 7
Demand for Investment Credit
I *.))   I[A'; growth projections estimate a real  GDE' growthl rate of 5
per(ceut for 1991, aii average of 4.5 percent during the period 1992-93, and
') porceilnt for 1994-95.   These  projections  are based o01  assumptions  of
conit iniued  good  performance  in  the  agricultural  sector,  a  favorable
tmcroeconomic envirotunent, and higher levels of investment in response to thie
onyIluFg reform program.  T:iis growth strategy implies a gradual increase in
thme rate of fixed investment {ron, the 1989 level of 16 percent of GDP to 18.5
peroent in 1995.  The major source of investment growth will come from the
private  sector  aid  will  be  financed  primarily  by  domestic  savings,
complemented  by  foreign  savings.    Domestic  savings  are  projected  to
strengthen from  about 12 percent of GDP in 1989 to 15 percent over thie
poriod, based on a conservative estimate of the impact on domestic resource
mobilization of the ongoing reform of the financial sector.
1.56     Short-term Working Capital Credit.  The working capital needs of the
larger enterprises, which tend to be creditworthy and have adequate
collateral, ere financed by the banking system.   SMEs generally rely on
personal or internal cash generation, loans from the informal system, and
donor or Government supplied funds through specialized agencies. Due to the
recent excess liquidity and lack of alternative investment opportunities,
commercial  banks hc.ve begun  Fo lend  to well-collateralized  SMEs.   The
expectation is that enterprises will continue to fund their working capital
needs mainly through existing institutional arrangements.
1.57     Demand for Term Credit.   Investment in industrial production for
domestic consumption has been adversely affected over the past decade by an
uncertain investment climate generated by economic instability. Demand for
term credit is expected to increase substantially, now that the economy is
clearly on a growth path. This project will, therefore, play an important
role in providing financing for plant modernization and expansion, to allow
domestic producers to increase production to meet the needs of the local
market. Additional demand will be generated by firms diversifying or making
new investments for export production, in response to the proposed export
incentives package.
1.58     A review of the project pipeline of financial institutions active
in the provision of credit suggests that for the larger enterprises,
effective demand based on actual loan applications and commitments amount to
around K69.3 million for 1989. Demand for term credit by SMEs in the formal
sector was estimated at around K9.6 million for the same period. Therefore,
a term credit demand estimate of K80 million by the formal enterprise sector
for 1990-91 appears reasonable.   A conservative assumption of an annual
growth rate of around 5 percent in demand for term credit over the next three
years, in line with GDP growth projections, would lead to an estimated K375
million (US$150 million equivalent) in term credit demand by the formal
sector during the 1991-93 period.
1.59     Supply of Term Credit.  As indicated above, foreign savings will
have to complement domestic savings if the Government's growth strategy is
to be achieved.  Although the commercial banks have recently provided some
term credit, they will continue to provide short-term credit and leave demand



- 18 -
fu.- torm credit unsatisfied because lack of access to long term resources
make; it difficult for them to sustain lending of similar maturity.  The DFIs
servitig tthe larger enterprises are emall and, therefore, c.n not satisfy the
l(marnd for te-m credit.  It is in this context that the proposed Project was
developed, to provide term resources and thereby encourage the commercial
bankss to inC rease the level of term lending.
1.6U    IThe estimated term credit demand of US$150 million would be financed
frotm various sources. The European Economic Community (EEC), KFW and USAID
are expected to make sufficient funds available to meet the credit needs of
the SME sector.  The amounts have not yet been specified, but are estimated
to be in the order of US$30 million over the next three year6, in line with
esttlmated demand for the sector.   The proposed IDA project credit would
provide US$28 million for term financing. The local financial institutions
and project sponsors would need to provide the balance of about US$100
million.   Foreign exchange for this part of the total investment would be
available through the proposed Entrepreneurial and Capital Market Adiustment
Credit (ECMAC) of US$60 million and other donors. The proposed !DA project
line of credit of US$28 million is therefore a conservative amount, relative
to expected total needs.
Government and Bank Strategy
1.61     The World Bank's Country Strategy.   The Bank country assistance
strategy supports the Government of Malawi's medium-term development
strategy. Support i8 directed at four critical and interdependent areas of
the Government's development agenda: (i) economic growth; (ii) sustainable
long-term development; (iii) poverty reduction; and (iv) public sector
management, within the context of macroeconomic scability. The support is
being provided through a mix of project and non-project lending, economic and
sector work and aid coordination.   Based on the lessons learned from past
Bank performanc;. in Malawi, the following features have been incorporated
into the country strategy:   (a) institutional strengthening to improve
capability in policy formulation and implementation; (b) better integration
of macroeconomic and sectoral issues; (c) emphasis on secto. adjustment
operations to concentrate the policy dialogue on a smaller, more manageable
set of priority policy issues; (d) emphasizing the role of the private sector
in the delivery of goods and services; and (e) improving the efficiency of
donor programs.   The proposed Financial Sector and Enterprise Development
Project  (FSEDP)  is a key component of the overall Bank strategy.   The
proposed FSEDP would provide investment resources and technical assistance
to facilitate a strong supply response from the strategy.
1.62     Past Bank Strategy.  The Bank's lending and economic work over the
past decade has played a role in supporting the Government's efforts to
stabilize the economy and renew growth. In particular, the Bank's analytical
work and policy dialogue have helped Government identify and implement
appropriate policy responses to emerging issues of macroeconomic management.
The provision of quick-disbursing funds under SAL operations provided
essential resources to relieve balance of payments pressures and support
private sector import requirements. In addition, project lending continued
to support sectoral development strategies and high priority public sector



-1 9  -
investment programs. Finally, the Bank has been instrumental in coordinatiiig
donor assistance and mobilizing substantial amounts of external resources to
support Malawi's financing requirements.   The most visible donors in the
industrial seccor, especially in SME sector have been the EEC, KFW, FMO,
USAID and UNDP.
1.63     Previous Bank Operations.   As of June 30, 1990, the Bank Group lhad
approved 58 projects amounting to US$1,029 million (excluding cancellations),
consisting of 53 IDA credit (US$897 million), 10 IBRD loans (US$106 million,
and 5 IFC operations (US$25.8 million). In industry the Bank has approved
three projects  for Malawi  (totalling US$81 million):    (a) ITPAC  (US$70
million equivalent) to support policy reforms; (b) the INDEBANK Loan No.
1610-MAI (US$2.76 million) to support investment; and (c) the Industrial and
Agriculture Credit No. 2646-MAI (US$7.8 million) also for investment. The
credits in industry have all been successfully implemented and are eitlher
closed or nearing completion, with a minimum of cancellations.  A Project
Completion Report (PCR), No. 6334-MAI of June 27, 1986, was prepared for the
INDEBANK loan.   One of the most important  lessons learnt from previous
operations is to avoid separate treatment of financial institutions in Malawi
through different  onlending terms and conditions.   Experience  from the
Industrial and Agricultural Credit (Loan 2646-MAI), which initially moved
slowly, suggests that INDEBANK's borrowers who had to assume the foreign
exchange risk under the industrial component were initially reluctant to
borrow because of difficulties in servicing their subloans in an environment
where there were major currency depreciations and no mechanism for hedging
against such risks.   The clients were able to subsequer.tly borrow as the
macroeconomic situation stabilized.   Under the proDospd credit,  unified
treatment of financial intermediaries and their clients aiross sectors will
promote a generalized set of financial characterist:L . (interest rates,
exchange risk assumptions, etc.) that will ensure thaL .rvestments in all
productive sectors will be treated equitably.   The degree of exclusivity
enjoyed by INDEBANK under previous arrangements will a'so be replaced by a
more competitive degree of access to resources.
II. PROJECT RELATED INSTITUTIONS
Introduction
2.01     The proposed Project will promote the diversification of Malawi's
economy by providing term funds (both equity and loan) fot investment in
productive activities, especially non-traditional export products. Equally
important, the project would assist in strengthening and reorientating key
financial institutions in order to deepen the financial sector, and enhance
delivery and access to financial services by industry.   The Project wouid
also help strengthen several institutions that provide non-financial
assistance to the industrial SME and export sectors. This Chapter reviews
the principal financial institutions that are expected to intermediate
financial resources under the proposed Project.  More detailed analysis of
the institutions is given in the Annexes.



- 20 
The ReRerve Bank of Halawi (RBM)
2.02     UJnider the proposed Project, RBM will be responsible for managing
the Investment Finance and Industrial Sites Components via an apex unit,
supervising thle participating financial intermediaries ('FIs), managing thie
technical assistance component, implementing financial sector reforms, anid
overseeing   general   project    implementation   including   procurement,
disbursements, accounting and auditing, and special accounts.
2.03     RBM operates under a Board of Directors chaired by the Governor.
In addition to the Governor and the Deputy Governor, day-to-day management
consists of a General Manager (currently vacant) and four deputy General
Managers, each for the following key functional areas: economic services;
operations; administration and bank secretary; and the Blantyre Branch.
Below  the  Deputy  General  Managers  are  the  departments:          Accounts;
Administration; Bank Inspection and Audit; Banking and Currency; Data
processing (computer services); Exchange Control; Foreign Exchange; and
Research and Statistics. The Research and Statistics Department has in the
past been successful in managing IDA credits to Malawi as well as other donor
credits. The Director of Research and Statistics heads the Department and
is supported by a team of competent economists. The apex unit that would be
responsible for the administration of the proposed IDA credit is located in
the Research and Statistics Department  (para.  3.37).   The Research and
Statistics Department will also be responsible for coordinating and
supervising the establishment of an Export Credit Guarantee Facility.
2.04     At the end of 1988, RBM accounted for 41 percent or K938 million of
the banking system's assets. Total assets of RBM have been expanding by 24
percent per annum since the beginning of the decade.   By far, the major
assets of RBM have been credits to the Government and statutory bodies in the
form of Treasury Bilic, direct Government loans and RBM purchase of LRS. In
1987, lending in its various forms to the public sector in Malawi accounted
for 82 percent of the total assets of RBM, although the percentage fell to
62 in 1989. On average, over the nine years from 1980, public sector lending
has comprised more than three quarters of the assets of the central bank.
2.05     Prudential Regulation and Sui,ervision.  Until relatively recently,
supervision of banks was  considered  inadequate.   However,  the  IMF has
provided an experienced bank supervisor, under its technical assistance
program, to strengthen the regulatory and supervisory function at RBM. The
initial focus was on providing an effective regulatory framework by r vising
the Banking Act and the Reserve Bank of Malawi Act.  The revised Acts  :ovide
for a comprehensive but uncomplicated regulatory environment by as gning
more discretionary regulatory power over all financial institutions vo the
RBM.
2.06     Financial  Sector  Reform.    RBM  is  taking  the  lead  in  the
implementation of the financial sector reforms described in Chapter I.
Considerable progress has already been made in strengthening RBM's capacity
to implement the project and the reforms. Besides providing an advisor on
regulation and supervision, the IMF has also provided an advisor on capital
and money market operations. Through a PPF advance, IDA has complemented IMF
support by strengthening RBM's monetary programming capability. Money market
auctions of 90-dav Treaaury Bills will be introduced by December 1990, with



-  21  -
varying yield6 based on monetary considerations.  Ultimately, the Balk Rate,
to be linked to the auction rate, will be the key guiding interest rate,
incluiding for commercial bank interest rates. Following the introduction of
the Capital Market Act, the Government will encourage n w capital market
activity such as brokerage houses, issuance of company stock to the general
public, unit trusts, and employee stock ow'uership programs.
Commercial Banks
2.07     The National Bank of Malawi (NBM) was founded in 1971 from a merger
of the subsidiaries of Standard Bank of South Africa (Limited) and Barclays
Bank.   From its head office in Blantyre, NBM operates fourteen branches,
eighteen agencies and twenty-eight mobile units. Authorized and issued share
capital was R20 million at the end of 1988. The bank is owned by the Press
Corporation (47.35 percent), the Agricultural Development Marketing
Corporation   (ADMARC)   (32.65  percent)   and  Standard   Chartered   Bank
(20 percent).  At the end of 1989, it had total assets of K590 million,
representing a growth of 5.6 percent from the previous year. By contrast,
over the period from 1980 to 1988, total assets grew at an annual rate of
18.5 percent.   This recent slow down in the growth of the bank partly
reflects the increased fiscal discipline of the Government as well as the
overall tighter monetary conditions which prevailed during 1988 and 1989.
2.08     The Commercial Bank of Malawi (CBM) was established in 1970 as an
exclusively Malawi bank, but with a fairly heavy international staff. Bank
of America NT&SA acquired a 30 percent participation in 1976 and provided
technical support until this shareholding was relinquished in 1983. Through
its head office in Blantyre CBM operates fourteen branches, two static
agencies and forty-six mobile units designed to effectively serve the remote
or rural areas. CBM had an authorized share capital of K6.5 million, and a
paid up capital of K6 million (1988) which is held by the Press Corporation
(40 percent), the Malawi Government (30 percent) and MDC (30 percent).
2.09     Both banks offer normal commercial banking services.            On the
borrowing side, they offer deposit services:   checking, call, savings and
time accounts at market rates. Over the period 1980-89, the trend was for
deposits to flow from time and savings deposits to demand deposits because
of the excess liquidity in the banking system.  At the end of 1988 demand
deposits accounted for 37 percent of total deposits (K629 million) compared
to 29 percent of total deposits of K545 million in 1987. By the end of 1989,
the trend had been reversed because of tightening liquidity that forced the
banks to reintroduce longer dated deposits (12 to 24 months).  On the lending
side,  the banks provide  loans primarily  for short-term working capital
supported by adequate collateral, and a limited amount for longer term loans
(up to seven years) supported by adequate collateral. At the end of 1989,
the banks had total outstanding credit of K497 million, made up of K383
million to the private sector and K114 million to the public sector.  The
agricultural sector has traditionally received the bulk of commercial bank
credit, consistently accounting for more than 50 percent of total credit over
the period 1980-89. Trade was second with an average of 17 percent over the
period, followed by manufacturing which saw its share of credit increase from
4 percent in 1980 to 18 percent in 1989.  Detailed analysis and financial
statements for both banks are provided in Annex VI.



-  22  -
2.10     Both commercial banks are well managed, sound financial institutions
with competent staff. Operating policies and procedures are complete and up
to date.  Management information systems are also adequate for budgeting,
planning, loan quality control, and credit evaluation.   They have special
loan recovery units and have built up the capacity to take over the
management of troubled estates and rebuild them. This is a defensive measure
based on past experience.
2.11     The systems established by the banks have been geared toward short-
term lending, with the result that the banks have not developed the capacity
for term lending.  In the past, they have relied on external consultants,
including the African Project Development Facility (APDF), to appraise larger
projects.   The proposed Project will provide term funds as a means of
encouraging the banks to engage in more project-based lending, plus technical
assistance for developing their project appraisal capability.
Leasing and Finance Corporation (LFC)
2.12     LFC is owned by INDEBANK (36 percent), the Finance Corporation of
Malawi (15 percent), U.D.C. Limited (Zimbabwe) (10 percent), Old Mutual (10
percent), the German Development Bank (DEG) (10 percent), Economic
Development of Equatorial and Southern Africa (EDESA) (9 percent) and the
International Finance Corporation (10 percent).   LFC operates through one
office in Blantyre, but its impact is felt well beyond the confines of
Blantyre. Since it began operations in September 1986, LFC's total assets
have grown rapidly, increasing by around 100 percent per annum, from K11.7
million to K46 million between August 1987 and August 1989.  Much of the
early growth of LFC was associated with truck leasing activities which were
actively encouraged by the Government as a result of the closure of the
railway lines through Mozambique. By early 1990, it was vying with POSB and
NBS as the largest NBFI. Annex VII provides a more detailed analysis of LFC.
LFC is well managed with high calibre staff, is organizationally adequate and
operates according to sound commercial principles.
2.13     LFC has played an important role in the credit market by providing
financing to clients that would not have otherwise been able to obtain funds
from the commercial banking system.  LFC's lending decisions emphasize the
viability of a project and monitoring project implementation and cash flow
to ensure full debt recovery.   The operating policies and procedures are
complete and adequate  for LFC's operations.   By early  1990,  the major
constraint to further expansion by LFC was a shortage of term funds.   To
overcome the funding constraint, LFC is exploring the possibility of a bond
issue sometime in 1990.  However, LFC will still need access to more term
resources because of the tighter liquidity situation in the domestic market.
The objective of the proposed Project is to support LFC increase access to
credit by non-traditional bank clients, especially SMEs. LFC will also have
access to technical assistance under the Project for training staff in
project appraisal techniques.



-  23  -
Investment and Development Bank of Malawi (INDEBANK)
2.14     INDEBANK's financial activities include providing equity and loan
funds to subsidiary and associated companies. INDEBANK was established in
1972 as a limited liability company, with the objective of fostering economic
development through the investment in, and financing of, productive business
enterprises in Malawi. Its shareholding is predominantly foreign, although
the largest shareholder is the Agricultural Development and Marketing
Corporation  (ADMARC),  a Malawi Government-owned  institution.    The  four
remaining shareholders are the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC),
the Netherlands development finance company (FMO), the German finance company
for investments in developing countries (DEG) and the International Finance
Corporation (IFC).   They jointly account for 76.4 percent of the paid-in
capital, which amounted to K6.8 million as at June 30 1990. A more detailed
review of INDEBANK is provided in Annex VIII.
2.15     INDEBANK has a strong management team, with an independent Board of
Directors that has clearly defined the bank's general investment policies and
set-investment  limits.    INDEBANK  is expected  to operate  on a prudent
commercial basis and profitably.   INDEBANK's operating guidelines include
provisions that preclude it from participating in refinancing operations.
INDEBANK also requires: a minimum 25 percent contribution to total project
cost from sponsors of the project; and availability of competent and
continuous management for the project. These qualities have made INDEBANK
one of the more successful DFIs in Africa (Annex IX).
2.16     During the five-year period 1984-1989, INDEBANK's assets increased
by 59.2 percent to reacb of K42.4 million at year-end, while net investments
(net of provisions and diminution in value of equity investments) more than
doubled to app'., ch K38 million.  Consequently, the ratio of net investments
to total asseLs increased from 70.9 percent to 89.6 percent.   INDEBANK's
capital adequacy ratio increased to 20.5 percent and its debt/equity ratio
decreased to 3.37. 4/  By the end of 1989, the outstanding loan portfolio
consisted of 61 loans totalling K32.2 million (or an average loan size of
K527 thousand), while the equity portfolio consisted of 23 participations
totalling K10 million (or an average equity investment of K435 thousand).
INDEBANK's staff of the Project Investigation Department have developed
expertise in all aspects of project analysis and appraisal and are well
acquainted with World Bank credit requirements.  INDEBANK has benefitted from
two previous World Bank loans for industry.
2.17     The dependence of INDEBANK on external funding   has acted as a
constraint on its ability to increase resource allocation. However, INDEBANK
has recently floated a local currency bond, which represents a first step
towards mobilizing longer term resources from the local financial market.
In support of INDEBANK's future diversification, the RBM has approved a
banking license that would allow INDEBANK to initiate new banking activities.
4/ Capital adequacy is defined as shareholder capital plus retained earnings
and capital reserves (but excluding revaluation reserves) as a percent of
weighted risk assets.   The bank for International Settlement guidelines
suggest a capital adequacy ratio of 8% for commercial banks.



-  24  -
The license will enable INDEBANK to accept deposits and introduce new baiikiib
products and services, gradually moving towards becoming a merchant baink.
INDEBANK will still require to borrow a significant amount of term funds from
external sources during the transition to a full merchant bank. The proposed
Project will support INDEBANK's reorientation program, and provide term
resources during the transition period, and strengthen its capacity to
mobilize domestic resources.
The Malawi Development Corporation (MDC)
2.18     MDC was  established under  an Act  of Parliament  in  1964  as a
statutory body (parastatal), owned 100 percent by the Government of Malawi,
to be the focal institution in the area of economic development and to help
achieve greater participation by Malawians in business and industry. MDC's
statutes give it a broad mandate to undertake investments or develop
investment ideas in all productive sectors of the economy and to provide
services beyond the scope of conventional development banks.  MDC has been
encouraged in this endeavour by the Government, which recapitalized the
Corporation as part of the restructuring process. As at December 31, 1989,
MDC had an equity base of K99.4m: K20m in paid-in share capital; over K73.9in
in non distributable reserves; and K5.5m in distributable reserves. Out of
an investment portfolio of K232 million (before adjusting for provisions for
doubtful debt and investments) as at December 31, 1989, MDC's ratio of
investment in loan and equity was split approximately 15 percent and 85
percent, respectively.
2.19     In the early 1980s, MDC faced serious financial difficulties as a
result of rapid and poorly managed growth, which forced the Government to
undertake a major restructuring of the Corporation, involving a divestment
and consolidation of operations. The restructuring, which was completed in
1987, has resulted in a leaner and more profitable organization with
investments in 18 companies (down from 32 before the divestiture).   Total
assets of K257 .aillion at the end of 1989 still make MDC one of the largest
corporations in Malawi which, therefore, gives it the potential to become an
important contributor to development in Malawi in several ways. First, MDC
could act as a catalyst in the development of capital markets through the
sale of equity shares to the public in some of the more profitable companies
where it is the major shareholder.  Second, MDC could play a lead role in
supporting the Government's efforts to promote investment by providing ready-
made factory shells to investors. MDC has a subsidiary, the Malawi Property
Investment Company (MPICO), that has been successful as a commercial real
estate developer and, with adequate support, could conceivably expand into
industrial estate development.
2.20     Although MDC has the potential to be an important contributor to the
development of both the financial and industrial sectors it has, since its
restructuring, virtually remained dormant. Part of the reason has been the
lack of autonomy of the Board of Directors and limited discretionary
authority  for management.    The  other  reason  has  been  generally  weak
management.   Both of these issues will need to be addressed if MDC is to



-  25  -
fur.-~tion successfully as a commercially oriented institutioni. The proposed
Project will assist MDC to become a more dynamic agent for development and
assist it to expand into providing factory shells on a commercial basis. A
detailed review of MDC is provided in Annex X.
III. THE PROJECT
Project Origin and Rationale
3.01     The proposed Project culminates preparatory work by Bank staff
extending over a two year period and is designed to support Malawi's ongoing
reform program that seeks to diversify the economy, generate employment, and
alleviate poverty.   IDA has played a key role in assisting Government to
restructure the economy, formulate strategies in the industrial and financial
sectors and mobilize significant external resources. The support has been
underpinned by substantive sector work.   In 1989, the Bank prepared the
"Malawi, Industrial Sector Memorandum" (Report No. 74302-MAI) and a Country
Economic Memorandum (Report No. 8140-MAI).  These were followed by an IDA
financial sector review mission in November 1989, which prepared a Green
Cover Financial Sector Report in February 1991 (Report No. 9009-MAI). The
industrial and financial sector reports identified a number of reforms and
recommendations to improve efficiency in buth sectors as highlighted in
Chapter I.   In 1990, FIAS undertook diagnostic review of the investment
climate (para 1.50). As part of the Financial Sector Review and project
preparation, Government already has implemented several key policy reforms
highlighted in Chapter I.   The reforms outlined above have been agreed
between Government, the World Bank and the IMF and are reflected in the
Third-Year PFP.
3.02     The impact of the policy changes on the industrial and financial
sectors has been impressive during the period 1987-1990.   The proposed
Project will enable IDA to assist the Government in further improving the
investment environment by supporting ongoing reforms, encouraging exports,
and strengthening institutions engaged in term finance and pron.oting
investment.  The project will be complementary to the activities of other
donors in providing support for economically viable production activities,
especially in the SME sector. The Project will also be complementary to the
proposed Entrepreneurship and Capital Market Adjustment Credit (ECMAC) which
would focus on broader macroeconomic policy issues in both sectors.
3.03     The Project will be a departure from previous interventions for term
financing in Malawi.   Instead of allocating term financing to separate
sectors through specialized financial institutions at different interest
rates, terms and conditions, the apex approach would consolidate IDA's term
lending in Malawi for all productive sectors. The funds provided under the
Project will fill an important gap in term financing during the transition
period as the sector deepens and becomes better able to mobilize and allocate
domestic savings.



-  26  -
Project Objectives and Desi,n
3.04     The objective of the project is to support Government efforts to
expand exports and improve the policy and institutional framework relevant
to private foreign and local investment. This objective will be achieved by:
(i) including the commercial banke and leasing companies in the Project to
expand term financing of viable enterprises  in the productive  sectors,
including SMEs and enterprises owned by women; (ii) improving the
institutional framework for export finance, investment promotion, including
support for a proposed investment promotion agency, and industrial land and
factory shell development program; (iii) strengthening and supporting the
operational   diversification   of   key   financial   institutions;   and
(iv) supporting improvements in monetary policy management.
3.05     The project, which will involve an IDA credit to the Government of
Malawi of US$32 million equivalent (SDR 22.3 million) to finance investment
and technical assistance to key institutions, would have the following
components:
(i)    an  Investment  Finance  Component  to provide  term  finance  to
projects in productive sectors promoted by foreign and indigenous
private sector entrepreneurs, including SMEs and business owned
and operated by women;
(ii)   an industrial sites component to provide industrial infrastructure
to industrial sites and factory shells to facilitate investment
by indigenous enterprises and foreign investors, especially those
investing in export-oriented activities; and
(iii)  a multi-faceted institutional capacity development component to
support implementation of the reform program in the financial and
industrial sectors. Activities supported by this component would
include staff training for participating financial intermediaries
(PFIs), and SME support institutions, strengthening RBM's capacity
to manage monetary policy, investment promotion, and supporting
the deepening of the financial sector by helping with the
diversification   and   reorientation   of   several   financial
institutions.
A more detailed description of the three components is provided below.
Proiect Description
3.06     Investment Finance Component of US$20.4 million in IDA funds will
be made available through an apex arrangement at RBM for lending to eligible
PFIs which will onlend the funds to viable enterprises to finance investment
in productive activities, through normal term financing mechanisms such as
leasing, equity finance and term loans.  The subprojects could range from
small to large scale and will include various mixes of private, public,
foreign and Malawian ownership. The following is a brief elaboration of the
various financing mechanisms:



-  27  -
-    Term and Working Capital Credit will provide term loan finanicing to
viable enterprises, covering plant and equipment, as well as, 'he
working capital requirements associated with investment in plzlt anld
equipment.
-    Lease Financing will provide finance to PFIs for the purchase of
equipment which they would lease to eligible subborrowers under
lease agreements.  Although lease finance in Malawi is currc-ntlv
provided by only two companies, Mercantile Credit anid LFC,
competition for this line of business is expected to increase with
entry of other financial institutions. As a medium-term financial
instrument, lease financing will improve access to credit for SMEs
that are commercially viable, but otherwise are locked out of formal
sector credit because of lack of adequate tangible collateral.
-    Equity and Quasi-Equity Finance will provide financing for equity
and quasi-equity investments by PFIs against their financing
subborrowers' purchase of equipment, goods, services and civil
works.   Such investments will include common or preferred stock,
convertible debentures or subordinated debt, which could be used
alone or packaged in combination with debt. The equity investments
will give preference to new ventures, especially indigenous-owned
enterprises.  Equity funds will be channelled through either the
DFIs or venture capital funds that are autonomous, managed on a
commercial basis, with policies and procedures that meet eligibility
criteria for PFIs. All equity investments by PFIs will be required
to include an exit clause to ensure that the equity investment can
be sold at maturity and not be subject to the preemptive shareholder
clauses that apply under corporate law in Malawi. Both INDEBANK and
MDC (the two participating DFIs and likely utilizers of equity
finance) were reviewed during appraisal of the project and their
procedures were found to be acceptable to IDA. INDEBANK has in the
past participated in IDA operations and is familiar with IDA
requirements for equity investments.
3.07     Initially, no one financial intermediary will have access to more
than 20 percent (or about US$4 million) of the total funds available under
the Investment Finance Component. However, this limitation will be reviewed
regularly, beginning in the first year of pro4ect implementation and would
be adjusted as necessary.   During implementation, the IDA funds will be
allocated among various financing instruments (loan, equity, and leasing)
depending on actual demand.
3.08     Industrial Sites Conponent (USS7 million) will be lent by the RBM
to PFIs for onlending to eligible developers of industrial sites.   The
component would ensure timely availability of in.ustrial infrastructure for
use by investors by providing long term financing of infrastructure
(equipment   and   civil   works   for   roads,   electricity,   water   and
telecommunications infrastructure and factory shells) on industrial sites.
It is anticipated that MDC will be the primary, but not sole, developer of
industrial sites in Malawi. Other PFIs will be eligible to participate for
onlending to factory shell developers.   Initially, no one PFI will have
access to more than 40 percent of the total funds under this component. This



- 2 8 -
allocation will be ;ul,ject to review after the first year of project
implementation.  O-nlending from RBM to the PFIo will be at the reference rate
determined by RBM.  The Governtmient will through the Department of Lands and
Valuation, coordirnate and uupervise the allocation of industrial land and the
provision of services to ndastrinl sites. MDC and other developers will use
the leased land to develop well serviced industrial sites for lease by
investors. Primary leates to developers would be long enough (currently 99
years) to allow the developer to offer subleases for a minimum of 10 years.
A po,Lcys;_tatement for the developnment of iiifrastructure on industrial sites
was a       at negdt iations.  The policy statemenit would include guidelines
on cost recovery on infrastructure, procuremenit and disbursement procedures
and responsibilities for setting of standards and supervising civil works.
The development of industrial sites for export-oriented production is likely
to require large public expenditures.  lt is understood that the Government
has approached the African Development Bank (ADB) to support, through
parallel financing, a program for developing specialized export processing
zones.   Other bilateral donors have expressed interest in supporting the
development of industrial infrastructure aS, parallel cofinancing to the
FSEDP.
Sector Policy Measures and Conditions
3.09     As indicated above, although the proposed Credit is an investment
operation, a large number of key policy issues identified in Chapter 1, were
discussed with Government during project preparation.   The Government has
moved quickly to either introduce or initiate reforms to address several of
these issues, and has been steadfast in its commitment to the overall reform
program. Maintaining momentum in implementing ongoing and proposed policy
reforms is considered critical to achieving fully the development objectives
of the proposed project.
3.10     In the area of financial sector policies, reform has focused on
three key areas involving:
(a)  movement  towards  more  indirect,  market-oriented  monetary
control. This involves the setting up of a money market desk
at RBM, regular auctions of Treasury bills and other Government
paper, and more use of indirect monetary control instruments
such as reserve  requirements.    The proposed  Project has,
through PPF financing, provided support to RBM in developing
a monetary programming model;
(b)  encouraging competition.  The monetary authorities agreed to
introduce a more open and transparent process for consideration
of banking applications.   A banking license to INDEBANK has
already been approved under the new process, while consultants
(financed through a PPF) have been retained to assist
Government in re-orientating POSB into an autonomous financial
institution (paras 1.23 and 1.29); and



- 9  -
(c' ) en'oguratijng  tlie  d(evP Iopm(Tlt _ of  c a) i t al    r m,-ket s .    Thiae
aut horities  propose  to  rationalize  t he  tax  treatmellt  of
financial instrumeiit s, I lt1udi ng taxat ion ot dividt nds and
capital gains and removal of the tax exempt tio0 for intrerut
earnied on deposits at the NBS and POSB (para 1.38);
3.11     In the industrial sector, Government haci eombarked on an ambitiou.,
program aimed at diversifying rho economy, withi thei reform process focul.inp
on:
(a)  Investment Promotion.  In response to concorns about adequate
investment   response,   the  Government   has   set   up  all
interministerial working group to provide policy guidance and
revrient  investment  policy.   To ensure  that  the  investor
community is fully aware of the recent policy changes and the
administrative, institutional (an Investment Promotion Agency)
and  legal  support  available  to  investors  in Malawi,  the
Government proposes to issue an Investment Policy Statement
(para 1.50). A draft copy was issued to IDA at negotiations;
(b)  Availability of industrial land for private development.  The
Government proposes to make comprehensive procedural changes
that are needed to accelerate land transfers for new
investments to comply with the intentions expressed in the
Policy Statement.   The land lease approval process will be
strpamlined and the leases to private developers would be long
,-iough  to  enable  such  developers  to  offer  equally  long
subleases to industrial enterprises for factory shells;
(c)  Industrial  Infrastructure.    The  Government    proposes  to
decentralize the development of industrial parks, incorporating
the construction of advance factory shells for lease or sale
to investors, by allowing such parks to be developed on a
commercial basis, including development by private developers.
Leadership within Government for coordinating and supervising
the provision of industrial infrastructure to industrial sites
will be provided by the Department of Economic Planning and
Development (EP&D) in the Office of the President and Cabinet.
The Government will issues guidelines of the development of
industrial parks; and
(d)  Trade Liberalization.   The Government aim. at reducing the
level and dispersion of protecti.on throu:.h further trade tariff
reforms.    Significant  progress  already  has  been made  in
eliminating import and export licensing requirements.
3.12     As a background to this project, the Government provided a draft
letter of commitment to continuing the program of financial and industrial
sector reforms described earlier in Chapter 1.



-  30  -
Eligibility Criteria for PFIs
3.13     For purposes of the Investment Finance and the Industrial Sitee
cornponellts, any financial intermediary that meets the requirements of the
revised Banking Act for engaging in lending activities would be eligible to
participate. The revised Banking Act is administered by RBM and stipulates
the rules for the operation of new and existing financial institutions
including inter alia definition of financial institution, requirements for
thie  issuance  or  revocation  of a license,  capital  adequa.y  ratios,  5/
comnpetenice and expertise of management, structure of the organization,
minimum capital base and earnings from operations, scope for prudential
regulation, and audit and reporting requirements. To be able to participate
as a PFI in the two components of the proposed project, a financial
intermediary would be required to be fully in compliance with the provisions
of the Act. The PFIs come under the regulatory and supervisory oversight of
RBM's Bank Inspection Department, which would monitor the PFIs' operations
and financial position and would cut off the use of IDA funds if the quality
of a PFI's portfolio deteriorates too much or it fails to remain in sound
financial condition.  In addition to meeting the requirements of the Act,
PFIs will be required to have experienced management, to follow sound,
commercially oriented banking practices, and to have their annual financial
statements audited by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA.
3.14     Initially, the only institutions that meet the requirements of the
Act are. the two commercial banks, INDEBANK, LFC, and MDC. The commercial
banks and INDEBANK are established institutions with considerable experience
working with RBM and on IDA operations.    LFC and MDC,  although less
experienced, have adequate operating procedures for channelling funds to
enterprises. Moreover, technical assistance is included in the project to
strengthen PFIs capacity for appraising and supervising projects. However,
RBM would retain the discretion to qualify additional institutions to
participate in the two components on the basis of eligibility criteria
satisfactory to IDA. Mercantile Credit is currently dormant, but would be
evaluated by RBM should it wish to participate in the project.  The other
institutions, such as INDEFUND, SEDOM, MUDZI FUND, and WWBM, do not currently
meet the eligibility criteria for a various financial, managerial and
operational reasons.
3.15     All PFIs will be required to enter into a participation agreement
with RBM. The participation agreement would, inter alia, specify that the
PFI would:   (i) perform satisfactory subproject appraisal for longer term
investment; (ii) supervise subprojects financed under the credit to ensure
that resources are used for intended purposes and repaid; (iii) make periodic
reports to the apex unit; (iv) ensure that national environmental regulations
and IDA guidelines on environment are followed by subprojects; (v) help to
identify technical assistance requirements of SMEs; (vi) provide the Apex
Unit and IDA with such information (including audited financial state-ments
and   statement   of  expenditures)   as  they  may   reasonably   request;
5/    The Banking Act defines  capital adequacy  as the minimum capital
requirements as a percent of a class of assets and risk bearing
commitments. Capital adequacy ratios are prescribed by RBM.



-  31  -
(vii) designate qualified staff to manage the credits financed under the
project; and (viii) adhere to terms of lending and repayment of loans.
Rceeipt by EPA of a satisfactory signed agreement between the RBM and a PFI
is a conAdition of disbursement to that intermediary.
Eligibility Criteria for Subprojects
3.16     The investment finance and industrial sites components will finance
fixed assets, civil works and permanent working capital for enterprises. All
productive activities and industrial sites development, except housing
construction and land acquisition, that contribute to the economic
development of Malawi would be eligible. Both foreign and local costs will
be eligible for financing, with the latter being limited to a maximum of 90
percent of financing by the IDA line of credit.   The Industrial Sites
Component will provide free-standing sub-loans to clients borrowing through
MDC or other eligible PFIs  for factory  shell construction.    Identical
disbursement procedures would be used under both components.
3.17     Enterprises and eligible subprojects to be financed under components
will be required to meet the following conditions which would be subject to
periodic review and possible amendment if circumstances warrant during
project implementation:
(a)  demonstrate  technical,  financial  and  economic  viability.
Subloans over US$100,000 equivalent would be required to have
an expected financial rate of return of at least 12 percent on
total subproject investment;
(b)  the projected debt service coverage ratio should not be less
than 1.3 over the life of the subproject and the debt/equity
ratio should not exceed 3:1, with the ratios calculated on the
basis of the enterprise's total debts, inclusive of those to
be incurred under the subproject;
(c)  Project sponsors would be required to finance the following
proportions of the total cost of subprojects:   at least 20
percent for expansion or modernization subprojects; and at
least 30 percent for new subprojects;
(d)  the amount of each subloan, including leases, would be limited
to a maximum of US$2 million, to ensure that no one company
absorbs more than ten percent of the total credit amount. The
amount would be reviewed and, if necessary, revised during
project implementation. Subloans would be for a maximum of 12
years, with up to three years of grace.
(e)  for equity investments, prudent investment policies would be
required to be followed, including the following two
requirements:   (i) investments in any one company should not
exceed 25 percent of the paid-up share capital and revenue
reserves of the PFI; and (ii) the equity investment ratio,



32 -
d1fined n.-, equity investments divided by paid-up share carital
of the I'FI, should not exceed 1:1.2.  No limitation wou.d be
imnposod oJL the size of  the enterprise  or subproject,  but
iII(lividtlal investments should not exceed US$2 milliotn;
(f)  for 1ndustria]  sites and factory shell subprojects, prudent
commnercial inivestment policies would be followed, including:
(i)  firn  lease  commitments  from potential  clients  of  the
factory sholls; (Ii) charging cost recover, rents sufficient
to cover the debt repayment and operating cost obligations; and
(iii) oreforceable lease agreements between the developer and
the lossee;
(g) for lease financing, there would be an enforceable legal
agreemenit betweeni the PFI and the lessee, including an option
for the lessee to buy the asset at the end of the lease. The
term of the initial equipment lease may not exceed 12 years.
Subloan Processing and Administration
3.18     Subloan  processing  under  the  project  will  be  coordinated  and
supervised by the Apex Unit, which would serve as the principal link between
IDA, PFIs and beneficiaries of the investment finance and industrial sites
components.
3.19     Subprojects  will  be  prepared  by  the  beneficiaries  with,  if
necessary, assistance of independent consultants, and presented to the PFI.
The PFI would review the subprojects in accordance with loan appraisal
procedures  and internal operating requirements  acceptable  to IDA.   The
project appraisal policies and lending procedures of the currently eligible
PFIs were reviewed by the appraisal mission and found to be generally
satisfactory. The exception was MDC, which would be required to address its
institutional weaknesses before drawing on the Credit fur.ds.  PFIs would
present their appraisal report, together with supporting documentation, to
the Apex Unit for refinancing under the line of credit and industrial sites
component.   This appraisal report, which will be presented in a standard
format prescribed by the Apex Unit, would vary in depth and sophistication
depending on size and complexity of the subprojects.  The report would cover
all relevant information about the enterprise and the proposed investment.
The Apex Unit  would  review  the  appraisal  reports  to verify  that  all
eligibility criteria are adequately met.  This review will be carried out in
the form of a check-list approach for subloans of lees than US$100,000
equivalent, and through a more in-depth review for subloans above US$100,000.
The PFIs would have primary responsibility for the sub-loan appraisal and
would carry the lending risk.
3.20     At least one subproject from each intermediary will be subject to
prior IDA review and approval. Thereafter, assuming satisfactory standards
are achieved, IDA would review a sample of subprojects on an ex-post basis
during supervision missions.



-  33  -
3.21     The RBM would be responsible fcr disbursement and collection of
furnds granted to PFIs. The Research Department would manage the Apex Unit,
whlile the Foreign Exchange Department would make payments upon approval by
the Apex Unit.  PFIs will be responsible for preparing their own disbursement
applications for presentation to the Apex Unit.  The Apex UJnit would then
simply check the applications for accuracy and completeness before disbursing
tlie funds to the PFIs. RBM would be responsible for preparing and submitting
requests to IDA for the replenishment of the Special Account.
3.22     Under the participation agreement   with the RBM,  PFIs will be
responsible for supervising IDA-financed subprojects and maintaining adequate
records.  The PFIs will submit periodic supervision reports, in a standard
format prescribed by the Apex Unit, until the subloan Is repaid.   These
records would be made available to IDA supervision missions for review and
comment.
Institutional Capacity Development Component
3.23     The overall objective of the institutional capacity development
component is to support Government efforts in economic diversification by
providing technical assistance and training to: (a) strengthen a number uf
financial institutions that finance investment; (b) assist Government to
strengthen its investment promotion capacity; and (c) strengthen the capacity
of institutions that support SMEs by providing technical assistance and
training. A detailed breakdown of technical assistance and cost estimates
is provided below:
3.24     Support to RBM (USS400,000).   Strengthening RBM's capability in
monetary policy management, is estimated at US$150,000  and includes 6 man-
months of consultants plus computers and equipment.   The consultants will
assist RBM to: (i) develop an econometric model for forecasting credit and
monetary  developments;    (ii)  re-organize  and  strengthen  the  existing
statistical data base; and  (iii) train its staff in econometric methods.
The terms of reference for this sub-component are provided in Annex XI.
Initial work in this area has already been undertaken, financed through an
IDA  Project  Preparation  Facility  (PPF)  advance.            During  project
implementation, additional support (two man-years of consultant services) at
an estimated cost of US$250,000 would be provided to RBM to assist in
establishing money market operations and training for relevant local
counterpart staff.
3.25     Restructuring of the Post Office Savings Bank (POSB) (USS900.000).
Funds will be allocated to finance consultant services, vehicles and
equipment to assist the Government to streamline the operations of the POSB
and, as part of the initiative to increase competition in the financial
system, gradually restructure and reorient (including broadening its
activities)   it  into  an  independent   commercially-oriented   financial
institution along tho lines of the POSB in the United Kingdom and savings
banks  other European countries.    In order not  to disrupt  the current
successful deposit mobilization activities of the POSB, the reorientation
would be phased with the initial focus being on streamlining operations
(clearing an operational backlog), improving deposit mobilization and
strengthening POSB's management capacity to make sound, commercial investment



-  34  -
decisions.   In the longer term the POSB could be involved in lending.
Consultants have been retained at a cost of US$360,000 through an IDA PPF
advance to assist the POSB in streamlining operations and developing a
strategic plan for the future evolution of the POSB. Terms of reference for
consultant services were agreed upon prior to appraisal and are provided in
Anniex XI.   Implementation of the business plan to be developed by the
consultant will require additional financing estimated at US$190,000 for the
consultant services (some to be procured locally), vehicles and equipment.
Formulation of a restructuring and strategic plan would be completed by
September 30. 1991.
3.26     An ExRort Credit Guarantee Facility (ECGF (USS180.000).  IDA will
finance 100 percent of the cost of assistance to help establish and operate
an export credit guarantee facility and train staff of the PFIs in export
financing. Support to RBM would include (i) consultant services of 8 man-
months, of which 2 man-months are expected to be procured locally, and (ii)
vehicles  and equipment.   The consultants will assist RBM to formulate
operating policies and procedures, design the management systems for the
facility,  and provide the training to relevant staff.   The rationale,
description and terms of reference for the ECGF were agreed during
negotiations (Annex XIII). The establishment and adeauate staffing of the
Export Credit Guarantee Facility is a condition of disbursement under the
component.
3.27     Investment Promotion (USS1.000.000).   The IDA credit will assist
the Government establish and operate an investment promotion agency.  The
support would finance: (i) start-up costs (estimated at US$55,000) covering
vehicles and equipment and civil works; (ii) annual operating costs over a
five-year period (US$350,000) covering a manager, 2 senior staff, and 3
support staff; (iii) investment promotion (estimated at US$350,000) including
public relations, research, travel and communications, and office expenses;
and (iv) one man-year in the form of a resident advisor (trainer) at an
estimated cost of US$150,000.   The estimates include appropriate price
contingencies. Draft terms of reference and preliminary cost estimates for
the establishment of an investment promotion agency are provided in Annex
XIV. Co-financing for this component is being sought. Establishment of the
Investment Promotion Agency. with terms of reference. staffing level, costs.
and Procedures acceptable to IDA is a condition of disbursement of this
financing.  As a condition of effectiveness, the Government will have to
aspoint a committee chaired by the Principal Secretary to the Department of
Economic Planning and Development to oversee the implementation of actions
needed to set up the Agency and meet the obiectives of the Investment Policy
Statement.
3.28     SME Training and Technical Assistance Fund ($1.000.000).  To support
the development of the private sector including SME, the project will
establish a technical assistance and training fund.   IDA will  finance
US$1,000,000, with additional support being provided by other donors that
could  benefit  SMEs.    The  Fund  will  make  resources  available  for
(i) development of professional staff at all levels in institutions that
support private sector investment; (ii) the development of curriculum for
training; and (iii) the training of entrepreneurs. The bulk of the resources
would be directed to in-country training initiatives. Operation of the fund



-  35  -
will be demand driven, with institutions desiring assistance submitting their
proposals for review and approval for funding. It is anticipated that the
following institutions would be interested in participating in the fund:
INDEFUND, SEDOM, DEMATT, MUSCCO, MEDI, the commercial banks, CCAM, MACOHA,
MUDZI FUND, Women's World Banking of Malawi (WWBM), and other NGOs. The Fund
would also strengthen the capability of the Ministry of Trade and Industry
and the Department of Economic Planning and Development to support industrial
development in Malawi, especially in the SME sector. The proposed Fund will
build on and complement existing initiatives by Government and other donors.
Agreement on the terms of reference, operating policies and procedures and
eligibilitv criteria for Fund beneficiaries was reached during negotiations.
The EEC has provided finance for consultant services at an estimated cost of
ECU60,000 (US$84,000 equivalent) to hel? define the institutional set-up,
final cost estimates, and develop procedures for the operation of the Fund.
EEC may provide additional funding for the Fund through parallel co-
financing under the Lome IV agreement. A profile of the Fund and terms of
reference for the EEC-financed consultant services are provided in Annex XVI.
3.29     Diversification of INDEBANK (US$350,000).  The credit would assist
INDEBANK to become a broader-based financial institution.   The two major
elements of the INDEBANK program are: (a) mobilization of additional kwacha
resources, including the private placement of a KIO million local bond issue;
and (b) expansion into merchant banking activities, including wholesale
domestic deposit taking, dealing in bankers acceptances and subsequently
foreign exchange trading.   The project would also strengthen management
information systems, through the development and training of the management
team and the recruitment of an experienced merchant banking advisor and head
of corporate finance. As regards merchant banking, IDA supports INDEBANK's
general objectives and the measures being taken to diversify its operations,
which would increase the range of financial instruments.   The terms of
reference for a consultant to assist INDEBANK review the options for
expansion have been cleared by IDA. The Project would finance: (i) two man-
years for an advisor on merchant banking; (ii) four man-years for short-term
consultants with relevant experience (one in deposit taking and the other in
foreign exchange transactions) to establish these activities and train
INDEBANK staff; and (iii) equipment and vehicles and related operating costs
for two years. Agreement on the terms of reference for hiring an advisor to
assist INDEBANK with its diversification was reached during negotiations.
3.30     Malawi Development Corporation (MDC) (USS700.000). The Project will
help MDC:   (i) strengthen its management by financing  the cost  of an
experienced projects advisor; (ii) build up capacity to develop factory
shells on a commercial basis; and (iii) equipment and vehicles. An appraisal
of MDC indicates that it is a financially sound corporation and possesses
attributes that make it a potentially dynamic institution able to take on
additional functions and play a leading developmental role in both the
financial and industrial sectors in Malawi.  However, for this to happen,
management will need to be strengthened and the reporting arrangements
between MDC, Department of Statutory Bodies (DSB) and other Government
agencies re-examined, so thst with stronger management, the Corporation would



_ 36 -
be granted the autonomy to effectively run its operations.   These reforms
will not delay the start of new initiatives at MDC or hold back
implementation of the rest of the project. Agreement on a future development
program, including terms of reference, for MDC was reached at negotiations.
Pro ect Cost. Financing and Co-financing
3.31     Total project cost is estimated at US$47.2 m'llion equivalent, with
an IDA contribution of US$32 million equivalent (68 percent).  The remainder,
amounting to USS15.2 million equivalent, would be financed by local
contributions and co-financiers. EEC has already co-financed the project and
may also provide additional funds through parallel co-financing under Lome
IV Agreement. A summary of the project costs and expected financing is given
in Table 2.
3.32     Co-financing.  The Bank's Resident Mission in Malawi has been quite
successful in improving and strengthening aid coordination.   The Resident
Representative  provides  leadership  to  an  active  local  donor's  aid
coordination effort.   The bi-annual Consultative Group (CG) Meetings have
provided an effective mechanism for donor support for the Government's high
priority investment areas and co-financing for Bank operations.   Several
donors have provided a tentative indication of support to Malawi as parallel
co-financing to the FSEDP. The most prominent among these are: UNDP, EEC
(under LOME IV), EIB (under Lome IV), and USAID. Amounts for potential co-
financiers have not yet been determined.
Table 2: 0ALAWI - Estimated Project Costs and Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Local        Foreign      Total         2
Estimated Cost:
Line of Credit              11.9        20.0         31.9         67.0
Industrial Sites            2.9          7.0          9.9         21.0
Institutional Capacity
Development               2.8          2.6          5.4         11.4
TOTAL                       17.6        29.6         47.2        100.0
Financing Plan:
Sub-borrower                14.7         -           14.7         31.1
Government                  0.4          -            0.4          0.9
Proposed IDA Credit         2.4         29.6          ,2.0        67.8
Co-financier (EEC)          0.1          -            0.1          0.2
TOTAL                       17.6        29.6         47.2        100.0



-  37  -
Terms and Conditions
3.33     The proposed IDA credit will be made to the Republic of Malawi on
standard IDA terms. The Borrower would pass on US$27.4 million equivalent
of the IDA Credit  to RBM at the reference rate determined by RBM for
onlending in local currency through an apex unit to eligible PFIs. The PFIs
would relend the local currency funds with maturities of up to 12 years,
including a grace period of up to 3 years under the Investment Finance
Component.
3.34     The funds allocated  for the institutional  capacity development
component (US$4.6 million) will be passed on as a grant from Government to
the implementing agencies and beneficiaries.   The TA to RBM, INDEBANK and
MDC will be managed by each respective institution, while the balance of the
technical assistance would be administered by MOF, which will in turn
delegate management of the SME Technical Assistance and Training Fund to the
Malawi Institute of Management (MIM) or other training institutions, which
have the capacity to assume such responsibility.   The TA to POSB would be
managed by RBM.   Information on MIM is available on the Project  file.
Agreement on the general administration of the Institutional Capacity
Development Component was reached at negotiations.
3.35     Foreign Exchange Risk and Interest Rates.  RBM would, through an
Apex arrangement, onlend US$27.4 million equivalent of the IDA credit to
eligible PFIs at a pre-determined reference rate.   The reference rate of
interest would be determined by RBM from time to time, and would reflect the
average cost of term borrowings in the financial system. In the absence of
a developed capital market that could be used to determine the long-term cost
of borrowing in Malawi, the reference rate of interest will be set in the
first year of project implementation as a simple average of all prevailing
interest rates on long term deposits at the commercial banks (currently
13.625 percent per annum). RBM would pass to the Government the interest
received from PFIs, less a 0.5 percentage point fee to cover RBM's
administrative cost for operating the Apex Unit. The Government would bear
the foreign exchange risk out of the interest received from PFIS. The PFIs
would bear the full credit risk. The interest rates to final sub-borrowers
would be set at the discretion of each individual PFI, based on the PFI's
assessment of the underlying lending risk.   Both the onlending and final
lending rates would be adjusted periodically in line with changes in market
rates. Interest rates in Malawi are market determined and are positive in
real terms.
Project Implementation
3.36     The Apex Unit.  The Apex Unit would serve as the principal link
between IDA, PFIs, and the final beneficiaries of the investment finance and
the  industrial  sites  components.    It would  also  be  responsible  for
disbursement, accounting and loan administration in respect of the Technical
Assistance Component.   The Research and Statistics Department of the RBM
already has a claims and loan disbursement unit with a permanent staff of
three professionals, but is able to call upon extra manpower from the
Research and Statistics Department as and when necessary.   The Apex Unit
would be expanded by the recruitment of one more professional to enable it



- 38 -
to tackle the additional workload envisioned under the proposed FSEDP.
Adequate staffing of the Apex Unit is a condition of effectiveness.
3.37     The staff of the Apex Unit are competent and familiar with IDA
disbursement procedures and reporting requirements, having been responsible
for managing several IDA credits. The unit has access to computer facilities
for accounting and record-keeping purposes and has a secure room within the
RBM premisas for safe storage of relevant documentation.
3.38     The staff of the Apex Unit is under the management of the  Director
of Research and Statistics.   The Director will wor' with an Assistant
Director, who will be responsible for the day-to-day ..dnning of the whole
unit, including supervision of the four core staff of the unit. Two of the
staff will concentrate exclusively on the FSEDP and the IDA-financed
Agricultural Mlarketing and Estate Development Project, with the other two
managing  the ITPAC and ASAC operations.   A  fuller description of the
functions of the Apex Unit is provided in Annex XVI.
Environmental Assessment
3.39     The Malawi Government has established a special unit to integrate
assessment of environmental issues into its planning process. The proposed
project would use the unit to vet the potential environmental impact of
subprojects to be financed.  The unit would provide to PFIs and investors
guidelines outlining the new investments that would require its endorsement
before a licence to operate is issued.
3.40     Projects to be financed through the Investment Finance Component and
the Industrial Sites Component would be evaluated as appropriate by the PFIs
to determine whether the investment project has any potential adverse
environmental effects.   For subprojects that are found to have potential
adverse environmental effects, an environmental assessment would be carried
out and the subproject design would include measures to minimize the impact.
Subprojects with environmental effects that cannot be mitigated would not be
eligible for financing from the IDA credit funds. The PFIs would annually
submit their lending program to the environmental assessment unit for review
and comment.
Procurement and Disbursement
3.41     Procurement.    Procurement  for  subprojects  financed  under  the
investment finance and industrial sites components of the Credit would
generally be made on the basis of current procurement procedures of the
participating financial institutions. These procedures, which are in line
with normal commercial practice (minimum of three quotations and awarded to
the lowest evaluated bidder), have been reviewed and found acceptable to IDA.
Generally, the PFIs review items to be procured by their subborrowers to
ensure that a representative cross section of suppliers have been canvassed
and that the proposed procurement is from the most advartageous source. Any
contracts for goods valued at or over $1 million would be procured through
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with IDA
Procurement Guidelines. Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procurement would
be limited and mainly for the procurement of civil works (foreign firms would



-  39  -
be allowed to participate in such bids in accordance with local procedures
acceptable to IDA). Items or groups of equipment and vehicles required by
six separate institutions, spaced over time and relatively small in value
individually and aggregating to US$400,000 would be procured through LCB
procedures. Direct contracting could be used only for proprietary equipment
or where compatibility with existing equipment would require standardized
equipment  or  spare  parts.    Consultant  services would  be  procured  in
accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. All consultant contracts would have
terms of reference and consultant selection subject to IDA approval before
contracts are awarded. The Apex Unit would supervise procurement under the
project and ensure that all procurement is done under procedures acceptable
to IDA. PFIs would maintain records of the procurement methods and documents
in subproject implementation in order to monitor use of credit funds. IDA
supervision missions would review procurement procedures to ensure compliance
with  the agreed  Procurement  Guidelines.    Procurement  arrangements  are
summarized in the following table, with amounts to be financed by the IDA
credit in parentheses.



-  40  -
Table 3: MALAWI - Procurement Arrangements
Procurement Method
(USS million)                   Total
Project Component         ICB     LCB    Other         N.A.         Cost
Investment and
Industrial Sites          7.0    -       34.8         -            41.8
Subloans  a/          (3.4)          (24.0)        -           (27.4)
Equipment and Vehicles    -        0.7      -           -             0.7
(0.4)    -           -            (0.4)
Consultants,                -      -        2.5 b/      -             2.5
Training and Technical                     (2.4)                     (2.4)
Assistance
Incremental Operating
Expenses                   -      -       -           1.6           1.6
(1.2)         (1.2)
PPF Refinancing              -      -       -           0.6           0.6
(0.6)         (0.6)
TOTAL                       7.0    0.7    33.7          5.8          47.2
(3.4)  (0.4)  (24.4)        (3.8)        (32.0)
a/   Standard  Commercial  Practice.         Contracts   for  goods  exceeding
US$1,000,000 equivalent would be procured through ICB.   Figures in
parenthesis represent procurement methods for IDA funds.
b/   In accordance with IDA guidelines.
3.42     Disbursements.    The  investment  finance  and  industrial  sites
components would be disbursed as follows:   (i) for subloans financing new
operations, up to 70 percent of total subproject cost for new operations, and
for expansion operations, up to 80 percent of total cost of the subproject;
and (ii) the institutional capacity development and training component: 100
percent of the cost of consultants, training and the c.i.f cost of goods
directly imported; and 80 percent of local cost goods. The IDA credit would
reimburse the PPF advance and would finance eligible expenditures that were
made no more than 90 days prior to tiLe receipt by IDA of information relatir.g
to a subloan or investment operation, or before the receipt of the request
by IDA for approval of the subproject. During negotiations, it was agreed
that withdrawals in an amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 700,000 may
be made in respect of the investment finance component for payments made to
cover expenditures incurred not more than 90 days before the signing of the
Credit. The objective of this retroactive financing is to allow continuity
in the operation of certain PFIs.



-  41  -
3.43     The  project  disbursement  schedule  (Annex  XVIII)  is  based  on
disbursement schedule for industrial development and finance projects in
Africa. It is expected that the line of credit component would be disbursed
in seven years and the institutional capacity development component over a
four-year period.   Funds under the investment finance component and the
industrial sites component would be available for commitment until December
31, 1995, while, disbureements and the Credit Closing Date would be by June
30, 1997.
Table 4: MALAWI - Allocation of IDA Credit
Disbursements of IDA Credit
(US$ Million)
Categcory                                                   Percentage
Investment and Industrial
Sites Components                       27.4          up   to   70%   of   total
subproject costs for new
operations and 802 for
expansion operations and
civil works.
Equipment and Vehicles                  0.4          100% of total costs.
Consultants, Training and
Technical Assistance                    2.4          100% of total foreign and
local costs.
Incremental Operating Expense           1.2          80% of total cost
PPF Refinancing                         0.6
TOTAL                                  32.0
Special Account
3.44     To expedite disbursements, three special accounts for each of the
three project components will be set up in a commercial bank acceptable to
IDA, into which would be deposited initial allocations of: (a; US$2 million
for the Investment Finance component (about four months of disbursements);
(b) US$750,000  for  industrial  sites;   and  (c) US$250,000  for  drawn
institutional capacity development from the proposed Credit immediately after
credit effectiveness. All expenditures under US$100,000 would be disbursed
from the Special Account on the basis of statements of expenditure (SOEs).
The documentation for withdrawals made under SOEs would be retained by the
Apex Unit for 10 years and would be reviewed by supervision missions and



-  42  -
audited annually. All other disbursements would be on the basis of full and
acceptable documentation. The Special Account would be audited annually by
independent auditors and audit reports would be submitted to IDA within six
months of the end of the fiscal year. RBM would submit to IDA a quarterly
statement of transactions on the Special Account. Requests for replenishment
of the Special Account would be submitted every two months or whenever funds
in the account are not sufficient to meet outstanding and committed
obligations.
Auditing. Accounting and Re2orting Reauirements
3.45     The Apex Unit located in the RBM would maintain accounts and records
adequate to reflect the project's operations and financial situation in
accordance with sound accounting principles.   Separate accounts will be
maintained for each of the PFIs and all other entities receiving technical
assistance. Independent auditors acceptable to IDA would annually review:
(a) project accounts kept by the implementing agency; (b) the Special
Account; (c) financial statements of each PFI, including a separate audit of
SOEs and, for subprojects, a statement on compliance with eligibility
criteria and subloan covenants; and (d) use of technical assistance funds.
PFIs have adequate capacity and competence to prepare financial accounts for
external auditing. The Apex Unit will be responsible for coordinating all
audit reports, which would be submitted to IDA no later than six months after
the end of the entities financial year.
3.46     On  the  basis  of  information  gathered  from  participating
institutions, the Apex Unit would submit half-yearly and annual progress
reports on Project Components.  The Apex Unit would be required to submit
annual progress reports to IDA within three months after the end of each
calendar year.  PFIs would submit to the Apex Unit each quarter a report
showing:   (a) the status of the portfolio of subloans and investments
financed with project funds; and (b) statement of financial and resource
position.   The Apex Unit would prepare  the required part  of Project
Completion Report within six months of the closing date of the Project.
IDA Suvervision
3.47     During appraisal, detailed discussions were held with potential
implementing agencies to familiarize them with aspects of the project.
Nonetheless, the project will still require close IDA supervision during the
first three years.  The first mission would be a project launch workshop,
which would provide training for staff in project entities in IDA project
cycle, procurement and disbursement procedures, accounting and auditing
requirements, reporting requirements, and special account management.
Subsequent missions would consist of an appropriate mix of skills for
effective supervision of the various project components.   The Government
would organize a Mid-Term Review in consultation with IDA to evaluate
progress and status of project implementation and, if necessary, redesign the
project to ensure that the original objectives are achieved. The Ministry
of Finance would be responsible for coordinating supervision missions and the
Apex Unit would be responsible for providing information required by the
missions.    Other  project  beneficiaries  would  be  required  to  supply
information and reports as specified by the Apex Unit.  For all missions,



- 43 -
the Government would be responsible for providing counterpart staff to
accompany the missions.   A detailed  supervision plan  is contained  in
Annex XVIII. The Supervision arrangements, including the Mid-Term Review,
were confirmed during negotiations.
Project Benefits and Risks
3.48     Benefits.  The proposed IDA credit would fill a major gap in term
financing for enterprises in the productive sectors in Malawi.  Using the
existing financial intermediaries, including the coimercial banks and NBFIs,
the project would help strengthen institutional capabilities to promote,
appraise and supervise viable projects. By increasing competition and the
range of financial instruments, the project would enhance efficiency in term
resource  mobilization  and  allocation.    Bros:ader  access  to  credit  for
investment under the investment finance and the industrial sites components
will encourage real sector supply response and contribute significantly to
the Government's growth and adjustment strategy. Investment promotion would
help diversify Malawi's base for foreign exchange earnings by encouraging
investments  in  export  oriented  activities.    The  majority  of  initial
investments are likely to be in projects with low capital intensity that
favor labor intensive operations to help alleviate the unemployment problem.
Support for SMEs, including women entrepreneurs, is likely to generate higher
levels of employment. Three quarters of women in Malawi engage in some form
of off-farm income generating activities. Women also are heads of 28 percent
of Malawi households, and yet, they receive only a small proportion of
financial services.
3.49     Risks,,   The major risks are the possibility  of an economic
slowdown, (whi_h would discourage new investment), the conservative attitude
of banks and large enterprises, and Government slackening on reforms. Malawi
has in the past achieved high rates of growth, primarily through a steady
expansion in agriculture.   The Government's  continued emphasis  on the
development of agriculture as the mainstay of the economy, recent adjustment
measures, and its strong commitment to implementing the reform program
minimize the risk of economic slowdown.   Recent industrial and financial
sector reforms have introduced competition in both sectors, which is changing
conservative attitudes and making banks and enterprises more responsive to
market forces.  Another risk is tl-3 possibility of low investor response.
This risk is mitigated by the favorable investment climate which is being
created by the Government and the high competitiveness of Malawi as a
production site with low labor costs.
IV. AGREEMENTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS
4.01     During negotiations, agreements and understandings were reached with
the Borrower on the following:
(i)    Financial Sector
-      The RBM onlending rates, as well as the interest rates
charged by the PFIs on the subloans would be market based and



-  44  -
reflect the average cost of term borrowings in the financial
syotem, including the implicit foreign exchange risk (paras.
3.33 - 3.35);
-      Covernment's letter of commitment to continuing the program
of financial sector reforms (para. 3.12);
(ii)   Industrial Sector
-      an  Investment  Policy   Statement,  that  clearly  outlines
policies regarding taxation, exports, exchange controls,
investment  protection,  industrial  land,  and  investment
promotion (para. 1.50);
-      A policy statement for the development of industrial sites
and supporting infrastructure (para 3.08);
(iii)  General
Procedures and arrangements for: (a) managing project
implementation; (b) procurement and disbursement; (c)
environmental assessment; and (d) the institutional capacity
development component; (paras. 3.36 - 3.38);
(iv)   terms of reference for establishment of the Export Credit
Guarantee Facility (para. 3.26);
(v)    details of the future development program for MDC (para.
3.30);
(vi)   accounting and audit requiretents (paras 3.45 and 3.46); and
(vii)  supervision arrangements, including the Mid-Term Review (para
3.47).
4.02     Conditions of Effectiveness
-      adequate  staffing of the Apex unit  in the RBM for the
management of the credit funds (para. 3.36); and
-      appointment of a committee to be chaired by the Principal
Secretary to Economic Planning and Development to oversee
implementation of actions needed to set up the Investment
Promotion Agency (para. 3.27).
4.03     Conditions of Disbursement
-      Signing of a satisfactory participation agreement between the
RBM and the PFI would be a condition of disbursement for each
PF1 (para. 3.15);



-  4 ')  -
establishment of the Investment Promotioni Agency, withi terms
of reference and adequate staffing leveli;, and operating
policies and procedures acceptable to 1DA is a condition of
disburserment    for    invesitment    protma)tlon    activities
(para. 3.27); and
withdrawals in an amount not exceeding the equivalent of
SDR 700,000 may be made itn respect of the investment finance
component for paymenits made to cover expenditures incurred
not more than 90 days before the signing of the Credit (para.
3.42).
4.04     Dated Covenants
development of an action plan for the restructuring of the
POSB by September 30, 1991 (para. 3.25); and
establishment of a steering committee by September 30, 1991
to coordinate the development of capital markets in Malawi
(para 1.38).
4.05     Subject  to  the  above  assurances  and  conditions,  the  project
constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of US$32 million equivalent
to the Republic of Malawi.



- 4#6 -
MALAWI
FINANCIAL SECTOR AND ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ANNEXES



i 1AWI - QRS  iESTIC PRODUCT BY Di TRh    OIGIN D CIN  t.NT  PRICES
(mIlIeI s K.OG.b)
1973   1974   1975   1970   1977   1979   1979   1966   1901   1102   190   1964   1965   1956   1967   i6    1s5
Agriculture              139.7  168.7 14.2  226.7  286.6  294.9  811.9  536.3  36.8  420.8 487.7  681.8  835.1  72e.8  9el 4 11b8.4 1466.5
SaonIseal-             121.2  144.9 18.1  192.1  2i8.4  246.8  269.3  272.7  290.9  827.8  876.5  487.8  499.6  588.7  762.2 889.2 1651.7
Larg"cale               18.6   28.8   81.1   84.7   47.4  46.6   62.6  62.6   59.5  93.6  111.2  124.6  138.1  162.1  199 1 269.3  364 7
Manufacturing a/          88.r  61.1   64.9   ".6   65.8   64.6   9 .6  104.3  127.1  189.6  166.2  191.2  214.0  246.  384 2 396.a   537 o
Construction              18t  21.9  27.1   28.0   W.0  46.2  48.6   61.8  49.8  54.7   55.6   60.2  70.7   72.6  8s,3  136.6  184.5
Elc. A Water              6.2    6.1    6.0    9.6   11.8  12.5  18.5  16.6  19.)  22.1  26.6  3a.6 ,           U.S  40.2  63.1   8 6   89 4
Distribution              46.8  06.0   78.6   n.6   u.   164.M   167.6 16.2  185.6  145.6  165.9  197.6  286.1  286.6  US. 1 38a.e  487.4
Transport & Co  .         23.2  86.1   8.1   40.2   46.0  44.7   52.0  61.7  67.0   71.6   77.4  89.2  182.1  120.6  139.5  179.6  229.2
Fin & Comm Services       18.9  26.6  24.6  29.6 n7.7  48.3   61.9  61.8  56.2  74.3  64.6  97.2  118.4  125.1  162.8  201.S  262.7
Ownership of Dwellings    12.7  16.8  18.1  21.9  26.9  29.6  82.3  88.2  44.1  49.7   50.9  65.7   74.5  66.1 1 66   138.4  174.6
Gover mnt Services        31.9   42.1   46.6  58.9  68.9  67.2   74.1   92.5  115.6  18..2  166.1  193.1  223.1  274.4  382.1 657.7  619.8
Priv.Soc.&Comm Services   16.9   19.3  26.9  2n.4   25.9  20.9  26.6  84.8   42.8  46.1  66.6  86.9  72.6  67.7 169.1  142.7  176 7
Unall. Fin. Charge        -4.8   -7.6   -9.0   -7.2  -12.6  -12.1  -20.9  -24.6  -26.7  -29.9  -14.2  -39.1  -45.6  -60.6  -61.6  -81.8 -106.8
GDP (Factor Coat)        3US.   488.3  494.7  573.8  66.9  742.5  766.   961.6 11.3 1129.5 1297.4 1529.3 1714.9 1976.8 24806. 8231.1 4041.8
GDP (Market Prices)      864.0  461.5  5M9.7  012.0  723.0  6.? 64.5 16IN.1 1105.1 1245.6 14?7.6 1707.4 1958.9 2194.7 2148.3 3868s. 4467.3
Indirect 7Txes            23.2   26.2  86.6  83.7   44.1   58.2   77.7  16.5  167.0  116.1  189.6  176.1  216.6  216.4  268.3  349.4  41U.5
CDP Deflator (N)  b/      62.6   73.9   9.0   U-8.   99.6  165.6  102.6  116.0  1".1  161.6  168.2  189.6  20. 2  232.0  'P4.1 as8.5  4360.
GDP Deflator (MP) (X)     62.6  73.9   N5.6   6.6   99.2  1U.0  16U.4  119.6  189.4  152.9  170.0  191.7  299.6 238  2    , a 4  Mo.04  434 8
NOTES:
*/ including x;ning and quarrying.
b/  based on GDP at factor cost in current prices divided by 0P at facto; cost iIX constet 1976 priccs.
1917 numbers ore am sries.
1969 numbers are estimates.
SOURCE
* 1914-1909  DP (UP) and Indirect Tax data - Government Estimates (Jdnvery 1996 printout based on EP & D, RIM. Treasury end NSO data).
* Industry Values in current prices based on MWICDPCON (constant value) *eex_sbet. Coeveralon d_o vning oDP deflator indicatod.
* 1978-1915  DATA - iALAW1 - EP. and D. Printout, May 1969.                                                                                                >
a 1973-1977 DATA - MALAWI - CEx, Oct. 1966.                                                                                                            Jr
C.



WAAUA   -    SS CAESTIC PllCT EY DSUSMUIAL .Q DI I4 197 I   uCOsuT PRICES
1973  1974  167   1976  1977  1976   1907   IM    1w1   1662  196U   1964   1965  196   1667  166   MM
Agriculture           223.6 226.2  26.8  217.6  286.6 294.9  JM4.1  264.2  266.9 277.0  239.9  366.5  *.   mg 69 917.3 328.1  327.1
Sellscal.           194.0  190.0  191.4  216.2  239.0 246.3  252.0 281.2  210.6 215.9 223.8 246.9 242.6  244.5  247.2 246.0 244.6
Largecale            29.6  32.2  U.9  39.4  47.6  46.6  51.3   t.0  50..3  61.7  86.1  6.6  60.6  65.4  76.1  75.1  62.5
Menutacturing a/       61.9  09.1  01.1  ?S.2  * .5  64.6   U.   "6.6  n2.6  91.7  96.2  166.7  1N.6  166.1  167.1 116.6  124.9
Constrection           26.9  29.6   U.9  32.?   3.1  46.2  42.7  43.5  35.9    6.1 33.   29.0  37.2  31.2  31.1  36.7  42.9
Electricity A Water     0.4   *.2  16.0  10.0  11.8  12.5  13.2  14.2  14.3  14.6  16.6  10.1  16.4  17.3  18.7  19.1  20.0
Distributieo           74.1  67.9  91.9  96.7  69.6  1M.4 1S.1  110.4  90.3  96.2  96.6  104.1  114.0  199.9  197.4 166.0  166.7
Transpert A Cem.       $7.2  46.7  43.9  45.7  40.1  44.7  61.5  62.3  46.5  47.2  46.6  47.6  49.5  61.6  49.1  56.1  63.3
Fin.oCem. Services    22.2  27.7  31.6   U..  87.6  43.3  56.6  52.8  47.9  49.9  t6.4  51.2   55.0  53.6  53.2  56.2  61.1
buership of DmslliIgl  26.4  21.4  22.6  24.9  27.6  29.3  31.5  32.4  81.9  32.6   5.6  34.6  136.3  36.6  37.3  36.6  46.6
Gev. Services          51.1  56.9  56.2  01.2  64.0  67.2  72.3  73.4   33.3  67.9  92.2  161.7  166.2  116.0  134.5  141.6  144.1
Priv.Sec.Cem.Serv    26.4  26.6  26.1  26.6  26.0  26.9  26.1  20.1   6.6  31.7  33.6  34.7  3.2  37.7  86.4  39.6  41.1
UoalI Fin. Chargs    -7.7  -16.1  -11.3  -4.2  -12.8  -12.1  -26.4  -21.0  -19.3  -19.7  -26.8 -26.6  -?2.2  -21.7  -21.7  -22.6  -24.6
GP (Factor Cost)      546.5  50.1 616.5  657.9  66.6 742.5  767.2  764.3  724.3  746.1  771.2 66.6  641.4 63.6  673.0 961.2  946.0
Ct (Merket Prices)   562.6  624.3  062.3  695.3  729.t7 6M.7  SU.7  39.6  794.0 014.6  U64.1  696.S  911.1  029.1  949.5  977.1 16265.
lndirect Taxes         37.1  66.2  43.8  33.3  44.2  56.2  66.5  74.7  76.6  09.7  73.9 U4.9  69.7  78.6  76.5  75.9  65. 
NOTES:
.a/ icluds mining sMd wurrying.
1967 date ts Ne Serle.
1909 Is so estimate.
SOLCS:
* 1964-1969 DATA - Gevermnt estimates (Jesury 1990 EP A D. 111. Tresary Iad 69 dat).
* 197t-19U3 DATA -  ALAI - E.P. & D. Printout My 10M.
s 1973-1977 DATA - MALAWI - CEII Oct. 1965.
ft2;
0o 



- 49 _
ANNEX II
Page 1 of I
MIALAWI
DISTRIBUTION OF FINANCIAL SECTOR ASSETS, (1985 TO 1988)
(percent)
1985        1986         1987        1988
Reserve Bank of Malawi                   34.1         33.7        36.8        40.5
Commercial Banks                         42.5         42.9        41.0        36.5
National Bank of Malawi                30.2         31.5        28.4        24.2
Commercial Bank of Malawi              12.3         11.4        12.6        12.3
Leasing Companies                         0.4          0.7          1.3        1.8
New Building Society                      2.4          2.3         2.4         2.9
Development Finance Institutions          7.4          6.8         6.1         5.6
Post Office Savings Bank                  5.4          5.2         5.5         6.1
Insurance Industry                        7.8          8.4         7.0         6.7
TOTAL                                   100.0        100.0       100.01      100.0
Source:  Reserve Bank of Malawi, Annual Report and World Bank estimates.



- J0
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
MALAWI - PRINCIPAL INTEREST RATES
1985      1986      1987      1988      1989
OFFICIAL RATES
Bank Rate                          11.00    11.00    14.00    11.00    11.00
Treasury Bills (91 days)           12.75    12.75    15.75    15.75    15.75
Local Registered Stock             11.00    11.00    14.00    11.00
COMMERCIAL BANKS
A. Deposit Rates
Savings Deposits                   10.75    10.75    13.75    10.75    10.75
30 day call                        11.50    11.50    14.50       8.75      8.75
3  months fixed                    12.75    12.75    15.75    12.75    12.75
6  months fixed                    13.25    13.25    16.25    13.00    13.00
12 months fixed                    14.25    14.25    17.25    13.25    13.25
B. Lending Rates
Minimum Lending Rate               16.00    16.00                16.00    18.00
Maximum Lending Rate               19.00    19.00               23.00    23.00
NEW BUILDING SOCIETY
A. Deposit Rates
Savings                            10.75    10.75    13.75    10.75    10.75
Investments                        12.25    12.75    15.75    12.25    12.75
6 - 12 months fixed                12.25    13.25    16.25    13.25    13.25
13- 24 months fixed                12.75    14.25    17.25    13.75    13.75
B. Lending Rates
Owner Occ'd (< K20,000)            13.75    13.75    13.75    12.75
Owner Occ'd (> K20,000)            13.75               13.75    13.25
Rental                             16.25              19.00    16.75
Commercial                         17.75    17.75               20.00    17.75
POST OFFICE SAVINGS BANK
Savings                            10.75    10.75    13.75    10.75
Source: Reserve Bank of Malavi, Annual Report.



COMMERCIAL BANKS: ADVANCES BY MAIN SECTORS
(K aillion)
Agriculture                Electricity               Transport
Forestry                    Water  Cons              & Comm-
and             Manufac-  and   truc                unica-          Commun-
Fishing   Mining  turing    Gas   tion    Trade    tion   Finance  ity   Personal   TOTAL
1980     92.7       0.4     6.7      0.0    1.5      16.5    4.0      35.5       9.7     5.2      172.2
1981     94.3       0.3     6.1      0.0    1.3      20.4    6.8      39.7      13.9     7.0      189.8
1982    115.1       0.2     7.8      0.1    1.3      19.7    3.4      45.8      22.4     6.3      222.1
1983    138.5       0.3    10.8      0.1    0.9      30.7    8.5      55.2      15.8     3.3      264.1
1984    113.5       -      19.8      0.5    0.4      29.8    1.1      18.4       7.5    13.3      204.3
1985    11'.9       0.3     9.2      0.0    1.0      69.0    1.7       2.3      12.8     6.6      22n.8
1986    133.5       0.0    15.3      0.0    1.4      41.5    0.7       6.5      25.2     8.1      232.4
1937    109.0       0.0    24.7      0.0    1.7      34.7    0.6       2.3      23.6     6.6      203.4
1988     92.3       0.6    48.6      0.2    1.4      71.8    0.9      20.3      24.9     9.3      270.3
Source:   Reserve Bank of Malawi, Annual Report.
.,,



N&LAVI
CREDIT EXTENIDD BY NON-BANK FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
(K million)
N.B.S.      P.O.S.B.        INDEBANK        INSURANCE
Mercantile          ---------------  --------  --------------- ---------------              Annual
Credit   L.F.C.  Public  Private   Public   Public  Private Public  Private  TOTAL  Growth
1980      2.0      0.0       6.9     1.1      22.4        2.7    14.7    10.3    11.1       71.1
1981      2.3      0.0       7.2     1.1      25.5        2.7    17.5      8.5    10.5       75.3     5.9
1982      2.2      0.0       8.3     3.9      31.0        2.6    20.4    10.8    14.2       93.3    23.9
1983      2.3      0.0      10.6     4.0      48.2        4.0    20.2    14.9    19.2    123.4    32.3
1984      2.7      0.0      12.5     2.0      55.3        5.8    18.2    23.7    22.9    143.0    15.9
1985      3.8      0.0      12.3     7.7      64.0        4.0    22.4    36.6    26.2    177.0    23.7
1986      3.7      0.0      18.6     8.6      72.8        2.1    25.6    45.2    32.8    209.4    18.3
1987      4.7    15.9       21.9    13.1      92.1        1.8    26.0    42.7    35.0    253.3    21.0
1988      3.7    31.6       25.9    24.6    112.7         2.1    27.6    57.8    42.6    328.5    29.7
1989      5.9    63.2       33.3    25.3    112.7         2.1    27.9    71.7    50.4    392.6    19.5
NOTEt  The 1989 figure for L.F.C. is based on estimated growth rate.
The 1988 figure for P.O.S.B. is based on trend.  The 1989 figure is estimated to be the same as
1988.
The 1989 data for INDEBANK is based on June 1989 figures.
The 1989 data for the insurance companies is based on extrapolated trends.
tD rn2
X
ci



- 53 -
ANNEX VI
Pago 1 of 8
MALAWI
FINANCIAL SECTOR AND ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COMMERCIAL BANKS IN MALAWI
I. Goneral Bankina Practices in Halawi
1.          Thia section reviews general banking practices common to both of the
commercial banks in Malawi.
2.          Lendint Practices of the commercial banks focus on cash flow lending
for short term working capital, supported by adequate collateral. Mortgages and
debenturos on land and equipment are routinely obtainable and are legally
enforceable in non-traditional areas.  The banks take a general lien on all
assets owned by the borrower, regardless of the size of the loan.  Leasing
circumvents the problem, since title to the additional equipment is retained by
the financing institution, and thus is not touched by the debenture. Neither
of the two banks at the moment engages in lease finance.
3.          Credit controls have resulted in an informal credit allocation
system, with agricultural lending to existing clients given top priority, since
agriculture is the mainstay of the economy and existing clients are known risks.
At the end of the line comes credit to private industry and commerce, particular-
ly to newer or smaller companies that do not have established credit facilities.
Because of the banks' conservative lending practices, they are reputed to be
unlikely to considor a credit request from a new client, especially SMEs. This
tends to discourage such requests and consequently new projects that would
require short term bank financing.
4.          IutercouD-an  Transactions.   The Press group conducts an active
internal treasury management function that minimizes bank intermediation between
subeidiaries. This is a normal and proper activity between related companies
where credit risk is not an issue. While there has been some question that this
might in effect causo Press to be functioning as a bank, in practice inter-
company traaaactions between unrelated companies are common in developed
financial markets, although tho rights of the various parties aro generally
clarified through appropriato mechanisms, such as commercial paper, that may
include back-up lines from banks.
5.          Branch Networks.  Each bank operates a network of branches in each
of the significant comeorcial centers.   In addition, each operates mobile
branches that make regular stops in rural areas to provide basic banking services
to remote locations. However, the deposits generated by these mobile branches
have declined substantially and forced the banks to rationalize their mobile unit



ihNNEX VI
Pago 2 of 8
operations to minimize costs.  While a "second tier" institution such as POSB
may be beneficial in lower income areas not adequately serviced by the commercial
banks, such an institution would have to run on a minimum overhead basis in order
to serve the small average account size.
6.           Services.  Both banks offer the normal checking, call, savings and
time accounts. The Malawi payment systems appear effective and well suited to
the environment.   Superior payment services generally follow competition for
deposits, which is limited in the present environment with excess liquidity.
The fact that the payment system appears quite efficient is a reflection on the
professionalism  of  the  two  commercial  banks.    Both  banks  provide  full
international documentary and payment service.   Pricing is identicaland is
sanctioned by RBM. The services are of high quality by international standards.
The two banks generally have a set client base, but where they compete, they do
so on the basis of service quality, not price.
7.          Staffinz.  Management has full hire and fire authority.  However,
staff are often given a second chance where in developed countries such a second
chance would not be given. Staff management appears pragmatic and constructive.
8.          Financial TransparencE.  The financial statement of the two banks
were reviewed and were found to be generally informative and relatively complete.
The RBM receives more complete information as part of the regulatory supervision
process, but some higher level of detail than is currently required in the
published financial statements is needed to bring Malawi up to international
standards in this respect.
1I. National Bank of Malawi
9.          History.  The NBM grew out of a fusion of the operations of Standard
Bank (now Standard Chartered Bank, "SCB") and Barclays Bank ("BB") in 1971, in
which the Press group took over 48 percent and the Government owned ADMARC 32
percent, leaving SCB and BB with 10 percent each. Operating management of the
institution rotated every two years between SCB and BB, resulting in repetitive
switches in operating policies and hiring procedures that resulted in unclear
management direction. In 1985 BB sold its share of the bank to SCB, which took
over executive management through a management agreement.
10.         The  clarification  of  responsibility  established  continuity  in
management and allowed the introduction of up-to-date management and control
techniques and expanded training of local staff.   An annual budgeting and
planning process has been introduced, weekly MIS provides management with the
institution's financial condition, and all but two small branches have automated
accounting systems. Credit policies and procedures have been formalized and loan
approval documentation has been updated to conform to those of Standard Chartered
Bank (International) Plc. The format is as complete and operational, and guides
the branch loan officer through a careful financial and business analysis of
each client.   Lending products have been revised and a new updated credit
policies and procedures manual has been prepared.



ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 8
11.         Through the  1980s NBM added to provisions and wrote down non-
recoverable loans, thus improving the bank's asset quality.   By about 1986
sufficient provisions and write-offs had been taken to ensure that the asset
values shown on the balance sheet fairly reflected reality, and loan recoveries
continued, exceeding new provisions in 1988.   From a somewhat disorganized,
technically insolvent institution in the -arly 1980s NBM has evolved into a well
managed, sound financial institution.
12.         Risk Assets.  All loans are reviewed annually and require approval
at progressively higher management levels as the risk increases, with a lower
limit established for unsecured credit than for secured credit. The rates charged
on loans vary from prime minus 2 for the top company to prime plus 4 for the
least credit worthy.  A series of asset quality control mechanisms have been
introduced, including:
(a) Tight control over disbursements and recoveries on crop finance, which
forms the bulk of NBM's business.   A target of 40 percent of the
expected inputs should be financed by the borrower, although actual
percentage participation varies depending on the financial condition
and track record of the borrower. All disbursements are to a single
loan account for that particular crop, while proceeds of the sale of
the crop are paid directly to the bank and credited to a separate
receipts account, with the borrower charged interest only on the net
difference between the two. This ensures that full audit trails are
maintained of all disbursements and receipts relating to that crop,
eliminating the possibility of redrawing and misusing the proceeds of
sales.
(b) Each loan is reclassified at each disbursement into one of nine risk
categories ranging from least to highest risk. Management thus has
a continuously updating view of the institution's risk profile.
(c) A special recoveries unit staffed by two of the top credit staff
monitors and follows up on all troubled credits, thus ensuring that
the branch managers keep on top of their loan portfolios.
(d) NBh has built up the capacity to take over the management of troubled
plantations and rebuild them. This has been a defensive measure since
while repossession and sale are technically feasible, in reality this
is not usually possible.
13.         Small scale lending is generally avoided as uneconomical, although
no cost analysis was found that indicated the break-even size at differing
interest rates and loss rates, as would be necessary to determine an empirical
rather than judgmental cut off point. However, a brochure that provides guidance
to small scale borrowers on how to prepare their loan application and what to



56 -
ANNEX VI
Page 4 of 8
expect from the bank. A portion of agricultural lending to landholders is passed
down to tenant farmers in the form of fertilizer and other support provided by
the landholder, so in effect an amount that is not quatitified of bank financing
is reaching small scale tenant farmers.
14.         Lease financing is being contemplated by N8M. At the moment there
is no obvious advantage to the bank since the tax benefit of depreciation accrues
to the user of the equipment. As such there is no practical difference to the
lender between collateralized lending and leasing if NBM already has a debenture
on all the borrower's assets.
15.         Earnings.  The income figures reflect core operating earnings, and
thus exclude non-operating income (net of the 50 percent income tax) from the
revaluation of assets in 1986 and 1988. Reported earnings including revalua-
tion less appropriate taxes gave 1.88 in 1986 and 1.25 in 1988. NBM's loan loss
provisions rose in 1986 as the underlying earnings capacity improved, and rose
further in 1987, but declined in 1988 as core earnings declined. This downward
trend was reversed in 1989.
16.         Intermediation Costs  reflect the efficiency of the bank.  General
operating expenses had been relatively stable through 1987 as a percentage of
total assets (at 0.70 percent in 1986 and 1987), but jumped significantly in 1988
to 0.87 percent of total assets. Depreciation remained stable, provisions are
somewhat inversely related to profitability.  Profit (including the effect of
asset revaluations) showed significant fluctuation, while taxes showed an upward
trend and represented the largest single component of the cost of interme-
diation.
17.         Liquidity.   Adequate  liquidity  is essential to ensure that a
financial institution can meet depositor demands for funds.  However, excess
liquidity can mean under investment of depositor funds. NBM recently had excess
liquidity as its lending activities have failed to keep pace with the growth in
deposits. This is a natural consequence of ceilings on lending and a lack of
sound lending opportunities.
18.         Capital  Adeauacv.    Shareholder  capital  and  retained  earnings
(including capital reserves) form the cushion that protects the institution
against insolvency in case of adversity.  Given NBh's heavy concentration of
agriculture, the quality of its asset base is more volatile than that of a normal
commercial bank, so capital adequacy should be somewhat higher than the 8 percent
of risk weighted assets suggested by the Basle Committee at the BIS.  NBM's
capital position appears quite sound compared to all risk assets, reaching 10.2
percent if revaluation reserves are excluded (as recommended by the Basle
Committee) or 15.8 percent if these are included. Clearly, this relatively high
capitalization with respect to all risk assets is due to the high liquidity.
Any significant reduction in the current high liquidity could thus cause
potential capital adequacy problems.
19.         Staffin .  NBM hires from two streams.  The general practice is to
hire some two high dozen school leavers per year, and put them through a series
of rotational job and training assignments. Some half dozen university graduates



- 57 -
ANNEX VI
Page 5 of 8
per year were hired from 1984 to 1988 (none in 1989) and put through an ac-
celerated training course aimed at management responsibility. NBM provides in-
house course* based on training needs identified by supervisors.  Staff are
encouraged to take the London Chrartered Institute of Banking exams, and the bank
provides partial financial support to those that take this additional training,
and provides full reimbursement of all costs plus a bonus and grade promotion
to those who pass. Staff are evaluated at least annually, and the staff member
has an opportunity to comment in writing on the review. Performance incentives
are limited to special grade promotions. This explains the relatively high level
of responsibility given to each staff member and the high morale and low turn-
over observed.   Attrition of supervisors and above prior to retirement is
essentially zero, and losses of clerical staff are generally limited to staff
who had entered bank service with unrealistic expectations.
20.         Accountina.  NBM has simple but effective accounting and quality
control systems. These systems form the primary accounting records of the bank,
produce appropriate strip listings for audit trail and reconciliation purposes,
maintain full accounting sub-ledgers through to the branch general ledgers, and
provide branch managers with a daily trial balances and exception reports.
Backup is housed both on-site and off-site. Consolidation into the bank wide
position is performed manually each week based on printed branch statements.
III.  Commercial Bank of Malawi
21.         History.  The Commercial Bank of Malawi was formed in 1970 to be an
exclusively Malawi bank.  Initial staffing was based on whatever local staff
could be poached from other institutions and supplemented by a fairly heavy
international staff. Bank of America NT&SA acquired a 30 percent participation
in 1976 and provided technical support until this shareholding was relinquished
in 1983.
22.         In the late 1970s early 1980. CBM expanded rapidly into tobacco
finance as Rhodesia/Zimbabwe withdrew from the market. CBM has reduced its bad
loan portfoLao and has fully reserved or written off all problem loans. CBM has
grown into a professionally staffed and managed institution, and is now some one
half the size of NBM. Expatriate staff are down to six from 16 five years ago.
CBM has been able to pay a thirteenth month's salary as bonus to staff for the
last three years, and in early 1988 resumed term lending, primarily for
agricultural equipment.
23.         Budastina and Plannlna.  An annual budget process establishes the
capital, the income and expense budgets fo- CBM. Branch managers submit their
own proposals - these are discussed with senior management to develop rational
budgets for each branch and for the bank. Each branch is a profit center, with
surplus branches paid for funds transferred to the system, while deficit branches
(more loans than deposits) are charged for funds provided.   Performance is
reviewed against budget every two months to coincide with board meetings, and
projections are revised as necessary to reflect changes in the economic
environment - twice in 1988 but not yet necessary in 1989.



ANNEX VI
Pago 6 of 8
24.          Risk Assets.   The  instruction sheet  to the client  is straight
forward, the forms appear rational and the data content brief but to the point.
Loan applications are submitted by the client to the branch, which does a write
up  on  the  client,  using  a pre-printed  check  list.    Credit  authority  is
centralized except for small limits delegated to the two regional managers. All
other credits require approval of the management, which has approval authority
up to KI million, with amounts above that subject to approval by the Credit
Standing Committee of the Board, which has unlimited approval authority. Turn
around time is claimed to be very rapid since the management and board committee
are accessible and able to make quick decisions.
25.          Interest rates range from prime (currently 18 percent) for sound
corporate clients to 5 perrent over prime in unusual, high risk situations.
Rates on agricultural lending were held below other rates until relatively
recently. CBM assesses the risk premium primarily on the credit worthiness of
the borrower.
26           Loan classification procedures are based on a three level system
based on normal, 50 percent reserve and 100 percent reserve.   Each loan is
reviewed at least annually and specific reserves adjusted to reflect changes in
the quality of the credit. A small general reserve is also established as part
of equity reserves, reflecting the normal expectation that a certain percentage
of any new  loans will become troubled.   The current policy on loan loss
provisions appears conservative, and the balance sheet of CBM should reflect the
value of the loan portfolio,  providing that the bank's own guidelines are
followed.  CBM has taken very substantial loan loss provisions, and management
is comfortable with the adequacy of provisions.
27.          Earnlins.  The underlying earnings performance of CBM has been highly
erratic, which shows the annualized return on assets adjusted to remove (net of
taxes) the substantial revaluation of assets in 1986 and 1987. The average loan
rate declined from 23.9 percent in 1986 to 21.2 percent in 1987 (as opposed to
NBM's rise fro-m 21.2 percent to 29.7 percent, respectively).
33.          Intermediation Costs. The cost of intermediation by CBM is substan-
tially higher than that of NBM.  CBM's operating expenses as a percentage of
total assets have ranged from 4.5 times those of NBM to 9.6 times.
34.          MW9i4.dfty. CBM's loan to deposit ratio has been erratic, with what
may be an avers. .ension of credit in 1986 followed by an excessive contraction
in 1987. Howevar, comparison with NBM's figures indicate that to some extent
this is attributable to changes in the general market environment - particularly
cut-backs in lending due to the lack of foreign exchange for imports.
35.          Capita?. Adequacv.  CBM's nominal capital may appear adequate against
all risk assets at .2.4 percent in 1988, close to half this is attributable to
revaluation reserves.



ANNEX VI
Page 7 of 8
36.         Staffing.  CBM seeks the best staff it can find, anid coapentsates thiem
well.   The minimum standard has been   a high school diploma this is being
upgraded to candidates with several years university or with certificates in
accountitng.  An accelerated programn for university graduatesi is also in place,
including intensive two year in-house training followed by six to nine mnonlthls
each  in  supervisory  rotatiorn,  advances  department  and  the  international
department, followed by overseas studies for a masters degree. Twenty staff are
in this program. Reviews are performed throughout the year and summarized at
the end of each year.   Results are discussed with the staff, and an appeal
process exists if the staff member is not in agreement with his supervisor's
review. The primary financial motivator is up to two salary increments above
grade for top performers. The management has full hire and fire authority, but
uses the latter sparingly. Disciplinary options include probation and demotion.
Staff turnover is minimal.
37.         Accounting.   CBM has been using a centralized accounting system.
The branches were tied in on line, with look-up and data capture at the branch
level and centralized branch and general ledger maintenance.   Branch level
processing involves during-the-day memo posting and evening batch updating. The
waste system has essentially disappeared, since both sides of the transaction
are  entered  into  the  accounting  system  together.    Sorting  of  the paper
documentation is done manually after the fact, confirmed against the strip
reports genera,e( by the system. This has proven more flexible than the older
process of separating debit and credits, then entering them independently and
sorting them at the time of entry, with the computer performing a reconciliation
and re-merging of the independently processed debits and credits. Statements
are produced on a client determined cycle.



- h) -
ANNEX VI
Page 8 of 8
Table 6.1:
MALAWI - COMMERCIAL BANK - ASSETS, (1980 TO 1989)
(K million)
Claims    Claims on Govt.
on the  Govt.                           Claims on
Foreign Securi-   T             Stat  Reserve Other  Pvt.  Other  TOTAL
Sector  ties    Bills  TOTAL  Bodies Banks  Banks Sector Assets ASSETS
1980       5.6   13.6    11.7  25.3   24.0   17.6    4.8  182.4   18.8  278.6
1981       6.5   13.6    11.1  24.7   22.7   30.9    8.5  191.8   16.8  301.8
1982       9.0   13.6    11.1  24.7   29.1   34.4   17.4  219.0   21.7  355.6
1983      13.7   15.6    12.4  27.9   24.4   33.4   21.5  254.7   22.6  398.2
1984       9.5   74.3    12.4  86.7   32.0   91.5   17.9  228.4   22.6  488.6
1985      13.0   72.2    25.7  97.9   46.8   96.5   13.1  212.6   24.0  503.9
1986      10.4   71.8    25.7  97.5   41.1  189.7   24.6  236.3   29.8  629.4
1987       6.3   67.8    26.2  94.0   53.4  303.8   43.3  205.4   27.1  733.2
1988      14.8   67.1    26.2  93.3   23.8  288.2   54.9  262.3   39.0  776.2
1989      22.2   60.5    22.4  82.9   30.5  225.6   50.1  383.1   58.5  852.9
Source:  Reserve Bank of Malawi, Annual Report.
Table 6.2:
MALAWI - COMMERCIAL BANK - LIABILITIES, (1980 TO 1989)
(K million)
Due to  Non              Savings                      Other          TOTAL
Other   Resi-              and            Capital    Liabili-        LIABI-
Banks   dents   Demand  Time  TOTAL    Accounts    ties              LITIES
1980      48.0   10.3       61.4   94.3  166.0         25.8      38.7        278.6
1981      22.4    9.3       73.9  126.7  209.9         24.9      44.7        301.8
1982      24.2   11.5       80.4  145.6  237.5         32.4      61.4        355.6
1983      40.8    9.7       71.6  165.0  246.3         36.2      73.9        398.2
1984      44.8    9.2       87.7  234.0  330.9         41.3      71.5        488.6
1985      60.4   11.5       97.5  217.5  326.5         46.4      70.6        503.9
1986      91.0   13.7    124.1  268.0  405.8           58.7      74.0        629.4
1987      52.6   18.4    156.5  370.4  545.3           62.4      72.9        733.2
1988      29.5   22.1    230.1  376.6  628.8           67.4      50.6        776.2
1989      35.4   25.5    230.9  409.0  665.4           99.3      52.8        852.9
Source:  Reserve Bank of Halawi, Annual Report.



- bl -                ljmEX VII
Pago I of 11
MALAWI
FINANCIAL SECTOR AND ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LEASING AND FINANCE COMPANY OF MALAWI LIMITED
1.       Introduction.  The Leasing and Finance Company of Malawi (LFC) was
incorporated on April 29, 1986 as a limited liability company and registered
under the Banking Act in August 1986. Shareholders are the Investment and
Development Bank of Malawi Ltd (INDEBANK) 36 percent, Finance Corporation of
Malawi Limited (FINCOM) -15 percent, Old Mutual (RSA) Insurance company -10
percent, UDC (Zimbabwe) Limited -10 percent, International Finance Corporati-
on (IFC) 10 percent, DEG 10 percent, and Economic Development for Equatorial
and Southern Africa (Edesa SA) 9 percent.
2.       Structure and StafinQm. LFC's Board of Directors is made up of nine
members representing its shareholders.  The foreign shareholders -- UDC,
EDESA, DEG and IFC-- have local alternates, as this facilitates faster
decision making. UDC provides management under a management agreement which
gives LFC access to trained international staff,  including the General
Manager (GM). The General Manager manages the day-to-day operations and has
the flexibility to offer competitive compensation for Malawi staff.  As a
result, the calibre of the staff and morale appears high, with a low
turnover. A Manager serves as deputy to the GM. Between September 1986 and
mid-1990 staff numbers had grown from 4 to 15. The company is currently too
small to operate on the basis of separate departments and a formalized
organization chart.   Nonetheless,  there is an appraisal section (three
development officers), a customer accounts officer, and an accountant (plus
two assistant accountants).   Two thirds of the officers have university
degrees, and most of the other staff have high school diplomas.  LFC also
employs five support staff.
Lendina Policies. Term. and Procedures
3.        Services.  The LFC offers leasing facilities based on recovering
100 percent of the acquisition cost of the leased assets during the lease
term, with the lessee responsible for all maintenance, insurance and taxes
or duties on equipment.  Proper vehicle maintenance is assured through a
service contract wl., a local garage, part of which includes notification to
LFC if a scheduled maintenance is missed so that LFC can follow up with the
lessee to ensure that this key function is performed.   In addition, LFC
offers sale and lease back arrangements and residual value leases, although
this does not account for a large proportion of the lease portfolio.  In
1990, LFC expanded operations by opening a one-man branch office in Lilongwe.
LFC also plans to start providing factoring services at some future date.



ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 11
4.       Special Leasiny Arrangements.    The  majority  of  LFC's  leasing
activities are undertaKen on a commercial basis with leases priced to reflect
risk.   The  only  exception  to this  is the provision  of  6ub-leases  to
transporters, which aMount to approximately K12 million and are treated as
off-balance sheet items.   Under this arrangement, concessional bilateral
funding amoounting to KIO million, has been made available to the Government
from the UK, German and United States governments to finance transporters
through LFC to help alleviate the transport ituation. The interest rate on
these leases has been set at 14 percent by the Government, with LFC receiving
a commission on these deals.
S.       Interest Rates.  Interest rates at LFC are fully market determined
and are now positive in real terms. As a new institution in a traditionally
conservative financial enviroament, LFC has to offer higher interest ratE3
than the commercial banks to attract depositors.  In addition, LFC has to
match its deposit book with the longer term leasing arrangements that it
intended to undertake. Prior to the ffay 1990, deposit interest rates ranged
from 14 to 19.25 percent at LFC compared to 12 to 13.25 percent at commercial
banks. In addition, LFC has entered into long term deposit arrangements with
depositors, offering terms of up to ten years.
6.       As  a  consequence  of  high  deposit  rates,  lending  rates  were
correspondingly high.   When the LFC commenced operations,  leasing rates
ranged from 26 to 29 percent at a time when commercial bank lending ranged
between 18 and 23 percent.   In 1988 lending rates declined to 24 to 27
percent  without  any  corresponding  drop  in  deposit  rates.    With  the
liberalization of interest rates in Malawi in May 1990, combined with a
reduction in excess liquidity and a generally healthier economy the rates
were further reduced to 22 to 25 percent.
7.       Interest rate policy at LFC is largely determined by the need to
mobilize deposits in a tight monetary environment.   LFC currently has a
pipeline of K1O million in committed leases which cannot be funded for lack
of resources. Although a bond issue is currently being considered, it is not
going to be adequate and LFC will be obliged to seek other sources of
funding.  Another determinant of interest rate policy is the t"jective of
maintaining an average of spread of about 6.5 percent between the average
cost of funds and the average lending rate.
8.       Lease Maturities range from several months to over five years.  LFC
attempts to match the maturity of their deposit base with that of their
leasing portfolio. At thG end of May 1990 the average maturity of deposits
was 16.7 months while the average maturity of the leasing portfolio was 16.17
months. The policy of LFC is to ensure that these two average maturities do
not differ by more than two months. Access to longer term funding, such as
the proposed bond issue and offshore borrowing, will assist in increasing the
average maturity profile of their liabilities and risk assets.
9.       Procedures.    LFC  has  clearly  defined  project  identification,
appraisal and monitoring procedures. A large number of e.quiries for leasing
finance are received, with an estimated 60 percent reaching a more formalized
stage of making a written application. Applications are followed by e site
visit rnd a request fsr financial information, 1:ncluding a flow of funds



ANNEX VII
Page 3 of 11
statement,  and verification  of collateral security.   Limited access to
funding has forced LFC to be selective in choosing its clientele, which is
an important explanation for their high success rate and low arrearage.
Credit approval comes from management with the local manager having a credit
approval limit of up to K200,000 and the general manager having the authority
for approvals above this level. Although there is no centralized information
data base on clients' repayment records, LFC is establishing its own
recording system and all leases are graded either "A", "B", or "C" during the
term of the lease, depending on the underlying risk.
10.      Appraisal procedures are outlined in a manual and the appraisal
process is comprehensive and is extensively used by the development officers.
Monitoring of lease arrangements is equally exhaustive.   The staff in the
customer accounts department record debtors on a "debtors record program" and
weekly runs are undertaken.   Any lease arrangement which is overdue is
followed up by telephone calls and letters.   The appraisal process and
monitoring system has contributed to LFC maintenance of a sound lease
portfolio, with no experience of losses.
11.      Leasina Portfolio.  As shown in Table 7.1, total leasing activity
has increased dramatically over the four years of LFC's operation. Between
August 1987 and 1988 it increased by almost 150 percent (or 185 percent if
Government sub-leasing activity is taken into account).  This rapid growth
slowed somewhat but still remained at 95 percent in the 12 months to August
1989. The changing financial environment, especially the recent decline in
excess liquidity, has meant that new leasing activity has been even more
constrained by the availability of funding.   Hence in the six months to
February 1990, total leasing activity only increased by 52 percent on an
annualized basis. Management admits that grcwth over the past four years has
been heady and is looking forward to slower and more sustainable development
in future.



- 64 -
ANNEX VII
Page 4 of 11
Table 7.1: MALAWI - Total Leasing ActLvity and its Growth
(K '000 and percent)
Aug        Aug         Aug         Feb
1987       1988       1989         1990
Lease Debtors           8,301      20,492       39,987     50,348
Growth                             146.92        95.12      51.82  I/
Government Sub-leases       0       3,212       11,079     11,079
TOTAL                   8,301      23,704      51,066      61,427
Growth                             185.62       115.42      40.62 #I
*l This is clculated aos the annualized rate of growth based on now loasing
activity in the first six months of the year.
12.      Sectoral Distribution.  Over the decade, the Gov-rnoent's priority
was developing Malawi's transport infrastructure as rapidly as possible to
minimize the adverse impact on tho closure of the railway lines through
Mozambique.  As a result, LFC entered into a large number of leases f or
trucks and transport equipment in addition to sub-leases which it made on an
agency basis for the Government. This has led to a large exposure in the
transport sector.  By August 1989, over 55 percent of its total leasing
portfolio was extended to haulage contractors, j/ while bus oporators
account'd for a further 8 percent. With the reopening of the Vacala line,
LPC plans to reduce its exposure In the transport sector. As of May 1990,
the exposure has been reduceod to under 50 percent.
13.      The most Important growth sector has been manufacturing which
accounted for 10 percent of all leases at the end of 1989. This represents
a steady incroase from 4 percent of the portfolio In 1987 and 8 percent in
1988. LIC plans to switch further into this sector.
14.      Exposure to estate agriculture has rumained relatively low because
the soector has traditionally been adequately supplied with finance from the
cooercial banking system. However, LFC is considering the possibility of
entering this sector.
j, This exposure includes approximately [10 million of 12 percent of total
leasing, which is Government sub-leases with no rilk to the LFC.



- 65 -               ANNEX VII
Pago 5 of 11
15.      Size Distribution of Leases.  Total leasing business as at the end
of May 1990, was 524 lease agreements with a value of K79.3 million.  The
average lease value was K150,000, although after the deduction of unearned
interest income, this was closer to K120,000. Half of the lease agreements,
were under R80,000 and two thirds were under K150,000.   In terms of value
of lending, half of all leasing, by kwacha value, is accounted for by leasing
agreements of less than K350,000. Hence, the distribution of lease values
is highly skewed.  The largest lease entered into by LFC was around K1.5
million to the Portland Cement factory.
16.      Arrears and Overdue. To date, LFC has experienced very few problems
with arrears, except for seasonal fluctuations of the transport activity that
coincides with the tobacco season. During the off-season, from November to
March, many transporters typically fall behind in their repayment
obligations. Interest is charged on all overdue amounts thereby providing
a strong incentive to repay. However, the seaosonal problems are recognized
and LFC is prepared to reschedule payments over this period. By the end of
August 1989, total arrears accounted for less than 1 percent of the total
value of lease contracts.  The substantially higher arrears figure, of 2
percent of total leases, for May 1990 reflects the seasonal pattern discussed
above. By mid-June this figure had already fallen by around K0.5 million and
further reductions were expected as seasonal effects subside.   Although
several repossessions have occurred (four over the past four years), LFC did
not make a loss because the lease was either taken over by another lessee or
the repossessed item was re-sold at a profit. The existing lease portfolio
is considered sound.
17.      Rescheduling of Debts. Any re-scheduling that does occur is mainly
related to seasonal effects in the transport sector and only involves
rescheduling for several months. Debts have tended to be rescheduled at the
request of the lessee when it is recognized that seasonal factors are likely
to disrupt scheduled repayments.
18.      Provisions.  Despite a good record on arrears, LFC has a clear
policy on provisions for bad and doubtful dobts. Two percent of total lease
contracts (minus Government sub-leases) is the aim of LFC, and at the
beginning of each year a monthly allocation to provisions is estimated based
upon anticipated total leases by year end.   At the end of the year an
adjustment is made as a consequence of a higher/lower than anticipated value
of leasing contracts entered into during the year. Given LFC'o past record,
this policy is conservative and ensures sufficient coverage for a possible
increase In bad and doubtful debts.
Sources of fundine
19.      Deposits.  The major source of funding for LFC has been deposits
from the private sc'tor. Despite a rapid increase of over 20 percent from
1987 to 1990, the deposits have not been sufficient to cover the higher and
equally rapid growth in leasing activity. In 1990 a substantial proportion
of deposits wero for periods greater than 365 days (just over 50 percent).
An important contribution of LFC to the financial system in Malawi has been
its emphasis on the mobilization of long term deposits. The average size of



ANNEX VII
Page 6 of 11
deposit  is almost  K90,000  indicating  the  larger  type of depositor who
operates with LFC.  Half of depositors funds have a maturity of less than
twelve months.  On the other hand, 14.4 percent of deposits are for periods
exceeding 36 months with some deposits as long as n:.ne years.
20.      The average return on each maturity classification starts at an
average of 14.29 percent on deposits of up to 6 month  and progresses to
19.75 percent on 96 to 108 month deposits. On the total deposit portfolio,
the average return is 16.43 percent which compares favorably with returns on
commercial bank deposits.
21.      Shareholders Loans. LFC's funding is also derived from shareholder
loans. By August 1989, shareholder loans amounted to K3.3 million, just over
7 percent of total liabilities, and included: Old Mutual - an unsecured 3-
year loan of K500,000 (fully repaid) and another unsecured 10-year loan of
K500,000; (ii) INDEBANK - an unsecured 5-year loan of K750,000; (iii) DEG -
an unsecured loan of DM780,000 at an interest rate of 8.5 percent; (iv) Edesa
- an unsecured loan of US$500,000 at an interest rate of 8.5 percent; (v) FC
- a Swiss franc, 7-year loan of HF1,136,000 at an interest rate of 8.25
percent.
22.      Bond Issue. As demand for lease finance has outstripped the supply
of domestic savings, LFC has been forced to investigate alternative methods
of raising financial resources. Currently, a K10 million bond issue is under
consideration.   This would be the second bond issue in Malawi (INDEBANK
issued a bond in July 1990) and represents an important development for the
financial market.
23.      Comiutina and Information Systemt.   LFC is well served by good
computing systems that include accounting packages, a debtors program, a
depositors program, some simple financial analysis packages and word
processing. All professional staff are computer literate. The 13 staff have
5 IBM personal computers for their use that are net-worked for generalized
access to information by all users.
24.      Management is constantly upgrading its computing facilities and has
placed an order for a computer to expand capacity to computerize information
on new activities. Deposit and credit information is backed up on a regular
weekly basis and updated tapes are kept in a safety deposit box. Reporting
systems within LFC are regular and timely and are adequate for its current
level of activity.
Financial Performance
25.      After three years of operation, by August 1989 the profitability of
LFC was 10 times higher than the original best case scenario forecast at the
time of incorporation. The financial performance of LFC has vastly exceeded
even the beet estimates of its sponsors.
26.      Table 7.3 gives the profit and loss statements while Table 7.4
provides the balance sheet of LFC over years 1987-89. After an eight fold



- 67 -
ANNEX VII
Pago 7 of 11
increase in net profit between 1987 and 1988, it doubled in 1989 and, based
on resUlts of the first half of 1990, it is on target to double again.
Despite the paper intensive nature of dealing with numerous small leases,
operating efficiency, as measured by the cost of intermediation, declined
from d start-up level in 1987 of 7.8 percent of average total assets to 3.14
percent in 1988 and 3.48 percent in 1989.  The rise in 1989 is attributable
to increased Government lease expenses due to additional sub-leasing
contracts entered into in the second half of 1988.   A large part of the
reduction in intermediation costs has came from a reduction in the percentage
contribution of staff costs to average total assets, which fell from 6.16
percent to 1.89 percent over this period.    LFC is second only to the NBM
amongst Malawi financial institutions in terms of operating efficiency.
27.      High profitability has also been reflected in a high return on
average assets (ROA) ratio. This has steadily improved from 2.4 percent in
1987 to 4.2 percent in 1988 and 4.6 percent in 1989. Assuming a continuation
of the same growth in the second half of 1989/90 as occurred in the first
half of the year, LFC will have an even higher ROAs of 5.3 percent in the
current FY.
28.      High profitability has allowed LFC to pay a high dividend as well
as accumulate high levels of reserves. Dividends were 16.7 tambala and 33.3
tambala on a one Kwaha share in 1988 and 1989, respectively. A 1990 dividend
of 18.9 tambala is estimated based on a payout ratio of one third of profits
after tax (the payout policy adopted by the Board). The reduction in payout
in 1989 is a consequence of a substantial increase in share capital during
1989/90 from K1.5 million to K4.5 million.
Capital Structure
29.      At the end of August 1989, LFC had capital and reserves of K3.4
million, comprised of K1.5 million in capital and K1.9 million in revenue
reserve.   This changed at the end of August 1990 because of a new share
subscription during the year, bringing capital to K4.5 million in capital and
K2.8 million in revenue reserve for a total capital and reserves of K7.3
million.   Hence, capital and reserves, as a percentage of total assets
increased from 7.4 to 10.5 percent.
Conc lusio2
30.      The concerns of LFC are its ability to continue providing adequate
appraisal and monitoring procedures for a rapidly growing lending portfolio
and the likely effect of any competition. With regard to rapid growth, this
position is partly being addressed by a slow down in the overall growth of
the LFC.   Management is aware of the risk of rapid growth which could
outstrip the capacity of the institution and is now planning for a
substantially  lower  growth  pattern.    In  addition,  the  staff  and  the
information systems in LFC appear to have adjusted to the rapid growth of the
recent past.  There was no indication of an inability to handle the current



- 68 -
ANNEX VII
Page 8 of I1
portfolio, rather there was a concern that the recent reductions in liquidity
and availability of funding had actually reduced the work load to what they
could tolerably manage.
31.      The effects of competition are less easy to gauge.  There are a
number of institutions considering entering the lease finance market,
including the two co= orcial banks.   Despite these possible sources of
competition, LFC is in a position to cope in a more competitive environment.
32.      Overall, the LFC appears to be in very sound financial condition and
well placed to utilize the line of credit as set out under the proposed
project in as prudent a manner.



- 69 -                 AIIEX VII
Page 9 of 11
Table 7.2
KALAWI   LEASING AND FINANCE COMPANY Of MALAWI
LEASING BUSINESS BY SECTOR
(percent)
1987           1988           1989
FARMING                          6.80           5.37           5.64
Comercial Vehicles              (2.86)         (2.41)         (1.44)
Tractor&                        (2.74)         (0.83)         (2.99)
Trailers                        (0.02)         (0.32)         (0.10)
Trucks                          (1.18)         (1.59)         (0.81)
Implements & Machinery          (0.00)         (0.14)         (0.29)
Irrigation Equipment            (0.00)         (0.08)         (0.01)
MANUFACTURING                    4.22           7.92          10.08
Commercial Vehicles             (1.08)         (6.56)         (6.10)
Industrial Machinery            (0.95)         (0.24)         (2.56)
Computers                       (2.19)         (0.98)         (0.32)
Office Machinery/Equipment    (0.00)           (0.14)         (0.07)
Trucks                          (0.00)         (0.00)         (1.03)
RAULAGE CONTRACTORS             47.42          52.86          55.65
Commcrcial Vohiclls             (0.00)         (4.23)         (1.61)
Trucks                          (6.52)         (6.61)        (23.81)
Mechanical Tractors            (11.22)        (13.57)         (4.62)
Mechanical Tractors   Trailer421.35)          (24.27)        (23.80)
Trailers                        (8.33)         (4.18)         (1.81)
BUS OPERATORS                    4.16          15.31           8.06
Buses                           (2.92)        (14.99)         (7.74)
Trucks                          (1.24)         (0.32)         (0.07)
Commercial Vehicles             (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.25)
OTHERS                          37.40          18.54          20.57
Comarcial Vehicles             (16.20)        (10.51)         (1.81)
Trucks                          (0.43)         (1.61)         (0.48)
Office Machinery                (0.27)         (0.86)         (0.19)
Computers                       (6.08)         (2.07)         (0.54)
Industrial Machinery            (0.01)         (0.98)         (0.32)
Aircraft                        (0.00)         (0.46)         (0.35)
Earthmoving Equipment           (1.50)         (0.16)         (0.37)
Others                         (12.91)         (1.89)        (16.51)
TOTAL



- 70 -                    iANNEX VII
Page 10 of 11
Table 7.3 KALAWI - LEASING AND FINANCE COMPANY OF MALAWI
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
(K '000)
August      August    August         Feb
1987     1988       1989        1990
INCOME
Income from Leasing Finance  1,536         4,336       7,648      6,066
Income from Investments           76         372         569         437
Income from Government Leases                 16         400         419
Profit on Sale of Fixed Assets                             5         105
TOTAL INCOME                   1,612       4,724       8,623       7,027
EXPENSES
Interest on Deposits             515       2,119      3,865       3,328
Expenses on Shareholder's Loans344           350         457          18
Interest on Bank Overdraft        17           4           6          11
Auditor's Remuneration            13          16          22          11
Depreciation of Fixed Assets    28            43          89          60
Management Fee                    56          86          56          35
Other Administrative Expenses  360           433         689         459
Preliminary Expenses                          48          48          24
TOTAL EXPENSES                 1,334       3,199       5,232       3,946
Profit before Taxation an
Extraordinary Item           279        ;,624     3,391       3,946
Taxation                         139          820      1,714       1,510
Profit after Taxation            139          804      1,677       1,570
Extraordinary Item                39            0          0           0
Profit after Taxation and        100          804      1,677       1,570
Extraordinary Item
Retained Profit at beginning                  100        250       1,118
of year
Available for Appropriation    100            905      1,927       2,688
Transfer to Contingency Reserve               405        359         408
Proposed Dividend                             250        450       1,500
RETAINED PROFIT AT END OF YEAR100             250      1,118         780



- 71 -               ANNEX VII
Page 11 of 11
Table 7.4
LEASING AND FINANCE COMPANY OF MALAWL
BALANCE SHEET SUMMARY
(K thousand)
August     August      August     Feb
1987       1988        1989      1990
Local Registered Stock           300       2,200      2,600           0
Bank Balances and Cash         2,700         490      2,469           0
Liquid Assets                  3,000       2,690      5,069       6,595
Debtors and Prepayments        8,301      20,492     39,987      51,348
Preliminary Expenses              192        144          96         72
FIXED ASSETS                      186        277         828      1,059
TOTAL ASSETS                  11,679      23,603     45,980      59,075
LIABILITIES & SHAREHOLDERS FUNDS
Amounts Due to Banks               0         117         355      2,652
Amounts Due to Depositors      7,625      17,620     33,215      42,779
Government of Malawi Leases        0       3,267         532          0
Other Liabilities                383         288         995      2,948
Taxation                          64         823       1,531      1,984
Deferred Taxation                 66          72         104          0
Proposed Dividend                  0         250         450        166
8,138     22,437      37,183     50,528
SHAREHOLDER'S LOANS            1,941       2,223      5,416         875
CAPITAL AND RESERVES
Share Capital                  1,500       1,500       1,500      4,200
Revenue Reserves                  100        655       1,882      3,402
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER'S FUNDS      1,600       2,155      3,382       7,602
TOTAL LIABILITIES &
SHAREHOLDER'S FUNDS       11,679      26,815     45,980      59,005



- 72 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 1 of 16
MALAWI
FINANCIAL SECTOR AND ZNTERPRISE DEMELOPMENT PROJECT
INVESTMENT AND DEVELOPMENT BANK Or KALAWI LIMITED
1..         Backaround.  The Investment and Development Bank of Malawi Limited
(INDEBANK) was established in 1972 as a limited liability company, with the
objective of fostering economic development through the investment and financing
of productive enterprises in Malawi. Its shareholding is predominantly foreign,
although the largest shareholder is ADMARC (owned 100 percent by Goverrment).
The four remaining shareholders are the Commonwealth Development Corporation
(CDC) of U.K., PMO of the Netherlands, DEG of Germany, and the International
Finance Corporation (IFC). They joiritly account for 76.4 percent of its paid-
in capital, which amounted to K6.8 million at the end of June 1990.
2.          Structure and Staff nm.  INDEBANK's Board of Directors, consists of
nine members (two members representing each of the four major shareholders --
ADMARC, CDC, FHO and DEG, and one member representing IFC), reviews the
investment policy principles and operating procedures annually, and plays a very
active role in all decisions relating to investments. INDEBANK is managed by
a General Manager, assisted by four controllers, each of whom heads a department.
INDEBANK's current staff numbers 28, equally divided between professional and
support staff.
3.          The staff of the Project Investigations Department have developed
expertise in all aspects of project analysis and appraisal. Consequently, the
project appraisal reports submitted to the Board are generally of an acceptable
quality. Once an investment is approved by the Board, the project's file is
turned over to the Projects Monitoring Department, whose function is to monitor
the projects, first during the implementation phase and, later on, during the
repayment phase.  There is a need to improve INDEBANK's projects monitoring
function, which would require an increase in the number of professionals and the
formulation of a uniform reporting system to be required from all borrowers.
At present, projects are monitored during the implementation phase primarily with
respect to IWDIBAN's disbursements. No information is available on the actual
costs of projects, as compared to the original estimates. Information on the
extent and causes of cost overruns and delays in implementation would be of great
usefulness to the project analysis group in the design of new projects.
Furthermore, given that the monitoring team consists of only two officers and
that priority is given to 'problem' projects, "performing" projects are not



- 73 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 2 of 16
currently inspected as frequently as thoy ought to be.  Regular inspection of
all projects, coupled with regula.- reporting by all borrowers on their projects,
would enable INDEBANK's management to identify problems earlier than at present,
which should in principle lead to earlier resolution of these problems and an
improvement in the performance of borrowers.
4.          Investment Policies.  The Board of Directors has clearly defined
INDEBANK's  general  investment policies and set various  investment  limits.
INDEBANK is expected to make investments only in commercially viable enterprises,
preferably in limited liability companies formed under the Companies Act. Except
in special circumstances, INDEBANK does not participate in refinancing
operations.  It requires minimum contribution from the sponsors of a project,
normally equivalent to at least 25 percent of the cost of the project. It also
requires the availability of competent and continuous management for the project,
since it will not participate in any project that would require it to assume
primary management responsibility. In addition, INDEBANK's guidelines call for
a diversification of its investments, both geographically and by sector.
5.          In addition to the above general investment policies, the Board has
set a number of conditions, as well as single and aggregate limits, relating to
INDEBANK's lending activities, equity participation or investments in general.
INDEBANK's loans are normally in the form of secured debentures, and are not
advanced until the borrowers' capital has been fully paid-up. Loans are normally
for a period of not less than five years, but not exceeding the economic life
of the assets on which they are secured.  INDEBANK does not normally provide
short-term finance and will not compete with comuercial banks in providing
seasonal working capital. The rate of interest on loans and its modality varies
with the type of loan and its duration, the project risks involved, the security
offered and the source of funding. INDEBANK does not normally charge any fees
for investigation and other specialist expenses connected with a project, but
charges a commitment fee of 0.1 percent per month on the undisbursed balances
of loans.  INDEBANK will not normally accept to finance le  than 10 percent of
a project's medium- and long-term borrowing requirements nor provide more than
50 percent of a new project's borrowing requirements (or 60 percent in the case
of project expansions). At any rate, the Board has set a limit to INDEBANK's
total exposure (i.e., loans plus equity participation) in any one project,
equivalent to 25 percent of its shareholders' funds.
6.          Sound investment principles require that limits be set for INDEBANK's
individual and aggregate equity investments. INDEBANK will not normally acquire
less than 10 percent or more than 35 percent of the shares of any company. The
amount of any singlo equity participation should not normally exceed 10 percent
of INDEBANK's shareholders' funds, or one-third the amount of its loan to the
company, in cases where INDEBANK is also financing the project.  INDEBANK's
aggregate investments in shares, which will be made out of its Kwacha resources,
should not exceed 120 percent of its shareholders' funds. Since INDEBANK would
like to play the rolo of a venture capital company, it should, in principle, try
to liquidate its equity participation once tho projoct has matured. However,
given tho nature of the agreements that it has so far had with the majority
shareholders, whereby the latter benefit from a pre-emption of sale clause,



'UNME  VXlI
Pago 3 of 16
1N1)FhANK hiiui) oui l1f( LI0 1h  J L itoioid to  t(juicdato any of ito equity participation
at. f iii. rtiroki  pLi (El  1UlwIebVb lre(i(lcg thle number of projoct S In which it can
be invrolved.
1.          It tvJI t:iu.h, Ai L to-nd of 1984, INDEBANK' o anaetot totalled K?26.6
nli)' loll, u/,l -li KIt .9 willolo  (( ,xlotiaied of livoutfurito (not of provisions),
and .4.l / r!1 LonL Qf 1o).d ingeo of L'.ov'iarnont. securities. With shareholders' funds
amouLnti i11  to IAIC)Llt IQ  inillion, equivalent to 18.7 percent of total assets,
INDEBANKL us, audqu otly c pil ' 2 ed.  li(Kever, its main source of funding
coniosted of predioualantlly io  J.gn borroving in the form of income notes or lines
of credit.  At i1ho. end of t.94, total borrowing amounted to K20.2 million,
implying a dubt/ciquity ratio of 4.06. During the five-year period 1984-1989,
INDEBANK's aosers increaeud by 59.2 percnent to reach the level of K42.4 million
at year-end, whilh i(!' ituvaetments more than dcubled to approach the level of
K38.0 million.  Cw.           .v-  the ratio of net investments to total assets
increased from 70.9 percent to 89.6 percent. This was made possible partly by
the decrease in INDEBANM's holdings of government securities (from 17.7 percent
of total assets at the ent of 1984 to 0.7 percent at the end of 1989) and partly
to the increase in the amount of borrowing. However, since the relative increase
of shareholders' funds (74.8 percent) outstripped that of borrowing (44.9
percent), INDEBANK's capital adequacy ratio increased to 20.5 percent and its
debt/equity ratio decreased to 3.37.
8.          During the first half of 1990, INDEBANK's assets increased further
to K47.2 million, an increase of 19 percent over the level reached a year
earlier. Net investments increased significantly to approach the level of K 41.3
million, 5.8 percent above budget forecast and 39.7 percent above the level
reached a year earlier. This increased level of investment was financed partly
by an increase in the external lines of credit and partly by a decrease in
INDEBANK's balances with banks. Consequently, INDEBANK's liquidity was reduced
significantly during the past year.
9.          Sectoral Breakdown of Investments Portfolio.  At the end of 1984,
INDEBANK's outstanding investments portfolio consisted of 54 loans valued at K16
million (or an average loan size of K297,000) and 19 equity investments of [4.6
million (or an average equity investment of K 243,000 equivalent). By the end
of 1989, the outstanding loan portfolio consisted of 6' loans totalling [32.2
million (or an average loan size of K 527,000), while the equity portfolio
consisted of 23 participation totalling K10 million (or an average equity
investment of K 435,000).
10.         An increasing shAre of INDEBANK's investments are in the agro-
industrial and industrial sectors.  Whereas at the end of 1984, the gross
investments in these two sectors accounted for 57 percent of INDEBANK's total
investments, by the end of 1989 the proportion had increased to 70.3 percent.
INDEBANK's investments in the co-riercial, serrices and financial sectors also
increased substantially from the equivalent of 2.1 percent of total investments
at the end of 1984 to 9.6 percent by the end of 1989. This substantial increase
is the result of INDEBANK's involvement in one of its subsidiaries (Indefund
Limited) and in LFC.



ANNEX VIII
Page 4 of 16
11.         Qu-lity of Investments Portfolio.  INDFBANK's mtrsvegement has adopted
a prudent  poJlcy of making provisions  for  investmPrit  losses.   Loan  loss
provisions are usually made when the net asset backitng for a loan Pnd security
are inadequate and the profitability of the borrower Is uncertain, or when the
financial position of the borrower has deteriorated to such an extent that
management feels that the borrower will have severe difficulties in meeting
future loan obligations.   Arrears in loan repayments exceeding one year are
automatically provided for.   Furthermore, when loans are rescheduled,  thus
capitalizing loan interest, provisions might be taken with respect to the
capitalized loan interest.   As far as equity participation are concerned,
provisions are taken when the net asset value is less than the cost of the
investment and when future profitability of the company is uncertain.
12.         In view of the conservative making provisions policy, provisions for
investment losses totalled K1.8 million at the end of 1984, equivalent to 8.5
percent of gross investments.  By tILe end of ;989, provisions for investment
losses approached the level of K4.2 million, equivalent to 9.9 percent of gross
investments. The deterioration in the quality of Ut1DEBANK's investments was the
result of the deterioration in the quality of its equity portfolio, with the
ratio of provisions to total equity participation .ncreasing from 6.5 percent
to 15.8 percent during the interval.  The quality of the lo&a portfolio has been
improving, with the ratio of loan loss provisions to gross outstanding loans
decreasing from '.1 percent at the end of 1984 to 8 percent et the end of 1989.
13.         The investments in the property development and the agro-industry
sectors are the best performing ones, judged by the low ratios of provisions to
gross investments. On the oti:er hand, the risks Involved in inivesting in the
agricultural sector will continue to be rather high. Thio implies that the share
of the agrictultural sector in total investments is expected to decrease further
over time.
14.         The data do not reflect fully INDEBANK's provisions for investment
losses, since certain reschedul,o loan interest repaymerts in arrears are taken
out of the investments portfolio and included under trade debtors.   If the
provisions taken against these accounts, which have steadily increased from
K116,000 by the end of 1984 to K356,000 by the end of June 1990, are added to
the provisions taken for investment losses, then the ratio of total provisions
to outstanding investments (including trade debtors) would !,eve been 8.9 percent
at the end of 1984, 10.1 percent At the end of 1989, ar; 9.9 percent by the end
of June 1990.
15.         INDEBANK's loan collection record hb.s been quite gooc. Overdue loan
payments do not usually oxceed three months. At the end of l984, arrears in
excess of three months stood at K113,00O, equivalent to only 0.7 percent of the
outstanding loan portfolio at the time. During the pamt four years, four loans
(three industrial and one touriam) required rescheduling for reasons thet varied
from the Kwacha devaluation to operational difficultico and unexpectod delays
in production start-up. Although arrears increased to 11,534,000 at the end of
June 1990, the ratio in excess of three months decresa.d to 17.7 pereent. During
the period January 1986-June 1990, loan collections 4cro oquAl to 96.5 percent



- 76 -
AMNNC VIII
Pago 5 of 16
of repayments, a clear indication of the absence of serious loan repayment
problems at INDEBANK. Consequently, provisions taken for investment losses seem
to be more than adequattc to meet all potential future losses.
16.         Borrowing.  INDEBANK relies heavily on external sources of funding,
a good part of which is in foreign currency. Borrowing is in the form either
of unsecured long-term income notes issued in local currency, or of lines of
credits, most of which are provided in foreign currency.  The income notes
outstanding increased from less than K 11.3 million at the end of 1984 to K 14.8
million at the end of 1989. These carry interest rates of 8 percent to 9 percent
per annum and are held by four of INDEBANK'. five shareholders. The principal
amounts outstanding under the various lines of credit increased from the
equivalent of less than K9 million at the end of 1984 to K14.5 million at the
end of 1989, and to K18 million by the end of June 1990. Thus at the end of
June 1990, lines of credit outstanding accounted for 54.9 percent of INDEBANK's
total borrowing, as compared to 44.4 percent at the end of 1984. In addition
to the earlier lines of credit extended by the European Investment Bank (1977,
1980), CDC (1978) and IBRD (1978), INDEBANK has benefitted from additional lines
of credit from EIB (1985), CDC (1986) and IBRD (1986) and new lines of credit
from FhO (1985) and most recently IDA (1989).
17i         Financial Performance. INDEBANK'* financial performance has steadily
improved during the past five years. Profits after tex increased from K192,000
in 1985 to K1,623,000 in 1989, and to K1,360,000 during the first half of 1990,
implying an improvement in the ROE and ROA. As shown below, the return on
average shareholders' funds increased from 3.79 percent in 1985 to 19.57 percent
in 1989 and to an annualized figure of 29.02 percent in the first half of 1990,
while the ROAA increaced from 0.68 percent in 1985 to 3.99 percent in 1989 and
to an annualized figure of 6.07 percent in the first half of 1990. Because of
the devaluation of the Kwacha, the improvement in the return on equity is les
significant when measured in foreign currencies of foreign shareholders. During
the five-year period 1985-1989, INDEBANK paid dividends totalling K2.1 million,
equivalent to 51.6 percent of its net profits.



-  -
ANNEX VIII
Page 6 of 16
HALAWI - INDEBANK'S PROFITABILITY RATIOS
(in thousand kwacha)
Return on
Average                   Return      Average
Average    Share-       Profit          on        Share-
Total      holders'    After          Average    holders
Assets a/  Funds a/    Tax            Assets (2) Funds (S)
1985                   28,080       5,071         192         0.68         3.79
1986                   30,535       5,205        375          1.22         7.20
1987                   32,593       5,307        5 '9         1.60         9.80
1988                   36,278       6,632      1,369          3.77        20.64
1989                   40,651       8,293      1,623          3.99        19.57
1990 (First Half)      44,825       9,374      1,360          6.07 _/    29.02 _/
a/  Estimates refer to the arithmetic mean of two successivo end-year (or end
period) figures.
b/ Annualized ratios.
18.         INDEBANK's detailed profit and loss accounts are shown in Table 8. 1,
while Table 8.2 gives detailed balance sheets. Between 1985 and 1989, the gross
earnings margin (or operating income) increased by 123.2 percent, mainly because
of a 162.3 percent increase in dividends, but also due to a 75.6 percent increase
in the interest margin. Over the same period, operating costs increased by only
34.8 percent, other costs (consisting of net provisions for investment losses
and bad debts and dopreciation costs) actually decreased by 73.9 percent, and
other income (consisting mainly of foreign exchange profits, profits on the sale
of fixed assets, and grants) increased by more than six-folds. Consequently,
profits before tex increased from K387,000 in 1985 to K4,663,000 in 1985.
Roughly 62 percent of this increase In gross profits is explained by the increase
in the net earnings mergin, 19.5 percent by the increase in other income, and
18.5 percent by tho substantial decrease in the not provisions taken for
investment losses and bad dobts.
19.         The increase in tho intorest margin since the end of 1984 was a
result partly of the increase in the volume of lending activities and partly of
the increase in the average interest spread. As shown below, the average lending
rate (computed by dividing the interest on loans by the average gross loan
portfolio) increased from 12.4 percent in 1985 to 13.7 percent in 1989 and 14.6
perceont during the first half of 1990, while the average cost of borrowing



ANNEX VIII
Page 7 of 16
appears to have decreased from 8.6 percent in 1985 to 8.2 percent during the
first half of 1990. Consequently, the average interest spread increased from
3.8 percent in 1985 to 5.6 percent in 1989 and 6.4 percent during the first half
of 1990. The improvement in the profitability of the lending activities between
1985 and 1989 was, however, mainly due to the significant decrease in the net
loan lose provisions.  Whereas in 1985, net loan lose provisions (as distinct
from the net provisions taken on equity investments) amounted to K732,000,
equivalent to 22.4 percent of the interest incomo from loans, in 1989, the amount
of loan provisions written back actually exceeded the amount of new loan loss
provisions by K32,000.
MALAWI - INDEBANK'S AVERAGE LENDING AND BORROWING RATES */
(in percent per annum)
Average     Average         Return
on
Average    cost of      interest        average
lending    borrowing   spread           equity
Year                      rate (1)       (2)       (3)-(1)-(2)    Portfolio
1985                        12.4        8.6         3.8            25.6
1986                        13.0        8.3         4.7            31.0
1987                        13.8        8.2         5.6            21.0
1988                        14.7        8.4         6.3            36.0
1989                        13.7        8.1         5.6            38.7
1990 (First Half)           14.6        8.2         6.4            39.6
aI/ All these rates are rough estimates that refor to the income derived or cost
incurred during the year divided by the average amount of lending, borrowing
or equity investment. Averages refer to the arithmetic mean of two successive
end-year (or end period) figures.
20.         The ROE on INDEBANK's equity portfolio have been relatively good,
even after allowance is made for the substantial provisions taken. The gross
returns on the average equity portfolio increased from 25.6 porcent in 1985 to
38.7 percent in 1989, and to 39.6 percent during the first half of 1990. The
not provisions taken decreased from K248,000 in 1985 (equivalent to 20.4 percent
of the dividends received), to K220,000 in 1989 (equivalent to 6.9 percent of
the dividends). However, during the first half of 1990, the amount of additional
provisions taken on equity investments, which totalled K189,000, was equivalent
to 9.4 percent of the dividends received.



- 19 _
ANNEX VIII
Poge 8 of 16
21.         INDEBANK's equity investments were estimated, on the basis of their
net asset values, at K19.1 million at the end of 1989, as compared to a book
value of K10.0 million,  implying substantial capital gains.  However, until
INDEBANK manages to insert in its future agreements with the majority
shareholdars a performance related formula for determining the eventual sale
price of shares, it will be difficult for it to realize its capital gains
regularly, and hence play the role of a venture capital company.
22.         The elements of INDEBANK's cost of intermediation are summarized
below. In the wake of the significant increase in the level of dividends, the
ratio of the gross earnings margin to average total assets increased from 8.8
percent in 1985 to 13.6 percent in 1989, and to about 15.2 percent in the first
half of 1990. On the other hand, the ratio of operating costs to average total
assets decreased from 4.1 percent in 1985 to 3.8 percent in 1989-1990.  As a
result of the gradual decrease in the number of staff, from 40 (including 28
professionals) in 1985 to 28 at present, the ratio of staff costs to average
total assets decreased from more than 2.4 percent in 1985 to less than 2.3
percent in 1989-1990. And with the decrease in other costs (consisting mainly
of net provisions for investment losses and bad debts), the ratio of profit
before tax to average total assets increased from 1.4 percent in 1985 to an
exceptionally high 11.5 percent in 1989, and to 11 percent in the first half of
1990.



- 80 -
AMNXC VIII
Page 9 of 16
HALAWI - INDEBANK'S COST OF INTERNEDIATION
(in percent of avorag, total assets)
First
Half
1985        1989          1990
Interest income                           10.94       10.97        11.45
Interest cost                              6.64       5.76          5.61
Interest margin                            4.30        5.21         5.84
Dividends                                  4.32        7.83         8.96
Fees 0e19                                              0.54         0 35
Gross earnings matgin                      8.81       13.58        15.15
Staff costs                                2.44        2.26         2.29
Occupancy costs                            0.38        0.52         0.53
Other operating costs                      LZA 24Q0                 Q 9
Operating costs                            4.06        3.78         3.80
Net earnings margin                        4.75        9.80        11.35
Other income                               0.45        2.36         1.08
Depreciation costs                         0.33        0.23         0.23
Net provisions for losses                  3  49       046          117
Other costs                                3.82        0.69         1.40
Profit before tax                          1.38       11.47        11.03
Taxes                                      0L70        7.48         496
Profit after tax                           0.68        3.99         6.07
Future Divelrsificatt0
23.         Notwithstanding the good results achieved since 1988, INDEBANK has
been facing a number of problems relating to funding and to the emergence of
competition from the two commercial banks as well as from Its mn leasing
affiliate, LFC. Consequently, INDIDBNK has started to develop new sources of
funding, and to look into possibilities of expanding and diversifying its
activities into merchant banking.
24*         Given that the commercial banks have recently increased the volume
of their term lending activities, thereby encroaching upon INDIANKI'a traditional
territory, and given that LPC competes with INDIIUJI for medium-term equipment
finance, INDEBANK's management decided to introduce now financial products and



- 81 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 10 of 16
services such as the taking of deposits, bankers acceptances and the provision
of foreign exchange dealing services.  The Board has cautiously approved, in
principle, management's plan to diversify its operations, including management's
proposal to retain che services of an experienced merchant banker. The banker's
task would be to assess the feasibility and implications of introducing the
suggested new products, and to submit reco-endations to the Board a business
plan outlining INDEBANK's future development.
25.         INDEBANK's desire to mobilize new domestic sources of funding was
motivated by the restrictions imposed by the foreign and international lending
agencies on the uses of borrowed funds.  The process of identifying viable
developmental projects has been constrained by the fact that most lines of credit
obtained from foreign lending agencies are earmarked for specific project sectors
(i.e. mainly agricultural and agro-processing sectors). Moreover, an increasing
numbor of INDEBANK's current and prospective customers are reluctant to assume
the foreign exchange risks involved in borrowing in foreign currencies. In the
light of these difficulties, management decided to tap the domestic market and
to endeavor to obtain in the future foreign exchange funds through grants and
credits obtained by Government and onlent to it in local currency.
26.         In May 1990, management concluded that a debenture issue would be
the best instrument to achieve INDEBANK's imediate objective for raising doestic
long term finance, estimated at K 7-11 million for 1990/1991. On tho basis of
its assessment of market conditions and sentiment, a private placement of a [15
million 10-year debenture issue, carrying a rate of interest ranging from 14.3
percent to 15.5 percent per annum, was made in July 1990.  The results of
INDEBANK's first private placement were disappointing, since only three
institutions (including the NBM) subscribed to a total of [4.3 million of
unsecured debentures carrying a fixed rate of 15.5 percent per annum (as comparod
to the current prime lending rate of 15 percent in Malawi).   A number of
potential investors indicated a willingness to subscribe to future INDEBANK
issues provided the rate of interest were raised to 16.5 percent por annum and
the placement vwa public.
27.         In anticipation of future diversification, INDEBANK had applied to
RBM for a banking liconcs, which has just boon approved. The license will enable
INDEBANK to accept deposits and introduce new banking products and services.
Proiected Growth asd Profitability
28.         INDEBAN['s projections over the next 5-years (1990-1994) assume an
annual growth of 20 porcent in investments (net of provisions). The implications
of the 5-year corporate plan is that INDEIANK's profitability ratios are expected
to decline. As implied by Tables 8.3 and 8.4 below, the RO and ROL are expected
to be lower than the levels achieved in 1989 and in the first half of 1990, but
fairly high f or a DPI.   The main reasons for this decreaso  in relative
profitability aro the projected increasing reliance on domestic borrowing and
the substantial allocations for provisions for investment losses. The corporate



ANNEX VIII
Page 11 of 16
plan assumes an interest spread of 3.5 percent on domestic borrowing, which is
expected to account for roughly 52 percent of total borrowing by 1994, thereby
reducing the overall interest spread.
29.         Projected provisions for investment losses are substantial, if one
assumes that investments will be appraised as carefully as in the past, and if
the staff involved in project monitoring is strengthened.  According to the
corporate plan, provisions taken for investment losses will gradually increase
from K821,000 in 1990 to K1.843 million in 1994. As a percentaga of tho interest
margin, these annual allocations range from 29 percent to 40 percent, which is
relatively high. Consequently, barring a deterioration in the quality of the
investments portfolio, these provitions are more than adequate to meet future
portfolio losses.
30.         On the other hand, the corporate plan forecasts a gradual decrease
in the ratio of operating costs to average total assets from 3.8 percent in 1989
to less than 2.9 percent in 1994. This implies a decrease in the ratio of staff
costs to average total assets from about 2.3 percent in 1989 to just over 1.5
percent in 1994. It is unlikely that such an improvement in efficiency can be
achieved at a time when INDEBANK is about to launch new products that will
require the recruitment of skilled professional staff.
31.         Finally,  INDEBANK's performance in the years ahead will,  to a
significant extent, depend on the performance of its equity portfolio.  The
projected return on the average equity portfolio, which rangeo from 30 percent
to 35 percent, though surpassed since 1988, is not an easy target to achieve.
To obtain such returns requires the management to demonstrate an acute sense of
timing and alertness in the identification of profitable ventures.
32.         Conclusions and Recm mendations.   INDEBANK is one of the most
successful DPIs operating in Africa (Annex IX). Two of the main reasons for its
success are the quality of its management and senior staff, and the positive
active role played, in terms of financing, by its foreign shareholders.
INDEBANK's investment policies are sound arAd the Board has prudently followed
a conservative policy in provisions for its loan and equity portfolios.  The
recent decision to increase its share capital by K4 million will improve
INDEBANK's borrowing capability, and will enable it to increase the limit of its
exposure in any single proj6ct, thereby increasing the average size of its
investments.
33.         INDEIANK's current policy is to reduce its dependence on external
lines of credit denominated in foreign currencies.  Therefore, in order to
maintain its growth momentum, INDEBANK would have to scceed in tapping the
domestic sources of funding.  Its first private placement cannot be deemed a
success, since it raised less than 30 percent of the targeted amount. However,
there is evidence that INDEBANK would be able to raise more funds from domestic
sources through the issuance of medium-term debentures if it were to offer more
attractive terms.



- 83 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 12 of 16
34.         The emerging competition from the commercial banks and the LFC in
the field of term lending, requires that INDEBANK diversify its operations.
Consequently, it is recommended that the recruitment of an experienced banker,
who will act in the capacity of short-term advisor to the General Manager, be
expedited.  With the RBM's favorable response to its request for a banking
license, INDEBANK's priorities should be the formulation of the best and most
efficient strategy for deposit taking, and the choice of the new financial
products and services to be introduced. Given INDEBANK's expertise in project
evaluation, which is its major strength, it is recommended that it specializes
in the packaging and syndication of developmental pro4ecta. INDEBANK should not
have much difficulty in selling participation to the commercial banks and to the
other sources of long-term domestic funds.  Such an activity would not only
generate more fee income, but would reduce INDEBANK's dependence on dividend and
4 terest income, and raise its profitability ratios.
35.         It  is  recommended  that  the  staff  of  the  Project.  Monitoring
Department be strengthened, and a uniform reporting system be required from all
borrowers.   Furthermore,  the proper promotion of the  loan packaging  and
syndication activity would require the strengthening of the staff of the Project
Investigations Department by the addition of personnel with specialized skills.
36.         Finally, it is recommended that INDEBANK refrains from making large
equity investments before having reached agreement with the majority shareholders
on a performance related formula for determining the eventual sale price of
shares. An exit clause on this basis should be incorporated in all future equity
investments.



- 84 -                      AME  VIII
Page 13 of 16
Table 8.1
HALAWI - IVESTHMT AND DEVELOPMENT BANK 0 MALAWI LIMITED
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEARS 1985-1989
(In thousand [wacha)
1985        1986        1987       1988       1989
Income
Interest on loans              2,269        2,854     3,266      3,768      4,054
Dividends                      1,214        1,589      1,212     2,267      3,184
Fees                              54           83        164       198        220
Interest on securities
and bank balances              803          426       330        500        406
Other income  /                  125          172        117       308        95A?
Total Income                   4,465        5,124     5,109      7,041      8,821
Costs
Interest on income notes         900          900       905      1,074      1,225
Interest on lines of credit    965          1,075     1,148      1,237      1,116
Forex losses                       -            _         40                    -
Cost of Borrowing              1,865        1,975     2,093      2,311      2,341
Staff costs b/                   684          831       821        952        918
Occupancy costs                  108          120        108       113        213
Other operating costs            34           313        297       414        406
Operating Costs                1,140        1,264      1,226     1,479      1,537
Depreciation costs                93           98        106        74         92
Provisions for losses
on investmente                 845          765       756        442    (    8)
Net provisions for bad debts   135            233    (  186)        21)       196
Other Costs                    1,073        1,096        676       495        280
Total Costs                    4,078        4,335     3,995      4,285      4,158
Profit before Tax                387          789      1,114     2,756      4,663
Taxes                            195          414        594     1.387      3.040 8
Profit after Tax                 192          375       520      1,369      1,623
of which:
Dividends                     (    -)      (  300)   (  390)   ( 683)   ( 820)
Retained earnings             (  192)      (   75)   (  130)   (  686)   (  803)
a/  Including proeilts on exchange, profits on sale of fixed aststs,
grants and other income.
h/  Including staff housing.
S/  Including an amount of Kwacha 681 thousand relating to provisions
on equity holdings taken in previous years, but subsequently
disallowed by the tax authorities.
Source:  INDEBANK.



- 85 -                 ANEX VIII
Pago 14 of 16
Table 8.2
MALAWI -  IVVEST1MET AND DEVELOPIaNT SAN, O  MALAWI LIMITED
BALANCE SUITS FOR TEZ TYEAS 1985-1989
(In thoussad Kwacha as at end December)
1985      1986       1987       1988       1989
ASSETS
Cash and banks                          417        528     3,839      6,412      1,408
Government securities                 3,389      1,680     1,030        500        300
Investments (net) */                22,992    25,480    26,524    29,136    37,989
Current loan maturities         ( 2,719)  ( 6,752)  ( 4,653)  ( 5,591)  ( 6,658)
Term loans and equity           (20,273)  (18,728)  (21,871)  (23,545)  (31,331)
Fixed assets (not)                      521       497        462        379        372
Other asasot                          2,200     3,366      1,780      2,475      2,331
Trade debtor  l/                (   735)  ( 1,461)  (   662)  ( 1,068)  ( 1,186)
Other assets  /                  1.,465)    1.905)  I1.118)  ( 1.407)  (.1145)
Total Asset.                        29.51                    .63     38.9602    42.400
LIBILITIES
Borrowing                           23,133    24,670    26,363    28,451    29,303
Current maturities              ( 2,021)  ( 4,649)  ( 2,590)  ( 3,636)  ( 3,032)
Lines of credit                 ( 9,862)  ( 8,771)  (10,623)  (10,005)  (11,461)
Income notoe                    (11,250)  (11,250)  (13,150)  (14,810)  (14,810)
OTHER LIABILITIES                     1,219      1,639     1,900      2,560      4,403
Creditors 4/                    ( 1,219)  ( 1,339)  ( 1,551)  ( 1,649)   (2,276)
Taxes payable                          -)  (      -)  C   -42)  (   227)  ( 1,307)
Dividends payable               (      -)  I   300)   (  391)2(  684)  (   820L
Total Liabilities                   24,352    26,309    28,263    31,011    33,706
SHAREHOLDERS' FUNDS
Share capital                         5,000     5,000      5,000      6,833      6,833
Reserves                                167      __242       372      1 058      1 861
Total                                 5,167     5,242      S 372      7.891      8.694
Total Liabilities and
Shareholders' Funds                      59    31551    ,   3        38 902    42400
gJ Not of provisions for diminution in value of invoestunte.
a/  Not of provisions for bad debt.
/ Consisting mainly of accrued incomes end prepayment.
d/ Consisting mainly of accrued interest.
Sourcet INDEBANK.



- 86 -                 ANNEX VIII
Page 1S of 16
Table 8.3
KALAWI - INVESTMENT AND DEVELOPMENT BANK 0f MLAWI LIMITED
PROJECTED PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNTS FOR TEE YEARS 1990-1994
(In thousand kwacha)
1990      1991       1992       1993       1994
Income
Interest on loans                 5,543      6,890      8,799    10,952    14,057
Dividends                         3,030      3,424      3,869      4,410      5,027
Other income                        502        608        678        765        927
Total Income                      9,075    10,922    13,346    16,127    20,011
Costs
Interest on income notes            985        905        905        9)5        905
Interest on lines of credit       1,976      3,186      2,841      2,549      3,690
Interest on domestic borrowing  _              242      1.094      2.444      4.299
Cost of Borrowing                 2,961      4,333      4,840      5,898      8,894
Staff costs                         940      1,054      1,204      1,346      1,504
Occupancy costs                     235        263        308        357        414
Other operating costs               516        566        661        764        881
Operating Costs                   1,691      1,883      2,173      2,467      2,799
Depreciation costs                   114       148        162        197        237
Provisions for losses
on investments                    743        923      1,108      1,330      1,673
Net provisions for bad debts          78        98        LL8        14L        L70
Other Costs                         935      1,169      1,388      1,668      2,080
Total Costs                       5,587      7,385      8,401    10,033    13,773
Profit before Tax                 3,488      3,537      4,945      6,094      6,238
Taxes                             1.744      L.783      2.488      3.1S9      3.192
Profit after Taz                  1,744      1,754      2,457      2,935      3,046
of whichs
Dividends                        (1,180)   (1,300)   (1,300)   ;1,300)   (1,300)
Retained earnings                   564)   (  454)   (1,157)   (1,635)   (1,746)
Source: INDEBANK.



- 87 --                ANNEX VIII
Page 16 of 16
Table 8.4
MALAWI - INVESTMENT AND DEVELOPMENT BANK 0  HaLAWI LIHITED
PROJECTED BALANCE SHEETS FOR THlE YEAS 1990-1994
(In thousand Kwacha as at sud Decomber)
1990      1991       1992       1993       1994
Assets
Cash and banks                       2,107      1,967      2,052      2,365      2,075
Investments (net) a/                46,391    55,729    66,934    80,379    96,417
Current loan maturities         ( 6,028)  ( 7,792)  ( 9,419)  (12,712)  (16,052)
Term loans and equity           (40,363)  (47,937)  (57,515)  (67,667)  (80,365)
Fixed assets (not)                      325       477        315        388        311
Other assets bi                       5.370     4.648      5.979      6.717      7.920
Total Asset.                        54.193    62.821    74.815    89.384   106.730
Liabilities
Borrowing                           37,491    45,253    55,536    67,404    82,077
Lines of credit                 (19,681)  (20,843)  (22,126)  (24,394)  (25,287)
Income notes                    (10,810)  (10,810)  (10,810)  (10,810)  (10,810)
New Kwacha loans                 (7,000)  (13,600)  (22,600)  (32,200)  (45,980)
Other liabilities                    3,444      3,856      4,875      5,941      6,403
Creditors c/                    ( 2,035)  ( 2,485)  ( 3,022)  ( 3,687)  ( 4,425)
Taxes payable                   (   229)  (    71)  (   553)  (   954)  (   678)
Dividends payable                 1.180)  (1.300) 1  1.300)    1300)            300)
Total Liabilities                   40,935    49,109    60,411    73,345    88,480
Shareholderc' Fund.
Share capital                        10,833    10,833    10,833    10,833    10,833
Reserves                             2.425      2.879      4.036      5.671      7.417
Total                               13.258    .13.712    14,869    16.504    18.250
Total Liabilities and
Shareholdors' Funds                 54.193    62.821    75.'80    89.849   106.730
a/ Net of provisions for diminution in value of investments.
b/ Including trade debtors, prepayments and accrued income,
not of provisions for bad debts.
c/ Consisting mainly of accrued interest.
Source: INDEBANK, with minor adjustments, to correct for inconsistencies
in original projections.



- 88 -                    ANNEX IX
Pago 1 of I
HAIAWI
COMPARISON OF RATIOS OF OPERATING COSTS TO AVERAGE TOTAL ASSETS
OF BANKS IN SELECTED SUB-SAHARAN AFRICAN COUNTRIES */
Percentage
Number of     of Total
Institutions  Assets in             Ratio
Country                       Covered        Category   Year         (S)
A. Co =ercial Banks
Malawi                            2            100     1988          2.6
Lesotho                           3            100     1988          3.3
Rwanda                            3            100     1989          3.7
geria                          24             79     1986          4.2
r abwe                        ?             45 E   1989          4.4
Zambia                            3             40     1989          5.0
Ghana                             6             99     1989          5.8
Guinea                            4            100     1987          8.7
Uganda                            9            100     1989         19.4
B.  Development Finance Institutions
Rwanda                            1            100     1989          2.3
Zaire                             1            100     1989          3.2
Zambia                            1            100     1989          3.6
Malawi                            1             14     1989          3.8
Somalia                           1            100     1989(9 mths) 4.9
Botswana                          2            100     1989          7.1
Ghana                             3            100     1989          8.9
Uganda                            1             28     1989         12.4
Lesotho                           1             32     1989         14.3
C.  Merchant Banks
Zimbabwe                          4            100     1989          2.9
Nigeria                          12             64      1986         3.1
Ghana                             1            100     1989          4.7
Zambia                            1            100     1989          7.8
a/  Equivalent to the arithmetic mean of two sucessive end-year in a-i
countries except in Uganda, where the geometric mean was used instead.
Source: Compiled by the staff of Trade and Finance Division, Africa Technical
Department.



- 89 -
ANNE= S
Pago 1 of 25
MALAWI
FINANCIAL SECTOR &ND ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MALAWI DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Sumnary of Recommndations
I.  Introduction and Backiround
1.       Introduction.  The Malawi Development Corporation was established
under an Act of Parliament in 1964 and was incorporated as a statutory body
(parastatal) owned 100 percent by the Government of Malawi. MDC was set up
to be the focal institution for the Government of Malawi in the area of
economic development and to help achieve greater participation by Malawians
in business and industry.   MDC's statutes, give it a broad mandate to
undertake investmercs or develop investment ideas in all productive sectors
of the economy anl to provide services beyond the scope of conventional
development banks, and has been encouraged in this endeavour by the
Government, which recapitalized the Corporation as part of the restructuring
process.    The  objectives  of  MDC  may  be  sumarized  as:  developing
agricultural, commercial, industrial and mineral resources and the economy
of Malawi, using sound business principles. As at 31 December 1989, MDC had
an equity base of K99.4m: K20m in paid-in share capital; over R73.9m in non
distributable reserves; and K5.5m in distributable reserves.
2.       NDC's  objectives  are  set out  fully  in the Investment  Policy
Statement and Guidelines document.  To carry out these objectives, MDC is
expected to identify, promote, evaluate and structure comercially viable
projects; attract technical and comrercial know how, managerial competence
and investment capital; participate with equity and loans; support new or
existing projects; and give priority to those projects with a development
impact. In course of its evolution, MDC has modified or given more emphasis
to some aspects of these objectives, while overlooking or de-emphasizing
others.   for  example,  promotional  orientation,  which  is essential  in
encouraging investments ha boen completely neglected by MDC.
3.       In the early 1980's, MDC faced significant financial and operational
difficulties stmming from very rapid and poorly managed growth.  To deal
with tho problems, the Government undertook a major restructuring of the
'Porporation, irvolving a series of major disinvestment and equity portfolio
switches with the Press Group and a consolidation of operations. While the
restructuring exercise was completed in 1987 and resulted in a leaner and
more profitalble organization with ivestments in 18 companies (down from 32
before the divestments), the consolidation process is just ending. Even with
the downsizing, MDC with assets of K257 million at the end of 1989 still
remains one of the largest corporations in Malawi and has the potential to
become a significant contributor to the development of the economy. However,



Poge 2 oi 25
(." I'wy t  '   -  ' F' -  '   i't,:Qht,    i IlI!)U('f I, ) porat.i onf  (DYCa)  in  othler  parts
of aouthaei t Ai ;ct  (  !   NblL'tt alreadv ope3ratang in Malawi, -DC doce  not
play a p4l'1 lcitiarlI lJynl.:iuc Lolh ii, deve-lopment for a variety of reasona.
This aUalysis,        !tJ1n  ('v{u!  the post. restructuring period 1985-1989, is an
attempt at identl  i :  tIe leasons for MDC's dormant state and provides
recommendations oL.  (   ths Corporation could be made more dynamic and
contribute to the ,tJ iment of Malawi.
II- Orgauizatioa1 I eu&jawt and Staff
4.       The Board of  _ivectors.  MDC'. Board of Directors comprises seven
members, all of wlom are nominated by the Government of Malawi. Three of the
members represent the shareholder (Government of Valawi), and the other four
represent vavied interests. Until recently, there were two private sector
representatives, however, the tenure of one of them was not renewed which
leaves only one private sector voice on the Board.   Ministry and other
nominees rarely attand (perhaps one or two meetings a year), but do send
staff as alternates to represent them at Board meetings.   The lack of
attendance  at meetings  by senior board members does not  lead to any
continuity of thinking at Board level, and combined with the limited
representation on the Poard from commerce and industry, has tended to dampen
motivation by the Board to actively pursue a business oriented approach. The
Board needs to be strengthened through a stronger private sector
representation, regular attendance by Government policy makers. This would
enable the Board to play its rightful role of providing policy guidance to
management  and  of  ensuring  that  management  rune  the  Corporation
professionally and in a manner that would enable it to contribute
significantly to the economic welfare of Malawians.
5.       Bureaucracy  is often blamed for an organization's  failures to
achieve its objective. and there  may well be some minor areas in this
connection that need to be addressed.  At MDC, the relationship between
management and the Board of Directors at one and the Board and Government at
the other raises questions as to whether MDC is being effectively managed.
The powors on the Board vis-a-vis commercial decieions are not very clearly
defined, for example, in certain instancoe, although a project may have been
approved by the Board, such approval still has to be sanctioned by either the
Controller of Statutory Bodies or, at times, Economic Planning and
Development (EPD). This could, in the event of projects arising, lead to
undue delays in disbursement of funds, and could well deter other potential
clients from uven approaching MDC.  Once the composition of the Board is
strengthened, Covernment should grant is increased decision making autonomy.
6.       The organization as currently constituted consists of four main
departments which report to the General Manager, viz; Projects, Finance
(which is split into   Accounting and Monitoring); Company Secretary and
Internal Legal Co'unsellor; and Administration/Personnel Department.   In
practice, however, authority and delegation seem to be concentrated in the
General Manager and the Company Secretary. The General Manager's office and
the Company Secretary have taken on the Project Department's functions. The



ANNEX Y
'rge 3 of 25
General Manager and Company Secretary are directly handling the Cape McClear
hotel expansion project, the only major project current)y urnder review. This
sitiation, together with inactivity lhas resulted in morale problems within
the Projects Department. Whereas it would be expected that Projects takes
the lead in MDC's activities, it has keen run down and ignored.  There are
no management committees or clear channels of communication between the
General Manager and other senior members of the maniagemeTt team, such that
most business is dealt with on a case-by-case, often ad hoc, basis.  This
lack of clear channels of communication has led to low morale among staff
who, at times, are not sure of their role in the organization.   The low
morale is compounded by the lack of job descriptions, excessive numbers of
administrative staff, and comprehensive manpower development plans. This may
be a serious shortcoming if the Government plans to have MDC play a more
dynamic leadership role in the economic development of the country.  The
large numbers of administrative staff who are not fully occupied creates an
atmosphere lacking in urgency throughout the organization.
7.       Staff.  MDC's staff of 41 as of  December 31, 1989, included 13
professionals,   18  clerical  and  support   staff,   and   10  operatives.
Professional staff includes accountants, economists and engineers.  These
breakdowns suggest that MDC has a low ratio (31 percent) of professional to
other categories of staff (69 percent), which must weigh against performance
and motivation.    The  breakdown  could  also  imply  that  there  are many
underemployed personnel in support roles, perticularly in the administrative
area, where there are seven drivers and messengers.   Secretarial staff is
also thought to be too large for the few people at MDC that are likely to
need such services, especially if one takes into account the low level of
activity at MDC.
8.       Salaries  have  been  mentioned  as  a  constraint  in  obtaining
sufficiently  competent  and motivated  staff.   No comparison with  other
organizations existed at the time of the mission to be able to effectiveiy
comment on salary levels, however, it does appear that MDC salaries may be
below those of comparator institutions. Government has indicated that it is
not rigid about salary scales, but rather approves parastatal staff budgets
based on the performance of individual organizations, with management being
given the discretion to allocate the budget among its staff.   There is
evidence that this has been the case with at least two superior performing
parastatals. MDC has opted to compensate for its lower salary leovls through
a "top up" directors fees for its senior managers who sit or the boards of
directors of its subsidiaries.  The fees are paid directly to themselvos.
Whilst this may not be considered a major scnstraint, nae directorships are
not spread evenly, which raises equity and confliro of interost questions.
It must croate a divided loyalty to MDC and ir 'i suggemted that appropriate
levels  of  componsation  should  be  transperent  and  equitable.    It  is
recomended that Government review the remuneration packnge for MDC stnff and
bring it to a level where it is competiti4e within the ferket place. Once
a competitive package is granted, this should be accompeniod by the abolition
of directors fees for 'DC staff.  However, if Governmmnis Ys to be convinced
that MDC deserves better remuneration, management wov]60 bho-c to damonotrats
that it deserves to be compensatod competitively by bni.fq wu7c; pvootivo and



- 92 -                ANNEX
Pag. 4 of 25
developmental.   A schedule of the directorships by department shows the
following:
Table 9.1  MALAWI - DIRECTOR'S FEES FOR MDC STAFF
(Kwachas)
Number           Fees a/
General Manager           10               12,900
Company Secretary         13               18,000
Projects Manager           5                6,400
Chief Accountant           4                4,600
Monitoring Manager         5                6,800
Projects Deputy            3                3,500
Internal Legal Counselor  2                 1.000
a/   As of January 1, 1989 - latest not supplied.
9.       Although  salaries may  be  a binding  conctraint  in  attracting
competent staff, high salaries alone are not a sufficient attraction for
motivated personnel. A further constraint in terms of motivation must be the
lack of a clearly defined training and manpower development program at MDC.
It appears that whilst staff are reimbursed for seminars and courses, no
actual plan exiqts to uplift the skills and abilities of the existing staff.
A further constraint on motivation may well be the fact that despite an
appraisal system being in existence, it appears that appraisals are not
reviewed in a systematic manner with the staff concerned, nor are objectives
set for the forthcoming period.
10.      The most serious area of weaknesses in MDC, therefore, is in its
management  structure.   If MDC  is to fulfill its proper role  in the
development of the economy it will need to strengthen management through:
(a) a clear assignment of responsibility and authority to line managerst
(b) develop a coherent manpower development program; (c) be more comercially
orientedl and (d) rationalize its staffing by filling vacant positions,
eliminating those that are not vital to its operations, and strengthening the
weak departments (such as Monitoring).  If MDC decides to diversify into
other areas of activity, including industrial estate development, and there
is no evidence that it can not do so if the needed changes were made, there
will be need to recruit an experienced Estates Officer to motivate, and
control the real estate developments. Financial planning will also neod a
higher priority at a higher level. Currently two positions are vacant, that
of a Deputy General Manager (whose exact role does not appear to be clear)
and a Financial Controller (whose position has been vacant for over five



-93 -                  ANNEX X
Page 5 of 25
years apparently). There does not seem to be need to fill the Deputy General
Manager's position, as this would prove a block of the aspirations of other
department heads, and certainly the volume of work does not justify the
position.
11.      Communication and Motivation. The most effective organizations tend
to be those with good motivation in terms of targets and interpersonal
relationships between the key management and indeed all the way down the
line.  This does not appear to be the case within MDC.  Comunication is
apparently poor and certain departments are left feeling unsure about their
exact role in the Corporation.  This has tended to raise certain internal
conflicts, jealousies and low morale. A solution would be the institution
of a regular and open channels of communication for discussion of key matters
affecting the Corporation's progress. To motivate staff, management should
create proper targets in terms of the business activities for the key
managers who are able to carry them out, and in turn set targets in terms of
achievement for other members of staff.   These do not have to be over
organized, but could take the form of the senior management getting together
with the General Manager weekly for as long as it takes, to settle what is
happening in the week to come and what progress occurred in the previous
week.  This in itself would overcome some of the current suspicions and
provide the motivation for these who are currently lacking any goals.
III.  ORerating Policies and Management Information Syste2s
12.      The operations policy guidelines specify the investment principles,
criteria and terms and conditions for equity and loan investments by MDC.
The policy stipulates that MDC's investments in a new or existing project may
be in the form of minority share participation or through medium to long
terms  loans.    In  the  past  MDC  has  tended  to concentrate  on  equity
investments, and only provided loans to its subsidiaries. The policy also
sets the maximum MDC investment per project, which should not exceed 10
percent of the Corporation's issued share capital plus reserves or 50 percent
of the total project cost. Project sponsors are normally expected to provide
at least 25 percent of the share capital of the project. Although MDC equity
investments are supposed to be disposed of at the earliest opportunity, this
has not happened in reality, such that MDC has over time become less dynamic
in the development or promotion of new investments end become more of a
holding company.
13.      In broad  terms  it would  appear  that MDC  has  all  the  basic
information to be able to plan, lead, organize and control et 'ctively, but
the records could be usod more analytically and as a e              to promote
investment and employment creation.  The areas that need improvement and
strengthening are briefly outlined below.
14.      Profoct Identification.   The Projects Department appears to have
no plan for searching for new business, does not keep records in a systematic
manner of enquiries made, nor the action to be taken in order to be able to
follow up enquiries. There is a spasmodic update of the project pipeline in
some dotail. The analysis is lacking in so far as no details are given of



_ 9 ~~ANNE x
Page 6 of 25
funds disbursed to date in order to plan funding requirements into the
future, and a number of projects have had no changes in the comments made to
them for over two years. The project profile is in many respects identical
to that presented over two years ago, with very little action having taken
place. This in part may be result of the current dormant state of MDC and
management attitude, existence of a vicious circle, whereby management doe.
not encourage staff to be more proactive in identifying projects because of
lack of funding, while funding is not sought because the pipeline is weak.
15.      Project ARprai.al and Monitoring.  The lack of dynamism at MDC has
left the Projects Department with little work and very low morale for the
staff.  There is no project appraisal manual and no follow up on project.
under implementation or already implemented.  Since there hasn't been any
project appraisal in recent years, it was difficult to *asess the quality of
appraisal reports or capability of MDC's projects staff.  The Monitoring
Department produces some comprehensive records in terms of a quarterly review
of the portfolio by company and an annual profile of each company, which
details the main financial results and some ratios for each company. The
insistence on annual budgets for incorporation in the annual profile is
counendable and shows that the interest in the portfolio extends beyond mere
historical/financial recording, but the forecasts do not extend to any longer
period, which would be essential in any longer term planning for MDC.
Monitoring is in favor of monthly reports and believes, that effective
information is only of value if it is presented in a timely manner and MDC
is in a position to take effective action, should it be necessary.
16.      Financial Accounts.   Quarterly, the Chief Accountant prepares a
comprehensive set of statements covering the Income Statement, Balance Shoet,
Cash Flow, Capital expenditure, and Cash Projection for the balance of the
financial year, together with supporting detailed schedules and analyses.
It should be noted that these are not supported by commentary or suggestions
for the guidance of management or directors. An ares where more immediate
and direct comparison could well be provided is in the form of a comparison
against budget in terms of sectoral performance. Ideally such a comparison
should bo provided monthly, and to achieve this situation, it would be
necessary to produce MDC financial results monthly. An accounting manual
does exist to cover routine transactions and was compiled in August 1987.
Computers are used reasonably extensively in the accounting function and for
spreadsheet use when project analysis and projections are required. Every
office has vord processing facilities.
IV. Portfolio Overview
17.      The results of the portfolio analysis are reviewed in terms of a
comparison of the various sectoral performances, the portfolio performance
for 1988 to the anticipated 1990, the disbursements by sector and by loan and
equity over the years and the investment by sector and by loan and equity
over the years.



ANNE:. X
Page 7 of 25
18.      Disbursements.   MDC's operations data only shows the level of
disbursements, but does not include a breakdown of approvals and commitments
by sector or between equity and loans.  The last few years have seen a
disbursement level of approximately K7m per  annum, or approximately 7.5
percent of the capital employed. This only serves to confirm the low level
of activity.  The bulk of the disbursements (87 percent) has gone to the
industrial sector, whereas this sector only represents 50 percent of the
companies  and about 42 percent of the funds invented.   Recently more
disbursements have been made to the Hotels sector. It is worth noting that
the proportion of disbursements recently has reversed to more loans, but the
major part of these loans have been to one company.
19.      Investments. Industry represents some 42 percent of funds invested,
followed by hotels at 31 percent and trading at 11 percent. Real estate and
financial institutions are approximately 7.5 percent each.   It is worth
commenting that a comparable DFC in Southern Africa has invested as much in
real estate as in industry and the pattern of growth for the two sectors has
been identical.  This suggests that the lead may have to come from MDC in
terms of developing industrial land and estates in order to attract and boost
the investment climate and growth of industry in Malavi.  Currently, some
K107,3m or 84 percent of investments are in equity, and K21,l1 or 16 percent
in loan.
20.      Emplovment.  Whereas the percentage of employment for which MDC is
responsible in the industry sector is similar to the percentage of investment
in the same sector. Trading represents 24 percent (11 percent investment),
hotels 20 percent (31 percent investment), financial institutions 14 percent
(8 percent investment). Other than some small increases in the existing
companies, employment has not been supplementetd by MDC. Little emphasis
appears to be placed on employment creation.  The analysis suggects that
greater employment might have been achieved at a lower cost, had more
emphasis been placed on employment creation and selective investment.
21.      Contribution. In terms of contribution to MDC, industry and trading
represent more than 74 percent of the total income, as opposed to utilizing
53 percent of the funds. In this respect, the ratio has been consistent over
the years. It does, however, raise a question as to why more emphasis has
not been laid on selective investment in industry and trading, although this
trend does nov appear to be under consideration.
22.      Rturns on Funds.  If MDC's funds invested are measured against the
gross mncome it has received by sector, the only sector to have given a
satisfactory return of over 15 percent consistently has been trading.
Investments in financial institutions have provided the next best return,
which has begun to pick up after a slight drop in 1988.  The industrial
sector and real estate sector have averaged around 5 percent. Hotels have
provided a minimal return. There would appear to be grounds for justifying
the continuation of investment and expansion into industry and trading
sectors, because these sectors have provided the greatest employment increase
and show rising returns on capital and equity. It appears that to attract
the appropriate investment into these sectore, any expansion will need to be
accompanied by a similar expansion in the real estate sector. An example of



- 96 -                 ANNEX 
Page 8 of 25
such complementary development has been observe in another DYC in the
Southern Africa region, where the two sectors have groun together and at an
almost  identical  rate  of  disbursement  and  investment.    Depending  on
Government policy, such an expansion will require substantial funding and it
is likely that such an investment will be largely, if not entirely, in the
hands of MDC.  It is unlikely that private investors v'.l1 have *s;fficient
funds to invest in premises, as well as the investment required in a project.
In most instances, investors tend to borrow construction loans for premises,
which put considerable strain on their cashflow. By developing industrial
premises, MDC would help ease pressure on enterprise cashflow during tho
start-up period, thereby, playing an important developmental role.
V.  Portoflio Quality
23.      Amongst the beet measures of performance are Return on Capital (ROC)
and Return on Equity (ROE), followed by Employment creation, as the latter
would appear to be one of the main reasons for MDC's existence.   The details
on portfolio performance are extensive, but could be sumarized as follows
in terms of a few major ratios:



97                  ANNEX X
Page 9 of 25
Table 9.2
HALAWI - SELECTED STATISTICS FROH 1988 TO 1990
Invested  Rank   ROC   Rank   ROE   Rank           Rank
(K'0OOs)          2             S         Emplmt  Nos.
INDUSTRY
Bata Shoe Co.             6,548    11      54     5     58      4     376   6
Chllington Agrimal        3,824    13      15    13     16    13      258   9
Encor                     1,826    14    108      1    114      1     219  10
Leopard Match             6,520    12      27    10     33    10      123  13
Miscor                    1,680    15      34     9     67      3      85  14
Packaging Industries    15,221      7      50     7     56      6     368   8
Pipe Extruders            9,110    10      75     2     75      2     394   5
Portland Cement          31,421     2       6    15      4    15      700   4
Eco                         248    17       -    17       -    17       -  18
TRADING
Import & Export Co       14,861     8      57     4     55      7    1568   1
REAL ESTATE
MPICO                    41,509      1      9    14      8    14       27  16
HOTELS & TOURISM
TDIC                     21,727     4       2    16      -    16      140  12
Capital H cels           12,841     9      17    11     17    11      376   7
Malavi Hotels            18,696     5      16    12      16    12     734   2
Soche Tours                 458    16      51     6     49      8      36  15
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
Commercial Bank          27,786     3      57     3     57      5     727   3
National Insuranco Co.  17,631      6      34     8     35      9     212  11
MINING
Gem Co                      201    18   Lose    18   Loss    18         6  17
TOTAL [18 companies]   232,108             26           29           6349
Notes:  Invested equals Capital Employed as expected at 1990: ROC equals Return
On Capitals ROE equals Return On Equity: Employment equals Jobs expected
in 1990: Rank equals position in terms of performance.
24.      It will be seen from Table 9.2 that tho best companies in terms of
ROC and ROE are those companies in the industrial/trading and financial
institutions sectors, whereaos the best companios in trms of employment
numbers are also those companies in the industrial/trading sector. In the
past two years, the total capital employed has increased by some K68,6m for
an increase in employment of 452 persons, or, an average cost of K1S1,770 per
job. A brief outline of increase in capital employed, jobs created and cost



98                   ANX    x
Page 10 of 25
per job created for the period 1988/90 are shown in Table 9.3 below. Of the
increase in capital within the industr.y sector, K13,2m has been in one
company for and increase in jobs of only 22, at cost per job of K598,409.
The investment of K1,078m in mining has incurred a loss to date, with the
result that KO.498m has been written off the investment, the mine closed,
and 55 jobs lost.
Table 9.3
MAIAWI - ECONOMIC IMPACT OF INVESTMENTS 1 MDC
Increase in
Capital          Jobs Ctcated       Cost Per Job
Employed            in Period           in Period
K'000a                  No.                  K
Industry              29,7                  224              132,589
Trading                1,2                  104               11,538
Real Estate          (2,8)                  (1)                    -
Hotels                21,3                  138              154,348
Financial             19,1                   41              465,854
Mining               (0,1)                 (55)
TOTAL                 68,6                  452              151,770
NOTE:   It should be notod that the comparison above is not a reflection of
MDC's disbursements, but the totgl increase in the Capital Employed
of the companies in which MDC has an intorest.
25.      In  terms  of  effectiveness,  therefore,  this  reinforces  the
recommondation that future expansion should be directed into the areas of
trading and selective industrial invostments, along with expansion of
investment in real estate.   MDC has some experience in the commercial real
estate development area through its subsidiary, the Malawi Property
Development Company (MPICO). MDC could build on that experience either by
expanding the mandate of MPICO or setting up another subsidiary to specialize
in industrial estate development. Alternatively once management issues have
been dealt with, the operation could be set up as a department within MDC.
We must emphasize that this should only happen once management has been
streamlined. Other areas that might be considered by MDC, and which will
require considerable investigation, are construction, concret3 products, and
bricks, as these would stem from increased activity in the real estate area.
Possibilities also exist in furniturv manufacture, and wholesaling, but these
suggestions require some exhaustive analysis and thorough research. In tha
financial area, there may be possibilities for setting up an investment trust
in the future, and such an institution, combined with a move towards the



- 99_                 ANE=  X
Page 1l of 25
raising of loans and capital via the mooted capital market structurc, suggest
the  possibility of a stockbroking firm, which MDC might operato as a joint
venture with other local interests in the financial sector or corporate
private sector. Such a firm could be the fororunner to an eventual stock
exchange. Thaes measures would help MDC play a more aggreasivo role in the
development of the privato sector in Malawi, and help achieve its objective
of incroasing the participation of Malawians in the economy. Similarly, it
would assist MDC with the divestiture of mature equity investments through
the sale cf shares to the general public in Malawi.
26.      The objective of diveating mature investmenta forms part of MDC's
charter.   This may prove difficult initially, as there is currently no
socondarv matket for equities and, because of low income levels of most
Malawians, demand for such instruments would not permit the large scale
purchase.   Nonetheloes,  institutional  invostors  such as the  insurance
companies have indicated that they would be willing to purchase larger
amounts of equity in domestic companioe if it was availablel and that they
would be willing to do so in the absence of a formalized ascondary market.
27.      To moot its wider objectives,  such as a reduction in company
concentration through a dispersion of share ownership, it could be possible
to place some initial restrictions on the proportion of shares in a company
sold to a single purchaser.  In addition, MDC could initially even play a
secondary market role to repurchase shares when a market participant wished
to "liquidate' his shareholding. Given the dovelopmental orientation of MDC,
it is not unreasonable for it to play a role in the establihbment of such
primary and secondary markets in equities. Few other institutions currently
operating in Malaft would be better placed to assist in the growth of such
a market. If such a market could be developed, it would help to ease some
of MDC's funding problems and, in conjunction with an ability to raise funds
through the issue of domestic bonds, would put the Corporation on a clearer
path to self sustained growth more in line with the dictates of its own
charter.
28.      One concern has been that Malawians ore too poor to become involved
in an equity market. Although this is a binding constraint, it doos belie
the very reason why share markets were originally established - i.e. to
assist small scale investors contribute to tho equity of much larger
companies and thereby participate in the potential rewards from such small
scale investment. Within Malawi, there is no reason why shares could not be
sold in small enough denominations to make them attractive, at least to urban
Malawians with access to small amounts of savings.  The very presence of
excess liquidity in the economy suggests that there has boon savings soeking
a remunerative return.
VI.  Jinancial Performance Reviw
29.      The MDC Group performance has been favorable, and by and large,
shows an upward trend in profitability and all the ratios are as would be
expected.   The Group consolidatod balance shoots,  annual statements and
selected aumary ratios are shown in Tables 9.6 and 9.7.



-100-                ANNEX X
Page 12 of 25
30.      Profitabiltv.  Whilst MDC has shown a steadily increasing net
profit before tax to 1989, the ROC is not adequate and has averaged
approximately 4.42 percent in the last four years. This is not sufficient
to match inflation, which in the same period has exceeded a rate of
approximately 15 percent. Similarly, the ROE (i.e to the only shareholder,
the Government of Malawi) has been les than 3.86 per cent.  Neitiher rates
are sufficient to see MDC in the position of generating any significant
amount of funds for major projects. The net profit on revenue is high, but
it is not considered the best yardstick of measurement.
31.      Dividends.  Dividends were only commenced in 1987, when arrears on
the preference capital were paid up in full. Since then provision has been
made for the preference dividend only.   It should be noted that as at
December 31, 1989, the 1988 dividend had not been paid.  If dividends are
related to the ordinary and preference share capital then the returns to
the shareholder have been extremely low - less than half of one percent.
32.      Intorest Har-in. MDC's average margin has been calculated by taking
the interest earned minus the interest paid and expressing the former as a
percentage of the opening and  closing loans granted as per the balance
sheet, and the latter as a percentage of the opening and closing loans
available as the balance sheet. This is an approximate comparison only, but
it serves as a guide.  The results show that the past four  years have
averaged a margin of over 6.7 percent which is considered to be more than
adequate. It does soeem to contradict the stated policy of a 2 percent
margin.   It was  apparent  during  discussions with various  members  of
management, that the policy (in a number of instances) is to charge 2 percent
over prime rate and not 2 percent over borrowing cost. This may explain why
the margin is higher than expected.
33.      Interest Earned. The average over the past four years has been 11.9
percent, but has declined from a high of 14.7 percent in 1986, to 9.31
percent in 1989. The proportion that interest earned represents of total
revenue at 26 percent, compares to 30 percent in a comparable organization.
However, this is purely a factor of the lower investment in loans, which is
referred to below.
34.      Interest Coct. IDC has a relatively low cost of borrowing and vith
the cheap fundc available, at an average of around 5 percent in recent years,
it is surprising that sufficient projects have not been forthcoming to have
been able to use funds effectively. However, because of the low rovenue and
low usage, interest cost has formed a much higher percentage of total revenue
than is the case in comparable DFCs. Interest represents approximately 32
percent of reveva4e.
35.      Dividends received on eoultv lwvestmonts.  It is noticeable that
dividends expressed as a percentage of equity investments, represent an
average of 5.16 percent in the past four years.   A return of about 20
percent is considered average in comparable DFCe.
36.      Staff Costs.  Despite a regularly stated opinion that salaries are
lov, the staff costs at MDC are relatively high in total, representing over



- 101 -                    A uX
Page 13 of 25
30 percsnt of revenue. There would appear to be far too many administrative
staff for the organization's operations. Detailed coments are mads in the
section on Organization, but suffice to say that it appears there is over-
staffing for the MDC's current sizc and level of activity. An analysis of
the stafi shoves
Table 9.4
HALAI DEM LOPMNUT CORPORATION - COMPOSITION OF STAFF
Typo               Number      Percent
Profesional             13          32
Secretarial              9          22
Administrative          19          6
41        100
The above would indicate that the emphasis has possibly been placed on
quantity rather than quality.
37.      OceratW  Ma imi.  Because of the low finance and interost costs,
the oporating margin is high and  could be even higher were staff costs
lowered by rationalize. ton of positions.  Profit per member of staff has
recently stabilized at around K6,000 per member of staff.    With staff
rationalization the figure could be dramatically increased.
38.      Capital Adeauauc.    On the level at which MDC has operated, the
Capital has beon more than adequate, and is reflected in the low debt to
equity ratio, now at a level of 0.34. This indicates that greater use could
have beon made of resources in the past. On the other hand, it has taken a
period of five years to reduce the ratio of investment in equity to MDC's
equity to a level normally acceptable for DPCe of 1.1.  It should be noted
that a major part of this change has occuxrred through revaluation of assets
and is not In the form of distributable reserves. Thus, of the equity base
at Doember 31, 1989, of 199.4mO K20 is in sharo capital, over K73.9 is in
non-distributatio reserves, whilst only K5.5= is in distributable resorves.
Whilst this c .ctainly showve DC'e balance shoot in a favorable light in some
respects, it is not capital that is readily available for distribution.
39.      fundin and Liauidit. In the past, MDC relied heavily on external
borrowing, both from local (Govornment and Insurance industry) and foreign
(primarily multilateral sources).   To help MDC achieve the promotional
aspogts of its mandate, most of the funds were generally provided at very
favorable torms. In view of the current budgetary constraints, however, the
Government is no longet able to maet all the funding requirements, and MDC



_I 10                      ANNX X
Page 14 of 25
is expected now to raise its resoLrce requirements  from thi. market at
competitive rates. This is bound to raise the cost of funds to MDC. MDC has
consequently reached a period of transition where it has to reposition itself
to ensure lcng-term financial v4ability without abandoning its basic
objective.  Recently MDC has not borrowed, in part because it ha' elected to
fund its investments from internelly generatod fu-ds, and also because it
does not have a strong project pipeline with which to justify borrowing.
If MDC were to provide a reasonable project pipeline and an Action Plan that
plots out clearly its future growth pattern, tho World bank in add6tion to
other multilateral lenders or even the local institutional market would be
willinng to support MDC's funding requirements.  The multilateral agencies
wauld also be willing to provido institutional support during this transition
phase when MDC would be moving towarda becoming a more caemrcially-oriented
development institution.
40.      An examination of the financial statemonts reveals that MDC does
not appear to have borrowed to tho extent that it could have undor any normal
commercial judgment, and a ratio of borrowed funds to own funds could,
therefore, have been incceased. Whother or not this has been a constraint
on the business is not known, but it does not seem to havo been so.
Alternatively, MDC could have paid higher dividends.   Cash funding for
financin, of projects in the past has been distorted by sales of investments
and by the additional injection of capital in 1986, but since that time the
requirenente of MDC have been extremely moderate.  As projects have been
negligible, such disbursoments *a have occurred have been used by additional
loan. Since 1984, MDC has never had a liquidity problem, and it could be
stated that a current ratio in recent years of bordering on 2sl is too high
and has not exhibit.d the best use of funds nor has it put any strain on the
Corporation's ability to commit funds. The current non shareholder funding
is approximatoly K 33.5m, made up as followst
Table 9.5 MALAWI - MDC SOURCES 0 FUNDING
Interest(
Type                 From                       KOOO      Repayable
Secured Loans        S A Mutual Life Assurance        1,500      '5,5 1991/1997
Unsecured Loanst    Gover, ent of Malawi              9,617      10,0 1989/2001
Government of Malavi            3,225      3,75 1990/1994
Europoan Investment Bank        6,127      2,0  1990/2002
European Investment Bank        8,254      5,0  1990/2001
kuropean Investment Bank        4,786      2,0 2001/2011
33,509   5,18   [average]
Repayments on the loans only commence in 1990



- 1u  -                    ANX    x
Pogo 15 of 25
41.      AssetslLiabilities.  The ratio has crept up over the years and is
now touching 4:1, which suggescs that MDC could have used capital more
efficiently. A large part of the increase is created by revaluations over
the years. If revaluation of assets were to be ignored, the ratio would be
1.69:1.  An analysis of gross assets reveals that 94.76 percent are in
investments, which is  corsidered good.  Liabilities are primarily made up
of the loans referred to above of K33.5ur plus local trade creditors. There
are no arrears in the portfolio, only one account was in arrears at December
31 1989, subsequently paid.
42.      Investment in Loan/Equitv.   The ratio of investment in loans of
approximately 15 percent, compared to 85 percent in equity, is relatively
low. This accounts for the higher interest cost referred to above, and it
is suggested that moves be made to reverse the ratio by a greater investment
in loans.  An opportunity exists for MDC to use funding available and to
shift emphasis towards loan as opposed to equity investments.
43.      Staff Productivitv.   The number of companies in which MDC is
involved by way of equity or loan is small (18) in relation to staff, which
suggests  that  staff  could handle  a greater work  load.   In terms of
investments, the volume of funds handled is slightly higher and represents
approximately K3m per member  of staff.   However,  if revaluat5ons  are
excluded, then the ratio drops to K1,3m. Employment in MDC subsidiaries per
member of staff is at 153 employed persons to l member of MDC staff, which
is low relative to other DFCs in the region. This possibly is reflected in
MDC's involvement in a small number of large companies.
VII. Future ProoaDcts
44.      Management has explained the lack of activity as being the result
of the restructuring program, which has taken much longer to implement than
originally anticipated. In the early 1980s, MDC was considered technically
insolvent. As a result, its activities were reviewed as part of an overall
parastatal restructuring package. A series of measures were implemented over
the period 1984 to 1987, which led to the creation of a much leaner and
financially stronger institution.   Among the measures taken as part of
restructuring were: (a) portfolio rationalization, which meant the exchange
of shares and selective sale of MDC companies which were not compatible with
its developmental role and in order to generate cash to service its debt.
It is not clear from a review of the companies left in MDC's portfolio what
was the criteria for divestiture; (b) strengthening of management and
financial performance of MDC and of those companies that were to be retained
in its portfolio; and (c) recapitalization and re-activation of MDC as a
development catalyst.
45.      As a consequence of the restructuring, some of the objectives have
already been achieved. MDC reduced the number of companies in which it had
an equity interest from 32 to 18 and its financial position is stronger than
before. However, management remains weak and MDC has not assumed the lead
role as a development catalyst as was envisaged at the time the restructuring



- 104 -                ANNEX I
Pago 16 of 25
program was initiated.  The Corporation, therefore, is at a crossroads where
it has to clearly map out its future role in the fast changing industrial and
sectors in Malawi. A lot of the functions that it has performed in the past
or it was act up to foster, will increasingly be undertaken by other players
in the market, which would marginalize MDC if it continued to operate on the
current basis.
46.      Proct Pipeline.    The projects under consideration are limited
and seem to be incurring very little action to get any  of them 'off the
ground." The schedule has not been updated over the past two yeara, and,
apart from the Cape McClear hotel project, does not appear to be reaching
conclusion on any major projects.
47.      The project pipeline does not highlight the emphasis on money value
or jobs to be created sufficiently to draw attention to what is required.
The project pipeline has actually decreased both in number of projects and
in value. In fact, only two additional projects of minor valuo have been
added in the last two years, and the apparent lack of progress on a number
of the previous projects, where the commento of two years ago appear to be
the same as now, indicates the otatic naturo of any progress on project
identification and implementation. Certain projects have not been updated
in valuo, which are unlikely to have changes because of inflation.
48.      The current project pipeline,  is thus very sparse,  and is not
sufficient to keep the Projects Department very busy nor sustain any growth
for MDC.   On this basis, it seems unlikely that MDC has any chance of
achieving the original plan, unless some extreme action is taken to increase
activity by staff and encourage investors.   In this connection, various
measures concerning motivation, attitude towards loan investments, interest
rates and investment promotion need to be tackled urgently.
Recommendations and Action Plan for MDC
49.      In discussions with management, it was apparent that they would like
to see MDC play a more aggressive leadership role in the development of the
productive end service sectors of the economy in Malawi. In order to emerge
from its current dormant *tat&, MDC will need to develop a comprehensive
Action Plan that deals with its organizational weaknesses and inefficiencies.
If acceptable, the World Bank would be willing to support such an action plan
under the proposed Financial Sector and Enterprise Development Project. More
spocifically, the Plan would have to addres  the following issuesa
50.      Conrorat, Planin.   A major constraint to any  organization must
be to operate without a Plan. Without a Plan, departments and individuals
havo no target and, unless extremely self motivated, the will to succeed
will not be there.   Targets need to be set to  overcome the malaise of
attitude. MDC'a Corporate Plan prepared in July 1988 has not been updated
other than in the preparation of the last two annual budgets. The Plan does
not specify areas of investment and disbursement, number and size of
investments, jobs to be created. The lack of an up-to-date and realizable



- 105 -                 ANNEXS
Page 17 of 25
plan does not provide the motivation for tkrgeting on specific tasks or
creating the atmosphere conducive to a goal orientetd organization. A perusal
of recent Board Papers suggests that discussion is limited to updates of
information and comments on any amendments to old proposed projects, on which
very little progress appears to have taken place. To effectively plan, MDC
needs to identify the areas in which it will operate. There does not appear
to be any restriction in terms of the organization's mandate, but the areas
are not defined by the plan.  Witho-it the defined areas,  it is left to
Projects to find their own way, which is, in itself, a further constraint.
Among the criteria that MDC should use are the followingt
(a) the level of sustainable growth in percentage terms;
(b) the target level of investment in loan as opposed to equity;
(c) the target sectors for investment and the types of businesses,
the companies, the employment generation levels, and the staff
levels required to reach these targets. The aim of creating
employment, which is not even contained in the Corporation's
objectives, seems to be a serious constraint in planning and
motivation of staff; and
(d) a return for the shareholder will need to be established, and
assuming the main objective of "sound business principles" is
to remain, this return in the form of dividends should not be
less than the rate of inflation.  Having established such a
return, MDC then has a profit target and all the other actions
described become subsidiary to achieving that goal.    The
Corporation's returns, whillt higher than achieved in the past
few years, are still not at a level to equate to inflation and
may not be regarded as overly ambitious;
51.      To provide a greater return to the shareholder and enhance the
development role, it is believed that MDC, must carry out some   serious
economic analysis of the opportunities available and push these to fruition
by some intensive proactive project promotion and investment analysis, this
should be supplemented with incentives to investors, such as the building of
industrial estates and premises. This will not only provide the attraction
for investors of ready made premises but will force the Projects Department
to actively look   for projects to occupy the premises, which would be
operated on a commercial basis. For this reason it is important for MDC'.
plan to bo updated.  To this end the sectoral breakdown is essential in
terms of measuring the likely returns from each sector and hence the overall
MDC performance. It is of little value to state an amount of money to be
disbursed, without identifying the area into which disbursements will be
made.
52.      Ortaniatlog an_d Kana-ement.   Since Government expects that MDC
should operate on commercial principles, it is suggested that MDC's Board,
whose directors are approved by Government, be given autonomy and the
authority so that it can be held accountable for the success or failure of
MDC. Government would be expected to provide clear and monitorable operating



-                       ANNEX I
Page 18 of 25
guidelines and performance indicators to which MDC must adhere in carrying
out its mandate.
53.      Similarly,  the powers of the General Manager should be clearly
defined.   Government did not seem to have problems with doing this and
indicated that currently there is little interference with the powers of the
General Manager in such matters as the hiring or dismissal of staff at
certain levels.  It is suggested that the point of reference for the General
Manager on senior staff matters and investment approvals should be the Board.
In fact the General Manager should be granted a higher discretionary limit
at which he can approve a project without prior approval of the Board and
then only later present it to the Board for endorsement.    The current
monetary authority extends to only K50,000, and, if this is true, then it
certainly needs to be revised upwards to [say) K250,000.  However, this
discretionary limit should only be authorized after MDC management has
established an unblemished investment track record.
54.      Internal  management  also  needs  to be  reorganized  with  clear
delegation of authority and accountability.  Management needs to clearly
articulate the distinction between line and functional management and open
up lines of communication in order to restore morale in the organization.
It may be useful if Government together with MDC undertook a management
review and institute the necessary changes, even if it may mean replacing
some members of the management team.
55.      Kanipower Planning and Dovelopment.1 To attract and retain competent
staff, MDC needs to%
(a) develop a comprehensive manpower development program;
(b) provide a work program that keeps staff busy and challenged;
and
(c) streamline and strengthen its Projects Department. Monitoring
is another area that needs to be strengthened.  Currently,
there is very little follow-up on project implementation and
this would need to be addressed if MDC were to consider
becoming dynamic.   Monthly reports will be   essential to
monitor, not only new projects, but existing investments.



-~  -                    ANNEX X
Page 19 of 25
Appendix 1
MALAWI
FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MALAWI DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
DRAFT GUIDELINES FOR THE PREPARATION OF A fTATEMENT OF OPERATIONAL STRATEGY
I. Introduction
1.1      As a result of a comprehensive restructuring program, the Malawi
Development Corporation (MDC) has now reached a period of transition
where it has to reposition itself to resume dynamic growth and
ensure long-term financial viability without abandoning its basic
developmental objective.   The long-term  objective of MDC is to
develop, increase and accelerate the active participation of
Malav:ans in the productive and service sectors of the economy. It
is with this in mind that the management of MDC, with support from
the Government, has decided to develop a Statement of Operational
Strategy that will help guide the Corporation through this
transitional period.
1.2      The World Bank, through the proposed Financial Sector and Enterprise
Development Project, would be willing to provide financial and
institution building support for implementation of the Strategies.
Other  agencies,  both  international   multilateral  and  local
institutions, may also be interested in providing financial support
to MDC.
1.3      The Statement of Operational Strategy, including an A..tion Program
to deal with the constraints currently facing MDC. is for the next
five years (1991-1995) and is to be used to gt'ae MDC through the
transition period when it is movina from b.ng a dormant holding
company to a more dynamic, commerC4..1y-oriented development
institution.  MDC may wish, in developing the strategy, to focus
more sharply on the first few (two or three) years. The Statement
of Operational Strategy should then become the framework within
which MDC can explain and link its financial projections to the
overall Corporate Plan.



- 108 -                   ANNEX X
Page 20 of 25
2.       Operation Targets
2.1      The first few years of the program, say 1991-1993, are the most
critical since they represent a period of evaluation and transition.
MDC will need to critically review its past performance, including
an assessment of the success of the restructuring program, financial
performance, and growth. Based on this evaluation, MDC should then
set realistic targets for achieving consistent and sustainable
growth in the future.
2.2      MDC should also strengthen its co-litment to development activities,
such as entrepreneur development programs, and introduction of new
instruments designed to increase Malavian participation in economic
activities (these could include a program to divest mature companies
in which MDC has equity, creation of investment trusts, etc). The
importance of these activities should be reflected in numerical
targets, such as how targets for future shareholdings in specific
companies could be divested to Malawians, and how many entrepreneurs
could be trained in a year.  Such activities are critical to the
realization of MDC's objectives while they also help create the
basis for its future lending business. These should be accompanied
with plans on how MDC proposes to implement the objectives.
2.3      MDC should also choose (with appropriate analysis) the sv:tor(s) it
wishes to emphasize in its operations to ensure its priorities are
in line with those of the Government for the overall economy. If
this sectoral emphasis is maintained, MDC should show what its
target is in terms of the sector's share of annual loan and equity
comitments by the end of the plan period.
2.4      In addition to emphasizing certain sectors, MDC should evaluate the
possibility of diversifying into other priority activities, such as
the development of industrial *estates. Those new initiatives should
be developed on the basis of a thorough evaluation of MDC's existing
programs and activities.  The aim of this evaluation vill be to
determine the most desirable activities from the points of view of
national prioritieo, optimum utilization of limited and increasingly
costly (for MDC) resources and efficiency and effectiveness of
staff. Such evaluation should be completed as soon as possible (at
loast by June 30, 1991). MDC should then use the results of such
an evaluation exercise not only to maximize the cost-benefits of the
various current operational activities, but also to use them to
develop a long-term plan for HDC's future. In this context, MDC
should consider introducing a Profit Center Concept as the basis for
closely monitor its operations and determining how much each
functional area costs to operate.
2.5      Evaluate now ares in which it may wish to expand, including the
provision  of  industrial premises  for enterprises.   A  guiding
principle behind new activities of a developmental nature should be
their operation on a comnercial basis and their long term viability.



- 109 -                 ANNEX S
Pogo 21 of 25
3. Resource Requirements
MDC's operations are currently constrained by a shortage of
resources. Historically, MDC has almost completely depended on the
Government for its capital, and on the Government and international
multilateral institutions  for  other  long-term  resources.    In
recognition of the country's fiscal situation, MDC should gradually
reduce this dependence, particularly at a time when the Government
is faced with severe budgetary constraints. MDC should develop a
plan to raise funds from the financial markets as well as the World
bank and other international sources. The plan should show MDC's
resource needs and the planned sources of funds and each source's
contribution to the funding needs of MDC over time.
4.  Equitv Requirements
At the moment, MDC seems to be adequately capitalized, so this
should not be an issue. However, MDC should undertake to review
periodically its capital adequacy and, when necessary, negotiate the
injection of fresh capital by its shareholder(s) either through new
capital or conversion of long term loans into equity.
5. Lending Rate Structure
5.1      In the past, MDC was able to secure subsidized resources from the
Government, Old Mutual, and EIB at an average cost of some 5.2
percent. On this basis, the Corporation was assured of an average
spread of 6.7 percent over its cost of funds, which enabled its
lending operations to be profitable. In the future, MDC will be
faced with increasing resource costs since a major portion of its
resources will not come from Government budgetary allocations. MDC
will need to calculate an estimate of the target spread that it
requires in order to meet its administrative costs, make provisions
for doubtful debts (if any), build up required reserves and earn a
profit to maintain financial soundness as well as fulfill its
development objectives.
5.2      In view of this, MDC will review its interest rate structure and
modify its lending strategies in order tot
(a) bring average interest rates in line with the market (currently
between 16 percent and 22 percent);
(b) raise funds in the financial market at rates below or equal to
those prevailing in the market (currently between 10 percent
and 16 percent);
(c) blend purely developmental and commercial functions with the
aim to ensure continued financial soundness; and
(d) achieve the target spread mentioned in 5.1 above.



-: 1 ' -                ANNEX X
Page 22 of 25
5.4      MDC would periodically review its interest rate structure and make
appropriate adjustments if and when required by a significant change
in the inflation rate, its borrowing cost or the overall rate
structure in the economy.
6. Operational Effici*ncy Improvemfnt
In view ongoing and planned changes, MDC must strengthen its
organization and increase its operational efficiency. To this end
an action program should be developed in the following areas:
(a)  Management.   MDC mus- undertake  a candid  review  of  the
strengths and weaknesses in its management (style, structure
and delegation of authority and responsibility). Such a review
should be quickly followed by implementation of the drastic
changes that are needed to realign and strengthen management
so that it can provide effective leadership and restore morale;
(b)  ManRower DeveloRment.  A comprehensive manpower development
program should be developed that will upgrade staff through
pertinent external (external to MDC) and intensive on-the-job
training. Both efforts would be geared towards uplifting the
skills and efficiency of existing and new staffs
(c)  Strengthenint  Proiects  Deioartment.      Project  promotion,
identification,   appraisal,   and  monitoring  need  to  be
strengthened. Projects Department should form the core of MDC
operations because its work feeds into all other functional
areas, and ought to be one of the strongest in terms of
personnel quality. MDC should, therefore, prepare a plan of
action on how to improve performance in this area;
(d) Develoomont of Industrial Estates. A realistic action program,
outlining how MDC plans to expand into this area, should be
prepared and submitted to Government for review and approval
as soon as possible. During discussions between the World Bank
and MDC management, three options were considered potentially
viables (i) set up a separate subsidiary; (b) establish a new
department within MDC; and (c) expand the mandate of MPICO,
MDC's co-uercial estate developer.  The choice of an option
would depend on several kev variables.  The first could be
chosen because MDC is unable to offer an attractive package to
attract personnel with expertise in industrial estate
development (external technical assistance may be used in
interim to overcome this constraint). The second option would
be viable if MDC were to become dynamic and overcome the
compensation constraint, while third would be chosen if both
one and two are not initially feasible; and
(e)  Makina HDC's Staff Romuneration Packate  =mnetitive.  MDC's
current compensation and benefits packA!o is slightly below
that of peer institutions and needs 0-o be reviewed. How.ver,



-   ll -                ANNE  x
Page 23 of 25
while undertaking such a review, it should be borne in mind
that salaries in of themselves are not sufficient motivator of
all people. MDC will have to demonstrate that it can offer its
staff more than just an attractive remuneration package,
through a strong work program that challenges staff to produce
at h4gher levels. Simply put, reward must be tied to output,
and so far MDC has not demonstrated that it is ready to become
a significant player in the economy. Currently MDC operates
like a holding company and is, therefore, unlikely to convince
a lot of skeptical people that its headquarters staff deserve
a competitive compensation package.
7. Proiected Financial Performance
Successful formulation and implementation of development strategies
should ensure future growth for MDC. It is important, therefore,
that MDC set realistic targets against which it can measure its
performance. These ought to include, but not be limited tot
(a)  Profitabilitv Measures for both MDC and for those companies in
which it has majority equity share interest. These should
include targets for Return on Equity (ROE), Return on Capital
(ROC), and Return on Average Total Assets;
(b) Cash flow projections over the plan period; and
(c) Numerical targets for employment creation and investment growth
(net commitments and disbursements), revenue, assets, etc.
8. Corporate Plan
As mentioned above, the strategy statement should be linked to MDC
Corporate Plan. The strategy should be based on realistic assumptionsl for
example, at the moment it can be assumed that economic conditions in the
country will remain stable or improve. MDC should undertake to periodically
review the strategy and revise it annually on the basis of previous year's
performance and the budget estimates for the following year. Such periodic
reviews should take into account significant changes in the overall national
and international economic and monetary situation, for example the impact of
the current escalation in oil prices, and changes in the Government'e basic
policies and priorities that may require a redirection of the strategy.



-112-                 llIKE x
Pae. 24 of 25
Toble 9.6:  NALAUI DEVELCEWT  AOOOTIOU
INCCM STATEMENT FO THE YEARS 198-19S9
(In Thousnwd of Kwscha e at wid Dcesbr)
1983     1984     198S      1966     198?      1988     1989
Turnover:                               2,284    2,534    4,628    3,928    4,744    5,712    6,299
Interest Income                         346      201    1,078    1,017    1,240    1,522    1,62?
Dividend Income                       1,647    1,936    2,806    2,345    3,164    3,941    4,400
Other Income 1/                         291       397      744       566      340       249      272
Expenditure:
Auditors' Fees                           26        22       27        30       28       4S        30
Depreciation                            153       203      228       241      291      305       127
Directors Fees & Expenses                10        13       14        11       10        1S       11
Operating Profit Before Interest         1,238    1,571    3,441    2,586    3,18S    4,178    4,129
Interest                                2,193    1,888    1,610    1,267    1,S48    1,856    1,887
Operating Profit                          (9S)    (317)   1,831    1,319    1,637    2,322    2,242
Plus _ Net Exceptional
Item  y/                               (1,868)   5,939    8,782      (574)      793      446       731
Net Profit Bfore Tax                   (2,823)   S,622   10,613        74S    2.430    2,768    2,973
Net Profit Tax After Tax               (2,823)   5,622   10,613        745    2,430    2,768    2,973
Transfer from Hon
Distributable Reserves                                                        5 S3      53       24
Net Profit                             (2,823)   5,622   10,613        745    2,483    2,821    2,997
Dividend (Preference)                     -        -        -                  1059       115      11S
Retained Earings                         -2823     5622    10613       745     1424     2706      2882
KEY RATIOS
Net Profit as Percent of Revenu       -123.60   221.86   229.32    18.97    51.22    48.46    47.20
Dividend es Percent of Rev nu            0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    22.32      2.01     1.83
Return on Equity Investmsnt              5.33      S.44     6.35     4.83      5.67     6.11      4.06
Di vidnd Coverag                           ERR      ERR      ERn       ERR     2.29    24.07    25.85
Revenue on Cepitel                     -41.61    82.86   156.42       3.73    12.15    13.84    14.87
Source: IC Aimt Reorts
A/     Other Ineome fnclud   royelties receivable, extraordinary profits, and an adjustmnnt for roundins
differences.
g/     Exceptional Item  includes Itnei  from profit In sate of asets, income from recovery of deficits
an
investment revatuetion, writebe ks, etC. Less Exceptional expenses an foreign exchange conversions,
staff termfnat benfits, etc.



-  113  -                         ANNEX I
Page 25 of 25
MALWI
Table 9.7:  WLAMI OEWLWIENT CORPOATIC6
O tlono Sheet for th- Yers 193-19s9
(In Thousand of Kimdca - at *nd 0ecibwr)
1983     1984     1985      1966     1987      19M8     1989
ASSETS
Banks and Cash                             38       210    1,370       244      311       373      744
Other Current Assets                      498      -       4,292    1,154    1,4S0    2,172    2,054
Short term Loans                          320    8,665       972       521      239      356       315
Trade Debtors and Stocks                  789       77m    1,864    1,5?3    3,269    1,207    1,924
Totat Current Assets                 1,645    9,650    8,496    3,492    5,269    4,108    5,037
Fixed Assets                            4,404    4,300    4,028    4,932    5,772    1,854    2,049
Investments:                           32,521   30,959   48,225   54,641   66,822   75,547  126,285
Properties                                                         -             -
Subsidiaries                        11,431   21,504   38,127   44,128   55,86    64,797  107,986
Associated Cog anies                21,090    9,455   10,096   10,513   10,953   13,750   18,299
Other Assets                              583    5,310    2,266    1,700    1,312    1,075    1,859
Total Assets                        39,153   50,219   63,017   64,765   79,175   85,54  13S,230
LIABILITIES
Overdrafts                                367        55                    -              444
Dividends Payable                          146      146      146      -       1,059       115      230
Taxation                                  -        - 
Current Maturities of L-T Debt          4,332
Short-term Borrowing                              4,767    4,262    1,037    1,132    1,196    2,821
Creditors and Other Liabilitieo          1,057    1,174    1,715       624      476       871    2,038
Total Current Liabilities             5,902    6,142    6,123    1,661    2,667    2,626    5,089
Deferred Taxation
Long-Term Lon                          180,819   29,268   39,255   26,634   31,78t   27,48    30,688
Shareholders Funds:                    14,432   14,809   17,639   36,470    4,724   55,474   99,453
Reserves                              ,647    8,024   10,854   16,470   24,7n4   35,474   79,453
Shere Capital                        6,785    6,75M    6,75S  20,000   20,000   20,000   20,000
Totat Capital Employed              33,251   44,077   56,894   63,104   76,506   82,958  130,141
Total LfabIlities ad
Shereholdwem  Funds                 39,153   50,219   63,017   64,765   79,175   85,584  13S,230
KEY RATIOS (Percentoge)
Asset Growth Rate                                 28.26    25.48      2.77    22.25      8.09    58.01
Return on Capital (ROC)                  .1.09    17.04    21.48      3.19     5.20     5.57      3.73
Return on Equity (RNE)                 -19.56    37.96    60.17       2.04     5.43     4.99      2.99
Debt/Equity Ratio                         1.63     2.30     2.47      0.76     0.74      0.53     0.34
Current Ratio                            0.28      1.57     1.39      2.10     1.96      1.56     0.99
Source: IDC AImal Reports



ANNEX XI
Page I of 3
MALAWI
FINANCIAL SECTOR AND ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CONSULTANCY ON MONITORING AND
FORECASTING OF TRENDS AND DEVELOPMENTS IN MONETARY AGGREGATES
A.   Objective
1.  The Government, in consultation with the Reserve Bank of Malawi (RBM),
have embarked on a reorientation of the implementation of monetary
policy from being based on direct control of credit and interest rates
to indirect monetary instruments and mechanisms. This shift of focus
in the conduct of monetary policy calls for the transformation of the
financial sector and for more effective monetary programming.
B. Assignment Summarv
2.  In the light of the above, the assignment of the consultant will
consist essentially, but not exclu3ively, in assisting RBM to
reorganize and strengthen the system for monitoring and forecasting
credit and monetary developments and trends in order to provide inputs
for the monetary programming process and thereby improve regular
planning and review of monetary policy actions. More specifically,
this will entail:
(i)   reorganizing and strengthening the existing statistical data
base according to the requirements of monetary programming and
relating it to the model mentioned below;
(ii)  formulating  an  operational  econometric  model  in  order  to
forecast developments and trends in money and credit; and
(iii) providing operational training to staff of RBM in order to allow
it to maintain and improve the statistical data base and run and
further develop the forecasting model.
C. Assitmnet locus
3.  The assignment will focus mainly on assisting RBM in establishing a
strong data base and practical and operational modelling capacity for
forecasting  developments  and  trends  in money  and  credit.    The
assistance to be provided must ensure that all the elements necessary
for RBM to carry out and develop independently, statistical and
modelling work in the monetary area, be firmly in place when the
assignment ends.



- 115 _                     ANNEX XI
Page 2 of 3
D. Framework for this Assainment
4.  RBM uses the standard IMF, statistical framework. Tne Central Banking
Department of the Fund made a number of recommendations for
strengthening and developing monetary programming in its report
entitled  "The  Monetary  Policy  Framework  in malawvi       Improving
Instruments and Markets." The consulting company will work within
this IMF framework ensuring that the data base and the econometric
model (and its output) are fully compatible with the IMF statistical
requirements and the Report's recommendations.  Close liaison with
the IMF and IMF assistance programs during the assignment will have
to be maintained.
E. Initial Areas of Focus
5.  Because of the specific objectives and operational outcome expected
from this assignment, RBM, with the assistance of the consulting
company, will ultimately decide which areas are to be focused on and
in which order of priority.   The areas listed below are in all
probability those that will have to be addressed. The list, however,
is not inclusive nor, at this stage, binding.  The final program will
be established' in conJln'vcion with RBM.
(a)   Re-oraanization of the Data Base
The component requires provision of assistance to RBM in the
following areas, among others: (i) revision and improvement of
the existing data base on credit, money and financial
institutions; (ii) development of existing or new components of
the data base when warranted in general or specifically for
modelling; and (iii) maintenance of full compatibility with the
IMF statistical requirements int he tasks listed in this
paragraph;
(b)   Formulation of an Ooerational Econometric Model
This component requires provision of assistance to RBM in,
inter alia, formulation of an econometric model to forecast
trends and developments in money (and its components) and credit
that will be a major input in the monetary programing system
of RBM. The model may have to be supported or complemented by
analytical projection. that the consulting company is also to
develop.  Particular attention will have to be paid on crop
financing cycles and patterns of foreign exchange inflows, in
as far as these are affected by seasonal factors.
(c)   Testina and Running-in the Model
6.  The carrying out of the three components mentioned above need to be
integrated within an associated training program for a team of
professionals RBM will assign to monetary modelling and programing.
rhe consulting company is to develop this training program and run it
joirtly with its other assistance in the statistical and econometric



- 116 -                       ANNEX XI
Pogo 3 of 3
field.   The objective of this tral.ning is to strengthen the team
capacity  in  such  a way  that  in  the  future  it  can  carry  out
independently the statistical and econometric tasks mentioned above.
G. Hardware and Software Reauired
7. The consulting company will assist RBM in equippitng itself with the
appropriate hardware and software for carrying out end developing its
statistical, econometric and monitoring work related to credit and
money management.
H. Linkaaes with Other Proiect Co2Monents
8. The development of this component of the envisaged Technical
Assistance Project will be closel4 linked and related to the two other
components, namely with the organization of an auction s7stem and
development of a money market" and the "establishment of a venture
capital fund."



- 117 -                      ANNEX XII
Page I of 2
MALAWI
FINANCIAL SECTOR AND ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CONSULTANCY ON THE RESTRUCTURING
OF THE POST OFFICE SAVINGS BANK (POSB)
1.   To review the spin-off of the Post Office Savings Bank (POSB) from the
malavi Post Office system and restructuring of the POSB as an
independent body on the basis of a modified legal structure. this task
will also entail the proposal of an effective and efficient
organizational link-up with the Malawi Post Office system to ensure
continued acceptance and repayment of saving deposits through country-
wide post offices.
2.  Reviewing the objectives, policies and functions in the context of the
restructuring of the POSB.   This exercise is expected to yield a
realistic corporate strategy and plan which determines the operational
targets, results and time-frame for the new POSB on the basis of its
redefined objectives. In establishing the POSB'S strategy and corporate
plan, due consideration is to be given to its posinion vis-a-vis its
competitors such as commercial banks and cooperatives (MUSCCO). This
exercise should also focus on the need to improve barking services in
rural areas.
3.   Review of the accounting system to determine its suitability and to
ensure that deposit and interest recording and )verall financial
statements are up-to-date. This ahould also include a proposal of the
hardware and software requiremeLtts for effective comp ':er operations.
4.   An assessment of liquidity and capital criteria ir line with RBM
requirements on the basis of the &Aisting banking legi3sqtion, as well
as to modify the current investment policy of the POSB. This exercise
should aim at introducing lending operations, establit,'.Vg a lending
criteria, determining the scope of future operations, and developing
guidelines on acceptance of deposits in order to ensure viability of a
restructured POSB without exposing it to undue risks.
5.   Review of the tax-free status for interest of POSB deposits and the
Government guarantee arrangement for the POSB's savings deposits and to
propose options.
6.   Reexamination of the POSB's interest rate structure to facilitate
resource mobilization and ensure financial viability and soundness,
taking into account the need for gradual-broadening of the POSB's
capital base. This exercise must take due regard of the objectives of
the POSB and the prevailing interest rate structure in the market.



- 118 -                        ANNEX XII
Page 2 of 2
7.   Determination of the functions of the Board cf an independent POSB and
propose an appropriate composition of the membership of the Board.
8.   Review of the existing cost-sharing arrangement between POSB and Post
Office for services rendered (acceptance and repayment of deposits) by
the latter, as well as to propose a management information system which
should be an integral part of the imminent prudential and monetary
supervision requirements of RBM.
9.   Determination of staffing needs, qualifications and remuneration of
members of staff for an independent POSB, including identification of
training needs and programs, and technical assistance requirements.
10. Revision of the POSB legislation to be compatible with a restructured
POSB.
Finally, the restructuring of the POSB will be undertaken in close
consultation with the Treasury and the Reserve Bank of Malawi.



- l!9 -                       ANNEX XIII
Page 1 of 9
MALAWI
FINANCIAL SECTOR AND ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT OF FINANCIAL SERVICES FOR
NON-TRADITIONAL EXPORT SECTOR
1.   Background
First suggestions to introduce financial services and incentives for
export development were made in 1982 by a committee of the Malawi Export
Promotion Council (MECP).   In the following year, a mission of the
International Trade Centre UNCTAD/GATT (ITC) made recommendations to the
Malawi Government to establish, inter alia, suitable export finance,
refinance and insurance schemes. Those recommendations were followed-
up in 1986-88 by Mr. V.H. Pandya, Senior Adviser in Export Credit
Systems from ITC, whose findings together with memorandums of official
discussions were compiled in a report dated September 16, 1988. This
consultancy project was financed by the World Bank and counterpart
agencies in malawi were the Reserve Ba-k of Malawi (RBM) and the
Ministry of Trade, Industry and Tourism.
The following schemes were introduced in the report for gradual
implementationt
(a)   Short-term Pre-shipment and Post-shipment Export Financing Scheme;
(b)   Short-term Export Credit Refinance Scheme;
(c)   Export Credit Guarantee Scheme; and
(d)   Foreign Exchange Revolving Fund Scheme.
At the time of the report, exporters faced serious difficulties to
procure foreign inputs for production and Foreign Exchange Revolving
Fund (the Fund) was considered the most crucial scheme to help non-
traditional  exporters.    Consequently,  an Act  was  passed  in  the
Parliament for its implementation with two other export incentives
(Income tax allowance, Duty drawback). According to the Act exporters
are to be registered by the secretariat of National Export Policy
Committee.  The Fund is to be managed by RBM in accordance with the
standing orders of the Committee prescribing a ceiling for the use of
the Pund by each exporter.
2.   Beneficiaries of the Fund
The target group of the Fund (and other recommended schemes) were and
still are non-traditional exporters, the concept of which usually
excludes tobacco, tea and sugar producers.  The export value of non-
traditional agro-processed and manufactured products totaled K 119
million (about US$40 million) in 1988 or 16S of the total exports of the
country.   According  to a World Bank estimate,  out of the total
industrial production only about 3t are exported. This indicates, that



- 120 -                        ANNEX XIII
Page 2 of 9
there are very few if any producers who are operating solely in
exporting business and that major needs for foreign currency arise from
domestic production.  If those needs are not met it is quite obvious
that enterprises are not able to uphold their export production, either.
As a conclusion, the Fund might appear to be inefficient should the
overall foreign exchange availability deteriorate for some reason or
other.
3.   Present Situation
Since the ITC report, none of the recommended schemes is in operation.
As far as the Fund is concerned RBM has prepared for its implementation
a brief procedural guidelines (modus operandi). The following reasons
may have affected for the slow progress to implement the Fund. First,
due to the increased support by multilateral development finance
institutions and bilateral donors, foreign exchange availability has
improved since 1988 and a need for any specific arrangement lessened.
At the same time the ongoing import liberalization programme of Malawi
has made it easier for exporters to procure foreign inputs of production
such as raw materials, spare parts and intermediate goods.  Second,
there seem to have been certain conceptual discrepancy between various
parties regarding the operational mechanism of the Fund. On one hand,
it has been understood as a pool of foreign exchange that would be made
available against Kwacha equivalent payments by exporters without a
credit element. On the other hand, it has been perceived not only as
a source of foreign exchange but also a short-term export credit
refinancing facility. Both the interpretations are Jasically possible
with a difference that the latter alternative offers a better mechanism
to control the credit terms to ultimate beneficiaries (exporters).
Apart from improved availability of foreign exchange, also the
commercial banks have developed their financial services thus decreasing
requirements to introduce Government-supported special schemes.  For
example, the banks seem to be able to provide sufficient short term
financing for exporting purposes provided that sufficient collateral is
offered. For those (small-scale) clients who are short of collaterals
one of the banks is planning to open-up a pilot scheme whereby a
client's viable business can be accepted as a security for the repayment
of the credit.   RBM, on the other, hand,  is going to expand its
rediscounting facility to commercial banks should there arise liquidity
shortage. Regardirg credit insurance, one of the schemes recommended
earlier, it was noticed during the Mission that as exports are usually
paid by Letter of Credit and there would be limited demand for a new
insurance scheme.  Also, foreign buyer and country risk assessments
would require considerable resources in relation to benefits.
4.  Measures to be Taken
The discussions with RBM and commercial banks led to a conclusion that
under the present situation in Malawi the only urgently needed financial
service would be a guarantee scheme to secure pre- and post-shipment
finance for non-traditional exporters. The guarantee should cover the



- 121 -                         ANNEX XIII
Page 3 of 9
lending bank and in case the exporter defaults, a certain percentage of
the lose suffered by the bank would be reimbursed by the guarantee
institution that is designed to be RBM.  On that basis proposals were
drafted during the Mission for operating policies, procedures and major
outlines of an Export Credit Guarantee Facility (the Facility) and they
were discussed with RBM, various ministries and commercial banke,
Annex 1. To strengthen thu professional capacity of RBM to implement
and to operate the new Facility a technical assistance component is
proposed to be included in the Project, Annex 2.



ANNEX XIII
Page 4 of 9
J:Xi-'oR  CREDIT GIJARANTEE FACILITY
A.   01S  C  VE
il  Fxpl- Cro-il  ClGlral',toe Vacility (the Facility) will contribute
t   k 'ilA' ab'/ d JAhO or f i cation of Lilt Malawi export base by providing
c:o laterai &upporpl  t hiel-kgh guarantuets to the banks extending pre- or post-
Thiptaent finanLinKg to onterprises for nortLraditional export production and
sales.   This fdcility wi3l help sucli exporters secure financing and the
Facility will incroa-.e confidence among foreign buyers that Malawi exporters
can fulfil their cox ractual commitmeents as reliable suppliers.
The Faci)!.ty is expected to be financially self-supporting in the
long-run which means that the guarantee fee income will have to cover
administration costs and claim payments.   In order to fulfil its export
development function9 however, certain risks and guarantee losses will be
inevitable and will lijve to be accepted.
B.   Oierational Mechaniam of the Facilitt
The exporter would submit a credit guarantee application through his
commercial bank to the Reserve Bank of Malawi (RBM) for setting a guarantee
limit on revolving basis.  Based on a risk assessment of the exporter and
other relevant factors REM/Treasury would agree to assume a maximum liability
under the guarantee that will cover all the bank's pre- and post-shipment
advances to the exporter during a period of one year. The bank would open
an account in the name of the exporter which would only be used for credits
under the Facility.   Based on the export orders already received and/or
export orders in the pipeline, the exporter would then submit applications
to his bank  fo-r short-term  financing.   The bank would process  those
applications on their own merits and present the periodic statements to RBM
showing the details of the credit advances and the exporter's repayments.
The proceeds of export sales in Kwacha will be deposited on said account and
used for repayment of the loan. If the exporter defaults on his repayment
obligation and if the default persists the bank would put in a claim and RBM
would pay the bank the agreed percentage of loss.
C. Maior Outlinee of the Facility
i.  Institutional Set-up
The implementing and managing agency of the Facility would be RBM
which Will develop required administrative services and establish an Export
Credit Guarantee Fund (ECGF) to meet claims and to be credited with guarantee
fee payments by participating banks.  The Facility will maintain separate
accounts from those of the RBM which would be annually audited. A separate
accounting system will support the reputation of RBM's role as a specific
guarantee organization. Periodic management reports will be prepared on the
operations of the Facility.



ANNEX XlII
Page 5 of 9
Participating banks are expepe'ed to iave an important role in the
institutional set-up of the Facility, They would iiot cnly extend financing
t, De guaranteed but also maintain suitable records on export credit and
guarantee transactions for monitoring purposes and promote exporters to use
the Facility.  To strengthen the collaboration, RBM and participating banks
will establish  arn inTformal  Cnnsul tat ive Crnup  for  tlie  ru,pport of the
cperatve staff to:
(a)   discuss on-going export credit and guarantee activities; and
(b)   provide  guidance   and  recommendations   to  improve   the
performance of the Facility.
The preliminary plan is that the Facility be located in the Export
Section of the Exchange Control Department of the RBM. Currently the Section
employs five professional staff dealing with export payments.  Their know-
how would support the new activities although it is not directly of the kind
required to run the Facility. The immediate professional staffing needs of
the Facility include two senior officers; one for supervision of activities
and administration of the ECGF and the other for operations to process
guarantee claim applications. Their organizational and reporting positions
should be designed to attract skilled and motivated individuals to run the
Facility.
Finally, a separate body (the Board) will have to be nominated for
approval of gu..cantees, claim settlements and any exceptional deviation f-om
established policies and procedures.
2. The Policies
Risks Covered
The RBM credit guarantees will cover the risk of non-payment of
exporters to the participating ban;s.  The principal repayment source for a
bank credit will be the export bill but it is the exporter's responsibility
to repay the credit notwithstanding the foreign buyer's payment.
Guarantee Optiono
(a)   Pro-shipment Credit Guarantee
The pro-shipment Credit Guarantee is drdigned to provide
collateral for bank credit of up to e maximum of 180 days,
that  is  granted  in  an  amour:t  up  to  the  domestic
production/processing cost of the products to be exported.
The credit can be drawr in tranchaes according to the
production/processing costs. The validity of the Guarantee
will always be in accordance with the production period, that
is, from the purchase of inputs until the d&to of shipment and
equal to the duration cf the credit.  Because tho domestic
cost may include refundable duties at shipment, it is possible
that pre-shipment credit guarantee need to bo higher than the
export price of the product.



124 -                          ANNEX XIII
Page 6 of 9
(b)   Post-shipment Credit Guarantee
The post-shipment Credit Guarantee is designed to provide
collateral to a bank credit that is granted to refinance the
supplier credit extended by the exporter to its foreign buyer.
The maximum amount of credit to be guaranteed is the same as
the supplier credit and the maximum guarantee period 180 days.
and
(c)   Packing/Individual Credit Guarantee
Under the above categories of pre- and post-shipment credit
guarantees, a guarantee limit is usually granted within which
individual export transactions of the exporter are then
financed  and  guaranteed  (Packing  Credit  Guarantee).    A
Guarantee may also be provided without a pre-established limit
against a specific export order to cover pre- and post-
shipment advances to the exporter who is occasionally selling
abroad (Individual Credit Guarantee).
It is expected that a guarantee for pre-shipment finance will be
more often used than post-shipment guarantees because the exporter is usually
paid under a Letter of Credit. When this is the case the exporter will not
need either post-shipment finance or guarantee coverage.
Eliaibilitv
The primary objective of the Facility is to increase production for
export.  Therefore, the Facility will be available to all types of Malawi
exporters of non-traditional products including not only industrial and
agricultural producers but also export merchants and traders. However, to
be eligible for the guarantee of the Facility manufacturers have to show that
their export products contain at least 30S local value added.  Similarly,
export traders have to prove that their products are locally manufactured
with a value added as mentioned above.
Although the Facility is designod to complement rather than
substitute normal collateral, exporters will not be classified in this regard
in order to widen the risk spread of the guarantee portfolio so as to
strengthen the self-sustaining nature of the Facility.
Guaranteo teo
Depending on the risk assessment, the guarantee fee may vary between
1 - 1.52 per annum for pre-shipment stage and 0.75 - 1.252 for post-
shipment. The fee is charged on the highest amount outstanding at any time
during the month. In addition to risk assessment the size of the guarantee
fee is also dependent on the operating cost of the Facility.
Recourse and Risk Assessment
RBM will not require any counter-guarantee or collateral from the
exporter. However, foreign receivabloe will be usually transferred to the



- l125 -
ANNEX XIII
Page 7 of 9
benlefit of the bank or RBM.   RBM reserves the right of recourse to the
exporter to the extent that claims have been paid to a bank due to the
default of the exporter.   The aim of a recourse to the exporter is to
discourage a solvent exporter escaping his repayment obligations to the bank
just because the bank has secured a guarantee cover for the credit.
It is expected that the banks would be inclined to seek guarantees
to cover clients who, in their judgement, are potentially risky.   It is
therefore important sufficient expertise be developed in RBM for its won risk
assessment on exporters and their foreign transactions to minimize guarantee
losses.
D. Export Credit Guarantee Fund
The Facility includes an Export Credit Guarantee Fund (ECGF) that
is needed as a resource base to meet claims if and when they arise.  The
creation of the ECGF will also provide assurance that the RBM/Treasury is
prepared to pay those claims. In addition to claims, the capital income of
ECGF may be used for covering the operating cost in initial stages of
exporter's development.
ECGF would be composed of the capital itself, guarantee fee income
and interest received on investments of ECGF. It is not expected that the
Fund would be immediately required for claims, because guarantee liabilities
will accumulate slowly. As for determining its size, the statistical base
is vague because commercial banks do not separate advances to foreign and
domestic production of their clients.   However, based on the annual non-
traditional exports volume (roughly KIOO million) and assumptions on turnover
and utilization of bank advances it is estimated that K4 million will be
sufficient.   It would provide a cover for a guarantee portfolio of K40
million applying a risk ratio of 10 percent.
E. Action Plan
The main steps during the implementation of the Export Credit
Guarantee Facility are expected to be the following:
1.    At the direction of the Government, RBM will make a formal
decision to establish the Facility and accordingly will take
the   initiative   to   create   the   necessary   legal   and
administrative framework for the Facility. Financial sources
will be identified for the ECGF, technical assistance and
initial operating costs.
2.    A  senior  officer will  be appointed  to be  in charge  of
implementation and necessary measures taken to reserve office
accommodation in RBM for the Facility.
3.    An experienced consultant will be hired to assist RBM in the
preparation and start-up of the Facility and a detailed work
plan prepared.



-   l  6  -
ANNEX XIII
Page 8 of 9
4.    RbM and participating banks will  nominiate  a Consultative
Group, holding periodic meetings to monitor the progress of
implementation and to provide advice once the Facility is
operative for solving various problems as they may arise.
A separat.e body (the board) will be nominated for guarantee
decislons, claim settlements and exceptional needs.
5.    RBM will make arrangements with selected  institutions  for
overseas  training  of  two  officers  and  respective  study
programs will be prepared and approved.
It is estimated that a maximum of six months is needed from the
decision to establish the Facility to the commencemenc of operations. The
current estimate is that the Facility will be operative by the date of
effectiveness of the proposed Financial Sector and Enterprise Development
Project, which is expected to be the first half of 1991.



ANNEX XIII
Page 9 of 9
MALAWI
FINANCIAL SECTOR AND ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EXPORT CREDIT GUARANTEE FACILITY
TECRNICAL ASSISTANCE TO THE RESERVE BANK OF MALAWI (RBM)
The establishment and start-up of the Facility will be supported by
means of technical assistance which will be provided to the Reserve Bank of
Malawi (RBM). A minor part of the assistance will be given to participating
banks  to train  '.eir staff.   By keeping records on export  credit  and
guarantee transacations through specific accounts, participating banks will
lessen  the   administrative   burden   the  RBM.        The  most   important
responsibilities of RBM will be to process guarantee and claim applications
but will also include monitoring and administarative tasks.
Technical assistance to RBM will include (a) consultancy services
of eight man-months, of which two man-months will be local consultancyt
-     to formulate operating policies and procedures;
-     to prepare guidelines to banks and exporters on ;.arms and
conditions of exports credits and reporting requirements;
-     to  design  the  administrative  routines,  accounting  and
management information systemt
-     to prepare  presentation material  for  joint  seminars  and
training courses with commercial banks;
-     to provide management and administrative support to RBM once
the Facility is in operation; and
-     for micro computer related training (local consultant).
(b) procurement of a micro computer with software and equipment for
accounting, monitoring and management information systems on the operations;
(c) travel cost of two RBM officers to visit relevant countires experienced
in short term export credits and guarantees; one of the officers to
concentrate on risk assessment techniquoe and the other to review guarantee
policies and to identify potential operating risks anticipated in Malawi; and
(d) workshops for 100 participants, brochures and printed materials.
The total cost of the technical assistance is estimated at
US$138,000 with the following breakdown:
Total
Cost Item                                K'OOO          US$ 000    US$ 000
Consultancy services                        17               72         78
Computer, Office Equipment                                   20         20
Overseas Training                                            19         19
Workshops                                   14                           5
Printed Materials                           13                           5
Contingency                                  6                9         11
TOTAL                                    51               120        138



ANNEX XIV
Page 1 of 3
MALAWI
FINANCIAL SECTOR AND ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ESTABLISHMENT OF AN INVESTMENT PROMOTION AGENCY IN MALAWI
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
Backaround
1.       The Government of Malawi has placed high priority to diversifying
the country's traditional exports bass, by offering enhanced incentives and
infrastructure to exporters.  The Government recognizes the important role
that private investment, both foreign and local, can play in the successful
implementation of an export-oriented development strategy. To this end the
Government will introduce and Investment Policy Statement that includes its
policy towards the private sector, both local and foreign, and the incentives
offered to investors that contribute towards the achieving of the country's
development goals. Because it does not have experience in private investment
promotion, the Government will establish a small but influential agency to
help investors interact with Government and obtain official support services,
as well as promote local and foreign investment in Malawi.  A number of
decisions are needed in order to establish the agency.  Its mandate and
powers need to be clearly defined.   Its legal character needs  to be
determined, particularly whether it will be a public or private or "mixed"
organization. Its level of influence needs to be fixed high enough to be
useful to investors. Administrative issues of staffing and budget must be
resolved and a strategy of investment promotion has to be developed.
Concept
2.       Active investment promotion is only one of several tools available
to countries *ager to increase their entrepreneurial pool and the level of
investment activity. Investment promotion activities consist of providing
information and services to poteutial investors.  With foreign investment
other activities are added -- the creation of an image of the country as a
place to invest, outreach to attract investors and efforts at home to
identify and build-up local partners.
3.       In recent years there has been growing interest in developing
countries in foreign investment as a result of growing foreign debt,
budgetary constraints and a desire to involve the private sector in the
development process.   To this end many developing countries have either
recently started activo investment promotion programs, or are moving to
enhance the effectiveness of existing agencies.
4.       For Malavi, the proposal is for the agency to have an independent
existence (either as a corporation or a statutory body) and should report to
a board of directors, composed of public and private sector representatives.
The chairman of the board should be from the highest level of Government,
with sufficient authority to make decisions on matters affecting investors.



ANNEX XIV
Page 2 of 3
The agency should have only a small staff, recruited from the private sector.
Its budgct should only be large enough to carry out a modest promotional.
strategy.
5.       Even before the agency is officially established, Government will
select an individual who will eventually head the agency. The selection will
be made in consultation with IDA.  The individual selected will be put in
charge of following up all the actions needed to implement the Investment
Policy Statement and initiate the process of creating the agency.
6.       Investment Promotion Strateav.   Experience shows that the most
successful investment promotion programs rigorously target the countries anid
sectors where they seek foreign investors. Sector targets, of course, have
to be based on analysis of sectors where the country has attractive
investment opportunities as a result of its resource base, markets, location
and other factors.   Sector targets also have to take into account the
propensitise of foreign investors and capabilities of local investors. The
praparation of a strategy for Malawi should identify the sector priorities
for investment promotion.
7.       In addition to sector targets the strategy should identify the
country of origin of potential investors in Malawi. Country targets should
be linked to sector targets. That is, the countrites to be targeted should
be those where there are investors in the targeted sectors, and those
investors have reason to be looking for alternative investment sites.
Country targets also may take into account special factors, such as trade
agreements with the promoting country and historical or political ties.
8.       The last *lement of investment promotion strategy to be studies is
the choice of investment promotion techniques.   A country can focus on
creating awareness of its existence and its strength and improve its image
within the investment community as a favorable investment location. Or, it
can start direct "ales" efforts by targeting and approaching specific
investors and convincing them to locate their future investment in the
country. Or, it can provide incoming (and existing) investors with services
that will facilitate the investment process.  Investment promotion always
involves a mix of these activities. The study will determine that is the
proper mix considering the available resources and what is the correct
sequencing of their use.
9.       Structure of the Agency.  The individual selected should address
the detailed steps necessary for implementing the preferred form, including
the legal character of the institution, the composition of a pos3ible Board
of Directors, its relationship to Goverrment ministries and agencies, the
agency internal structure and functional responsibilities, the budgetary
requirements and possible sources of external finance and the agency
performance evaluation including the developmesnt of an "investor tracking"
system to follow up the promotion activities. Below is a tentative budget
estimate for the agency.



- 'l -(
ANNEX XIV
Page 3 of 3
MALAWI
FINAkCIAL SECTOR AND ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INVESTMENT PROMOTION AGENCY - COST ESTIMATES
(US Dollars)
Initial Investment in Establishing the Unit (if decided) will be:
2 cars                                30,000
Computer, printer, fax
copier, etc.                        10,000
Furniture                              7,500
Office alterations                     7,500
TO1*td                           55,000
The Annual Operating Costs of the Unit will be:
Manager                                10,000
2 senior staff                        10,000
3 secretarial staff and
assistants                          7,500
Public relations                      30,000
Travel, communicetions                20,000
Office expenses                       20e500
TOTAL                            98,000
NOIEQ     The total for five years will be US$545,000.   In addition, the
project vill need technical assistance in the form of a resident
adviser (and trainer) for one year at an estimated costs of
US$150,000.
The above budget estimates is based on the assumption that Malawi
will be engaged in a moderate promotion effort (not including
investor's targeting).



A.NN' EX XV
- 131 -                   Page 1 of 6
WORLD BANK
FINANCIAL SECTOR AND ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Small and Medium-Scale Enterprsies Component:
SME Technical Assistance and Training Fund
The following is a discussion paper for Government and potential donors.
Background
During the 1980s, a framework of institutions came into being to serve the
financial and TAS/BAS needs of small and medium-scale enterprises (SMEs).
Financial support for these institutions has come from Government and through
donor agenc'es, especially USAID, UNDP and EEC. Financial services to SMEs are
provided by tNDEFUND, SEDOM, MUSCCO and the kdlawi Mudzi Fund (MMF); assistance
is provided through DEMATT, SEDOM and MEDI. Credit institutions have indicated
that they have sufficient resources for the next three to five years. However,
SHEs continue to face a credit constraint due largely to the limits of SME
support institutions. The impact of SHE support institutions is constrained by
limited staff resources. Management talent is thin and there is a need to groom
mid and junior-level officers to assume increasing responsibilities.   DFI
professional staff are frequently recruited from university, and so often lack
skills, in addition to experience. Commercial bank staff have little exposure.
and therefore understanding of, SME needs; in addition, their staff is not
trained in term-lending.
Precis of proposed fund
The proposed SME technical assistance and training fund would address the
human resource constraint by improving the skill level of professional staff and
of entrenpreneurs.   The fund would make resources available for:  (i) the
development of professional staff at all levels in SME institutions; (ii) the
development of curriculum for training; and (iii) the training of entrepreneurs.
The majority of resources would be directed to in-country training initiatives.
Assistance would not be limited to the SME support institutions; other
institutions,  such  as NGOs,  would  be  eligible  to  draw upon  the  funds.
Institutions desiring assistance would develop proposals that would be reviewed
and approved by an SME TA and Training Committee to be under the umbrella of
. An annual cycle of proposal submission, review and approval would be
instituted, with guidelines established for project selection and allocation of
resources across organizations.
Rationale for fund and for IDA involvement
The TA and Training Fund is intended to strengthen the institutions that
have already been established by increasing their service delivery capacity.
In so doing, the fund would also promote the development of in-country training
facilities. The proposed fund would build on and leverage existing initiatives.



- 132 -                        ANNEX XV
Page 2 of 6
Location of fund
The location of the fund is not yet determined. In chosing a location.
it is important to keep the following criteria in mind: (i) neutrality of the
organization toward potential users and suppliers of TA/training; (ii) capacity
to administer funds; (iii) knowledge of SMEs. Possible locations for the fund
include in MTIT/SSIU, OPC/DPMT, an academic organization, creation of new
organization.   The fund should not be located in any of the SME support
institutions.
Wherever the location, a policy group will be formed that will meet
quarterly to set policies for the use of the fund, and review the progress of
the implementation. This group would include representatives form Government
(MTIT, OPC), SME support institutions (DEMATT, SEDOM, etc.), academia (MIM.
College of Accountancy), private sector (ABA, Chamber of Commerce), donors and
World Bank.
Evaluation process
A one-year cycle of planning and project approval would be used. Annually.
participating organizations would s,*t forth their training plans and requests
for staff and entrepreneur training, along established formats. Proposals would
address how the training complements the overall institutional development
strategy of the organization. Proposals for curriculum development would define
the training service, the target audience and demonstrate that demand for this
service exists.
To evaluate proposals, a committee would be established consisting of
representatives from: MTIT, DPMT, an academic institution (e.g., University of
Malawi, Malawi Institute of Management) and the private sector (e.g., Chamber
of Commerce, African Businessmen's Asociation).   This selection would ensure
that: the Government agencies with critical responsibilities are represented;
acceptable levels of training are promoted, through the inclusion of an academic
institution; the needs of the entrepreneurs are heard and addressed, through a
private sector representative. The principal SME support institutions that are
expected to use and benefit from the funds would not sit directly on the
committee, although they would have inputs at the policy group level..
Individual training would be available, but not limited to, the following
areas: management development (e.g., strategic planning, project administration,
staff developient), accounting and administration (financial planning, budgeting,
basic and intermediate accounting), project officer training (project preparation
and analysis, project supervision), extension agent training (field supervision
technicques, marketing, financial management, pricing and costing procedures).
Training for entrepreneurs could include: marketing, accounting and finance,
production and lay-out, personnel relations, project preparation.
Maximum limits would be established per grant and per organization. Out-
of-country training would be limited to a specified percentage (e.g., 20 percent)
of the total financial support received by any single organization.   A series
of guidelines for the evaluation of these requests would be established in
advance.



- 133 -                     ANNEX XV
Page 3 if h
Careful evaluation would be done of each training assistance; a short
evaluation would be conducted at the completion of the training and a more
comprehensive evaluation would be done six months after completion, when the
benefits of the training would be clearer.  If satisfactory results were not
attained, no future resources would be provided.
Potertial Users and Demand for Fund
It is anticipated that, among others, the following institutions would be
interested in participating in the fund: INDEFUND, SEDOM, MUSCCO. DEMATT, MEDI,
the commercial banks, CCAM, MACOHA, Mudzi Fund, Women's World Banking of Malawi,
Council  for  Social  Welfare  Services,  indigenous  NGOs,  POET.    While  a
comprehensive assessment of the training and management development requirements
of the existing SME institutions is needed to further refine projections, the
following is an estimated assessment of training needs per targeted SME
institution. These estimates are only indicative; actual training budgets would
be developed organization by organization, on a yearly basis. It is not expected
that the proposed TA and Training Fund would fully meet the training expenses
of SME-related institutions, but to act as a supplement.
SEDOM (US$25,000 per year, four-year total of US$100,000). In 1988, SEDOM
spunt about US$112,0000 on training and entrepreneur programs.  Training for
SEDOH personnel may include: financial administration for accounting and finance
personnel, advanced project appraisal and project packaging assistance, credit
supervision.   Training for entrepreneurs may include: business opportunity
identification, bookkeeping, and activity-specific workshops (e.g., in tailoring,
metal-working, agro-itdustry).
INDEFUND (US$25,000 per year, four-year total of US$100,000). In 1989,
INDEFUND invested about US$83,000 in staff and client training.   Possible
training for INDEFUND would parallel many of the themes identified for SEDOM;
however, in view of the scale and complexity of INDEFUND projects, INDEFUND
personnel may require more advanced courses.
MUSCCO (US$35,000 per yea. four-year total of US$110,000). MUSCCO does
not segregate training expenses, because a large share of MUSCCO activities
relates to training and TA for member cooperatives. Resources may be provided
for attendance of credit cooperative managers in the management certificate
program at the College of Accountancy. Additional training and 'residencies*
could be conducted for coop managers and coop credit committees, and financial
administration and accounting for other member coop staffs.
MEDI (US$20.000 per year, four-year total of US$80,000). Both MEDI and
DEMATT are potential users as well as suppliers of technical assistance and
training under the proposed fund.  A particular area of common need for such
institutions is to provide cross training among staff so that trainers with an
industrial focus become knowledgeable in financial administration and marketing.
Such cross training would entail a modest expenditure because of MEDI's in-
house training capabilities.  MEDI management may seek project planning and
administration programs conducted by HIM.
DEKATT (US$25,000 per year, three-year total of US$75,000). DEMATT has
an ambitious staff training program, even though there is no specific line
allocation in the DEMATT budget.  While it is difficult to anticipate total



- 134 -                         ANNEX X;.
Page   .,1 tr
training needs, specific sections of the in-house training curriculum would be
eligible for support.
Commercial  banks  (US$20,000  per year  per  bank,  four-year  total  of
US$200,000).  Commercial banks have expressed interest in resources for staff
development and training. Experiences in other countrie, indicate that lending
to SMEs can be stimulated through staff training and seminars that educate
commercial bank staff on appropriate lending and monitoring strategies for SME
project lending. In the past, the Malawi College of Accountancy has provided
some training services to the commercial banks.
Non-governmental organizations (US$100,000 per year, four-year total of
US$400,000). There are numerous organizations that are not directly supported
by the donor community to any great extent, but that provide some services to
local enterprises.  In many cases, the personnel of these organizations are not
well-prepared to undertake their responsibilities and would significantly
benefits from training. Organizations under this category include groups local
government, CCAM, MACOHA, member organizations of the Council for Social Welfare
Services,   and  other  chamber-like   organizations   including   the  Malawi
Businesswomen's Association, Chamber of Commerce, Exporters Association. Each
organization would have the opportunity to submit proposals to seek financial
support for their member training needs.
Entrepreneurship  training  through  multiRle   training  institutions
(US$100,000 per year, four-year total of US$400,000). MEDI and POET presently
provide specialized entrepreneurship training. Neither organization is strong,
although efforts  are underway to strengt'ien them.   There may be specific
entrepreneurship training activities provided by these institutions that could
be supported under the proposed fund. In addition, there are other in-country
institutions, such as the Mudzi Fund, that may respond with entrepreneur training
in areas such as marketing, production, financial planning, working capital
management.
Potential Sources of TA and Technical Assistance
Malavi College of Accountancy (QLCA. MCA provides professional full and
part-time technical level training in accounting and other aspects of financial
administration.    In addition to their standard course  sequences,  MCA has
developed specialized courses that are targeted to meet a particular related
training need, for example, in commercial banking and business computing. In
conjunction with MUSCCO, MCA developed a 14-month sequence of courses that
results in a certificate of management. MCA could use fund resources to expand
their certificate of management program or other programs as interest and demand
rises.
Malavi Institute of Management (MIM). MIM combines consulting services
with training workshops for management of diverse institutional types.  Most
workshops are short.   HIM courses that may be of interest to SME support
institutions include: planning, time management, marketing management and
business development, finance for financial managers, budgeting for the non-
profit sector. If demand warrants, MIM may use fund resources to develop courses
specifically geared to the needs of SME support institutions.
DEKATT.    While  DEMATT  is  principally  known  for  its  assistance  to



entrepreneurs,  it  has  also  trained  extension  agent  personnel  from  other
organizations, including MACOHA, Ministry of Community Services and World Vision.
DEMATT does not have sufficient training resources to train both DEMATT staff
and staff from other organizations. Under the proposed fund, DEMATT may be able
to expand their training of other organizations, making use of training materials
originally developed  in-house.   Non-governmental  organizations  that assist
women's income-generating activities frequently could benefit from the kind of
applied business training provided by DEMATT.
Other training sources. It has not been possible to visit and interview
all potential training sources. Training, for example, may be available from
the University of Malawi or from private sector sources.
Administration of Fund
It is expected that the services of an expatriate fund manager would be
needed for 18 to 24 months to establish administrative systems and define
standards and guidelines. A critical part of the would be to train a Malawian
counterpart. In addition to the expatriate and Malawian counterpart, one project
officer, one secretary and one clerk would be needed. The anticipated costs of
administering the fund are in the attached table.
Next Steps
Agreement needs to be reached on the location and administration of the
fund. Overlap with other donor programs should be examined, and donor interest
in cofinancing should be explored.



- 136 -                      ANNEX XV
Page 6 of 6
MALAWI
FINANCIAL SECTOR AND ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FUND
Year 1  Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Total
Staffing:
Consultant Services
(two years)         120.0    120.0       0.0        0.0     0.0   240.0
Counterpart Manager      9.0     10.0      12.0      14.0    16.0    61.0
Project Officer          4.3      4.9       5.7       6.5      7.5    28.9
Secretary                2.5      2.9       3.3       3.8      4.4    16.9
Clerk                    1.4      1.6       1.9       2.2      2.5     9.6
Staff Training              4.0      4.6       5.3       6.1      7.0    27.0
Furniture                   5.0      0.5       0.5       0.5      0.5     7.0
Equipment and Supplies    10.0        1.5      1.5        1.5     1.5    16.0
Publicity                   5.0       1.5      1.5        1.5     1.5    11.0
Miscellaneous               5.0      5.0       5.0       5.0      5.0    25.0
TA Fund Manage-
ment                    166.2    152.5      36.7      41.1    45.9   442.4
TA to Fin. Insts.          70       80.5      92.6     106.5   122.4   472.0
Contingencies              23.6     23  3     12.9       14.8            91.4
TOTAL                     259.8    256.4    142.2      162.3   185.1 1,005.8
Assumptionst
Consultant services and equipment/supplies are assumed to be in foreign
exchange. Rate of MR 2.80 - US$1 is used.
Inflation of 10S assumed.
Staffing%
- Consultant services would be needed for two years.
- Salary increase are calculated at 52 per year.
- Starting salaries: for counterpart manager, MR 25,000; for project -
officer, MR 12,000; for secretary, MN 7,000; for clerk MR 4,000.



- 137 -
ANNEX XVI
Page I of 2
HALAWI
FINANCIAL SECTOR AND ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (FSEDP)
APEX UNIT
A. Description of the Unit
1.       The Apex Unit will  serve as the principal  link between  IDA,
Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs) and beneficiaries of the line of
credit and export development components.
2.       The RBM's Research & Statistics Department already has a claims and
loan disbursement unit with a permanent staffing level of three economists,
but is able to call upon extra manpower from the department as and when
necessary. This unit will be expanded by the addition of one more economist
to enable it to tackle the additional workload envisioned under FSEDP.
3.       The  unit,  in  its  present  format,  is very  familiar with  IDA
disbursement and reporting procedures. It is this unit which was responsible
for managing external lines of credit to the Government under SALs I to III
and currently is responsible for managing ITPAC, ASAC and Agricultural
Marketing & Estate Development funds. The unit has a secure room in the Bank
reserved for the storage of relevant supporting documentation and has access
to computer facilities for accounting and record-keeping purposes.
4.       The  Apex  Unit  will  be  reorganized  as  follows.           Overall
responsibility for the smooth operation of the Apex Unit will rest with the
Director of Research & Statistics who will report directly to the Senior
Management of the Reserve Bank.  An assistant Director will, however, be
responsible for the day-to-day running of the whole unit.  The Assistant
Director will have a group of four core staff; two of whom will concentrate
solely on FSEDP and the Agricultural Marketing & Estate Development Project
since the operational arrangements are more or less similar. The other two
members will continue managing ITPAC and ASAC operations.
B. Function. of the Apex Unit
5.       The overall  function of  the Unit will be  the processing  and
administration of subloans. More specifically, the unit will carry out the
following:
(i)   review of appraisal reports prepared by PFIs to ensure that
all eligibility criteria are adequately meti



ANNEX XVI
Page 2 of 2
(ii)  disbursement  and collection of  funds granted  to PFIs  in
conjunction  with  the  Foreign  Exchange  Department  where
necessary;
(iii) supervision of procurement under the project and ensuring that
all procurement is done under procedures acceptable to IDA;
(iv)  managing the Special Account through the Foreign Exchange
Department including submission of monthly statement of
transactions on the account;
(v)   maintaining accounts and records adequate  to reflect the
project's operations and financial situation in accordance
with sound accounting principles. In addition, arrange for
the auditing of same, annually, by independent auditors; and
(vi)  submit to IDA:
periodic reports on the status of the portfolio of subloans
and investments;
disbursement reports on the project accounts;
periodic reports on the use of technical assistance/training
fund; and
progress reports on the key areas of the project within six
months after the end of each calendar year.



- 139 -                        AMX xvii
Page 1 of L
MALAWI
FINANCIAL SECTOR AND ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(Cumulative USS Thousands)
IDA Fiscal Year                    Credit          T.A.                Cumulative
and Quarter Ending                Component    Component  Total              2
FY91
June 30, 1991                     ----             500       500          1.62
FY92
September 30, 1991                                 600       600          1.9S
December 31, 1991                     400          800      1200          3.82
March 31, 1992                       1000          900      1900          5.9S
June 30, 1992                        2200         1200      3400         10.62
FY93
September 30, 1992                   3350         1550      4900         15.32
December 31, 1992                    4600         1700      6300         19.72
March 31, 1993                       5900         1750      7650         23.92
June 30, 1993                        7800         1900      9700         30.32
FY94
September 30, 1993                   9500         2250    11750          36.72
December 31, 1993                   10600         2500    13100          40.92
March 31, 1994                      12200         2650    14850          46.42
June 30, 1994                       14200         2800    17000          53.12
FY95
September 30, 1994                  15600         2900    18500          57.82
December 31, 1994                   16500         3350    19850          62.02
March 31, 1995                      17600         3600    21200          66.32
June 30, 1995                       19700         3700    23400          73.12
FY96
September 30, 1995                  20100         3900    24000          75.02
December 31, 1995                   21700         4300    26000          81.32
March 31, 1996                      23150         4400    27550          86.12
June 30, 1996                       23930         4550    28480          89.02
FY97
September 30, 1996                  24950.        4550    29500          92.22
December 31, 1996                   26050         4550    30600          95.62
March 31, 1997                      26810         4550    31360          98.02
June 30, 1997                       27450         4550    32000         100.02



ANNEX XVIII
Page I of 4
MALAWI
FINANCIAL SECTOR AND ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
1.       Bank Supervision Input into Key Activities.  The staff input
indicated in the attached table is in addition to regular supervision
needs, such as the review of progress reports, procurement and disbursement
actions, and correspondence. In view of the complexity of the project,
supervision is expected to require 16 staffweeks per year during the first
three project years (of which eight will be in the field) and 11 staffweeks
for each year thereafter (of which six will be spent in the field).
2.       Borrower's Contribution to Supervision.
(a) Progress Reports are to be submitted as follows:
(i)    every six months (a) a report on the
status of the portfolio financed with
credit funds (based on quarterly reports
from PFIs indicating status of portfolio
financed with project funds and
statements of financial and resource
posisiton); (b) disbursements reports on
project accounts; (c) quarterly reports
on the technical assistance training
fund; and (d) three months after the end
of the financial year, annual reports on
key project areas.
(ii)  at the end of September of each year;
(iii)  by the Apex Unit, with significant input from the
Malawi Institute of Management for report (c).
(b) Project monitoring and coordination will be the
responsibility of the Apex Unit, with
significant input from the Malawi Institute of
Management for the Training Fund.   Review
meetings with the participation of the various
project agencies will be held normally in
Ministry of Finance, unless otherwise indicated
by Government, of each year. The meetings will
be chaired by MOF.



l-41   -
ANNEX XVIII
Page 2 of 4
(c) The Ministry of Finance and will be responsible for
coordinating arrangements for Bank supervision missions
including the selection of appropriate local personnel to
accompany the missions. The Apex Unit will be
responsible for providing information required by
missions. For missions of a specialized nature, the
borrower will make available appropriately skilled staff
to work with the missions;
(d) Mission briefing meetings and arrival, and wrap-
up meetings will normally be chaired by the MOF
with the participation of other project
entities.
3.       T&iis supervision plan will be updated formally once a year,
during the Annual Review of Implementation and Supervision
(August/September) and more frequently as changing country and project
circumstances may require.



- 142 -                     ANNEX XVIII
Page 3 of 4
MALAW!
FINANCIAL SECTOR AND ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SuD.rvision Plan: Bank Sup.rvision Input into Key Activities
Approximate
Datss                                          Expected Sklll   Staff Input)
(month/year)               Activity               Requirements      (staffweeks)
(3/91    Board approval)
5/91    Sunervision/Prolect Launch            Operations Officer         2.0
Mission: focus on status
of conditions
Key activities, by component:
Line of Credit
- status of Apex Unit
- PPI participation - esp.
PFIs new to IDA lending
- streamlining of industrial
land allocation
Industrial Sites
- Status of action program
TA
- status of ECGF
POSB
- investment promotion
strategy
- MTIT studies
- INDEaBsK diversification
- str egthening of MDC
- training fund
Project Launch Workshop
- Project cycle
- Procurement
- Disbursement
5/91       Review of INDEBANK                    Banking
diversification
TOTAL FY 91                                                     4.0



ANNI:X XVI I1
Page 4 of 4
Approximate
Dates                                           Expected Skill   Staff Input
(nonth/year)               Activity                Requirements      (staffweeks)
FY 92
9/91       Review of ECGF                         Export Development         1.5
Expert
9/91       Supervision Mission:  focus on         Operations officer (2)   7.5
procedures for use of credit         Disbursements/
and review of POSB work                    procurement          2.0
- disbursements, procurement,
reporting
- DFI participation
- POSB work
TOTAL FY 92                                                     11.0
FY93 -     Supervision Missions
(2 2er year)                         Operations officer        11.0
FY94       Su2ervision Mission: Mid-term          Operations officer        12.0
Review                                Disbursements/
- achievement of development              prc 2urement
objectives
- review of project implementation
- review of legal covenants (esp.
audit and reporting requirements)
FY95       Su2ervision Missions (2): focus        Operations officers       iO.0
on commitment of credit funds
FY96)      Supervision Missions:
(2 ger rear)                         Operations officer        10.0
FY97       SuperVision Mission: focus on          Operations officer         9.0
closing and data for
preparation of PCR
FY98       Closinf Date/PC Preparation                                        6.0



,nr.~ 1(924
K 4rings                 ADMINISTRATIVE
'  Cble    5 .                 DIVISIONS
Regions
and
, _,<a;_.     o,,to i.                      Districts
Principal Roaas
/   OEseeneea        <                   ;?l~~~~~~vers
9"         W MA                    0    Towns
OSt Aug4tnw              *    Dlstrlct Capilals
M"b Ld       0                                      National Capital
*        oa.dzi        /mALAWf
CA*jPRk I o   a                   District Bounoarles         2'
:A -  U   I               Region Bounaaries
(,                  -       Internatlonal Boundaries
'             KILOtETERS 0  20  40  eo  80  o00
ChUlu                                               
o                                               MALES 0     20    40    SO
* N'JQ~othkot*
*Kseungu
Th L.ak&                                   DOowa                        \
Mehinhi
146 LLONa4WE                                                           S         \41
kuLlh n4
Ded7                               ro Mmcakg
ualak8
5 * * s 5'~ 5. 5t55   |  ?      tMachIna.
*ZOMba
(ENIA  OI4LI&                           so
ZAIRE
TAI4A                 -eChKWewa a                          tucIiteu    Mua'lUe                   4'
A                                                                              ro Rate~~~~~o 
S f ~~~~~~~~~~~MeKand.                                       Thyobl
ANGOLA                                                                                             lb )Be /r  et
2   ZRs4BAWE  ba Z\ u
ILADACGACAR                                               N MIS
3sOLnlp __



