Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7407-GU 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Second Broad-Based Growth Development Policy Loan) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated May 18, 2007 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7407-GU 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated May 18, 2007, entered into between REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA 
(
“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the 
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Bank has decided to 
provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has 
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I A. of Schedule I to 
this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic 
policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I
—GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II
—LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of $100,000,000 (one hundred million 
Dollars), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement 
(“Loan”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program 
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject 
to any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from 
time to time. 
 
2.04. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) 
of the Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be 
determined by the Bank from time to time. 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any 
 
waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
to time; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion 
Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15
 
in each year. 
 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
2.09. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.08 of this 
Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate 
basis applicable to consecutive withdrawals from the Loan Account which in the 
aggregate equal $100,000,000 (one hundred million Dollars), shall be converted 
from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full maturity of such amount 
in accordance with the provisions of the General Conditions and of the 
Conversion Guidelines. 
 
2.10 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.10 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information 
relating to the provisions of this Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, 
reasonably request. 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE III
—PROGRAM 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Loan which 
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV
—REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
(b) The 
Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has become 
inconsistent with the objectives of the Program. 
(c) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any 
action or policy under the Program, including any action listed under 
Section I.A. of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, in a manner that would, in 
the opinion of the Bank, adversely affect the achievement of the 
objectives of the Program. 
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
Any event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement 
occurs and is continuing for a period of 30 days after notice of the event 
has been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
Page  5
-
4
-
(b) 
Any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement occurs. 
 
ARTICLE V
—EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
 
Deadline is the date (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case 
 
later than the eighteen(18) months after the B
ank’s approval of the Loan which 
 
expires on February 29, 2008. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Public Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministerio de Finanzas Públicas 
 
8a Avenida y 21 Calle 
 
Centro Cívico, Zona 1 
 
Guatemala, Guatemala, C.A. 
 
Telephone:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
(502) 22485002  
 
(502) 22485005 
(502) 22485003 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for  
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI) 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA 
 
By
 /s/ Hugo Beteta Méndez-Ruíz 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Jane Armitage 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Section I
.
Actions under the Program
A. 
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
 
1. 
Promoting Growth and Strengthening the Investment Climate 
(a) 
The Borrower, through its Congress, has enacted Legislative Decree No. 
11-2006 (
Reform
as Legales para la Implementación del Tratado de 
Libre Comercio República Dominicana-Centroamérica-Estados Unidos 
de América
)
dated May 18, 2006 and published in the 
Borrower’s 
Diario 
de Centro America
 on May 29, 2006, which includes provisions to 
ensure the entry into force and effect of DR-CAFTA. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower, through a letter dated July 26, 2006 (with attached 
reports) issued by MFP has certified that, pursuant to the Joint 
Declaration of Heads of States and Government of Central America 
dated February 01, 2005 (
Declaración Conjunta de los Jefes de Estado y 
de Gobierno de los Países del Sistema de la Integración 
CentroAmericana
), the customs procedures among the Borrower and 
selected neighboring countries (El Salvador and Honduras) have been 
simplified and harmonized in order to promote stronger regional 
integration. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower, through a letter dated July 26, 2006 (with attached 
reports) issued by MFP has certified that, based on objectives of 
efficiency, a reduction in customs processing times and costs has been 
achieved through: 
 
(i) 
the implementation of an electronic customs manifest in 
all ports and airports of the territory of the Borrower;  
 
(ii) 
the establishment of a permanently open (24/7) air 
express office   a
t
Borrower’s Aurora Airport and one-
stop 
offices 
for 
 
documentation analysis at border 
crossings with selected  neighboring countries in Central 
America; 
 
(iii) 
the implementation of a single customs declaration; and 
 
(iv) 
the implementation of a risk assessment and selectivity 
system based on SAT databases and information to 
Page  8
-
7
-
ensure a reduction of the arbitrariness and number of 
customs inspections (red lights).  
 
(d) 
The Borrower: (i) through its Congress, has enacted Legislative Decree 
No. 41-2005 (
Ley del Registro de Informa
ción Catastral
)
dated June 15, 
2005 
and published in the Borrower’s 
Diario de CentroAmérica
 on July 
20, 2005, which includes provisions for land registration; and (ii) through 
certification dated July 20, 2006 of the Secretary of the Board of the 
Borrower’s RIC (
Consejo Ejecutivo
), has confirmed the establishment of 
an independent board of directors to RIC; and additionally (iii) through a 
letter dated July 24, 2006 of the Registrar (
Registradora General de la 
Propiedad)
,
has confirmed the establishment of the electronic land 
registry in operational form.  
 
(e) 
The Borrower, through its 
Universidad de San Carlos
,
has presented a 
draft law on public-private participation for the infrastructure sector 
(
Iniciativa de la Ley de Concesiones
), and registered such draft with the 
Borrower’s Congress for its consideration under No. 3376 on October 
26, 2005.  
 
(f) 
The Borrower, through its Congress, has enacted: (i) Legislative Decree 
No. 89-2005 (
Ley
 para la Ejecución del Proyecto Vial Denominado 
Anillo Metropolitano
)
dated November 16, 2005 and published in the 
Borrower’s 
Diario de Centro America
 on December 1, 2005, which 
includes provisions for the construction of segments for a partial 
metropolitan beltway
 
intended to reduce traffic congestion in the 
Borrower’s capital city; and (ii) Legislative Decree No. 88-2005 (
Ley 
para la Ejecución del Proyecto Vial Denominado Franja Transversal del 
Norte
)
dated November 30
,
2005
and published in the Borrower’s 
Diario 
de Centro America
 on December 1, 2005, which includes provisions for 
the construction of roads allowing the connection of ports to poor areas 
of the Borrower’s territory
.
(g) 
The Borrower, through its Civil Aeronautics Directorate (
Dirección de 
Aeronáutica Civil) 
has issued a letter dated July 21, 2006 which certifies 
the implementation of the 
Borrower’s plan of actions
 
designed to 
upgrade the country’s main airport facilities in line with international 
safety norms.  
 
(h) 
The Borrower, through its Superintendence of Banks, has issued letter 
No. 2417 dated July 21, 2006 certifying that: (i) the organizational 
restructuring of the Superintendence of Banks to enhance the 
implementation of risk-based supervision is being carried out; and (ii) 
progress, satisfactory to the Bank, in the mapping of financial groups to 
reconcile capital ownership among them has been achieved, all with the 
Page  9
-
8
-
objective of strengthening the Borrower’s financial sector by reinforcing 
the supervision of financial groups operating in its territory. 
 
(i) 
The Borrower, through the Monetary Board of BANGUAT, has issued 
Resolution No. JM-166-2005 dated December 9, 2005 which includes 
provisions for a strengthened national payment system (
Modernización 
del Sistema de Pagos Nacionales
), including 
inter alia
:
(i) an electronic 
clearing system for banks; and (ii) the use of real-time settlement and, for 
the latter, in support of which the general manager of BANGUAT has 
issued a letter dated July 25, 2006 certifying that the new real-time 
settlement system is established in fully operational form. 
 
2. 
Enhancing Capacity for Public Spending in Priority Sectors
(a) 
The Borrower, through its Congress, has enacted Legislative Decree No. 
20-2006 (
Disposiciones Legales Para el Fortalecimiento de la 
Administración Tributaria) 
dated June 20, 2006 and published in the 
Borrower’s 
Diario de Centro America 
on
June 28, 2006, which includes 
provisions for the strengthening of the Borrower’s tax administration 
system. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower, through letter dated July 26, 2006 issued by its MFP has 
certified that progress, satisfactory to the Bank, has been achieved in the 
implementation of the Borrower’s 106 points strategic plan for the 
strengthening of tax administration, through: (i) the establishment of a 
mandatory requirement for electronic filing of VAT tax reports by the 
300 largest taxpayers of the Borrower’s territory; (ii) the implementation 
of a control program for the 300 largest tax payers based on systematic 
cross-checks; and (iii) the establishment of an up-to-date, unified tax 
register for the 3,000 largest tax payers in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower, through its MFP, has issued a Ministerial Accord 
(
Acuerdo Ministerial)
 dated No. 21-2005 and published in the 
Borrower’s 
Diario de Centro America 
on September 13, 2005
,
which 
includes provisions to strengthen the capacity of the Borrower’s 
municipalities to collect property taxes through the approval by MFP of a 
new municipal appraisal accounting manual dated August 2005. 
 
(d) 
The Borrower has submitted: (i) through its MFP, a budget execution 
report dated January 09, 2006 which attests to an increased execution of 
social expenditure in 2005 with respect to 2004; and (ii) through its 
Budget Law dated December 14, 2005, approved by Congress through 
Legislative Decree No 92-2005, the confirmation of an increase in its 
budget allocation of social expenditure for 2006 with respect to 2005. 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
3.
 
Transparency and Public Sector Management
(a) 
The Borrower, through its MFP, has issued a progress report at May 31, 
2006 confirming the increased operational coverage of: (i) SIAF to 7 
additional central government and decentralized agencies and about 64 
additional municipalities; and (ii) 
Guatecompras
 to about 77 additional 
municipalities.  
(b) 
The Borrower: (i) through its Congress, has issued Legislative Decree 
No. 92-2005 dated December 13, 2005 and
 published in the Borrower’s 
Diario de Centro America 
on
December 19, 2005, which includes 
provisions for the mandatory use of 
Guatecompras 
for all public 
purchases over Q30,000; and (ii) through a report dated May 15, 2006 
prepared by the Ministry of Public Finance, has confirmed the 
implementation of the interface with SIAF. 
 
Section II
.
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank 
may specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts.
 
The Loan shall (except for amounts required to 
pay the Front-end Fee) be withdrawn in a single tranche.  The allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 
 
Allocation 
Amount of the Loan 
Tranche 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars 
 
Single Tranche 
 
 
100,000,000 
 
Front-end Fee 
 
 
     0 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
           100,000,000 
C. 
Deposits of Loan Amount.
 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank 
 
into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank;  
 and 
 
2.  
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the 
 
Loan into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the 
Page  11
-
10
-
Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the 
 Bank. 
 
D. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the 
 
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines 
 
at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an 
 
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
 
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts 
 
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled. 
 
E. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is December 31, 2007. 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (
“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each June 15 and December 15 
 
Beginning December 15, 2008 
through December 15, 2025 
 
2.78 % 
On June 15, 2026 
2.70 % 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.
 
Page  13
-
12
-
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (a) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
Page  14
-
13
-
APPENDIX 
 
Section I
.
Definitions
1. 
“BANGUAT” means the Borrower’s central bank. 
 
2. “
Diario de Centro America” 
means the Borrower’s official gazette wherein, 
pursuant to the Borrower’s legal and constitutional framework, all pieces of 
legislation must be published to ensure their entry into force and effect.  
 
3. 
“DR-CAFTA” means Dominican Republic-Central America Free Trade 
Agreement, a treaty entered into and ratified on March 16, 2005 by the Borrower 
for the purposes of establishing a free trade zone among the countries of 
Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, San Salvador, the Dominican Republic and the 
United States of America.  
 
4. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, 
or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 
Group
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-
manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not 
containing tobacco 
substitutes) 
525  
Radioactive 
and 
associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
Page  15
-
14
-
Group
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and 
parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), 
non-irradiated, for 
nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver 
or platinum group 
metals (except watches 
and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores 
and concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
under a contract with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds 
during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the situation. 
 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 with the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
6. “
Guatecompras
”
means the transparent web-based government procurement 
system of the Borrower. 
 
Page  16
-
15
-
7. 
“MFP” means 
Ministro de Finanzas Públicas
,
the Borrower’s Minister of Public 
Finance. 
 
8. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated July 24, 2006 from the Borrower to the Bank 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its 
execution. 
 
9. 
“Quetzal” and “Q” mean the Borrower’s lawful currency. 
 
10. 
“RIC’ means the Cadastral Information Registry of the Borrower. 
 
11. 
“SAT” means the Superintendence of Tax Administration of the Borrower. 
 
12. 
“SIAF” means the Integrated Financial Management System of the Borrower. 
 
13. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
14. 
“Superintendence of Banks” means the Borrower’s supreme body for the 
regulation and supervision of banks operating in its territory. 
 
15. 
“Supplemental Letter” means the letter of even date herewith setting forth certain 
additional understandings between the Bank and Borrower in respect of the Loan. 
 
Section II
.
Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 5.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 5.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
Page  17
-
16
-
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower 
shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
Section 5.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a 
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan 
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal 
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan. 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
Page  18
-
17
-
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in 
support of which the Loan is made.” All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”.
 
