                                           Documentof
                                       The World Bank

                               FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                                ReportNo: 38080




                             PROJECTAPPRAISALDOCUMENT

                                              ONA

                                      PROPOSEDGRANT

                           INTHEAMOUNT OFSDR 3.4 MILLION
                               (US$5MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                            TO THE

                                     REPUBLICOFHAITI

                                             FOR A

                       RURALWATER AND SANITATION PROJECT

                                       December21,2006




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout World
Bank authorization.

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                  (ExchangeRateEffective September30,2006)


                        CurrencyUnit = Gourdes (HTG)
                         HTG38.1700 = US$1
                             $1.48020 = SDR 1


                                FISCAL YEAR

                           January 1  - December31


                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAEP   ComitCd'Approvisionnement en EauPotable(Drinking Water Supply Committee)
CAEPA  ComitCd'Approvisionnement en EauPotableet Assainissement (Drinking Water
       Supply and SanitationCommittee)
CAMEP  CentraleAutonome MCtropolitained'EauPotable (AutonomousMetropolitan
       Water Company)
CDD    Community-Driven Development
CSA    Country Social Analysis
DC     Direct Contracting
DHS    DemographicandHealth Survey
EA     EnvironmentalAssessment
EGRO   Economic GovernanceReform Operation
EGTAG  Economic GovernanceandTechnicalAssistanceGrant
EMP    EnvironmentalManagement Plan
FAES   Fonds d'AssistanceEconomiqueet Social (Haitian Social Fund)
GOH    Government of Haiti
ICB    InternationalCompetitiveBidding
ICF    InterimCooperationFramework
IDB    Inter-AmericanDevelopmentBank
ISN    InterimStrategyNote
JMP    Joint Monitoring Programmefor water supply and sanitationof UNICEF and
       UNDP
LAC    LatinAmerica andCaribbeanRegion
LICUS  Low-Income Countries Under Stress
MDG    MillenniumDevelopmentGoal

                                                                  FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY


      MTPTC          Ministkredes Travaux Publics,Transportset Communications(Ministry of Public
                     Works, Transport and Communications)
      NCB            NationalCompetitiveBidding
      NGO            Non-GovernmentalOrganization
      O&M            Operationand Maintenance
      OBA            Output-BasedAid
      PMU            ProjectManagementUnit
      PAHO           Pan-AmericanHealthOrganization
      PADF           Pan-AmericanDevelopmentFund
      PFM            PublicFinancial Management
      POCHEP         Postes Communauxd'Hygikneet d'Eau Potable(CommunalHygieneand Drinking
                     Water Posts)
      PRODEP         Projet de DCveloppementParticipatif(ParticipatoryDevlopmentProject, a CDD
                     project)
      PRSP           PovertyReductionStrategyPaper
      RWSS           RuralWater Supply and Sanitation
      SBD            StandardBidding Document
      SNEP           ServiceNationald'Eau Potable(National DrinkingWater Company)
      TSS            Transitional SupportStrategy
      URSEP          Unit6deRCformedu Secteur de 1'EauPotable(WaterSector ReformUnit)
      WHO            World Health Organization




                                     Vice President:     PamelaCox
                          Country Managermirector:       CarolineD.Anstey
                                    Sector Director:     Makhtar Diop
                                    Sector Manager:      John Henry Stein
                                  Task TeamLeader:       Manuel Schiffler


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties.Its contents may notbe otherwise disclosedwithout World Bankauthorization.

                                                REPUBLICOFHAITI
                                      RuralWater andSanitationProject

                                                         CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                  Page

A. STRATEGICCONTEXTAND RATIONALE                                                ..................................................................  1
 1.   Country and sector issues             ....................................................................................................    1
 2.   Rationale for Bank Involvement..........................................................................................                      3
 3.   Higher level objectives to which the project contributes.....................................................                                 5

B PROJECTDESCRIPTION
 .                                            ...................................................................... ...........................    6
 1.   Assistance Instrument.......................................................................................................... 6
 2.   Project development objective and key indicators ..............................................................                               6
 3.   Project components.,,........................................................................................................... 7
 4.   Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design ..........................................................                                11
 5.   Alternatives considered and reasonsfor rejection.............................................................                                11

C IMPLEMENTATION
 .                                  .........................................................................................................      13
 1.   Partnership arrangements...................................................................................................                  13
 2.   Institutional and implementation arrangements                            .................................................................   13
 3.  Monitoring and evaluation of outcomeshesults ................................................................                                 16
 4.   Sustainability .....................................................................................................................         17
 5.  Critical risks and possible controversial aspects ...............................................................                             18
 6.  Grant conditions and covenants.........................................................................................                       20

D APPRAISAL SUMMARY
 .                                          ..................................................................................................     20
 1.  Economic and financial analyses                   .......................................................................................     20
 2.  Technical............................................................................................................................         21
 3. Fiduciary ............................................................................................................................         23
 4.  Social .................................................................................................................................      24
 5.  Environment ......................................................................................................................            25
 6.  Safeguardpolicies.............................................................................................................. 26
 7.  Policy Exceptions and Readiness ......................................................................................                        26

Annex 1:Country andSector or ProgramBackground                                        ..........................................................   27

Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bank and/or other Agencies                                                             ..................35
Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring                               .........................................................................       38

Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription                    ......................................................................................        42

Annex 5: ProjectCosts ($ million)               .............................................................................................        46

Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements                         ..................................................................................       47

Annex 7: FinancialManagement                  ...............................................................................................        51

Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements                       .......................................................................................       58

Annex 9: EconomicandFinancialAnalysis                           ..............................................................................       63

Annex 10: SafeguardPolicy Issues                .............................................................................................        75

Annex 11:SocialAnalysis          ...........................................................................................................         77

Annex 12: ProjectPreparationandSupervision                               ......................................................................      82

Annex 13: Documentsinthe ProjectFile                        ..................................................................................       83

Annex 14: Statementof Loansand Credits                          ...............................................................................      84

Annex 15: Countryat a Glance               ..................................................................................................        85

Annex 16: Map  .............................................................................................................................         87


                                          HAITI

                       RURAL WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT

                           PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                           LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN

                                          LCSFW

Date: December20,2006                          Team Leader: Manuel Schiffler
Country Director: CarolineD.Anstey             Sectors: Water supply (90%);Sanitation (10%)
Sector Managermirector: John Henry Stein       Themes: Infrastructureservices for private
                                               sector development (P)
Project ID: PO89839                            Environmentalscreeningcategory: Partial
                                               Assessment
Lending Instrument: Specific InvestmentLoan

[ ] Loan    [ 3 Credit  [XIGrant    [ ] Guarantee  [ ] Other:

For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bank financing (US$m.): 5.00




INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT                        5.00              0.00              5.OO
ASSOCIATION
Total:                                           5.25              0.00              5.25

Borrower:
Ministry of EconomyandFinance
Haiti

Responsible Agency:
Service National de 1'EauPotable(SNEP)
Port-au-Prince
Haiti
Tel: 509-2465300or 2464131

                         Estimated disbursements(Bank J?YAJS$m)
;Y                7            8             9            10           11             12
b u a l          0.50          1.oo          2.00          0.50        0.50           0.50
hmulative        0.50          1.50          3.50          4.00        4.50           5.00
Project implementationperiod: Start March 15,2007 End: December 31, 2011

Expected effectiveness date: 3/15/2007
Expected closing date: 12/31/2011
Does the project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant respects?
Ref. PAD A.3                                                                     [ ]Yes [XINO
Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?
Ref. PAD 0.7                                                                     [ ]Yes [XINO
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                      [ ]Yes [ IN0
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                     [ ]Yes [XINO
Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?
Ref. PAD C.5                                                                     [XIYes [ ] N o
Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation?
Ref. PAD D.7                                                                     [XIYes [ ] N o

Project development objective Ref. PAD B.2, TechnicalAnnex 3
Development Objective: Increase access of water supply and sanitation services inparticipating
rural communities.
    Specific Objectives:
  1.Increasingthe sustained and effective use of safe drinkingwater inparticipating communities;
 2. Improve use of sanitation and hygiene practices inparticipating communities;
 3. Strengthen the capacity of SNEP, local water committees, and professional operators in
cooperation with local government.

Project descriptionRef. PAD B.3.a, TechnicalAnnex 4
Component 1: Capacity buildingfor rural water supply and sanitation (RWSS), monitoring and
evaluation and project management.
Component 2: Water supply, basic sanitation and hygiene promotion.
See PAD for further details.

Which safeguard policies are triggered, if any? Ref. PAD 0.6, TechnicalAnnex 10
See ISDS. The safeguard policies on environmental assessment, cultural property and natural
habitat are triggered.

Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:
Ref. PAD C.7
Board presentation:
No.

Loadcredit effectiveness:
        Subsidiary agreement satisfactory to IDA between MTPTC and SNEP signed.
        Approval by SNEP and MTPTC o f an operational manual satisfactory to IDA.


Covenants applicable to project implementation:
No.

A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE

1. Countryandsector issues

1.1.CountryBackground

Haiti is the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere. Average per capita income is
comparable to the poorest countries of Sub-Saharan Africa, and Haiti ranks 154* (out of 177
countries) in terms of the HumanDevelopment Index. About 78 percent of its population of 8.6
million lives below the poverty line, with 54 percent in extreme poverty. The country's health
and social indicators are on the same level as those of the world's poorest countries: Haiti's child
mortality rate of 118 deaths per 1,000 i s far higher than the Latin American regional average of
33, and closer to sub-SaharanAfrica's average of 171.'

The rural areas exhibit the highest rate of poverty in the country.Of the roughly two-thirds
of the population who live inrural areas, 86 percent live on less than US$2 a day and 69 percent
live on less than $1 a days2Rural education and economic opportunities are extremely limited,
and basic social services are severely lacking. Basic rural infrastructure (e.g., water and
irrigation, feeder roads, electricity, and sanitation) i s virtually absent or severely depleted,
reinforcing isolation and exclusion. These conditions contribute to rural-urban migration,
especially into the capital, Port-au-Prince.

Rural water coverage in Haitiis the lowestin the hemisphere.It was estimated at 54 percent
in 2000, compared to an average of 73 percent for rural areas in LAC.3 The rural population
relied on the following water sources: 4 percent house connection, 32 percent standpipes, 6
percent protected wells, 10 percent protected springs, 2 percent rainwater collection, totaling 54
percent having access to safe sources. 46 percent fetched water from unsafe sources, including
31percent from unprotected springs, 6 percent from unprotected wells and 9 percent from rivers
or canals. This means that an estimated 2 million Haitians in rural areas rely on unprotected
water sources, jeopardizing their health, as evidenced by very poor health indicators. Inaddition,
significant time is spent fetching water, which affects in particular women, children, and the
poor.

Access to sanitationis also the poorest in the region.Haiti has the lowest degree of access to
improved rural sanitation at 16 percent in 2000, compared to an average of 49 percent for rural
areas inLAC. The Demographic and Health Survey (DHS)of 2000 shows a breakdown of only
12 percent having access to a private improved latrine and 4 percent using more basic traditional
latrines of a type considered adequate. Another 4 percent usebasic traditional latrines that are not
considered adequate, 14 percent have access to shared improved latrines, and 10 percent can


* World
  WDI indicators, 2003
       Bank(2006), Haiti Country Economic Memorandum.
  Data on water and sanitation coveragefrom different sources vary widely. The data inthis report are based on the
most recentsurvey on coverageundertakeninHaiti, which is the Ministry of Health's Demographic and Health
Survey (DHS)carried out in2000. This is also quotedby the global Joint MonitoringProgram (JMP)for Water
Supply and Sanitationof WHOAJNICEF, from which regional comparator data are quoted. A new DHS was carried
out in2005 and preliminary results have beenpublished, but the final results including water and sanitationdata are
expected to be publishedonly inFebruary 2007.


                                                        1

access shared traditional latrines, all of which offer only partial protection from the spread of
fecal contamination.    Fifty-six percent of the population resort to open defecation.    Over a
quarter of children under five years of age had experienced an episode of diarrhea in the two
weeks preceding the survey.      Diarrhea is particularly common between the ages of 6 to 24
months, exceeding 40 percent inthe two weeks before the survey. These statistics highlight the
importance of improving sanitation and hygiene in the domestic environment, where such
children spend the most time and are most vulnerable to infection.

1.2 Sector Background

Institutionalcapacity for rural water supply is low, and nonexistent for rural sanitation.
Rural water supply inHaiti is formally under the responsibility of the Service National de 1'Eau
Potable (SNEP), the implementing agency for the proposed project. According to the 1977 law
creating SNEP (Loi Organique du SNEP) it is an "autonomous state entity with civil and legal
personality enjoying all the rights and prerogatives derived from this status". SNEP i s
responsible for water supply outside the metropolitan area. SNEP has only limited capacity in
rural areas and until recently focused its limited resources on urban water supply in secondary
towns. The Ministry of Health also has a rural water unit Postes Communaux d' HygiBne et
d'Eau Potable (POCHEP), but this unit is small and inactive for lack of funds. There is no
institutional home for sanitation.

Without an institutional presence in rural areas, rural water supply and sanitation
investmenthas beenunplannedand piecemeal.Most investments inrural areas are carried out
by non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and the Social Fund (Fonds d'Assistance
Econornique et Sociale-FAES). Between 2000 and 2004, over 40 different NGOs and donors
contributed an average annual total of approximately $3 million to the rural water sectors4The
Social Fund invested $1.1million in nine water and sanitation projects in 2004-2005. There i s
little knowledge about levels of coverage and needs, and thus it i s difficult to prioritize
investments, which are carried out in a piecemeal manner and do not necessarily reach the
neediest.

Local communities do not maintain infrastructure well. Many rural water systems are
managed by water committees (Comite` d'Approvisionnement en Eau Potable-CAEP),
consisting of unpaid volunteers elected by the community, as well as in some cases by a plumber
hired by the committee. The performance o f water committees varies widely, ranging from some
that regularly collect funds, deposit them in a Bank account and perform routine maintenance to
those that are practically defunct. Most water committees seem to not perform their functions
adequately and collect insufficient funds for operation and routine maintenance. The Ministry of
Public Works and SNEP now refer to these committees officially as water and sanitation
committees (Comite`d'Approvisionnementen Eau Potable et Assainissement-CAEPA) to reflect
the broader role the committees are expected to play inthe future.

The government of RenC PrCval elected in early 2006 intends to reform the water and
sanitation sector through a framework law (hi-Cadre). Since 1996, a draft water and
sanitation framework law has been discussed in Haiti, but has never been adopted. The new

 PAHONHO Haiti Water and Sanitation Monitoring System.


                                                 2

government has taken the initiative to substantially rewrite the framework law and intends to
submit it to Parliament. The framework law aims at the separationof policyhegulatory functions
from operating functions, decentralization and the introduction of public-private partnerships.It
aims at creating a water and sanitation directorate within the Ministry of Public Works (MTPTC)
and regional water and sanitation companies. Furthermore, POCHEP will be dissolved and
integrated into the new structures. Ultimately, the law envisages the gradual transfer of the
responsibility for water and sanitation to those municipalities that have proven their capacity to
undertakethese responsibilities. Municipalities would inturn have the option to delegate service
provision to the private sector, municipal water companies, or water committees. The law would
also--for the first time inHaiti--definelegal responsibility for sanitation within the public sector.

The substance of the law is still under discussion. The government does not expect the new
structures to be put in place earlier than in three years. After the envisaged adoption of the
Loi-Cadre, anotherLoi Organiquefor the regional water and sanitation companies would have to
be passed and then their internal statutes would have to be elaborated and adopted before any
new structures could be put inplace.

2. Rationale for Bank Involvement

The project was identified and prepared according to the proposed Interim Strategy Note
(ISN) for Haiti. The I S N aims at delivering hope to the population by helping the Government
deliver quick wins inthe provision of basic services andjob creation; and restoring credibility in
Haitian institutions by deepening reforms that promote long-term good governance and
institutional development.      The strategy, which is a continuation of the 2005 Transitional
Support Strategy (TSS), will focus on selective interventions inareas where the Government has
requested support from the Bank, and where the latter has a comparative advantage and
complements other donor support. The ISNwill be presented to the Bank's Board of Directors
concurrently with this project.

The project supports the I S N in terms of helping the Government deliver quick wins in the
provision of basic services and restoring credibility in Haitian institutions. By using the
public agency incharge of the sector to deliver services, unlike inthe case of most other projects
inthe sector, the project promotes the restorationof credibility inHaitianpublic institutions. This
i s also in line with the recommendation of the Haiti Country Economic Memorandum to improve
the capacity within state utilities.

The emphasis on strengthened public institutions is reflected in the proposed project's
focus on capacity building within the public institutions in the sector. The project would
work with the staff of SNEP, which is the national entity responsible for rural water supply.
SNEP has demonstrated capacity, and their performance under an earlier LICUS grant (see
below) has beenpositive. It i s expectedthat SNEP will remain inplace for at least the next three
years and that within this period the bulk of the project activities can be executed. Once the new
structure of the sector foreseen inthe Loi-Cadre will be inplace, responsibility for executing the
remainder of the project (mainly post-construction support) is expected to be largely transferred
to the regional water and sanitation company in the project's intervention area. Some functions
are expected to remain at the national level with the water and sanitation directorate in MTPTC



                                                 3

or an associated structure for rural areas. Support to the national-level institutions will be
provided primarily under the parallel IDB operation (see below).

A LICUS grant has provided the Bank with useful hands-on experience in working with
SNEPas the implementing agency. The project involves two components: (i)                       preparation of a
national strategy for rural water supply and sanitation, and (ii)           rehabilitation of water systems in
three communities inthe Southern Department. Progress on both components i s satisfactory and
has led to an increase in SNEP's capacity and motivation. A national workshop was held in
November 2005 to discuss the national strategy. Under the second component, new management
and technological approaches are being tested to increase system sustainability.

The national strategy for rural water supply and sanitation foresees a strengthening of
MTPTC's policy functions o f the water and sanitation sector and SNEP's capacity to intervene in
rural areas. It also aims at the establishment o f a closer partnership among SNEP, NGOs and
local government. The strategy involves two parts: a largely completed operational strategy that
will determine the content of SNEP's cooperation agreements (protocoles d'accord) with NGOs
interms of technical specifications and community contributions; and a global strategy that will
include an investment program to be funded by various donors and a better definition of the roles
of various actors in the sector. The operational strategy is expected to be finalized first, at the
request o f SNEP, and the global strategy will be finalized at a later stage once the framework law
has been passed.

The project will use a comprehensive methodology known under its French term as
inginien'e sociale, for which there is no appropriate English tran~lation.~               Zngknierie sociale is
defined as a set of support activities that will:

       Ensurethat project activities respond to user demand, and that users are consulted inevery
       important phase of the project;
       Create all necessary relationships among stakeholders for joint activities, and to formalize
       these relationships through contracts if necessary;

0      Ensure that conditions are created that will allow services to be provided on a sustainable
       basis; and
*      Strengthen the capacity o f community-level stakeholders who will be involved inall phases
       o f the project.6

The Rural Water and Sanitation Project thus aims to marry the benefits of a community-focused,
demand-driven approach with the benefits o f having a competent sector agency involved in



 Ingknierie sociale is not to be confused with the Englishterm "social engineering" which has acompletely
different meaning. Community development, community mobilization, community outreach and community
participation all describeonly specific facets of this comprehensive approach.The conceptof ingknierie sociale has
beendevelopedinHaiti inthe mid-1990s with the highly successfulproject to provide water to slum areas of Port-
au-Princeusing local water committees inpartnershipwith the utility CAMEP, using a serviceprovider (NGO) to
facilitate the relationship.
 SNEP, StratCgieEauPotable et AssainissementenMilieu Rural, DirectiveOpCrationnelles,June 2006, p. 18


                                                          4

terms of procurement, financial management and technical know-how in the design and
supervision of good-quality works.

The project will build on the beneficial social dynamics created under the Community
Driven Development (CDD) project through its strengthening of community-based
organizations for those communities where the projects will overlap. The training and
capacity building for community-based organization under the CDD project would support the
implementation of RWSS. SNEP will have to coordinate with the PL-480 management office
under the Ministry of Planning and External Cooperation, the executing agency of the CDD
project, and its service provider in the Southern Department (PADF) in order to ensure that the
two complementary approaches are clearly presented to communities,

While many aspects of the project are similar to the CDD approach, there is one key
difference: Communities are not expected to manage funds or to undertake procurement. Most
works contracts are expected to be well above the threshold of $20,000 currently used under the
on-going Haiti CDD project ($38 million). Having communities manage such large sums has not
been tested so far and would entail risks.

This project is closely coordinated with the IDB, which is the focal point for the sector
according to the Interim Cooperative Framework (ICF.) The project is being executed in
parallel with a $15 million IDB-supported rural water and sanitation p r ~ g r a m The IDB will      . ~
intervene in four departments (Grande Anse, Nippes, 1'Ouest and 1'Artibonite), while the
proposed project will intervene in one (South) and in small parts of Nippes that are best reached
from Les Cayes, the capital of the Southern Department. Both banks will use a similar selection
mechanism for participating localities and the same operating manual. The Bank's financial
contribution, though modest, has enabled it to play a valuable role inthe design and preparation
of the program. Elements o f the program that have resulted from Bank involvement include the
use of SNEP as an implementing agency, professional operators and incorporation of a hygiene
and sanitation component.

3. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes

The project is expected to improve governance and capacity within the public sector in
Haiti. The project will, for the first time inHaiti, carry out a systematic assessment of needs and
coverage levels for water supply and sanitation in one region, linked to a transparent system of
selecting participating communities on the basis of objective criteria. These criteria will include
estimates of needs, costs, and community commitment. Furthermore, the project's focus on
capacity building within the implementing agency concerning financial management and
procurement contributes to the overall strengthening o f public sector institutions and economic
governance at a higher level.

This project will contribute to the higher level objective of improved health in Haiti.
Intestinal infection (largely diarrhea) i s cited by the Pan-American Health Organization (PAH0)8

'The
 ~




       IDB uses the term "program" for its overall interventionand the term "project" for each intervention ina
!articular locality.
  Infant mortality in Haiti, www.paho.ordEnglishDPED/Infant mortalitv.mt, downloaded 4/27/2006.


                                                          5

as the leading cause of death in children under five, and the second leading cause of infant
mortality (exceeded only by perinatal infections occurring inthe first month of life). According
to the most authoritative available estimates, 87 percent o f the burden of diarrheal disease in
L A C i s attributable to unsafe water and sanitation.' The evidence from global epidemiological
experience i s clear-cut, however, and indicates that water, sanitation, and hygiene interventions
can reduce diarrheal disease by as much as fifty percent-far               more than simple water supply
interventions alone.

The project will contribute to social cohesion through helping communities make decisions
collectively. Water is a good entry point for a community development project as it i s used by all
and serves a variety of needs. It provides a natural common issue around which the community
can unite. The LICUS grant has given the Bank valuable experience in how to effectively
mobilize communities around water management.

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION

1. AssistanceInstrument

The lending instrument i s a Specific Investment Grant.

2. Project development objective and key indicators

Development Objective: Increase access to and use of water supply and sanitation services in
participating rural communities.

Specific Objectives:

        Increase the sustained and effective use of safe drinking water in participating
        communities;
        Improve use of effective sanitation and hygiene practices in participating communities;
        and
        Strengthen the capacity o f the implementing agency, local water committees, and
        professional operators incooperation with local government.

Given the low capacity in the Haitian public sector as well as previous implementation
experience with Bank projects in Haiti, (i)project design has been kept very simple, (ii)
substantial capacity building has been included, and (iii)objectives have been kept modest. At
the same time, coordination with other stakeholders (government agencies, donors, and NGOs) is
being actively sought, complementing the existing partnership with the IDB.




 The Global Burden of Disease and Risk Factors, Disease Control Priorities Project, The World Bank, 2006.


                                                      6

Key indicators will be: number of beneficiariesgaining access to andusing sustainable" water
systems' inparticipatin localities, andnumberof beneficiariesgaining access to andusing
basic sanitationsystems inparticipatinglocalities.
                               r3

3. Projectcomponents

The project has two components, the first one aimed at strengtheningthe capacity of SNEP and
the second one aimed at directly providing services to communities. The project design has
been kept very simple, while differingin important respects from how interventionsin the
sector havebeencarriedout so far:

               The project will build, for the first time inrural water supply and sanitation inHaiti, a
               close partnership between a public entity (SNEP) as the implementingagency
               and a service provider (an NGO or a firm) working under the direction and
               leadership of the public entity. This approach is being promoted both at the national
               anddepartmentallevel (see implementationarrangements for details).
               The project will, for the first time inrural water supply in Haiti, select participating
               communities based on objective and transparent criteria in a systematic,
               department-wide process.
               Building on the experience of the LICUS grant, the project will involve professional
               operators in the operation and maintenance of water systems and introduce
               volumetric tariffs, inorder to promote greater sustainability.
              Concerning sanitation, the project will not build entire individual latrines, but it will
              test a more cost-effective approachby providing only slabs and working closely with
              communities to motivate them to build superstructures and to dig holes (sanitation
              promotion).

Component1:CapacityBuildingand ProjectManagement

The activities under this component aim at managing the project and strengthening the
capacityof SNEP. The component includes four mainactivities.

         First, it will strengthen SNEP's regional office in Les Cayes through the recruitment of
         two consultantswho are expectedto become staff after project closure, as well as through
         the provision of cars, office space and coverageof operatingexpenses.
         Second, it will finance services for capacity building in project management,
         documentation, reporting, information technology, and environmental management.This

lo conditionisexpectedtobefulfilled
  This                                       ifbeneficiaries are using systems and (i) are set at a levelthat
                                                                                       tariffs
guarantees operation and routine maintenance of the system; (ii)    at least 80% of revenues due are collected; (iii)
                                                                                                                    the
water committees meet on a regular basis; and (iv) professional operators fulfill their contractual obligations.
I'"Water systems" interms ofthisprojectmeanssystemsthat are"improved" accordingto theJoint Monitoring
Programme (JMP) definition of "improved" water supply. (e.g. Improvement inthe access to piped water (for those
households without access to piped water) or protection of a previously unprotected source.)
  "basic sanitation systems" in terms of this project means systems that satisfy the JMP definition of "basic"
sanitation contributing towards the MDG Target. (e.g., both simple and Ventilated ImprovedPit latrines, twin pit
pour flush latrines, septic tanks etc) which protect the user and the community from fecal contamination,


                                                            7

         activity is foreseen primarily during the first two years of project implementation, with
         the aim of making the assistance unnecessary during the remainder of the project. This
         activity will also includethe financial audits of the project.
         Third, the Bank would finance services for surveys to monitor the achievement of
         performance indicators one year after the constructionof water and sanitation systems.
         Fourth, it will assist SNEP infinalizing and disseminatingthe national rural water supply
         and sanitationstrategy initiated under the LICUS grant mentionedabove.

The component complements $3 million for capacity building to be provided by the IDB
under its parallelfinancing. The IDB financing covers two areas: First, it aims at strengthening
SNEP's functions in rural areas in close relation with the investment component, with an
emphasis on community development and procurement. Second, it will strengthen SNEP's
overall capacity throughout its mandate, including rural andurban areas. It foresees the hiring of
an advisor to the Director General for the first two years of the project and the strengthening of
the technical and financial departments of SNEP. It also foresees an assessment of SNEP's
humanresourcesinview of a rationalizationof its personneland salary structure. Inaddition, the
IDB will finance vehicles, equipment andrecurrent costs necessaryfor the project.

Component2: Water supply, basic sanitation and hygienepromotion

This componentwill enable participatingcommunitiesto access and manage water supply
and basic sanitation services. This includes the identification of participating communities
based on objective criteria; ingbnierie s~ciale'~                 using a participatory approach allowing
communities a series of choi~es;'~engineeringdesign; system constructionand supervision; and
support during the early years of system management. The project will promote the innovative
management approachpiloted under the LICUS grant involving professionaloperators, increased
cost recovery, metering, andthe use of water kiosks insteadof standpipes.

Investmentsunder this component are expected to consist mainly of piped water systems.
The piped systems will feed water kiosks andhouse connections.Water kiosks consist of a small
concrete structures with faucets on the outside and taps on the inside, thus allowing kiosk
operators to sell water by the bucket. Both water kiosks and house connections would be
metered. Most piped systems are expected to be gravity-fed by springs. If pumping should be
necessary and cost-effective, the project would give a strong preference to renewable energy.
Given widespread theft of photovoltaic cells inHaiti, wind energy would be the preferredsource
of energy, relying on hurricane-proof new technologies as they are about to be tested in Haiti
under a pilot project supported by the World Bank's Development Marketplace. Other water
investmentsincludehandpumps andrainwater harvestingsystems.

Concerningsanitation, the project would support the constructionof householdlatrinesas
well as blocs sanitaires nextto schools andhealthcenters. Sanitation investments will only be


l3See explanationfurther above onp.      4.
l 4The proposed key choices are: choice between different water service levels (house connection or water kiosk)
and sanitation service levels (pit latrine and Ventilated ImprovedPit latrine) implying different costs to users; choice
inthe tariff structure (pure volumetric or combined flat rate and volumetric) and level (covering only operating costs
and basic maintenance, or including a reserve for major maintenance).


                                                            8

supported inlocalities where water systems will be built, inorder to be able to carry out hygiene
promotion (see further below) in a credible manner and to maximize health impacts. A bloc
sunitaire is a concrete structure with toilets andbasic water supply fixtures intwo compartments,
one for men/boys and one for womedgirls.

Sanitation and hygiene promotion will be carried out in the same communities in which
water serviceswill be improved. This allows for the creationof synergies among water supply,
sanitation and improvedhygiene interventions. SNEP and Haitian NGOs have experience in the
construction of blocs sanituires for health centers and schools, and the project will support the
continuationof this work, with a focus on their operationand management as well as upon their
physicalconstruction.

The approach to sanitation will stress subsidies to promote the construction of individual
household facilities. While other sanitation initiatives in Haiti have involved subsidies in the
order of $100-$500 per family, this project will explore the viability of an approach in which
only the basic slab and seat are subsidized, accompanied by promotion activities. Keeping the
subsidy as low as possible while focusing on promotion has two advantages: (1) reducing the
per-unit subsidy enables the project to provide access to sanitation services to a greater number
of people; and (2) a low-cost subsidy of appropriate technology may sow the seeds for a small-
scale industry that designs basic sanitation at a price families can afford. The sanitation
component will thus focus heavily on demandstimulation at the householdlevel.

While sanitation interventions will be coordinated with hygiene promotion activities, the
differences between the two must be clearly understood. Hygiene promotion will thus be
based on early studies to (a) determine high risk behaviors related to hygiene, sanitation and
water supply; (b) identify specific motivators for change, including concepts of cleanliness,
modernity, education and attractiveness; (c) identification of key channels of communication
most effective inreachingmothers and children; and (d) development of appropriatemessages to
promote improvedhygiene behavior. The hygiene promotion campaigns can draw substantially
from recent experience in hand washing campaigns in LAC and elsewhere. SNEP will have the
institutional responsibility for hygiene promotion under this project. However, since SNEP has
no experience inhygiene promotion, and given the weakness of other potential stakeholders such
as the Public Hygiene Directorate (Direction de Z'Hygidne Publique--DHP) in the Ministry of
Health, the serviceprovider (see under implementing arrangements)will also undertakehygiene
promotion. Solid waste management is not considered a priority issue in rural areas and is thus
not includedunder this project.

The financial policy under the programincludesthe following key elements:

        Tariffs: Communities will charge tariffs that recover at a minimum full operation and
        routine maintenance costs. All consumption from piped systems is expected to be
        metered and tariffs will be volumetric. There will be tariffs for water sold in buckets at
        water kiosks, as well as tariffs for house connections, both residential and for public
        buildings. Houseconnections will have a fixed portion including a minimalconsumption
        and a volumetric portion for consumption exceeding the minimum.Tariffs for the use of
        handpumps will be flat rates per householdand month.



                                                 9

        Up-frontfinancialcontribution:Communities are requiredto come up with anup-front
        financial contribution before technical studies will be initiated. The purpose of the
        contribution is to be an indicator of willingness to pay. It should cover, at the minimum,
        three months of operation and routine maintenance costs of the system. These funds
        would not be mingled with project funds, but would rather be usedby the community for
        small initial purchases (e.g. for chlorine, a motorcycle etc.) or be kept in a reserve for
        repairs. Inaddition, householdsthat receivehouse connectionwould pay connectionfees.
        Pass-through conditions for investment funds: Following common practice in Haiti
        and in many other countries, project funds for investments will be passed through to the
        community as a grant, given limited ability to pay.

Participatinglocalitieswill be selectedbased on objective, transparent criteria. A tentative
long list of about 40 localities has beenestablishedthat would be reduced to a short list of about
12 localities based on an objective eligibility and priority criteria. Eligibility criteria include the
number of inhabitants (less than 10,000); availability of a nearby, sufficiently productive, good
quality source of water; protection of the source or indication of willingness and likelihood that
the source will be protected; estimated per capita costs of less than $150; acceptance to pay
volumetric tariffs covering operation and routine maintenance costs; acceptance of the
professionaloperator model; a formal letter requestingto beincluded inthe project; and payment
of an up-front financial contribution into a fund managedby the water committee. If the number
of eligible localities is greater than about 12, participating localities will be selected based on
priority criteria. These include greatest needs (as measured by average walking distance to
currently used sources of water) and lowest estimatedunit costs (as measuredby estimates of the
requiredworks andthe number of houses inthe locality assessedbasedon satellite pictures).

Total project costs are $5.25 million, including $0.92 million for the first component and $4.33
million for the second component. The costs will be financed through the grant ($5 million) and
counterpartfunds ($0.25 million).

                Table 1:Estimatesof Project Costs, by Components($ million)

          Components                    Grant           Counterpart              Total Cost
       1. CapacityBuilding,              0.67                0.25                   0.92
      and Project
      Management
      2. Water Supply, Basic             4.33                0.00                   4.33
      SanitationandHygiene
      Promotion
     TOTAL ProjectCosts                  5-00                0.25                   5.25

The Governmentof Haiti has requestedandthe Bank has approveda Project PreparationFacility
(PPF) advance of $0.7 million to prepare the project, of which $0.22 million will be used for
component 1 and $0.48 million for Component 2. These costs are included in the total grant
amount shownabove.




                                                 10

4. Lessonslearnedandreflectedinthe projectdesign

The following lessonshavebeenincorporatedinthe project:

        Design simple and well-defined operations with modest objectives (Operations
        Evaluation Department Country Evaluation). The reality and the complexity of the
        Haitian environment have demonstrated the importanceof having a clear project design,
        to facilitate preparationand implementation. .)The proposedproject keeps its objectives
        simple and well targeted.
        Build on the experience of a pilot project. .)The project builds on a LICUS grant pilot
        project currently underwayinthree communities inthe SouthernDepartment.
        Support transparent and timely implementation of theproject with adequateprocurement
        expertise. Previous projects have shown that the lack of clarity in procurement
        procedures can seriously delay project implementation and eventually undermine its
        success. .) The implementing agency has gained procurement experience during the
        LICUS grant execution. In addition, it has received training from IDB's procurement
        staff based in Haiti. Further training is foreseen. No objection will be required for every
        single contract, which initself entails a learningprocessthat was begununder the LICUS
        grant.
        Strong involvement and ownership of the implementing agency in order to strengthen its
        capacity. Many projects in Haiti heavily relied and rely on foreign consultants and
        PMUs, which deteriorates capacity and motivation in the implementing agency itself. .)
        The project will not use a PMU structure. Instead, it will rely on staff of the
        implementing agency to make all key decisions, with intensive capacity building and
        supported by consultants on an as-need basis. The perspective is that any long-term
        consultantswill be integratedinto the implementingagency's staff inthe future.
        Need to further improve coordination among donors. The 2004 Interim Cooperative
        Framework (ICF) and the 2006 Extended ICF highlighted the importance of donor
        coordination.   +  The project has been prepared jointly with the IDB. A national
        workshop for the preparation of the national rural water supply and sanitation strategy
        has beenheldwith the participation of donors, and at least one more workshop i s planned
        under the project. The water and sanitation sector table createdthroughthe ICF is another
        forum for donor coordination.

5. Alternativesconsideredand reasonsfor rejection

Focus on urbanwater supply and sanitation: An urbanwater supply and sanitationproject in
the Port-au-Prince Metropolitan area was considered, but was rejected for the time being, as a
rural focus would build on the progress made under the LICUS grant pilot project. However, in
the future, IDA may consider scalingup the existing operationto include a pilot for urban areas.

Using a different implementing agency: POCHEP, a water and sanitation unit under the
Ministry of Health, was consideredas a possible implementing agency, but its capacity appears
to be weaker than the capacity of SNEP. Furthermore, Haitian law attributes the responsibility
for rural water supply and sanitation to SNEP under the Ministry of Public Works. SNEP also is
successfully implementing the LICUS grant pilot project, and the IDB has decidedto work with



                                                 11

SNEP on its rural water supply and sanitation project. A reform unit within the Ministry of
Public Works, URSEP, has gained goodprocurement capacity throughthe implementationof the
water reform project. However, it i s not considered a permanent entity and working through it
would not contribute to strengtheningSNEP as the agency legally responsiblefor the sector.

Working with the Ministry of Health on hygiene promotion: The Ministry of Health would
seem like a natural institutional home for the hygiene promotion activities under the project.
Unfortunately the Public Health Directorate inthe Ministry of Health is extremely weak and has
no presence on the ground. It seemed overambitious to try to strengthenthat directorate, which
would also mean that the project would be executed by several implementing agencies. As a
result, this option was rejected and the hygiene promotion activities will be carried out by
specializedNGOs working for SNEP.

Greater focus on Output-Based Aid: A Bank-administered study financed by the Global
Partnership on Output-BasedAid (GPOBA) assessed the potential of attracting private small-
scale operators to invest in the water sector in Haiti, similar to a successful experience in
Paraguay. These operators would be paid by the Bank once works are completed. The study's
results show that the Haitian private sector and NGOs face major obstacles to invest inthe water
sector, including lack of pre-financing and an unfavorable legal framework. In addition, public
sector agencies have very limited capacity to administer an OBA project. Another reasonfor the
rejection of the OBA option at this stage are the mixed signals that would be sent if the Bank
supports one type of approach (OBA) under certain projects and different approaches (mainly
CDD) under other projects.

A more substantial role for local government: Local government in Haiti is very weak, in
particular in rural areas, where municipal administrations often do not exist. Previous water
supply pilot projects in small towns have highlighted the occasional difficulty of working with
local government in Haiti (see Annex 1 for details). The government deems that municipal
administrations do not yet have sufficient capacity to plan, carry out, operate and maintain
infrastructure. The revised draft water and sanitation framework law, therefore, foresees the
creation of regional water and sanitation companies. The regional companies would have the
ability to delegate services to municipalities if they have proven to have sufficient capacity. In
rural areas, community-level water committees and professional operators would continue to
operate infrastructure independently of local government. The project's approach concerning
local government is flexible: it will attempt to include them where advisable, keepingthem at the
very minimuminformed of all project activities. Closer cooperationwill be sought on a case-by-
case basis.

Greater emphasis on sector reform: The policy dialogue on sector reform is led by the IDB,
which is the focal point for the sector as part of the ICF. Given this agreement, the option of
focusing on sector reform as part of the current project has been discarded. However, the Bank
remains in close contact with the government and the IDB regarding sector reform initiatives,
andthe project has given the Bank an opportunity to stay engagedon the issue.

Establishing a project steering committee: The establishment of a steering committee
comprising representatives of various Ministries has been considered. However, the idea was



                                                  12

rejected for various reasons. First, steering committees have proven to be largely ineffective,
both in Haiti and in other countries, because they do not take actual decisions, there are few
incentives for representatives to participate, and they often tend not to meet at all in reality.
Second, the IDB has opted not to use a steering committee and the Bank wants to streamline
procedures under the joint program. Nevertheless, the project would disseminate results and seek
cooperation on a case-by-case basis inthe absence of a steering committee.

Establishinga department-levelconsultativecommittee: Inorder to strengthen the perception
o f objectivity in the choice of participating localities, the Bank considered the creation of a
department-level consultative committee. It would have consisted of elected officials and civil
society representatives, and it would have vetted the selection process undertaken by SNEP.
However, concerns were expressed concerning unmanageable delays due to potential disputes
between members of the committee, ultimately jeopardizing the delivery o f results on the
ground.

UsingCommunityParticipationin Procurement and Managementof Funds: A small share
o f the works considered under the project is small-scale innature. This includes the construction
of individual latrines, and o f rooftop rainwater harvesting systems for residential homes, schools
and health posts inhigher-altitude areas where rainfall is plentiful. For such small-scale works,
community participation in procurement and management of funds, as practiced under the Haiti
CDD project, was considered. However, given the small total amount o f these works (less than
$250,000), the fiduciary risk and administrative complexity of using this arrangement with an
implementing agency that has no prior experience with them, this alterative was rejected.

C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Partnershiparrangements

The proposedproject constitutes part of a rural water and sanitation programfor which
the IDB contributes a $15 million loan. The IDB loan has been approved by its Board in
September 2006 and is currently awaiting ratification by the Haitian Parliament, most likely in
parallel with the World Bank project. The IDB's rural project will be implementedby SNEP and
i s expected to use the same implementation mechanisms as the Bank project. The IDB has
secured project preparation funds under arrangements that are coordinated with the Bank. Both
projects will seek to implement the operational part o f the national rural water and sanitation
strategy. IDB i s the focal point for the water and sanitation sector as part o f the ICF. Its overall
intervention inthe sector is described inmore detailed inthe last paragraph o f section A.2.

2. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements

The implementing agency for the project will be the Service National de 1'Eau Potable
(SNEP). According to the 1977 law creating SNEP (Loi Organique du SNEP), it is an
"autonomous state entity with civil and legal personality enjoying all the rights and prerogatives
derived from this status". According to the law, SNEP is under the supervision of a Board
(Conseil d'Administration) presided by the Ministry of Public Works, and its day-to-day
activities are managed by a Director General. Inreality, the Board has not met inrecent history,



                                                 13

thus leaving SNEP directly under the tutelage of the Ministry of Public Works. SNEP is
responsiblefor water supply inall areas outsidethe metropolitan area of the capital.

The institutionalarrangementsof this project are largely based upon the implementation
arrangements under the ongoing LICUS grant for rural water supply. The Ministry of
Public Works (MTPTC), the government ministry responsible for water supply and sanitationin
Haiti, would sign a subsidiary agreement with SNEP, as under the LICUS grant. While the
implementationarrangements for the LICUS grant have proven effective, the proposedprogram
supportedby the Bank and IDB will require a muchlarger absorptioncapacity. Inorder to ensure
the ability of SNEP to implement the activities under the program, the following measures have
been initiated or are envisaged:

0   Recruitmentof an experiencedserviceprovider.
0   Individual consultants hired by SNEP with the expectation that they would become SNEP
    staff when the project ends.
0   Capacitybuilding within SNEP for project managementandprocurement.

The service provider (an NGO or a firm) will assist SNEP in key activities throughout the sub-
project cycle, including the selection of participating communities, feasibility studies and
technical designs, supervision of construction, sanitation promotion, hygiene promotion and
post-constructionsupport. Incarrying out these activities the service provider will not substitute
for SNEP, but rather complement SNEP's activities. The service provider will have a specific
mandateto strengthenSNEP's capacity.

The institutional characteristics of the proposed program and the LICUS grant are compared in
the table below:

           Table2: Comparisonof proposedprogramandpredecessor pilotproject

                                    ProposedProgram                            Predecessor Pilot Project
                                      (WB and IDB)                                  (LICUS grant)
  Ingknierie sociale    Carried out by an experienced service       Carried out in-houseby SNEP with support
                        provider, inpartnershipwith SNEP            from two international volunteers from
                                                                    EngineersWithout Borders-Canada(EWB)
  Procurementand     I  SNEP, supportedby consultants and        1I SNEP with intensive Bank supervision and
  project management I  significant training with intensive
                        capacity building program and Bank       I  supportby EWB
                        supervision; continued support by EWB
 ITechnical design
                -    IIICarried out by the same serviceprovider     Engineering firm
                        (consortium) that will undertake-the     1II                                         I
                        ingknierie sociale
  Construction          Contractors                                 Contractors
  Construction          Engineering firm or serviceprovider         Individual consultant
  Supervision
  Geographical          About 50 localities in5 departments         3 localities in2 departments
  Coverage
  Duration              5 years without the preparationphase        2 years incl.preparationphase
  Amount                $20 million                                 $0.85 million




                                                        14

SNEP will have the fiduciary responsibility for the project (financial management and
procurement). The project's financial management will be carried out by SNEP using the same
arrangements as under the LICUS grant. For the implementation of the grant, SNEP staff have
already set up a separate accounting system, developed an operational manual and familiarized
themselves with Bank's financial management and disbursement procedures. Additional staff
will be hired by SNEP to accommodate the higher workload due to the project. SNEP has
selected one of its current employees to become a full-time procurement staff. He and other
SNEP staff have beentrained by the procurement specialist of the IDB office inHaiti andby the
NationalProcurement Commission, which receives support from the Bank and IDB.

Inorder to assist inthe processof ingknierie sociale, andto carry out engineering designs, SNEP
i s in the process of selecting a service provider (NGO, consulting form or a consortium of both)
for the Southern Departmenton a competitive basis. The service provider will have as one of its
tasks to strengthenthe capacity inthe local office of SNEP. It will be selected partly basedon the
service provider's methodology and track record in working with and strengthening of public
institutions.

Local water committees (CAEP) would have important responsibilities during the
feasibility and construction stage. The CAEP i s a community-based organization composed of
five volunteers elected by the community. Given the weakness of most existing water
committees, substantial assistance would be provided to existing and new water committees in
order not to overload them during these crucial phases. While water committees have an
important role, communicating with them is no substitute for communication with the entire
community. SNEP and its service provider would therefore organize community consultations on
key aspects of the project. These would include community contributions, design and location of
infrastructure, tariff levels, as well as explaining the concept of and rationale for professional
operators and water meters. During the construction stage, the CAEP will organize the
community contribution, check and approve the work and assist SNEP and its service provider in
resolving any differences between the community and the contractor.

In the operating phase, the role of the water committees will change compared to the role
they have played inthe sector so far. As mentioned earlier, most water committees do not have
the capacity to adequately operate and maintain water systems. Under the proposed project,
water committees would, therefore, delegate operation and maintenance to remunerated
professional operators. Professional operators are expected to operate systems (chlorination,
cleaning of reservoirs, operation of kiosks, meter reading, billing, collection and management of
funds generated by tariff revenues), undertake routine maintenance and repair, and undertake
minor upgrading and expansion using revenues from tariffs and connections fees. Operators will
be selected by communities based primarily on the level of trust put in them under simple
contracts drawn up by the community. These contracts will specify tariff levels and simple
service quality standards.Contracts are expected to be for one year and will be renewable, with
the objective of establishing a long-term relationship. Professional operators will be individuals
from the respective communities, who will in turn hire a small number of employees to assist
them. They will collect and own revenues, but they will pay a small fee to the water committee
to be used for miscellaneous administrative expenses. Water committees will supervise
professional operators by controlling their contractual performance on behalf of the community.



                                                 15

3. Monitoring and evaluation of outcomes/results

"Apre kase mayi, n'a konte boujon."
"After harvesting the corn, we'll count the sprouts."
(Haitian proverb cautioning not to count on results prematurely.)

Monitoring and evaluation of outcomes/results will use indicators and mechanisms defined in
detail in Annex 3. In particular, indicators will include (i) number o f beneficiaries gaining
                                                                 the
access to sustainable water systems; and (ii)   the number o f beneficiaries gaining access to basic
sanitation systems.

The monitoring and evaluation system clearly distinguishes between intermediate and final
outcomes. For example, inwater supply, not only will data on beneficiaries inthe service area of
new or rehabilitated systems based be collected through reports by the implementing agency
(intermediate outcome), but more meaningful outcome indicators will be collected at two levels
through an independently conducted survey one year after construction. At a first level, the
survey will assess if beneficiaries actually use the system. Reasons why some beneficiaries inthe
service area o f a water system do not have access or do not use it may include: (i)     the yield of the
source is insufficient, (ii)diversion of water at the head of the system (vandalism); (iii)          the
number o f actual connections exceeds the number determined in the technical design based on
water availability; (iv) users are reverting to unsafe water sources because of lack of affordability
or taste. At a second level, the survey will assess if the institutional and financial prerequisites
are met for the system to remain sustainable after the project ends. Systems are considered to be
sustainable if beneficiaries use systems and: (i)   tariffs are set at a level that guarantees operation
and routine maintenance of the system; (ii)     at least 80% of revenues due are collected; (iii)    the
water committees meet on a regular basis; and (iv) professional operators fulfill their contractual
obligations.

Health outcomes are not listed in the project results framework because the methodology of
health outcome evaluation of water, sanitation, and hygiene interventions for an individual
project such as this is complex, uncertain, and expensive.

A baseline survey will be undertaken by the service provider assisting SNEP. A second survey
will be undertaken about one year after the hygiene and sanitation promotion campaign that will
be executed in parallel with the construction of water facilities. In order to avoid a conflict of
interest, this second survey will not be carried out by the service provider, but by an independent
entity.

Project Contribution to the IDA-14 ResultsMeasurement Agenda: Water and sanitation
projects funded by IDA-14are required to consider national sector monitoring data and capacity;
where appropriate, the project should identify and respond to opportunities to strengthen national
monitoring capacity.




                                                  16

National access statistics
As noted onpage 1, a variety of sources were consulted to assess the current national picture on
access to water and sanitation. Relevant national coverage statistics as estimated by the World
Health Organization's (WHO) and UNICEF's Joint Monitoring Program (JMP), the global body
tasked by the UNfor tracking progress towards the water and sanitationtargets o f the
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), are reported below:

                          Table 3: Water Supply andSanitationCoverage


                   I              Water Surmlv                           Sanitation
                         Access to              Access to        1   Access to improved
                     immovedwater          House Connection              sanitation
        I Urban I                       II
                            54%                    24 %          I          51 %             I
         Rural              54 %                   3 %                      16 %
         Total              54 %                   10 %                     28 %

It should be noted that these estimates are based on data collected for the Demographic and
Health Surveys (DHS) of 2000; a DHS has been carried out in2005 and preliminary results have
been published, but final results including water and sanitation coverage data are expected to be
published only inFebruary 2007.

Opportunities to strengthen national monitoring capacity. The IDB loanwill fund the
establishment of a basic national database on rural water supply systems. Collection and
analysis o f data for this system will be among the first steps to increasing SNEP's understanding
and control of its assets, and will serve as a basis for monitoring the sector and its performance.
Inaddition, applicationof this project's Results Framework (Annex 3) will not only determine
access within the communities included inthe project, but will also provide valuable experience
to SNEP and others inthe rural water sector inmodemmethods o f assessing access to water and
sanitation.

4. Sustainability

N Kabrit anpil m8t mourigrangou nan sol8y. >>
"The goat of many owners dies hungry inthe sun."
(Proverb used by some Haitians to explain why community-managed infrastructure has failed to
be maintained inHaiti.)

A key problemin rural water supply systems in Haiti is the lack of sustainability,due to
low-qualityconstructionand lack of maintenance.Many water systems fall apart less than 10
years after construction, leading communities to petition donors to rehabilitate them. The low
quality of construction is due to poor technical designs, poor quality o f execution o f works,
inadequate supervision o f works (often done by the communities themselves, who lack technical
expertise). The proposed project will address this problem by using experienced engineering
firms (working in a consortium with NGOs or firms specialized in ingknierie sociale) to produce
technical designs. Furthermore, experienced contractors will be hired to organize the execution
of works under the supervision of engineers. The whole process will be closely monitored by the



                                                  17

specialized staff of the implementing agency. This will reduce the risk of poor design and
executionof works which has beenso detrimentalto the sustainabilityof infrastructure inHaiti.

Lack of preventive maintenance and repair, in turn, is due to poor management and
insufficiency of funds. About two-thirds of investments in the sector are dedicated to
rehabilitation rather than the constructionof new infrastructure. This is widely attributed to the
lack of payment for water by the majority of users (those receiving water from standposts), the
low tariffs charged for house connections, and to the lack of a specific person that can be held
accountablefor the functioning of the water system. Poor maintenance leads to a vicious circle of
declining service quality, reducedwillingness to pay and further reduction of funds available for
repair. Thus, community management of infrastructure is widely perceived as having failed at
being sustainable in Haiti. In order to increase the likelihood of maintenance and repair, the
project promotes a new model that foresees the hiring of professional ouerators by the water
committees on behalf of the community. Professional operators would be contractually
accountable for the functioning of the system and will be remunerated. Concerning the physical
and financial aspects of systems, instead of providing water for free at standposts, water would
be sold in buckets at metered water kiosks. House connections would also be metered and
householdswould bebilledbasedon their consumption.

Vandalism and misuse also compromisesustainability. Occasionallyfarmers inHaiti close to
a source that supplies a village damage pipes to divert water for irrigation purposes. This risk
would be mitigated through intensive community participation in setting rules for water use that
are being perceived as fair by the community, avoiding the need for heavy-handed enforcement
measures. If such enforcement shouldbe necessary, professionaloperators and water committees
would defer the issue to local government, inparticularto the CASEC (Conseild'Administration
de la SectionCommunale) of the respectivecommunalsectionto which the locality belongs.

The risk of lacking environmental sustainability exacerbates the problem, as the dry season
yield of many springs has declined significantly because of deforestationandpossiblybecause of
climate change. One of the eligibility criteria under the project i s a dry-seasonyield sufficient to
supply the expectedfuture population servedby a piped system. Inaddition, communities will be
encouraged to protect and, if need be, to reforest the catchment area of springs. Funding for
reforestationcould beprovided from a basinmanagementproject supportedby the IDB inpart of
the SouthernDepartment(watershedof Les Cayes and Cavaillon).

5. Criticalrisksand possible controversialaspects

              Risk                         RiskMinimization Measure(s)                I Rating
 Insecurityand civil unrest      Insecuritylargely affects Port-au-Prince,where
                                 MTPTC and SNEP central office are located.
                                 Project's proposedarea of operations inthe                  S
                                 SouthernDepartmentdoes not present a major
                                 securityrisk.
 Limitedhumanand                 Substantial effort at capacitybuilding, including          M
 institutional capacity in       recruitment ofjunior staff, use of senior



                                                 18

SNEP                          consultants, incentive payments to staff and
                                                                    ~~




                              substantialtraining targeted at key deficiencies.
Lack of support at the        Discussionof new models as part of preparation
community level for new       of the national water and sanitation strategy and
water managementmodels        flexibility inthe application of the principles;
                              testing of the approach under the LICUS grant;      M
                              survey of the private sector under the study on the
                              applicability of Output-Based Aid inthe water
                              sector.
Insufficient donor            Intensive dialogue with key donors, going beyond
coordination                  the mechanismsfrom the sector table underthe
                              ICF. Parallel financing by IDB.Dialogue on          N
                              national strategy for rural water supply and
                              sanitation.
Inability to achieve cost     Investment funds will be passed on as grants (as
recovery levels necessary for opposedto loans) to communities inorder to keep
sustainability                payments affordable; demand-responsive                S
                              approachbasedon willingness to pay; modest and
                              realistic formulation of cost recovery targets.
Transition from SNEP to       Requiring an assessment of the fiduciary capacity
new structures to be created  of the new structures before transferring function
as part of plannedreforms     from SNEP; Maintainingtrust and open
(the new structures are       communication channels with senior staff in         M
expectedto be created in      MTPTC; close consultation with IDB as the focal
about three years)            point for the sector.
Limitedfinancial              Strengthening of financial managementcapacity
management capacity for the   of SNEP through training and technical
project inSNEP                assistance; regular audits; focus on financial      M
                              managementinsupervision
Limitedprocurement            Strengthening of procurement capacity already
capacity for the project in   under way, butneeds to be scaledup; hiringof a
SNEP                          full-time procurement expert to cover boththe       H
                              IDB and World Bank projects.
Lack of physical              Use of LICUS grant experienceto improve
sustainability of rural water sustainable systems; emphasis on good quality
supply systems in             construction and community ownership;
participating localities      assessment of current and expected future land
                              use incatchment areas during project preparation;   M
                              assignment of priority to localities that have put
                              inplacemeasures to protect catchmentsand
                              elimination of localities with catchments that are
                              at risk.




                                             19

 Lack o f capacity in             Intensive technical assistance inprogram design;
 systematic, behavior-focused     quality control and supervision of activities;           M
 hygiene promotion                training for NGOs and SNEP staff.
 OVERALL PROJECT
 RISK RATING                                                                               M


H-High         S - Substantial         M-Moderate            N-Negligible or Low

6. Grant conditionsandcovenants

The project does not have any boardor disbursement conditions.

Effectiveness Conditions:

        Subsidiary agreement satisfactory to IDA between MTPTC and SNEP signed.
        Approval by SNEP and MTPTC of an operational manual satisfactory to IDA.

Legal covenants
The following standard financial management conditions should be included in the legal
agreement:
        Maintenance of an adequate financial management system throughout the life of the
        project.
        Submission o f half-yearly interim financial reports as part of the project progress report
        no later than 30 days after the end of each semester.
        Appointment of a project auditor acceptable to the Bank selected according terms of
        reference acceptable to the Bank.
        Submission o f the annual audit reports o f the project's financial statements and SNEP
        financial statements no later than four months after the end o f each fiscal year of the
        borrower.


D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1. Economicandfinancialanalyses

Economicbenefitsfrom the water supply systems are estimated based on a comparison of
net benefits in a "with project" scenario and a "without project" scenario for newly
constructed piped rural water supply projects.The "without project" scenario consists of a
situation where a small amount of water fetched from unprotected and often distant sources i s
consumed, while in the "with project'' scenario a larger amount of water i s used at or near the
house. In order to estimate the benefits from improved water supply, a demand curve has been
constructed with data on water consumption and distance to source, which i s used as a proxy for
water price. The data come from a field investigation in 84 localities in the four participating



                                                 20

  departments. The benefits are estimated based on the increase in consumer surplus, divided into
  benefits from (a) reduced cost to provide the quantity o f water currently consumed, and (b)
  benefits from increased water consumption.

  The economic internal rate of return for the selected sample is 28 percent. Sensitivity
  analysis i s expected to show that the rate of return is robust against key risks such as an increase
  in investment costs, construction delays, increase in Operation and Maintenance (O&M) costs
  and a decrease inbenefits. Additional health benefits are expected, but have not been included in
  the analysis since the benefits listed above already largely justify the project interventions by
  themselves.

  The financial analysis of piped water projects is based on two scenarios: (a) traditional
  system with stand posts and un-metered house connections; and (b) a system with water kiosks
  and metered house connections, as recommended under the project. The analysis confirms that
  the traditional system is not financially sustainable. The proposed intervention is financially
  sustainable in the sense that, at a minimum, the costs o f operation and routine maintenance are
  expected to be recovered. The analysis is based on stated willingness to pay by users in 84
  localities in the four departments proposed for this project, as well as the general experience that
  collection efficiency i s high if community mobilization and service quality are high, two aspects
  that are particularly emphasized inthe proposed project. (See Annex 9 for more details.)

  2. Technical

  The project will meet water supply needs through a combinationof a limited number of
  technical options, based on the specific conditionsin each community. These include: (1)
  spring-fed gravity piped networks, (2) individual or collective boreholes (using hand pumps,
  solar or wind power) or protected hand-dug wells, and (3) individual rainwater catchment
  systems. Pros and cons o f each or these options are assessedbelow:

  Spring-fed gravity piped networks offer a number of important advantages.                   This is a
  technology with which the client is familiar, and offers high quality water with a minimum of
  complexity. Capital costs can be high where sources are distant from populations, but operating
  costs and maintenance requirements are minimal, as neither treatment nor pumping is required
  (unless localities are located higher than springs). Where high quality springs are close enough
  to the population to be served, this i s technically a near-ideal solution, but the other technologies
  become more advantageous where springs are distant from population centers, and/or where
  populations are much dispersed.


% Individualor collective boreholes have been constructed, as well as hand-dug wells, in both
  local practice and previous projects. Boreholes can generally be located close to the populations
  to be served, minimizing distribution costs. In addition, they can penetrate the water-bearing
  layers (aquifers) more effectively than hand-dug wells, thus making more water available.
  Groundwater is usually o f high quality, eliminating the need for treatment, although this will
  depend to some degree upon location, the depth of aquifer, the quality o f construction, and the
  sanitary protection of the environs o f the well. Boreholes, however, have at least 3 significant
  drawbacks: (1) their construction costs can be high depending upon the soil conditions, the



                                                    21

number of holes drilled ina given region, the drilling technology chosen, and the depthrequired;
(2) they require pumping to lift water to the surface, implying higher operation and maintenance
costs; and (3) whenever the pumping mechanism fails, the tributary population will have no
access to water.

Protectedhand-dugwells do not requiresuchcomplex technology for constructionas boreholes
do, and eliminate the problem that arises when mechanical or hand pumps fail, since the
population can still obtain water through the use of buckets. However, hand-dug wells are
limited in depth, cannot penetrate very far below the water table, and cannot draw from deeper
aquifers, which often yield greater flow at better quality. They are most likely to be attractive
options inthe flood plains adjacent to rivers and streams, and inthese situations will contribute
moreto water quality improvement than to reducedtravel time.

Whenever pumping should be necessary and cost-effective, the project would give a strong
preference to renewable energy. Given widespread theft of photovoltaic cells in Haiti, wind
energy would be the preferred source of energy, relying on hurricane-proof new technologies as
they are about to be tested in Haiti under a pilot project supported by the World Bank's
Development Marketplace. Pumping could be required both for boreholes and, potentially, for
springs if the locality to be servedis locatedhigher than the spring.

Rainwater catchment may be an attractive option to consider where (1) rainfall is substantial
and dry periods relatively short, (2) groundwater is very deep, (3) source springs for gravity-fed
systems would be distant, and/or (4) populations are much dispersed.              Operation and
maintenance of individual rainwater catchment systems are minor, and can legitimately be
assignedto the household. Maintenance of collective rainwater catchment systems is technically
simple, but institutionally more complex. Generally speaking, rainwater catchment is most
appropriate as a critical supplement to water supply rather than as a complete source for all
domestic water needs. It can, however, offer higher quality water with minimal treatment
requirements at the household level. Experience in Haiti has shown this technology to be most
commonly applied inthe "mornes" or highlands, inthose particular locations where springs and
other groundwater sources lie too far below the elevationof the community to be served.

The project is not consideringsurface water collectionand treatment, on the grounds that
the treatment requiredwill be technically complex, relatively expensive, andbeyondthe capacity
of the local management structures foreseen. Solutions requiring fossil fuels are not being
considered because of the high operating (and institutional) costs of their management.Solar or
wind power may be considered as sources of energy for pumping; while the operating costs of
solar and wind power are minimal, the capital costs are significant, and the risks of solar panel
thefts or damage from hurricanes are real.

Sanitation needs will be met through a combination of community and individual
interventions. Blocs sanituires will be constructed at schools and health centers and onsite
options will be promoted for households.The individual options consist largely of latrines, with
the possibility of some septic tanks where individual water supply house connections are made.




                                                22

Onsite sanitation options to be promoted will be variants on the standard low-cost
sanitation technologies widely used and proven elsewhere.                These include pit latrines,
ventilated improved pit latrines, and pour flush toilets as options where water use i s low, and
some form of septic tank where water use i s high and soil conditions permit. (Alternatively, pit
latrines with separate soak ways or disposal for sullage may be considered where the infiltration
capacity o f the soil is very limited, or where there is demand for reuse o f sullage.) Sewerage i s
not being considered a sanitation option inthis project.

3. Fiduciary

3.1Financial Management
The financial management capacity assessment of the project implementing entity (SNEP) has
been assessed. The overall conclusion i s that SNEP has adequate financial management capacity.
Although Haiti public financial management is still affected by significant weaknesses despite
major improvements during the last three years, and i s confronted with a high level of perceived
corruption, the impact o f these risks on the project is likely to be limited given the defined
implementation arrangements. These arrangements do not rely on the central government's
system. Instead they build on a continuing entity that has established an adequate financial
management system, procedures and staffing, and successfully implemented a LICUS Trust
Fund project. In addition, specific financial management procedures developed solely for the
project with adequate level of controls will be followed. The project itself does not present any
significant risk and its overall financial management risk i s rated moderate.
The detailed assessment i s presented inAnnex 7 of the PAD and inthe FMassessment report.


3.2 Procurement

The key issues and risks concerning procurement implementation for the project arise from the
many weaknesses inthe Haitian public procurement system. These weaknesses were identified
by a Country Procurement Assessment Report prepared by Bank in 1999andconfirmed by the
Government and multipledonors inthe context of the InterimCooperation Framework (ICF)
prepared in2004, the Extended ICFo f 2006 and the InterimPoverty Reduction Strategy Paper o f
September 2006. The proposed Economic Governance ReformOperation (EGRO 11) project and
ongoing Economic Governance Technical Assistance grants (EGTAG 1and 2) provide support
to the Government for the implementationo f procurement reforms.

Inadditionto the reforms supported by the EGRO I1andthe EGTAGgrants,procurementrisks
will be mitigated inthe case of the proposed project through the use of close and frequent
supervision, including full prior review o f all contracts financed by the grant. Further, as a result
of the Government's commitment to procurement reform and the application of the Bank's
Guidelines inthe other Bank-financed operations, government agencies such as PL-480, the
Ministryof Finance, and the Direction de la Protection Civile, havebecome familiar with the
basic principles of open and fair procurement, as SNEP did through its implementation of the
LICUS grant for Rural Water Supply. This familiarity, combined with the ongoing training and




                                                  23

broad dissemination of information on new procurement procedures to all purchasing agencies,
i s expected to mitigate risks.

Nonetheless, the procurement risk i s still considered high. Once SNEP's procurement staff have
been fully trained inthe Bank's requirements and project implementation i s underway, their
capacity will be further assessedduringthe course of the Bank's intensive supervision of the
project.

4. Social

The proposed project, by virtue of its geographic focus on rural areas, targets some of the
poorest and most underserved of Haiti's citizens. Rural areas exhibit the highest rates of
poverty inthe country, and rural infrastructure is severely lacking.

Specifically, the project will have the greatest impact on women and children, who
represent 49.5 percent and 45 percent of the rural population, respectively." Women and
children are generally responsible for fetching water, a task that can be very time consuming.
Furthermore, lack o f access to safe water and sanitation has the greatest health impact on
children, as they can be more susceptible to water borne illnesses. Ina small study done inthree
villages in the Southern Department as part o f the LICUS project, 38 percent o f the 7000
families surveyed had had at least one member with diarrhea in the week preceding the survey.
Onthe national level, Haiti's average infant mortality rate of 76 deaths per 1,000 live births is far
higher than the regional average o f 27.16

Women and children are critical to the spread of good practices in hygiene and sanitation.
Hygiene messages delivered through local schools in the proposed project will rely on children
to share lessons learned with their families. Mothers who adopt these practices can have a strong
impact on their families' hygiene and sanitationhabits, as they are generally incharge of cooking
and cleaning. The experience o f the Community Driven Development (CDD) pilot project in
Haiti showed that women were involved in the community organizations and project
development councils. Special efforts will be made to encourage involvement o f women in the
water committees short o f mandating their participation.

Participatory Approach in the Haitian Context

Haiti has a tradition of deference to individual leaders, but collective efforts on a smaller
scale do function. A recent World Bank study17determined that membership in an organization
reduces the probability o f being poor. Examples include collective work groups (konbits);micro-
credit initiatives managed by a small group; farming "by half," meaning that the owner of a
garden rents half o f his terrain to a farmer who farms the entire property and gives half the
harvest to the owner; the quarry owner in the town of Pemerle in the Southern Department
(where the LICUS grant has intervened) who formed a committee of five people to collect a tax

l5EnquQteModalit&,Morbidite et Utilisationdes Services, Haiti 2000:
httu://www.measuredhs.coduubd~df/FR121/02chauitre02.udf(Children under 15 years of age.)
l6UNDP Human Development Report (2005).
"WorldBank(2005).HaitiAgriculture andRuralDevelopment:DiagnosticandProposalsforAgricultureand
Rural Development Policies and Strategies.


                                                      24

from the community; and water committees that manage small-scale water systems (hand
pumps) as a group.

The proposed project will take advantage of the experience with village leadership
dynamics and participatory techniques gained by the existing LICUS pilot water supply
project (see above under section 2, Rationale for the project). Among the many lessons of the
project are: i)Village structure inHaiti is hierarchical, with many community members deferring
to acknowledged local leaders to make decisions on their behalf; ii)interventions following the
inginierie sociale approach need to be more intensive and require more skills and resources than
those of SNEP's single community animator inthe region.

The social sustainability of the project relies in large part on the service provider that
would provide the functions of ingknierie sociale under the project. The proposed project
requires a strong emphasis on skilled community animators to avoid marginalizing community
members and sacrificing sustainability. However, the challenge of this should be recognized in a
country with limited resources/capacity in this area, and a cultural tradition o f decision making
by a small group of leaders.

Communication is key to an effective participatory approach. Because o f the limited
capacity of SNEP in this field it will be assisted by a competent service provider, as mentioned
above, who will take the lead in communicating with participating communities. Community
animators face a communications challenge in a number o f regards: logistics of arranging
meetings, keeping records o f what was saiaagreed upon, eliciting the opinions o f the population
without leading or raising expectations, and working against a traditional top-down decision
making approach. The LICUS project underscored the importance of keeping written records of
meetings with communities, as this is not in the local tradition and can prove useful when
accounts of what was agreed upon differ. Project staff must also make sure that communities
receive technical designs intime before launching bids for works at a formal meeting where they
are asked for comments, and that the result i s ratified by a vote that i s documented in written
minutes, even if that takes more time. Trade-offs are an effective way of presenting the choices
to be made by the communities, such as the pros and cons of more kiosks vs. more house
connections. It also must be made clear that budgets cannot be amended once the works contract
i s launched. As a lesson from earlier experience, the respective responsibilities of communities,
SNEP and its service provider will be included in a grant agreement to be signed between SNEP
and the local community represented by its water committee at the feasibility stage o f the project.

5. Environment

An environmental framework has been completed, reviewed by the Bank and posted on SNEP's
as well as the Bank's website. The framework was reviewed by the Bank and found to be
satisfactory. It analyzes the project's main environmental impacts, proposes measures to mitigate
them, and its Environmental Management Plan outlines steps to be taken for the environmental
assessment of sub-projects. The environmental assessment also satisfactorily covers issues
related to natural habitat and cultural property (see Annex 9 for details).




                                                  25

6. Safeguard policies

  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                             Yes                     No
  EnvironmentalAssessment(OP/BP 4.01)                                                      [XI                    [ I
  NaturalHabitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                             [XI                    [I
  Pest Management(OP 4.09)                                                                 [I                     [XI
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03,being revisedas OP 4.11)                                    [XI                    [ I
  Involuntary Resettlement(OP/BP 4.12)                                                     [ I                    [XI




7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness

No policy exceptions are beingsought.




                        ~~    ~~~




* By supporting theproposed project, the Bank does not intend toprejudice thefinal determination of theparties' claims on the
disputed areas


                                                             26

                       Annex 1:Country and Sector or Program Background
                              HAITI: Rural Water and Sanitation Project

A.      Country Background

Haiti is the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere and one of the most disadvantaged
inthe world. The vast majority of its population of roughly 8.3 million people lives inextreme
poverty. This i s especially true of the nearly two-thirds of the population who live inrural areas,
86 percent of whom live on less than $2 a day and 69 percent of whom live on less than $1 a
day." The country's health and social indicators are on the same level as those of the world's
poorest countries: Haiti's child mortality rate of 118 deaths per 1,000 is far higher than the Latin
American regional average of 33, and closer to sub-SaharanAfrica's averageof 171."

Poverty strikes hardest in rural areas, where education and economic opportunities are
extremely limited, and basic social services and infrastructure are severely lacking. Basic
rural infrastructure (e.g., water and irrigation, feeder roads, electricity, and sanitation) is virtually
absent or severely depleted, reinforcing isolation and exclusion. These conditions contribute to
rural-urbanmigration, especially into the capital, Port-au-Prince.

Haiti is crippled by pervasive and long-standing social and political turmoil. For the past
twenty years, the country has struggled to emerge from a cycle of political instability and internal
conflicts that has devastated its economy, further weakened state institutions, multiplied poor
governance practices, augmented levels of poverty and, at times, prompted the withdrawal of
external assistance to the government. The most recent political crisis occurred inFebruary 2004,
when President Aristide resigned under pressure and left the country. The political vacuum was
filled by a Transition Government under President Boniface Alexandre and Prime Minister
GCrard Latortue. The Transition Government has fulfilled its mandate to hold presidential and
legislative elections, leading to the election of Rent PrCval inFebruary 2006.

The Transition Government attempted to increase political and social stability and
jumpstart the economy through the Interim Cooperative Framework, which focused on
"restoring security, reestablishing public services, and providing economic opportunities for
those most affected by the crisis." The strategy of the transition government was articulated
through four focus areas: 1) strengthening political governance and promoting national dialogue;
2) strengthening economic governance and contributing to institutional development; 3)
promoting economic recovery; 4) improving access to basic services.*'

The PrCval government has focused on a program of social appeasement (Programme
d'Apaisement Sociale), with broad geographic coverage including scaled-up activities in the
slum areas of Port-au-Prince. At a donors conference inJuly 2006, the government outlined its
plans for social, economic and institutional development for the first 15 months in office. Haiti
obtained some $750 million in donor pledges to cover the extension of the InterimCooperation
Framework (ICF) untilSeptember 2007.


l8World Bank (2006), Haiti CountryEconomicMemoradum.
  WDI indicators, 2003
  Interim Cooperative Framework Sumary Report, Government of Haiti, July 2004.


                                                    27

B.      Water and Sanitation Coverage

Although data quality is poor, it is generally acceptedthat water and sanitation coverage in
Haiti are the lowest in the Western Hemisphere. Estimated coverage i s especially low inrural
areas: the 2000 DHS estimates that 54 percent of rural population has access to "improved
water," which includes a household connection, public standpipe, borehole, protected dug well,
protected spring and rainwater collection. The breakdown for Haiti's rural population i s as
follows: 4 percent house connection, 32 percent standpipes, 6 percent protected wells, 10 percent
protected springs, 2 percent rainwater collection, 31percent from unprotected springs, 6 percent
from unprotected wells and 9 percent from rivers or canals.

Sanitation coverage is significantly lower than water coverage: The DHS estimate for rural
access to improved sanitation i s 16 percent, which includes connection to a septic system, pour-
flush latrine, simple pit latrine or a ventilated improved pit latrine. The information base for
coverage figures is very weak and any coverage figures from Haiti, therefore, have to be taken as
rough estimates. Those who do not have access to improved sanitation usually have to resort to
open defecation. Those who are not served by an improved water source often have to walk long
distances to fetch insufficient quantities o f water of dubious quality. In urban areas, they pay
highprices to water tankers and for bottledwater.

Sewer systems and wastewater treatment are nonexistent in Haiti. Storm water drainage,
where it exists, consists o f open drains that are often clogged by solid waste. This exacerbates
already precarious sanitary conditions, especially in slum areas that are home to about half o f
Haiti's urban population. Septic tanks in urban areas contribute to the pollution of aquifers that
serve as sources for public water supply. In some cases, sewage i s directly discharged into open
watercourses.

Service Quality

The above coverage rates do not give an indication of service quality, which is generally
quite poor. In rural areas, systems have often fallen into disrepair. They either do not provide
any water service at all or provide service only to those close to the source, with those at the end
o f the system ("tail-enders") remaining without water. In almost all urban areas water supply i s
intermittent.

Institutions

The main institutions in the Haitian water sector are community-based local water
committees and two state-owned enterprises, each created by its own law: CAMEP (Centrale
Autonome Me`tropolitaine d'Euu Potable), responsible for the Port-au-Prince metropolitan area,
and SNEP (Service National d'Eau Potable), responsible for secondary cities and rural areas.
There is no institutional responsibility for sanitation in Haiti, since the mandates o f CAMEP and
SNEP currently do not include sanitation. Both entities theoretically are under the authority of
Boards including representatives of several Ministries. Since these boards have not met for more



                                                 28

than a decade, both entities are de facto under the sole control o f the Minister of Public Works,
Transport and Communications (MTPTC).

Sector agencies have lost qualified and trained staff, often to NGOs and donor agencies,
because of their low pay levels. Nevertheless, there are competent and motivated managers and
staff in the public Haitian water sector. Unfortunately, they lack the political guidance and
support as well as the financial means to be motivated andproductive.

Other publicentities activein the sector are FAES (SocialFund)andPOCHEP,a small unit
under the Ministry o f Health that used to execute rural water supply and sanitation projects.
Municipalities have almost no role in the sector, although they are expected to play a larger role
inthe future under a proposednew water law. NGOs perform a wide variety of functions inthe
sector and often attract the most qualified and motivated staff due to their higher salary levels.
They are particularly active inrural areas, but also insmall towns and slums.

The functions and performance o f each o f the institutions enumerated above is described inmore
detail below:


Water committees:Managingsystemsin ruralareas, smalltowns andslums

There are hundreds of water committees, called CAEPs (Comissions d'Aprovisionnement en Eau
Potable) or simply Comitks d'Eau, in charge of water systems in rural areas and small towns.
Their degree o f formalization and effectiveness varies considerably. The best water committees
meet regularly, closely interact with the community, regularly collect revenues, hire a plumber
who performs routine repairs, have a bank account and are registered and approved b y SNEP.
However, many water committees fall short of these expectations. There i s no national or
regional registry o f water committees or water systems and, unlike in other countries, there are
no associations of water committees at the municipal, departmental or national level. The
Ministry of Public Works now refers to these committees officially as water and sanitation
committees (Comitkd'Approvisionnement en Eau Potable et Assainissement-CAEPA) to reflect
the broader role the committees are expected to play inthe future.

While most water committees manage village water systems, fifteen o f them manage small town
systems, including Ouanaminthe, a few small towns in the Southern Department, Fort LibertC in
the Northwest, and all the small towns in the Northern Department. InPort-au-Prince, numerous
water committees operate water kiosks and manage funds generated from water sales for
community projects. They work in close partnership with CAMEP, from which they buy their
water.

SNEP: Managing systems in secondary towns and supporting water committeesin rural
areas

SNEP is organized in a national office, 24 operating centers (centres d'exploitation, also called
BDS -Bureaux Dkconcentrks du Sewice) in secondary cities and small towns. SNEP's primary
activity i s the operation and maintenance of water systems in small towns. All its revenues are
generated from that activity, which involves the great majority o f its staff.



                                                29

SNEP i s headed by a Director General. Three directors report to the Director General, all based
inthe nationaloffice inPort-au-Prince:

     (i) thedirectorofplanning;
     (ii) thetechnicaldirector; and
     (iii)   the administrative and financial director.

In addition, the recently created rural unit (cellule rurule) reports directly to the Director
General. In terms o f planning and technical backstopping the rural unit so far has functioned
autonomously, due to the weakness of SNEP's planning and technical departments. The rural
unit also carries out its ownprocurementunder the LICUS grant, since SNEP has not undertaken
procurement activities for many years in the absence o f donor funding and thus has no
procurement capacity outside the rural unit. The rural unit has no accounting system of its own.
It uses the services of SNEP's administrative and financial department for that purpose. The
Director General intends to strengthen the planning and technical departments and aims at
eventually mainstreaming some of the functions carried out by the rural unit into the regular
structure of SNEP.

Historically, SNEP has not been able to be very active in rural areas, except for a few scattered
projects, such as the CARE/USAID/SNEP project in the Southern Department in the early
 1990s. During the execution of the LICUS grant, SNEP gained valuable experience in rural
water supply, including working closely with local communities.

Since early 2005, SNEP has implemented a World Bank-financed LICUS grant o f $855,000 for
community-driven rural water supply and sanitation services. The rural unit of SNEP was created
to implement this project. The two components o f the grant were (i)      the elaboration o f a national
rural water supply and sanitation strategy; and (ii)   implementation of pilot projects incommunity
driven rural water supply and sanitation inthe Southern Department. The LICUS grant served as
a pilot project for the proposed project. Currently, a draft strategy has been produced and
construction of water systems in three rural communities i s underway. SNEP's rural unit has
worked extensively with the communities through a participatory approach, ensuring that the
principle o f sustainability is central to the beneficiaries' understanding of the project.

SNEP annual tariff revenues are about $550,000 a year, but have been much lower at times when
bill collection efficiency dropped. Revenues per each of the 27,300 connections average $2 per
month. Tariffs are determined roughly based on ability to pay, and vary between $1 inthe central
plateau and $7.30 in Kenscoff. The last tariff increase o f about 35 percent was inJanuary 2004.
There were some protests, such as inMirebalais, where SNEP had attempted to raise the tariff to
$2.45 and ultimately was forced to lower it to $1.95.

SNEP receives a direct subsidy of almost $200,000 from the Ministry o f Finance to cover the
salaries of some employees of its central office. Another portion of the costs of the central office
i s paid for by a 25 percent share of revenues from the regional offices. That share i s envisaged to
be reduced as part o f the effort to provide the operating centers with more autonomy and means.
The central office, therefore, has to mobilize other sources o f funding and make better use o f its
existing staff.


                                                   30

The central office of SNEP is expected to be strengthened with the support of the parallel IDB
project inthe following ways:

     (i)       a technical advisor to the Director General;
     (ii)      a procurementadvisor;
     (iii)     a community developmentspecialist inthe nationaloffice (already recruited); and
     (iv)      a database operator to help inestablishinga sector information system.

In addition, in each of the four departments where the IDB will support interventions one
engineer and one community development specialist would be recruited. Inthe same vein, the
WB would finance the recruitment of an engineer and a community developmentspecialist inthe
south.

In addition, the IDB provides financing for training in areas such as planning, project
management,financial management,community development andvarious technical skills.

CAMEP: Serving the MetropolitanArea of Port-au-Prince

CAMEP is the utility incharge of serving the Metropolitan area of Port-au-Prince,consistingof
six municipalities: Delmas, Pttionville, PAP, Tabarre, Carrefour and Citt Soleil. In theory,
CAMEP has a board consisting of several Ministers. The six municipalities are not represented
on the board. Inreality, the Board does not meet and the Minister of Public Works chooses the
director general andprovidesthe policy directions.

There were reportedly 54,000 regular house connections (of which 35,000 were active) in
CAMEP's service area in 2004.*' One connection is estimated to directly serve 6 people, plus
another 15 people through improvised connections to neighbors, for a total of 21 people. Water
i s suppliedbetween 2 and 10 hours per day inPort-au-Prince at least 3 days per week, depending
on the neighborhood.Some neighborhoods in the city of Petionville (inthe hills above Port-au-
Prince) receivewater just once a week. The rotations schedule is fixed, announcedinoffices and
communicated verbally by CAMEP staff. Unaccountedfor Water (UFW) is estimated at 45-65
percent, including a large share of stolenwater.

Twenty public fountains on water mains provide free water, because people refuse to pay for
water. If the water were not given for free, according to CAMEP management, the mains would
be damaged. CAMEP would like to convert these fountains to water kiosks.

Metering is not widespread. CAMEP has only 3,000 meteredconnections, or about 8 percent of
its active connections. CAMEP meters all the water committees in the informal settlements and
its industrial customers. Some major consumers, such as luxury hotels, have disconnected from
the public network andreceiveall their water via tankers.


'*This
    ~         ~             ~




        number varies according to sources. Another source quotes 60,000 connections, out of which 43,000 are
active. Reasons for inactivity could be voluntary disconnection by large consumers or forced disconnection because
of non-payment.


                                                        31

Tariffs are flat rates due to the absence of metering for most customers. Tariffs have been
regularly increased at substantial rates to keep pace with inflation, or even exceeding inflation.
Price increases have been implemented by CAMEP after simple notification o f Board members
on a no-objection basis. Tariff increases are not implemented in service areas with poor service,
such as in the isolated system of Petionville that i s supplied by a source with low yield in
summer. Tariffs are not transparent. There are six different categories o f connections, each with
different tariffs corresponding to a different consumptionlevel, totaling 30 tariffs.

Annual revenues of CAMEP are about $3 million, about four times more than SNEP. The
revenues barely cover operating costs, leaving insufficient resources for maintenance. Water
cutoffs are frequent to enforce payments, partly because payments cannot be enforced through
the legal system. Users have to pay to be reconnected. Staff inthe billing collections department
i s rewardedfor enforcing payments, as they receive bonuses if cost recovery increases.

CAMEP has about 750 employees, or 14 per 1,000 water connections-more                  than twice the
efficient.leve1. CAMEP pays higher salaries than does SNEP. CAMEP has a unit charged with
service provision for slums, called the UCQD (Unite`Centrale des Quartiers Dkfavorisks), which
works closely with water committees that manage a total of 148 water kiosks in slums supplied
with bulk water by CAMEP.

Ministryof PublicWorks, Transport and Communications(MTPTC)

The MTPTC does not have a water and sanitation directorate, although its creation i s foreseen.
Together with the fact that the boards o f the enterprises are inactive, this led to a situation of ad-
hoc interventions by the Minister inthe absence o f any long-term policy or performance targets.
MTPTC now envisages creating a water and sanitation directorate as part of the Loi-Cadre. In
the interim period, an advisor to the Minister i s fulfilling this role. The unit would be in charge,
among others, of developing a sector policy and of supervising the public enterprises in the
sector.

The water reform unit (URSEP) in MTPTC is the project management unit of an IDB-funded
water reform project. One of URSEP's main functions i s the implementation of water and
sanitation interventions in small towns with systems operated by SNEP. It also promotes greater
autonomy for the local branches o f SNEP. URSEP may be integrated into the new water and
sanitation directorate o f MTPTC as part of the on-going reform process.

Ministryof PublicHealthandPOCHEP

The Ministry of Public Health still houses POCHEP (Postes Communautaires d'HygiBne et
d'Eau Potable),the Project Management Unit of an IDB rural water and sanitation project closed
in 1998. Despite its name, the IDB's POCHEP project covered water supply but not sanitation.
POCHEP has one staff member and a database with contacts for contractual staff, inthe hope of
attracting donor funds. Inthe past, POCHEPworked with water committees all over the country,
limiting it to gravity systems inorder to reduce maintenance problems and recurrent costs. Now,
POCHEP helps communities on occasion with spare parts from their stocks and executes small
projects with government funding. Without major new works, however, its personnel are
unmotivated and feel marginalized.


                                                 32

The SocialFund: moreinvolvedinfundingthanina dialogueon sector policy

The Social Fund (FAES) i s under the authority of the Ministry of Finance. Its board includes
several representatives o f ministries and professional associations, but no service NGOs. It
receives funds from IDB, the International Fund for Agricultural Development and the UN
Capital Fund. About 12 percent of its expenditures are for rural water supply and sanitation,
supporting 103 projects under the IDB-funded local development project. It has an inoperative
cooperation agreement with SNEP. So far, FAES has not worked extensively with NGOs or local
governments, but has expressed a desire to involve mayors in its work. Its 60 staff members are
located in the capital and in recently created regional offices. They are paid higher salaries than
their public sector counterparts. Their projects are executed through contractors.

Although it executes a large number of water projects, FAES does not have a strong sector
expertise inwater or, for that matter, insanitation or hygiene promotion. This sometimes leads to
poor quality projects and low project sustainability. In at least one case, FAES has built
relatively expensive water kiosks without asking users to pay.

Localgovernment:marginalized,butexpected to playa moreimportantrole

Municipalities have so far practically no role in water supply and sanitation. There has been an
attempt to involve the municipalities indirectly in water and sanitation through the formation of
advisory committees in small towns that are served by SNEP. These advisory committees, called
COCEPAs (Comitks Communaux d'Eau Potable et de I'Assainissement), are made up of
representatives of users, SNEP and municipalities and are supposed to play an advisory role and
perform community outreach. Inreality, very few COCEPAs exist.

There are various initiatives underway to give municipalities a greater role in managing their
water systems. The IDB is helping some regional offices (Saint Marc and Port-de-Paix;
afterwards possibly Les Cayes and Jacmel) to set up their own administrative, financial and
accounting systems; undertake water and sanitation master plans and tariff studies; and introduce
metering and perform community outreach.

In 2000, a pilot project was undertaken by the NGO GRET in partnership with two
municipalities to attempt to give them more control over management o f their water systems, in
accordance with a proposed new law that ultimately was blocked. The results were mixed. The
project, which was conducted in two small towns, Aquin and Mirebalais, included the
installation of meters and foresaw volumetric pricing. Also included were surveys to understand
user practices and water points, mapped in a GIs; a communication campaign; and a choice of
different technologies at different costs. Although meters were installed, volumetric tariffs were
never applied. There is some confusion about the reasons, but it seems that they were neither
social nor technical, but purely political. The volumetric billing was accepted by the population
and the meters functioned well, but following municipal elections the new local authorities
refused to issue volumetric bills and decided to continue to bill on a lump-sum basis, despite the
efforts undertaken previously.




                                                 33

Non-governmental organizations: performing a wide range of functions

NGOs inthe water sector vary widely insize and scope of activities. Some are large and work in
many areas throughout the country. Others are small and active only in one region. Some are
branches of international NGOs, while others are local NGOs, with many shades in between.
Some NGOs work in partnership with state institutions, while others work on their own. Many
cover activities invarious sectors andwork only to a limited extent inwater and sanitation, while
others have water specialists among their staff. It seems that only few NGOs have developed
specific expertise insanitationandhygieneeducation.

Sector Reform Initiatives

The newly elected government intends to reform the sector through a water and sanitation
framework law. The framework law (Zoi cadre) aims at creating autonomous regional water and
sanitation companies replacing SNEP and the Port-au-Prince water utility, CAMEP. It also
envisages the creationof a water and sanitation directorate inthe Ministry of Public Works that
will proposepolicies for the sector. Furthermore, a rural water and sanitationunit inthe Ministry
of Health, called POCHEP, will be dissolved and integrated into the new structures. Ultimately,
the law envisages the gradual transfer of the responsibility for water and sanitation to those
municipalities that have proven their capacity to undertake these responsibilities.Municipalities
would inturn have the option to delegate service provision to the private sector, municipalwater
companies, or water committees. The law would also-for        the first time in Haiti-define  legal
responsibility for sanitation within the public sector.

The proposed framework law constitutes a significant step forward compared to the existing
piecemeallegal framework, which does not define clear responsibilitiesfor policy andregulatory
functions, does not allow for private sector participation, and does not define responsibilitiesfor
sanitation.The proposedstructure of regional companies strikes a pragmatic balancebetweenthe
necessityand political will to decentralizeon the one hand, andthe risk of fragmenting the sector
through over zealous municipalization in the context of very weak capacity on the other. The
passingof the law and an associatedsector strategy is also expectedto bring a new momentumto
the sector, which was somewhat paralyzed and dispirited given that an earlier draft framework
law that has been in existence since 1996 has not been passed in the absence of a functioning
Parliament.




                                                 34

Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bank and/or other Agencies
                         HAITI: RuralWater andSanitationProject

Bank-FinancedProjects

1.      Community-Driven Development Project (CDD) ($38 million): The Bank's
Community-Driven Development (CDD) project transfers resources to local community
organizations in poor communities by (i) improving access to basic infrastructure and support
income-generating activities at an estimated average cost of $20,000 per activity, and (ii)
improving governance and building social capital of communities by increasing citizen
participation and transparency. The CDD project will ultimately cover almost half the country's
rural communities. Concerning water supply, investments are limited to a small range of
technical options (essentially hand-pumps). The water and sanitation project complements the
CDD project, because it allows the financing of high-priority investments that could not be
included under the CDD project because of their size. The proposed project will overlap
geographically with the first phase of the CDD project in the Southern Department. The CDD
project is implementedby the PL-480 Management Office under the Ministry of Planning and
NGOs.

2.     EmergencyRecoveryandDisasterManagementProject(ERDM) ($12 million): The
ERDMproject aims at rehabilitating areas affectedby two tropical storms in2004, strengthening
the country's capacity to manage natural disasters, and to reduce the vulnerability of
communities through risk identification and risk mitigation activities. The rehabilitation works
will be partly carried out in areas covered by the proposed project (GonaYves in the Artibonite
and Fonds Verettes in the Western Department), thus allowing for support in managing
rehabilitatedwater systems from SNEP's departmentaloffices, which will be strengthenedunder
the proposedproject. Concerning efforts to reduce disaster vulnerability, a CDD approach will
be used in 70 communities, half of them in rural areas and including some in areas covered by
the proposed project. Investments considered do not cover water supply and sanitation, but
provide important benefits to water systems in terms of watershed protection (reforestation and
terracing). Furthermore, the proposed project will strengthen SNEP's capacity to respond to
requests to possible requests by the Civil Protection Directorate (DPC) for support in the
rehabilitation of water systems damagedby natural disasters. The project is implementedby the
DPC of the Ministry of Interior and PL-480 ManagementOffice.

3.     Transport and Territorial Development Project ($16 million): This infrastructure
rehabilitation project aims at creating growth poles in selected rural areas. Investments in the
areas coveredby the TTDP could be picked up under the current project to maximize the growth
impact by improving public health and reducing the time burden of water fetching. Synergies
could be obtained at least in both areas covered by the TTDP: The Dondon area in the North
includes the municipality of Marmelade in the Artibonite department covered by the proposed
project; and the Southeastern area includes the municipality of Fonds Verettes in the Western
department included under the proposed project. The project is implemented by the PL-480
ManagementOffice.




                                              35

4.      Economic Governance Reform Operation (EGRO 11) ($23 million): A proposed
second EGRO operation (EGRO 11, of $23 million intwo tranches) will support the continuation
and deepeningof the reforms introduced inthe area of economic governanceby EGRO I(which
was fully disbursed in early 2006) and help improve the policy environment for increased Bank
and other donor-supported investment lending inkey sectors. Specifically, the EGRO I1will: (i)
promote efficiency, transparency, and accountability in public resource use through public
financial management and procurement reforms; (ii)strengthen the public sector's human
resource management and employees' accountability; (iii)   improve efficiency and transparency
inpublic infrastructure management; and (iv) support governancereforms inthe education sector
to promote accountability and transparency in the use of public education funds. The operation
would also support ongoing efforts to help create a culture of public participation in the
monitoringof economic governancereforms.

5.      Economic Governance Technical Assistance Grant (EGTAG Iand 11) ($2 million
each): These projects aim to assist the Government of Haiti in strengthening its institutional
capacity in the areas of budgetary planning and execution, investment and project planning,
internal and external control, procurement, accountability, participatory monitoring and reform
constituency building. The projects seek to: (i)
                                               strengthenthe Government's capacity to prepare
and execute a budget and enhance financial management and procurement policies and
procedures; (ii)support the development of a Human Resource Management System and the
strengthening of human resources capacity under the direction of the Human Resource Unit
within the Prime Minister's Office; (iii)
                                        strengthenthe Ministry of Finance's AnticorruptionUnit
and its special program for civil society monitoring of economic governance reforms; and (iv)
strengthen the Ministry of Economy and Finance's (MEF) program for communication of
economic governance reforms to the public and enhance MEF's ability to coordinate donor
programs ineconomic governance

6.     Electricity Loss Reduction Project (PREPSEL) ($6 million): This project has two
main objectives: (1) To lay the foundation for improving the operational and technical
performance of Electricit6 d'Haiti (EDH) through investments in Port-au-Prince; and (2) to
reduce and stabilize the fiscal burden causedby the electricity sector on public finances through
better governance of the sector and commercial re-orientation of EDH. The project has two
components: loss reduction inPort-au-Prince and development of a medium-term strategy for the
electricity sector.

ProjectsFinancedby Other Donors

IDB rural water and sanitation project. The IDB has negotiated a $15 million rural water
supply and sanitation project in close coordination with the Bank, which was approved by the
IDB Board in September 2006. The IDB's rural project will be implemented by SNEP and uses
the same implementation mechanisms as the Bank project.

The IDB also has a water sector reform project and a local development project with the Social
Fund.The other donors engagedinthe rural water and sanitation sector inHaiti are the European
Union, France, Belgium, Spain, Switzerland and a large number of NGOs. Coordination with




                                              36

these donors will be strengthened through the ongoing consultation process as part of the
preparation of the national rural water and sanitation strategy.




                                                37

                                Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkand Monitoring
                                HAITI: RuralWater andSanitationProject

                                                 ResultsFramework




 Increase access to and use of
 water supply and sanitation
 services in participating rural
 communities.22
           Increasingthe
           sustained and                    Number of beneficiaries gainin                Assessment of efficacy of
           effective use of safe            access to and using sustainable      B        approachto construction and
           drinkingwater in                 water systems24 inparticipating               management of rural water

           participating                    localities.                                   supply, for broader use in
                                                                                          Haiti.
           communities.
           Improved use o f                 Number o f beneficiaries gaining              Assessment of efficacy of
           sanitation in                    access to and usingbasic sanitation           "limited subsidy" approachto

           participating                    systems2' inparticipating                     sanitation, for broader use in
                                                                                          Haiti.
           communities.                     localities,




22Communities with 1,000-10,000 inhabitants.
23Systems are considered to be "sustainable" ifbeneficiaries use systems and: (i)tariffs are set at a level that
guarantees operation and routine maintenanceof the system; (ii)     at least 80% of revenues due are collected; (iii) the
water committees meet on aregular basis; and (iv) professional operators fulfill their contractual obligations.
24"Water systems" interms of this project means systems that are "improved" accordingto the Joint Monitoring
Programmedefinition of "improved" water supply. (e.g. Improvement inthe access to piped water (for those
households without access to piped water) or protection of a previously unprotectedsource.)
*'"Basic  sanitation systems" interms of this project means systems that satisfy the Joint Monitoring Programme
definition of "basic" sanitation contributing towards the MDGTarget. (e.g., both simple and Ventilated Improved
Pit latrines, twin pit pour flush latrines, and septic tanks) which protect the user and the community from fecal
contamination.


                                                             38

                                                                           Use of Intermediate
                                                                          Outcome Monitoring
COMPONENT 1:                  Establishmentanduse of a sector            This indicator will
Increased capacity within information management system within           reflect not only the
SNEP for overseeing and the program (establishment anduse of a           quality and utility of the
managing       rural    water standardizedelectronic database of rural   monitoring system
supply      and    sanitation water systems and water committees in      developed by SNEP
(RWSS)    .                   participating departments; and             under this program, but
                              maintaining an up-to-date database of      also its potential utility
                              investment plansby NGOs and FAES).         for other investments.
COMPONENT 2:                  See indicators by subcomponentbelow.
Expanded access to water
supply, basic sanitation and
hygiene      promotion      in
participating communities

Subcomponent 2A:              Number of beneficiaries gaining access     Assessment, for mid-
Construction and/or           to improvedwater supply systems.           course correction, of
rehabilitation of water                                                  project implementation.
supply systems in
participating communities.
Subcomponent 2B:              Percentageof households inparticipating    Assessment, for mid-
Systems inplace in            communities paying for water services.     coursecorrection, of
participating communities                                                sustainability of
to effectively manage                                                    managementmodels for
water supply systems.                                                    water services.
Subcomponent 2C:              Numberof householdssatisfying              Assessment of efficacy
Hygiene and sanitation        preconditions of programme-specified       of approach to
promotionactivities           labour and/or cash investment in           construction of latrines,
underway inparticipating      sanitation for provisionof latrine slab.   for broader use inHaiti.
communities.
Subcomponent 2D:              Numberof schools, healthcentres with       Assessment of efficacy
Construction of sanitation    access to blocs sanitaires, and with well- of approach to
facilities (blocs sunituires) defined plans and sources of funds for     construction of blocs
inschools andhealth           their maintenance and management.          sanitaires, for broader
centres of participating                                                 use inHaiti.
communities.




                                               39

Arrangementsfor resultsmonitoring


0   Institutional issues: How will monitoring and evaluation (M&E) complement project
    management? How will participatory M&E be integrated into management and capacity
    building for the communities involved (if applicable)?

The monitoring and evaluation program will be broadly conceived, and reflect issues of water
supply service and sustainability, sanitation access and personal hygiene. Results will be fed
back not only to SNEP, but also to the local CAEP. Inaddition, the CAEP and community will
be involved in the participatory elements of overall hygiene assessment in the baseline and
follow up surveys.

    Data collection: If the project is drawing on data collected by Government statistical offices
    or line agencies, which statistics would be used and what is the reliability of this
    information? Where information is to be derived specifically for measurement of project
    results and outcomes,what are the associatedcosts and institutional responsibilities?

"Access" data will be based on representative household surveys conducted during feasibility
studies (baseline) and on follow-up surveys conducted either by the implementing NGOs at
baseline or by an independent consultant at project close, and are thus not determined by
government data. The overall institutional management responsibility lies with SNEP, but the
implementationwill be subcontracted. Inaddition, participatory hygiene assessment is proposed
at baseline and close as a way to determine the appropriate methods and channels for hygiene
promotion. The cost of associatedsurveys will be financedby the project.

    Capacity: Where there i s limited capacity inthe country to derive the necessary information,
    how will local capacity be supplemented through the project, and what will be the costs of
    doing this?

The experience of the Bank and other institutions (including that of the WHOLJNICEF Joint
Monitoring Programfor Water Supply and Sanitation) inthe development and administrationof
household surveys for water and sanitation will be shared with the implementing
consultant/NGOs (service provider) responsible for the household surveys.            In addition,
participatory methods of hygiene evaluation are already documented and available in French on
the web, and are specifically mentioned in the Terms of Reference for the service provider.
Bank staff will review the survey plans and methods proposedby the consultants.




                                               40

            P8


            .-85
             bB


             v)




c




       Es

       Q
       t
       N




       0        0




     .n

                                    Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription
                               HAITI: RuralWater andSanitationProject

Component1: Capacity Building and Project Management

The activities under this component aim at managing the project and strengtheningthe
capacity of SNEP. The component includes four mainactivities.

    0    First, it will strengthen SNEP's regional office in Les Cayes through the recruitment of
        two consultants who are expected to become staff after project closure, as well as through
         the provisionof cars, office space and coverage of operating expenses.
    0    Second, it will finance services for capacity building in project management,
         documentation, reporting, information technology, and environmental management. This
         activity is foreseen primarily during the first two years of project implementation, with
         the aim of making the assistance unnecessary during the remainder of the project. This
         activity will also include the financial audits of the project.
    0    Third, the Bank would finance services for surveys to monitor the achievement of
         performance indicators at least one year after the construction of water and sanitation
         systems.
         Fourth, it will assist SNEP infinalizing and disseminating the national rural water supply
         and sanitation strategy initiatedunderthe LICUS grant mentioned above.

The component complements $3 million for capacity buildingto be provided by the IDB
under itsparallelfinancing. The IDB financing covers two areas: First, it aims at strengthening
SNEP's functions in rural areas in close relation with the investment component, with an
emphasis on community development and procurement. Second, it will strengthen SNEP's
overall capacity throughout its mandate, including rural and urban areas. It foresees the hiring of
an advisor to the Director General for the first two years of the project and the strengthening of
the technical and financial departments of SNEP. It also foresees an assessment of SNEP's
human resources inview of a rationalization of its personnel and salary structure. Inaddition, the
IDB will finance vehicles, equipment andrecurrent costs necessaryfor the project.

Component2: Water supply, basic sanitationand hygienepromotion

This componentwill enable participatingcommunitiesto access and manage water supply
and basic sanitation services. This includes the identification of participating communities
based on objective criteria; ing4nierie ~ociaZe*~using a participatory approach allowing
communities a series of choices;30engineering design; system construction and supervision; and
support during the early years of system management. The project will promote the innovative


  See explanation further above.
30The proposed key choices are: choice between different water service levels (house connection or water kiosk)
and sanitation service levels (pit latrine and Ventilated ImprovedPit latrine) implying different costs to users; choice
inthe tariff structure (pure volumetric or combined flat rate and volumetric) and level(covering only operating costs
and basic maintenance, or including a reserve for major maintenance).


                                                           42

managementapproachpilotedunder the LICUS grant involving professionaloperators, increased
cost recovery, metering, andthe use of water kiosks insteadof standpipes.

Investments under this component are expected to consist mainly of piped water systems.
The piped systems will feed water kiosks andhouse connections. Water kiosks consist of a small
concrete structures with faucets on the outside and taps on the inside, thus allowing kiosk
operators to sell water by the bucket. Both water kiosks and house connections would be
metered. Most piped systems are expected to be gravity-fed by springs. If pumping should be
necessary and cost-effective, the project would give a strong preference to renewable energy.
Given widespread theft of photovoltaic cells inHaiti, wind energy would be the preferredsource
of energy, relying on hurricane-proof new technologies as they are about to be tested in Haiti
under a pilot project supported by the World Bank's Development Marketplace. Other water
investmentsincludehandpumps andrainwater harvestingsystems.

Concerning sanitation, the project would support the construction of household latrines as
well as blocs sanitaires next to schools and health centers. Sanitation investments will only be
supportedinlocalities where water systems will be built, inorder to be able to carry out hygiene
promotion (see further below) in a credible manner and to maximize health impacts. A bloc
sunituire i s a concrete structure with toilets andbasic water supply fixtures intwo compartments,
one for menhoys and one for womedgirls.

Sanitation and hygiene promotion will be carried out in the same communities in which
water services will be improved. This allows for the creationof synergies among water supply,
sanitation and improvedhygiene interventions. SNEP and Haitian NGOs have experiencein the
construction of blocs sunituires for health centers and schools, and the project will support the
continuationof this work, with a focus on their operation and management as well as upon their
physicalconstruction.

The approach to sanitation will stress subsidies to promote the construction of individual
household facilities. While other sanitation initiatives in Haiti have involved subsidies in the
order of $100-$500 per family, this project will explore the viability of an approach in which
only the basic slab and seat are subsidized, accompanied by promotion activities. Keeping the
subsidy as low as possible while focusing on promotion has two advantages: (1) reducing the
per-unit subsidy enables the project to provide access to sanitation services to a greater number
of people; and (2) a low-cost subsidy of appropriate technology may sow the seeds for a small-
scale industry that designs basic sanitation at a price families can afford. The sanitation
component will thus focus heavily on demandstimulation at the householdlevel.

While sanitation interventions will be coordinated with hygiene promotion activities, the
differences between the two must be clearly understood. Hygiene promotion will thus be
based on early studies to (a) determine high risk behaviors related to hygiene, sanitation and
water supply; (b) identify specific motivators for change, including concepts of cleanliness,
modernity, education, and attractiveness; (c) identification of key channels of communication
most effective inreachingmothers and children; and (d) development of appropriatemessages to
promote improved hygiene behavior. The hygiene promotion campaigns can draw substantially
from recent experience in hand washing campaigns in LAC and elsewhere. SNEP will have the



                                                  43

institutional responsibility for hygiene promotion under this project. However, since SNEP has
no experience inhygiene promotion, and given the weakness of other potential stakeholders such
as the Direction de Z'Hygi2ne PubZique (DHP) in the Ministry of Health, the service provider
(see under implementing arrangements) will also undertake hygiene promotion. Solid waste
management is not considered a priority issue in rural areas and is thus not included under this
project.

The financial policy under the program includesthe following key elements:

         Tariffs: Communities will charge tariffs that recover at a minimum full operation and
         routine maintenance costs. All consumption from piped systems is expected to be
         metered and tariffs will be volumetric. There will be tariffs for water sold in buckets at
         water kiosks, as well as tariffs for house connections, both residential and for public
         buildings. House connections will have a fixed portion including a minimal consumption
         and a volumetric portion for consumptionexceedingthe minimum. Tariffs for the use of
         handpumps will be flat rates per householdand month.
         Up-front financial contribution: Communities are requiredto come up with an up-front
         financial contribution before technical studies will be initiated. The purpose of the
         contribution is to be an indicator of willingness to pay. It should cover, at the minimum,
         three months of operation and routine maintenance costs of the system. These funds
         would not be mingled with project funds, but would rather be usedby the community for
         small initial purchases (e.g., for chlorine and a motorcycle) or be kept in a reserve for
         repairs. In addition, households that receive a house connection would pay connection
         fees.
         Pass-through conditions for investment funds: Following common practice in Haiti
         and inmany other countries, project funds for investments will be passed through to the
         community as a grant, given limited ability to pay and given that similar practice is
         exercised inurbanareas.

Participating localities will be selected based on objective, transparent criteria. A tentative
long list of about 40 localities has been establishedthat would be reduced to a short list of about
12 localities based on an objective eligibility and priority criteria. Eligibility criteria include the
number of inhabitants (less than 10,000); availability of a nearby sufficiently productive, good
quality source of water; protection of the source or indication of willingness and likelihood that
the source will be protected; estimated per capita costs of less than $150; acceptance to pay
volumetric tariffs covering operation and routine maintenance costs; acceptance of the
professionaloperator model; a formal letter requestingto be included inthe project; andpayment
of an up-front financial contribution into a fund managedby the water committee. If the number
of eligible localities is greater than about 12, participating localities will be selected based on
priority criteria. These include greatest needs (as measured by average walking distance to
currently usedsources of water) and lowest estimatedunit costs (as measuredby estimates of the
required works and the number of houses in the locality assessed based on satellite pictures).
Data on estimated costs andbenefits will be collectedby the service provider on behalf of SNEP.




                                                  44

Total project costs are $5.25 million, including $0.92 million for the first component and $4.33
million for the second component.The costs will be financed through the grant ($5 million) and
counterpart funds ($0.25 million).

                    Estimatesof ProjectCosts, by Components($ million)

         Components                    Grant           Counterpart            Total Cost
      Capacity Building, and            0.67               0.25                 0.92
      Project Management
      (1)
      Water Supply, Basic               4.33               0.00                 4.33
      Sanitationand Hygiene
      Promotion(2)
     TOTAL ProiectCosts                 5.OO               0.25                 5.25

The Government of Haiti has requestedand the Bank has approveda ProjectPreparationFacility
(PPF) advance of $0.7 million to prepare the project, of which $0.22 million will be used for
component 1 and $0.48 million for Component 2. These costs are included in the total grant
amount shown above.




                                               45

8
v)   8In scu    0
                2    9    co   0
                     9   2     2


           2
           v)




8
v)    8
      v)   2r-  2
                0         2co  2 0




           c
           Q
           '0
           a,
           E
           a,

.-c
C          5
0          3
.-aC       53
e




U

-h
as         5
           a,
           .-Ct
           .I-
           C
Q
a          8
3
v)         .-C0
           ;
           .I-

5
t
-22B
3          Q
           0

     .-C0  B
           v)


      .I-  W
           z
c         v)
w    -a39 c
5a,   W    0

           C    .-8            .-8
.I-  d     .-P)
- .-b      C    0                0
v)    w                          C
                                 a,
.-
;     C    a,    C
                 a,       .-C0
     .-c  5w              xs
           C    .-0
                 C             .-w
                                 C
                               st
                .I-
           2              .-a
                          .I-

                          .I-    .I-
za   8Y
.I-   C                          C
          5     5
                0         v)
7          m    t
l-   l-    l- l-                 0 4

 Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
HAITI: RuralWater andSanitationProject




             MTPTC
           (Ministkre des
          Travaux Publics,
           Transports et
          Communication)




              SNEP
         (ServiceNational
           d'Eau Potable)




                          Service Provider
                         (NGO or consulting
                               firm)




 Professional
  Operators




                    47

General
The institutionalarrangementsof this project, summarizedin the above table, are largely
based upon the implementation arrangementsunder an ongoing LICUS grant for rural
water supply and sanitation. The Ministkre des Travaux Publics, Transports et
Communications(MTPTC), the government ministry responsible for water supply and sanitation
in Haiti, would sign a subsidiary agreement with SNEP, as under the LICUS grant. While the
implementationarrangements for the LICUS grant have proven effective, the proposedprogram
supported by the Bank and IDB will require an absorption capacity that is more than ten times
larger ($4 milliodyear comparedto $0.425 milliodyear). Inorder to ensure the ability of SNEP
to implement the activities under the program, the following measures have been initiated or are
envisaged:
        Recruitmentof an experiencedservice provider (see below).
        Individual consultantshiredby SNEP with the expectationthat they would become SNEP
        staff when the project ends.
        Capacity building within SNEP for project management and procurement, including
        supervisionof the service provider.

The institutional characteristics of the proposed projectlprogram and the LICUS grant are
comparedinthe table below:

          Table 1:Comparisonof proposedprogramand predecessor pilotproject

                                ProposedProgram                 PredecessorPilot Project
                                  WB andIDB)                           (LICUS grant)
   Ingknierie          Carried out by an experienced      Carriedout in-houseby SNEP with
   sociale             service provider, inpartnership    support from two international
                       with SNEP                          volunteers (EWB-Canada)
   Procurementand SNEP, supportedby consultants           SNEP with intensive Bank
   project             and significant training with      supervisionand support by EWB
   management          intensivecapacity building
                       programand Bank supervision
   Technical design Carriedout by the same service        Engineeringfirm
                       provider or consortiumthat will
                       undertakethe ingknierie sociale
   Construction      I Contractors                        Contractors
   Construction        Engineeringfirm or service         Individual consultant
   Supervision         provider
   Geographical        About 50 localities in5            3 localities in2 departments
   Coverage            devartments
   Duration          1I5 years without the preparation    2 years incl. preparationphase
                       vhase
   Amount              $20million                         $0.85 million

SNEP is the executing agency for the proposed project. SNEP will have the fiduciary
responsibility for the project (financial managementand procurement). SNEP has selectedone of
its current employees to become a full-time procurement staff. H e and other SNEP staff have



                                                48

been trained by the procurement specialist of the IDB office in Haiti and by the National
Procurement Commission, which receives support from the Bank and IDB.

In order to assist in the process of ingknierie sociale, and to carry out engineering designs,
SNEP is in the process of selecting a service provider (NGO, consulting firm or a
consortium of both) for the Southern Department on a competitive basis. The service
provider will have as one of its tasks to strengthen the capacity in the local office of SNEP and
they will be selected partly based on their methodology and track record in working with and
strengthening of public institutions.

Local water committees (CAEP) would have important responsibilities during the
feasibility and construction stage. The CAEP is a community-based organization composed of
five volunteers elected by the community. Given the weakness of most existing water
committees, substantial assistance would be provided to existing and new water committees in
order not to overload them during these crucial phases. While water committees have an
important role, communicating with them is no substitute for communication with the entire
community. SNEP and its service provider (NGO or consulting firm) would, therefore, organize
community consultations on key aspects of the project. These would include community
contributions, design and location of infrastructure, tariff levels, as well as explaining the
concept of and rationale for professional operators and water meters. During the construction
stage, the CAEP will organize the community contribution, check and approve the work, and
assist SNEP and its service provider inresolving any differences between the community and the
contractor.

In the operating phase, the role of the water committees will change compared to the role
they have played in the sector so far. As mentioned earlier, most water committees do not have
the capacity to adequately operate and maintain water systems. Under the proposed project,
water committees would delegate operation and maintenance to remunerated professional
operators. Professional operators are expected to operate systems (chlorination, cleaning of
reservoirs, operation of kiosks, meter reading, billing, and collection and management of funds
generated by tariff revenues), undertake routine maintenance, and upgrade and expand systems
on a limitedbasis using revenues from tariffs and connections fees. Operators will be selected by
communities based primarily on the level of trust put in them under simple contracts drawn up
by the community. These contracts will specify tariff levels and simple service quality standards.
Contracts are expected to be for one year and will be renewable, with the objective of
establishing a long-term relationship. Professional operators will be individuals from the
respective communities, who will inturn hire a small number of employees to assist them. They
will collect and own revenues, but they will pay a small fee to the community to be used for
miscellaneous administrative expenses of the water committee. Water committees will supervise
professional operators by controlling their contractual performance onbehalf of the community.

In order to attract and retain qualified staff and build capacity in SNEP, two approaches
will be used in parallel: recruitment of consultants and salary top-ups. Both approaches have
been tested in SNEP, and both approaches entail their own benefits and risks. Recruitment of
consultants, some of whom are recruited from outside and some of whom are SNEP employees
who have resignedfrom their positions, entails a lower financial management risk. However, it



                                                49

increases the risk that staff may not return to SNEP after their contracts end, and it may create
tensions between employees and consultants. Salary top-ups are eligible for Bank financing
under OP/BP 6.00. Salary top-ups are routinely used by donors in Haiti and the Ministry o f
Economy and Finance (MEF) supports their use.

The Bank's approach to government salary top-ups and the use o f consultants--as reflected inthis
project--is to ensure transparency, fairness, sustainability, compatibility with local markets, and
avoidance of conflicts of interest. Inthe case of the proposed project, the Bank and the IDB share
a common approach, stemming from the commitment to work through a government agency as
opposed to creating a self-standing PMU. Top-ups are proposed by the Director General based
on recommendations b y the project coordinator. Their level i s in many cases 50 percent of the
base salary and does not exceed 100 percent o f the base salary of each employee. These levels,
together with per diems, have shown to be sufficient for staff to significantly increase their
motivation. Likewise, fees for consultants will not exceed the double o f comparative salaries and
will often remain below that level. These arrangements are meant to increase the probability that
consultants will accept to be recruited as employees after the project ends. Top-ups are reviewed
by each donor ex-ante for every eligible staff member inorder to reduce the risk of abuse and to
ensure that they will be linked to actual performance. Ex-post reviews will also be undertakenon
a six-month basis to ensure the fairness of the mechanism. Up to now the mechanism has not
been perceived as unfair or inconsistent, mainly because o f the way the Director General has
administered it. Top-ups have not creamed off top staff from other activities within the
institution, because of the relatively small fraction of eligible staff. There i s also no evidence so
far that top-ups or consultant contracts have weakened other public sector entities, since the only
outside consultant recruited so far has not worked for the government before. Top-ups and
consultant contracts are expected to continue to contribute to an atmosphere o f elevated
standards and performance that would further strengthen the implementing agency, as has been
the case duringthe LICUS grant.

Counterpart funding i s expected to create a precedent for annual budget allocations to the public
agency in charge o f rural water supply and sanitation, thus fostering institutional sustainability.
Certain recurrent costs, including individual consultants, per diems and operating costs are
expected to be funded through the government's counterpart contribution beginning in the
Haitian fiscal year 2007-2008. The total of these costs is estimated to be $250,000 over the life
o f the project. The counterpart financing remains to be confirmed through the annual budget law
voted by Parliament. If counterpart funding should not be sufficient to cover these costs, the
Bank would have to finance these costs from the contingency allocation.

The IDB has not requested counterpart funding and will finance all costs, including consultants,
per diems and top-ups, through its credit. It covers these cost items for staff and consultants
working in SNEP's national office that would work on the entire program, no matter if financed
by the World Bank or the IDB.This would include the project coordinator, procurement staff, a
specialist in inginierie sociale and a sanitary engineer. It will also include these cost items for
local staff in the four departments to be supported by the IDB. However, it would not support
these costs for local staff in the Southern Department, making it necessary to fund them through
government counterpart contributions or, if necessary, through the grant.




                                                 50

                                Annex 7: FinancialManagement
According to Bank's policy, a financial management capacity assessment (FM assessment) was
performed for the Haiti Rural Water and Sanitation Project. The objective of the assessment is to
determine whether the project's implementing entity has acceptable financial management
arrangements including the accounting system, reporting, auditing, and internal controls. The
specific activities and circumstances o f the project were also factored in to ensure that the
entity's financial management system i s also commensurate with the needs and the unique nature
of the project. The report's findings are based on the conclusions o f the capacity assessment for
LICUS Trust Fund-financed Haiti Community-managed Rural Water and Sanitation project
(given that the same implementing entity i s involved), the results of the supervision of this
project, as well as consideration of larger scope of the current project.
Overallconclusions
The overall conclusion o f the FMassessment is that the project implementing entity, which is the
Service National d'Eau Potable (SNEP), has adequate financial management capacity.
Although there are significant country risks because of major weaknesses in the public financial
management system and the high level o f perceivedcorruption inHaiti, the impact of these risks
on the project is likely to be limited given the defined implementation arrangements. These
arrangements do not rely on the central government's system. Instead, they build on a continuing
entity that has established adequate financial management system, procedures and staffing, and
successfully implemented a LICUS Trust Fund project. In addition, specific financial
management procedures developed solely for the project with adequate level o f controls will be
followed. The project itself does not present any significant risk and its overall financial
management risk is ratedmoderate.
RiskAssessmentandMitigation
The following matrix summarizes the financial management risk assessment for the project.
                                     1  Assessment
                                            Risk       I
                                      H S      M N Comments
        InherentRisk
        Country                            X             See text below on country risk.
        Entity                                 X
        Project                                X
        Overall Inherent Risk                  X
        ControlRisk
        1.Implementing Entity                  X         Adequate FMcapacity and
                                                         successful previous experience
                                                       I operation.
                                                         implementing WB-funded




                                                51

                                                        -
          2. FundsFlow                                   X        No major issue except for the
                                                                  proposedopening of a 30-day
                                                                  advanceaccount at the provincial
                                                                  level. But amount of the advance
                                                                  i s small (maximum $2,000) and
                                                                  adequate reporting and control
                                                                  procedureswill be developedin
                                                                  the project operations manual.
          3. Staffing                                             Staff with adequate qualification
                                                                  andexperiencecommensurate
                                                                  with the scope of the project
                                                                  already inplace.
          4. Accounting Policies                                  Implementingentity alreadyhas a
          andProcedures                                           manualspecifying accounting
                                                                 policies andprocedures.
          5. Internal Audit                                       No specific internal audit function
                                                                  but adequate controls provided for
                                                                  inthe operationsmanual.
          6. ExternalAudit                                        Audit will be requiredto be done
                                                                  by an independentprivate auditor
                                                                  acceDtable to the Bank.
          7. Reportingand                                X        Arrangements will be clearly
          Monitoring                                              definedinthe operationsmanual
                                                        -         to be approvedby the Bank.
          8. Information Systems                         X        Arrangements to be clearly defined
                                                                  inthe operationsmanualto be
                                                        -         approvedby the Bank.
          Overall Control Risk                          X
          H-High           S - Substant                          lerate            N- Negligible or Low
Country Risks
The information collected through a number of recent studies (the 2006 Country Economic
Memorandumand the 2006 Gestion de D4penses Publiques: Evaluation et Plan d'Action) and as
part of the Interim Cooperation Framework exercise and the Economic Governance Reform
Operations supportedby the Bank provide a reasonablebasis to assess the overall performance
of the country's public financial management (PFM).
Prior to 2004, the government had at times operated without approved budgets or with budgets
approved late into the fiscal year. Procedures for budget formulation and execution were weak
and a significant share of public resources was channeled through multiple comptes courants3'
held by individual ministries and used non-transparently. In addition, internal controls were
impaired by the lack of a well-structured accounting system or external audits of government
budgets. Recent government measures to address these weaknesses include: (i)                 passage of a new



31The comptes courunts (Ministries' accounts) are meant to be used for unforeseen or non-budgeted needs such as
for assistanceto those affected by a natural disaster or unexpected travel by policy makers.


                                                          52

Organic Budget Law3*and adoption of a new budget classification and chart of accounts; (ii)
timely approval of the budgets and regular public dissemination of key budget allocations and
execution information; (iii)a drastic reduction of discretionary spending through ministerial
comptes courants; and (iv) strengthening the external audit function with a decree on the
organization and functioning of the supreme audit institution (Cour Supe'rieure des Comptes et
du Contentieux Administratif-CSCCA). The CSCCA is in the process of catching up on
government accounts audits which, together with the resumption of Parliament oversight
functions, will strengthen external controls. These measures contribute to improving the overall
performance of Haiti PFMthat is, however, still affected by significant weaknesses inthe budget
process, as well as internal and external control. Also, Haiti has traditionally ranked very low in
the Transparency International index indicating a high level of corruption perception.
Without undermining the significance of the issues above, they will not affect directly the current
project. The implementation arrangements of the project including procurement and financial
management will not rely on the country's procedures. Specific procedures complying with
Bank's policy will be implementedby a unit outside the central government ministries and with
adequate staff and controls. Consequently, although the country fiduciary risk is high, its impact
on the project i s moderate.
Project and Entity Risk
Given the nature of the project activities and institutional set up, no major inherent fiduciary risk
i s identified. The implementing entity has adequate financial management capacity and the
activities of the project are not complex. For this reason, both project and entity risks are rated
moderate.
Project activities
The summary below provides a highlight of the key features affecting the scope and coverage of
the financial management aspects of the project.
Implementing entity
The project will be implemented by the Service National d'EauPotable (SNEP) through its Rural
Water Unit and the Administration and Finance Department (AFD), respectively for the
technical and financial managementaspects. The structure of the AFD is as follows:

                           Admin. and Financial
                                Department
                                     I

   Deputy Director (Admin)                       Deputy Director (Finance)
                   I                                    I
                                                              -
  Personnel                                                   Accounting


                                                                  Sales




32 In addition to establishing the outlines of a new budgetary process, the Law mandates the creation of a new
accounting system, creates the position of internal ex-ante controllers and a new internal auditing office.


                                                          53

The positions o f Director Administration and Finance and Deputy Director Finance are currently
vacant. The Deputy Director Administration i s acting for these other two positions. The
accounting unit consists of 5 staff, including the Chief Accountant, three accountants and an
account clerk. Except for the chief accountant, the other accounting staff have not completed yet
their university degree inaccounting.
For the purpose of the project, the Deputy Director Administration and one accountant will be
responsible for the financial management. The team will be strengthened with the recruitment of
a Finance Assistant financed under the IDB-funded project. This level of staffing i s deemed
adequate to handle SNEP's as well as the WB and the IDB-funded projects. Based on its
experience in implementing a LICUS TF grant and given the largely similar implementation
arrangements between this grant and the current project, SNEP staffs are familiar and have a
good understanding of World Bank financial management requirements.
Budgeting
The budget of the project will come mainly from the WB funding ($5.0 million). The
Government i s requested to provide counterpart funds estimated at $0.25 million over the life of
the project (5 years). There will be no financing arrangements between the Bank and the
government. The counterpart funds will be used to finance discrete expenditures. This will help
alleviate the risk of unavailability o f funds from the government on the project's overall
implementation.
Accountingsystem
SNEP maintains accounts for its own operations using a manual and accrual based accounting
system. It has also developed an operations manual describing key financial management
procedures. For the implementation of the LICUS Trust Fund-financed Haiti Community-
managed Rural Water and Sanitation project, SNEP has also installed off-the-shelves
commercial accounting software. The software has been used to produce the interim financial
reports for the LICUS TF. It will also be used for the current project. It has all relevant features
and i s adequate for the project. SNEP will have to customize the account classification to be able
to generate the interim financial reports according to the project activities.
InternalControland InternalAuditing
There i s no formal internal audit function at SNEP. However, adequate controls are defined in
the operations manual.
FundsFlow andDisbursementArrangements
The World Bank funds will be disbursed into a designated account denominated in US dollars
opened at the borrower's central bank (Banque de la RCpublique de Haiti). A local currency
account may also be opened to finance local expenditures. The designated account will be
opened and managed directly by SNEP. The authorized allocation i s expected to be $300,000.
Eligible expenditures paid from the Designated Account will be reported on the basis of
statements of expenditures. Inaddition, the project can use direct payments.
Given the implementation of the activities in the Southern Department and the need to finance
expenditures at the local level, a 30-day advance account will be opened and managed by the
Administrator o f Les Cayes regional office. Since this account will be used mainly to finance
minor operating expenses, the amount of the advance will be limited to $2,000. Detailed


                                                54

                              Expenditure Category          Amount in
                                                                 $
                              Works                         2,875,000
                              Goods                        495.000
                            I Consultant Services
                            I Operating                   I 1.230.200 I
                                        cost              I 226,000
                             Unallocated                   423,800
                             Total Project Cost             5,250,000


Reporting
Annual entity financial statements are regularly prepared albeit with significant delay. The
review of the latest available financial statements shows that they are overall adequately
prepared.
SNEP will be required to provide the Bank with interim financial report, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank. The format of the interim reports will be included in the operations
manual. The interim financial reports will be integrated to the project progress reports and follow
the same six-month periodicity.
External Auditing
SNEP financial statements are normally subject to audit by the supreme audit institution, the
Cour Supe`rieure des Comptes et du Contentieux Administratif (CSCCA), but this has not been
done for several years now as CSCCA does not have the capacity to carry out its mandate
properly.
For this reason, the project audit will be done by a private sector audit firm acceptable to the
Bank in accordance with International Standards on Auditing issued by the International
Federation of Accountants. Inaddition to the project's audit, SNEP will be required to submit its
entity's annual audited financial statements. The list of audit reports required is presented below.




                                                55

Audit reportSchedule
            Audit Report                      Periodicity Due Date
             Project specific financial       Annual      4 months after the
             statements                                   end of each SNEP's
                                                          fiscal vear.
             Special Opinions
                 ..                                       4 months after the
                   Statement of                           endof each SNEP's
                   Expenditures                           fiscal year.
                   DesignatedAccount
             Entityfinancial statements                   4 months after the
                                                          end of each SNEP's
                                                          fiscal year.




         Action                                            Responsibility Completion
                                                                           Date
         Audit                                             SNEP            No later than
         Appoint    the    auditors   for    the  project                  six months after
         acceptable to the Bank according to TORS                          project
         also acceptable to the Bank.                                      effectiveness.
         AccountingSystem                                  SNEP            As part of the
         Adapt the accounts classification to reflect                      selection
         the structure of the project activities.                          process of the
                                                                           NGOs.
         Counterpartfunds                                  MEF             At the time of
         Commit adequate level o f counterpart funds                       annual budget
         inthe budget.                                                     discussions.


Legalcovenants
The following standardfinancial management has been included inthe legal agreement:
  .    Maintenance of an adequate financial management system throughout the life o f the
       project .
  ..   Submission o f half-yearly interim financial reports as part o f the project progress report
       no later than 30 days after the end of each semester.
       Appointment o f a project auditor acceptable to the Bank selected according terms of
       reference acceptable to the Bank.
       Submission o f the annual audit reports o f the project's financial statements and SNEP
       financial statements no later than 4 months after the end of each fiscal year o f the
       borrower.




                                                  56

Supervision plan
Supervision of the project financial management will be based on:

  H   Desk review of the half-yearly interim financial reports and the annual audit report.
      On-site supervision: given the relative simplicity of the project and the assessment o f the
      risk, at least one supervisionmission shouldbe done per year.




                                              57

                             Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements
                         HAITI: RuralWater andSanitationProject

A. General

Procurement for the proposed project will be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004; and
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May
2004, and the provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreement. The various items under different
expenditure categories are describedbelow. For each contract to be financed by the Loadcredit,
the different procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the need for pre-
qualification, estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame are agreed betweenthe
Recipient and the Bank in the Procurement Plan. The ProcurementPlan will be updated at least
annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementationneeds and improvements in
institutional capacity.

Procurement of Works: Works procured under this project will include: rehabilitation and
construction of small rural water systems, drilling and installation of wells, installation of rain
water harvesting systems and construction of public washrooms in schools and clinics. It is
expected that the works for rehabilitation and construction of water supply systems will be
packagedto create two contracts of roughly $1millionto $1.5 millioneach, to beprocuredusing
international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures. For these and the other works to be
financed by the project, procurement will be carried out using the Bank's standard bidding
documents (SBD) for international competitive bidding (ICB) and national SBD agreed with the
Bank for nationalcompetitive bidding (NCB) and shoppingprocedures.

Procurement of Goods: Goods procured under this project will include:               water meters
(estimated value $120,000), latrine bases (estimated value $125,000) and small quantities of
office equipment, computers, furniture, and vehicles. Procurementof these goods will be carried
out using the Bank's SBD for all ICB and national SBD agreed with the Bank for other
procurementmethods.

Procurementof non-consultingservices: As needed, small amounts of non-consultingservices
required for project execution, such as those needed for training events and project information
campaigns, will be acquired in accordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines, as
appropriate. This procurement will also be carried out using National SBD based on the Bank's
SBD and agreedwith the Bank.

Selection of Consultants: The project is expected to finance contracts with consulting firms
for, inter alia: social outreach programs and mobilization of local community participation;
engineering design and supervision of the rehabilitation / construction of rural water supply
systems. In the case of the major contract for community outreach and mobilization services,
competition will be open to NGOs active inthe targeted regions, as well as to firms experienced
inmanaging community-baseddevelopment programs. Inorder to neutralize the advantages of
any subsidized, low-cost NGOs, it is expected that the service provider for the community
outreach and mobilization contract will be selected using the Quality-based selection method.


                                                58

Short lists of consultantsfor services estimatedto cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract
may be composed entirely of national consultants, in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph2.7 of the ConsultantGuidelines.

Where teams of consultants are not required, individual consultants will be hired to provide
specialized advisory services and services to support project implementationand monitoring, as
well as technical assistance to SNEP and other agencies critical to project implementation.
Universities, government research institutions, training institutions, NGOs and other specialized
non-commercial organizations may be contracted to provide technical assistance and carry out
research in their areas of specialization. Such service providers will be selected, to the extent
possible,through competitive processes based on the Bank's Consultant Guidelines.

Operating Costs: Sundry items, utilities, logistics costs for training, and other incremental
recurrent costs may be procured using SNEP's administrative procedures which have been
reviewed and found acceptable to the Bank. The procurement procedures and SBDs to be used
for each procurement method, as well as model contracts for works and goods procured, are
includedinthe project OperationalManual.

B. Assessment of the agency's capacityto implementprocurement

Procurement activities will be carried out by SNEP, which has assignedresponsibility for project
implementationto experienced staff who will perform the roles of project coordinator (head of
the rural unit), procurement specialist and financial management specialist for the project. The
SNEP staff member selected to become a full-time procurement specialist will be supported by
the head of the rural unit, who was closely involved in procurement under the LICUS grant and
worked directly with volunteers from Engineers Without Borders (EWB), the Canadian
organization that helped to strengthen SNEP's project management and procurement capacity
during 2005-2006. As was the case under the LICUS grant, the Ministihe des Travaux Publics,
Transports et Communications(MTPTC), which is responsiblefor water supply and sanitationin
Haiti, will be involved in project procurement only at the final stages of the contracting process,
based on SNEP's recommendationsfor award.

The Bank's assessment of SNEP's capacity to implement procurement actions for the projecthas
been based largely on SNEP's satisfactory performance to date in implementing the LICUS
grant, as well as in developing the project operational manual and procurement plan for the
current project. An additional review of SNEP's organization and staffing for procurement
conducted during project preparation confirmed that the minimum resources are in place to
ensure that procurement i s executed in accordance with Bank Guidelines. As part of the agreed
action plan for strengthening SNEP's capacity further, all SNEP staff involved in procurement
will be trained by a local consultant to be hired under the project during the start-up period, with
backstopping by the field-based IDB procurement staff and Bank procurement staff as needed.
This assessment of SNEP's capacity to implement procurement will be updated once the hands-
on training i s completedand project implementationis underway. If additional strengtheningof
SNEP's organization and staffing is required at that time, an action plan will be prepared to
address any remainingshortcomings.




                                                59

The key issues and risks concerningprocurement implementation for the project arise from the
many weaknesses in the Haitian public procurement system. These weaknesses were identified
by a CPAR preparedby the Bank in 1999and confirmed by the Government andmultiple donors
in the context of the Interim Cooperation Framework (ICF) adopted in 2004. The Bank's
Economic Governance Reform Operation (EGRO 11) and Economic Governance Technical
Assistance grant (EGTAG Iand 11) are providing support to the Government to address these
problems through their procurement components and the Government has already taken several
actions to improve procurement institutions and practices. These include the adoption of a
Procurement Decree which creates the Commission Nationale des Marchb Publics (CNMP)
with a mandate, inter alia, to improve procurement practices and develop standard bidding
documents for use in all public procurement. The Decree also formally establishes that
competitive bidding practices are the norm and direct contracting the exception for public
procurement. In addition, the Decree's coverage of government contracting practices has been
expanded by including new provisions governing the procurement of intellectual (consulting)
services.

Inaddition to the reforms supportedby EGRO I1andthe EGTAG grants, procurementrisks will
be mitigated in the case of the proposed project through the use of close and frequent
supervision, including full prior review of all contractsfinanced by the grant. Further, as a result
of the Government's commitment to reform and the application of the Bank's Guidelines in
various recent Bank-financed operations, some government agencies such as PL-480, the
Ministry of Finance and the Direction de la Protection Civile are becoming increasingly familiar
with the basic principles of open and fair procurement, as SNEP did through its implementation
of the LICUS grant for Rural Water Supply. This familiarity, combined with the planned broad
dissemination of information on new procurement procedures to all purchasing agencies, is
expected to mitigate some risks. Nonetheless, the overall project risk for procurement remains
high.

C. ProcurementPlan

The Recipient, at appraisal, developed a procurement plan for project implementation which
provides the basis for the procurement methods. This planwas agreedbetweenthe Recipient and
the Project Team on November 22, 2006 and i s available at SNEP headquarters in Port-au-
Prince. It will also be available in the project database and in the Bank's external website. The
ProcurementPlan will be updatedin agreementwith the Project Team annually or as requiredto
reflect the actual project implementationneeds and improvementsininstitutional capacity.

D.Frequencyof ProcurementSupervision

Supervision will be carried out primarily through the prior review by the Bank of all
procurement actions by SNEP.          In addition, day-to-day procurement supervision will be
supplementedby supervision missions at least twice a year.

E. Detailsof the ProcurementArrangementsInvolvingInternationalCompetition

1. Goods,Works, andNonConsultingServices
(a) List of contractpackagesto be procuredfollowing ICB and direct contracting (DC):


                                                 60

  Ref
  .      Contract        Estimated   Procur  P-Q Domestic        Review        Expected    Comme
         (Description)    Cost (USD)  ement        Preference    by Bank       Bid-        nts
  No.                                 Metho        (yesho)       (Prior     / Opening
                                     d                           Post)         Date
  E2     Satellite       $    3,500  DC      No    No            Prior         Jan. 2007
         photos
  E5    Water meters     $ 120,000    ICB    No    No            Prior         Feb. 2009
  E6     Latrine bases   $ 125,000    ICB    No    No            Prior         Feb. 2009
  T-1    Rehabilitation/ $1,260,000   ICB    No    No            Prior         Mar.2008
         Construction
         of rural water
         supply
         systems
         (SAEPS) -
         East
  T-2    Rehabilitation/ $ 900,000    ICB    No    No            Prior         Sept. 2008
         Construction
         of rural water
         supply
         systems
         (SAEPS)-
       , West


(b) All ICB contracts and all direct contracting will be subject to prior review by the Bank.
(Please refer to table below for prior review arrangements for other contracts.)

2. ConsultingServices

List of consulting assignments with short-list of international firms.

     Ref. No.      Description of   Estimated  Selection     Review        Expected      Comments
                     Assignment       cost     Method     1 by Bank       Proposals
                                                             (Prior/      Submission
                                                               Post)    1
                                                                             Date     I           1



  1                Service         $605,600   QBS or      IIPrior       1IFeb.07
                   Providerfor
                   Community
                   outreach and
                   mobilization

(a) All selection processesfor consultancy services will be subject to prior review by the Bank.

(b) Short lists composed entirely of national consultants: Short lists of consultants for services
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be composed entirely of
national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant
Guidelines.




                                                 61

F. Thresholds for ProcurementMethods andPrior Review

Recommendedthresholdsfor the use of the procurementmethods specifiedinthe grant
agreementare identified inthe table below. These thresholds, as well as the requirementfor
Bank prior review of all contracts, are commonto all World Bank projects inHaiti. Inthe event
that it is justified by a future assessment of the procurementcapacity of the implementingagency
(SNEP),thresholds for prior review may be introduced. The negotiatedversion of the plan
providesfor Bank prior review of 100percentof contractsfinanced by the Grant.

         Expenditure              Contract Value                  Procurement           Contracts Subject to
            Category                (Threshold)                     Method                  Prior Review
                                  US $ thousands
  1.Works                   >1,000                      ICB                          All
                            100-1,000                   NCB                          All
                            <loo                        Shopping                     All
                            Regardlessof value          Direct Contracting           All
  2. Goods                  >loo                        ICB                          All
                            25-100                      NCB                          All
                            e25                         Shopping                    /All
                            Regardlessof value          DirectContracting           /All
                            ~ ~ ~ ~ _ _ _ _ _ _
  3. Consulting Services
  -3.A Firms                Regardlessof value          QCBS,QBS,FBS,LCS             All
                            <loo                        QCBS,QBS,FBS,LCS, and All
                                                        cos
                            Regardlessof value          SingleSource                 All
  -3.B Individuals          Regardlessof value          Comparison of 3 CVs in All
                                                        accordance with Chapter V
                                                        of the Guidelines


     Note:        ICB = InternationalCompetitive Bidding                NCB = National Competitive Bidding
                  QCBS = Quality- and Cost-BasedSelection               QBS = Quality-Based Selection
                  FBS =Fixed Budget Selection                           LCS = Least-Cost Selection
                  CQS = Selection Based on Consultants'Qualifications




                                                        62

                           Annex 9: EconomicandFinancialAnalysis
                          HAITI: Rural Water andSanitationProject

EconomicAnalysis

I.Methodology

The present analysis is basedon a householdsurvey undertakenin2005 in 84 randomly selected
localities within 25 municipalities, in4 departmentscoveredby the program. Municipalities have
been selected because they are shown to have lower aggregate levels of access to potable water
according to the 2004 Poverty Map of Haiti. Within municipalities localities were selected
randomly, including both villages with and without potable water systems. In each village, one
or two households were interviewed about their daily water consumption and the distance to
source. The number of households is very limited, so results have to be interpretedcautiously, in
particular since estimates of the distance to source given by households in Haiti tend to be
unreliableand distance to the source was not verified by the survey team.

Based on an estimate of the opportunity cost of time, the daily "price" of each bucket of 18.9
liter of water (called bokit in creole) and the daily "cost" of fetching water in terms of the
opportunity cost of time havebeenestimated. The results are shownbelow.

Table 1. Average HouseholdCosts and Consumutionof Water inRural Areas

                       Distance to Source Daily Cost of Water  Daily Water      Price of Water
                           (minutes)       (gourdedfamily)    Consumption         Consumed
                                                              (bokitdfamily)    (gourdedbokit)
   ARTIBONITE                 27                15.65             3.57              4.62
   GRANDANSE                  33                19.80             3.68               5.93
   LOUEST                     18                 9.78             3.79               3.05
   TOTALAVERAGE       I       26                15.27             3.65              4.57

There are usually no other sources of water supply to the rural population (bottled water or
distribution of water by truck are rare inrural areas of Haiti). The distribution of household by
time spent fetching water is skewed to the left (see Figure 1 below), reflecting the fact that
although most of the population spends less than 30 minutes fetching water, there is a long tail of
householdsthat do spendover half an hour and even over one hour.

Itshouldbenotedthat the SouthernDepartmentand Nippes are not included inthe data, because
at the time when the data were collected for the economic analysis these departments were not
included in the program. Conditions in the SouthernDepartment, where the World Bank would
support activities, are similar to those in the Grand'Anse, except that rainfall tends to be lower,
which may entail even greater distances to sources. In any case, eligible communities will be
prioritized based on lowest per capita costs and longest walking distanceto source, which would
weed out localities with potentially low rates of return.




                                                  63

Figure 1.

                         Distributionof HHs by Time Spent Fetching Water


           30

   E 25
    al

   c7?
    E
           20
    aJ
   r, 15
   .-g
    C
           l o
   I
   5
   *        5

             0
                e10   10x20      20x30       30x40            40x50        50x60  60x70   >70

                                       Minutes Spent FetchingWater



Interms of the consumptionof water, this varies between2 to 8 bokits per day. Figure 2 below
shows the distribution of households per consumption of water.                     Most of the households
consume 4 bokits daily or less (the equivalent of 75 liters or less). The correlationbetween the
distance traveled to fetch water and the price (or cost) of water per bokit is very high (coefficient
of 0.91). Furthermore, as Figure 3 below shows, almost 90 percent of the people carry the water
by hand or on their heads. Only 10percent use animals and 1percent have private connections.

Figure 2.

                            Distribution of HHs by Consumption of Water

        35

   -g   30
   0
        25
   120
   -s'I*
   C    15

        ' 0

         5

         0
                  2             3                      4                      6          8
                                         Consumption(bokitesI day Ifamlly)




                                                       64

Figure 3.

                                      MEANSOFCARRYINGWATER



                                          ByTube      B y W
                                            1%   7      4%         By Animal




                                     OnHead
                                      85%




111.Estimating a Rural Potable Water Demand Curve for Haiti

Given the water demand curve represented by equation (1) we calculated the price o f water (P)
based on the opportunity cost of fetching water. The opportunity cost of time was estimated as
the daily legal agricultural wage (75 gourdes). Given that some approaches to valuing time have
used less than 100 percent and others more than 100 percent3', this value will be modified in a
sensitivity analysis to assess how robust the results are in case the opportunity cost of time i s
lower given the prevalence of seasonal unemployment and underemployment in rural areas (see
section VII).

P=PQ"                                                              (1)

         where Pis price of water and Q is quantity of water.

The price of water i s not only a function of the time spent, but how many peopc per household
went to fetch water, if they were adults or children, what volume was carried and how manytrips
were taken. It i s estimated that it i s often an adult (mother) with one or two children (sons or
daughters) that are responsible for fetching water. Therefore, an estimate of 1.5 people (the
opportunity cost of the child was estimated at 50 percent) was calculated for each trip to collect
water. These assumptions are modified in the sensitivity analysis further below to test the
robustness of the results.

The linear expression of equation (1) is shown in equation (2). We use equation (2) to regress
quantity of water on price to obtain the coefficients p and a that allow us to estimate the demand
curve. As can be seen inthe scattered plot of Figure 4 below, the data already show a downward
sloping demand curve, indicating the decreasing marginal value of water. This means that the
first bokits per day per family are extremely valuable as they are necessary to sustain the


33 Whittington, Dale; MuX. and RocheR. "Calculating the Value of Time Spent CollectingWater: SomeEstimates
from Uganda,Kenya." World Development,Vol. 18, No.2. Pp. 269-280.


                                                    65

household needs. For each additional increment of water, the marginal value declines as the
household puts the resource to less valuable uses.

InP=Inp       + aInQ                                        (2)

Figure 4.

                            PRICE OF WATER CONSUMED (gddboquite)


     30 00  - ;                                                                        *


     25.00 -
                                                              , I
                  i
   3 2000 -                                                     *I  *

   '0
   0

   0 1 5 0 0 -

     1000-

      5.00 -      - .                                        ;
      000   -



The results show significance to the 95 percent confidence interval, obtaining results of p = 5.28
and a = -0.44. The estimated water demandcurve takes the shape shown inFigure 5 below. To
give an idea of the curve's shape, we calculated an increase inprice o f 1Gds. at the base price of
2 and 5 Gds. would result in a decrease in water consumption of 62 percent and 34 percent
respectively. This shows that as price of water increases, the response in terms o f quantity of
water consumed diminishes. We have then calculated the price elasticity (e,) of demand for a 25
percent increase in the price o f water to be 1.6. This is highly elastic given the often inelastic
(<1)price elasticities found inother studies.




                                                66

Figure 5

                                   WATER DEMAND CURVE


       8
       7
       6

   g 5
   t ; 4
   E 3
       2
        1
       0
          0.5 1  1.5 2  2.5   3  3.5  4   4.5 5  5.5 6   6.5 7   7.5 8 8.5  9   9.5 10
                                             BOKITES



In order to find out if there were substantial differences in the water demand curves of the
different provinces (dkparternents), separate water demand curves were estimated. Figure 6
below superposes the various demand curves. The analysis shows that there are differences, but
that these are not substantial, especially beyond the level of consumption o f 2 bokits per family
per day. Furthermore, due to the reduce sample size some of the coefficients of the water
demand curves, especially inGrand Anse, loose statistical significance.




                                               67

Figure 6

                               WATER DEMANDCURVES (by reglon)




                                                                       -P -  (TOTAL)
                                                                           P (ARTIBONITE)
                                                                           P (GRANDANSE)




         0.5 i 1.5 2 2.5 3 3.5 4 4.5 5 5.5 6 6.5 7 7.5 a 8.5 9 9.5 i o
                                   BOKITES



IV. Cost-BenefitAnalysis of New Rural PotableWater Systems

In order to provide insight on the per capita investment levels for new rural potable water
systems that would yield the minimum economic rates of returns, a cost-benefit analysis was
undertaken based on the water demand curves estimated in part I11above. The benefits from
installing a rural potable water system can be divided between the benefits that arise from the
incremental demand and those that arise from the non-incremental demand for water. The non-
incrementalbenefits come mainly from cost savings on obtaining the current water consumption
volume, while the incremental benefitsresult from the additional volumes consumedby the price
drop.

On average, rural households consume approximately 3 bokits per day. It is estimated that the
investment program under preparation by the SNEP will reduce the time for fetching water to
almost zero, bringing the price down from POto PI, and will increase the daily volume available
to the households at the water fountain from QO(3 bokits) to at least       Q1 (10 bokits). Such
increase in volume consumption and reduction in price will produce consumer surplus gains
(areas A and B in Figure 7 below) by moving along the water demand curve from point "e" to
point "f".




                                                 68

Figure7. ConsumerSurplusGainsfromMovingAlongthe Water DemandCurve

                     Price




                                                   D




                                                                  b
                             Qo             QI                 Quantity


Area A is the consumer surplus gain producedby cost savings from the time spent fetching water
(benefits from non-incremental demand). Such savings are only 19 percent of the total benefits
to households. The larger portion of benefits (81 percent) come from the incremental demand
for water, Area B. Table 2 below show the different consumer surplus gains by region and by
type of benefit. GrandAnse shows the greater overall benefits, mainly due to the larger average
distances traveled to fetch water (see Table 1). The survey also recorded the household
willingness to pay for water, even though no details were provided to the interviewees about the
future systemto be constructed. This willingness to pay was an averageof 0.74 gdslbokit. This
translates into 7.4 gds for 10 bokits consumed under the new system. This is slightly above the
aggregate benefits from cost savings, which is a conservative figure given the fact that the
interviewees did not have information about the benefits from additional volumes provided by
the investment.

Table 2.
 I                    Benefits(Consumer Surplus) Gourdeshouseholdldas
                                                     -                                            I
                           Benefits from Cost     Benefits from Additional
                               Savings (Non-     Consumption(Incremental         TotalBenefits
                          incremental Demand)             Demand)             (consumersurplus)
 ~TIBONITE                         1.66        I            19.46            I        21.12       I
 GRAND ANSE                        6.52                     19.55                    26.07
 L'OUEST                           6.54                     10.22                     16.75
 AGGREGATE                         4.02                     16.82                    20.84

It is estimated, conservatively,that the investments inrural potable water systems would produce
benefits for at least 10 years. The cost benefit analysis used a discount rate of 12 percent and an
estimatedoperationandmaintenance (O&M) costs of 5 percent of the total investment cost. The
objective was to obtain the maximum level of investment per capita that would at least yield an
internal rate of return(IRR) of 12percent. Obtaining such thresholdinvestmentlevel would then
allow the SNEP to identify those projects that are sure to have "automatic" economic


                                                69

justification by looking at the level of investment per capita proposed to establish the water
system. The results show that on an aggregate level for new rural potable water systems that
have investment levels o f less than $170 per capita, the IRR will be of 12 percent or higher.
Such thresholds vary per region as shown in Table 3 below. Again, Grand Anse has higher
investment threshold levels due to the relative longer distances for households to fetch water.




ARTIBONITE                                                                              170
GRANDANSE                                                                               210
LOUEST                                                                                  135
AGGREGATE                                                                               170


V. Other Considerations: Health Benefits and the Value of Water

Besides the factors considered above, health benefits and the opportunity costs of water itself
also influence the economic analysis. However, compared to the costs and benefits assessed
above, these factors are both difficult to estimate and are expected to be relatively modest for the
reasons outlined below.

HealthImpacts

Health benefits are expected from hygiene promotion and sanitation under the project. Based on
international experience, these health benefits are expected to ,be higher than health benefits
derived from improved water supply. However, because o f the difficulties in measuring health
benefits enumerated above, the costs of these activities and its benefits are not included in the
present economic analysis.

Adverse health impacts could result if the increased volume of wastewater (grey water) is not
managed properly, and if the sanitary conditions around water fountains are unacceptable. These
factors have been carefully considered during project design. Since the proposed project by
SNEP includes investment in sanitary blocks, facilities, and latrines, it is likely that the project
health benefits will be even higher.

The Value of Water

In some rural localities water is scarce, especially during the dry season, and agriculture and
human consumption compete for the resource. However, the quantities used for rural water
supply are low compared to water use in agriculture and the value of water use in agriculture is
low compared to the value of drinking water. For example, in the Artibonite valley the value o f
water in agriculture has been estimated at 15 gourdeslm3 or 0.06 gourdeslbokit. This i s only 6
percent of what users are willing to pay for drinking water (1gourdelbokit) at water kiosks.




                                                 70

VI. Rates of Returnand InvestmentParameters for New Rural PotableWater Systems

Given the thresholds levels calculated in part IV above it is recommended to maintain the
aggregate threshold level of $170 per capita for the whole program (without dividing by
d2partement) as the maximum level under which no economic analysis is needed.                                                  This
recommendation is based on the fact that: (i) differences betweenregions may not represent the
situation of specific villages within those regions; and (ii) calculated benefits may be
underestimatedsince there are various benefits that have not been quantified (as mentioned in
Part V above). Therefore, all proposednew rural potable water systems that show an investment
cost of less than $170 per capita would be accepted without requiring additional economic
feasibility analysis. For proposedsystems with higher than $170 per capita investment costs, a
specific economic analysis should be undertaken, especially if the population to be served is
spending above 30 minutesto fetch water.

On the other hand, systems that present more than $480 per capita investmentcosts are unlikely
to show economic net benefits from pure opportunity cost of time estimations. Unless there are
tangible and quantifiable health benefits from the new potable water system or unless the
potential beneficiary population face substantially higher opportunity costs from fetching water,
then it is recommendedthat proposals showing costs above $480 per capita do not be considered.
This "ceiling" threshold was calculatedby extending the durability of the system from 10 years
to 20 years, reducing O&M costs from 5 percent to 4 percent and assuming that incremental
water consumptionbenefits would extendto up to 26 bokits per family per day (the equivalent of
100 liters). Figure 10 below shows the scale for analyzing the economic feasibility of projects
presentedto the rural potablewater programof SNEP.

Figure 10. Scale for Analyzing the Economic Feasibility of Rural Potable Water
Investments

               Less                            6 170 per                             $480 per                     More
               expensive                       capita                                capita                       expensive
                4                                  I                                    I                              b


                    -L                                              Y                >-
                         No analysisrequired -             economic analysis nquued               Not accepable-
                         automatically accepted                                                 Unlessexception to
                                                                                             undertakeeconomic analysis


A sample of 40 rural villages without potablewater systemswere visited and cost estimates were
presented for investments in construction of piped potable water systems with water fountains
(no private connections). From Figure 11below, we observe that 73 percent of the projects in
the sample of 40 villages fall under the $170/capita threshold (in fact the majority, 55 percent,
fall under $100/capita) and would be accepted without requiring economic analysis. We also
observe that 20 percent of themwould needto be evaluatedfurther for estimatingthe net benefits
from investments, and 8 percent of them would be excluded (unless already mentioned
exceptions arise that justify further economic evaluation).




                                                                   71

Figure 11.

                    RURAL POTABLE WATER INVESTMENTS BY PER CAPITA COSTS


      25


      20
    .-
    -*
    !
    g 15



    0 10


       5


       0
                400           1OOcz170        17003W         3000480         +480
                                            USUCAPITA



For investments that requirefurther economic analysis, this can be done by: (i) quantifying time
spent traveling to fetch water and inputting it inthe estimateddemand function of Part 111; or (ii)
doing a survey of the potential beneficiaries and estimating their own water demand function to
calculatethe net benefits. Finally, taking the sampleof 40 proposedprojects and excluding those
with per capita investments costs of above $480, Table 5 below shows the aggregate IRR by
region. This shows that the aggregate economic IRR of the SNEP's rural potable water program
(as indicatedby this sample of potential investments) could be expectedto be around60 percent.

Table 5. IRR on a Sampleof PotentialRuralPotableWater Projectsby Region
                       Samde of PotentialRuralPotableWater Proiects                              I

                                                                                  Aggregate


                                                                                     ercent)




VII. Sensitivity Analysis

The economic rates of return shown above for the Grande Anse and for the DCpartement de
1'Ouest are unusually high, mainly due to the relatively low per capita costs. As mentioned
earlier, the assumptions concerning the opportunity cost of time and whether adults or children
fetch water are debatable and may account for the high rates of return. For these reasons, the
following sensitivity analyseswere undertaken:

    1. Reducethe opportunity cost of time by one third from 75 Gourdes to 50 Gourdes (about
        $1)per day to reflect underemploymentandunemploymentinrural areas.
    2. Modify the assumption that one adult and one child undertake every trip to fetch water
        jointly, assuming that either an adult goes alone or two children go together. The



                                                 72

         opportunity cost per trip would thus be reduced from 1.5 times the opportunity cost of an
         adult to 1 time, maintaining the assumption that the opportunity cost of a child is 50
         percentof that of an adult.

The impacts on the economic rate of return for the overall project are as follows:

Reduction of the opportunity cost of labor to 50 gourdes per day: 28 percent
Variation inthe assumption of participants ineachtrip:                28 percent
Combined impact of the two changes:                                    9 percent

The sensitivity analysis shows that the results are very sensitive to assumption on the opportunity
cost of labor and the number of participants in each trip to the source. Although the average rate
of return for all project analyzed remains high if only one sensitivity analysis i s applied, the rate
of return of individual projects may well be below the 12 percent threshold rate of return
expectedof each sub-project.

It is, therefore, suggestedto carefully screensub-projects on the basis of unit costs. It is proposed
to (i) either eliminate sub-projects costing more than $100 per capita, or (ii) subject each such
                                                                                to
sub-project to an economic analysis to determine if the higher costs are justified by associated
benefits.

FinancialAnalysis

The financial analysis of piped water projects is based on two scenarios: (a) traditional system
with stand posts and un-metered house connections; (b) a system with water kiosks and metered
house connections, as recommended under the project. The latter scenario i s the preferred mode
of intervention under the program, since the traditional system has proven not to be very
sustainable.

It is assumedthat initially 80 percent of households will be served through either stand posts or
water kiosks, and 20 percent through house connections. Over the lifetime of the system the
share of users served by house connections is expected to increase, based on experience in
existing systems. This observed trend is likely to improve the financial sustainability of the
systems, since communities tend to set tariffs in such a way that users with house connections
pay somewhat higher water bills than users buying at water kiosks.

Under "scenario A" revenues accrue from house connections only, using a fixed fee. Revenues
are likely to be lower and somewhat more predictable than under "scenario B". Current
expenditures are for personnel for billing, collection, chlorination and repairs. Other expenditures
are for small repairs (meter replacement, valve replacement, cleaning of reservoirs, pipe breaks).
The cost of major repairs i s not included in this financial analysis, although communities are
strongly encouragedto buildup reservesto be preparedto pay for major repairs.

Under "scenario B" revenues accrue from two sources: sales at water kiosks, and sales through
house connections. Revenues and expenditures are expected to be higher than under the
traditional system. Additional expenditures are for the staffing of water kiosks and for meter



                                                 73

reading. Quality of service is expected to be significantly better in "scenario B" over the long
run, since the likelihood of sustainability is muchhigher. This will also increase the likelihood
that tariffs will actually be paid and thus improve the amount of revenues actually collected.

Under scenario A, which is the predominantmodel of rural pipedwater supply throughout Haiti,
collected revenues per family with a house connection are inthe order of 50 gourdes per month
(approx. $1.22), or often even less. Since only one out of five households is assumed to have a
houseconnection, revenuesper family are only 10 gourdes, well below estimated O&M costs of
25 gourdes per month and family (including 5 gourdes for disinfection, 10 gourdes for the salary
of a plumber and 10 gourdes for maintenance).

Under scenario B, the proposed model, tariff levels and collection efficiency would be higher.
Based on the data collected for the economic analysis, families served through water kiosks
would buy 120 buckets per month, corresponding to 2.4m3/month or 16 litedcapitdday for a
family of five. If they were charged a price of 0.75 gourdes per bucket, their monthly payment
for water would be 90 gourdes. For the purposes of the financial analysis it is assumed that
families served through house connections would use 1Om3/month at a price of 12 gourdes/m3,
corresponding to 66 litedcapitdday and a monthly water bill of 120 gourdes. The average
revenue per household would be 96 gourdes, under the assumptions about the share of water
connections made above. O&M costs are estimated to be 70 gourdes per connection, including
55 gourdes for salaries, 5 gourdes for disinfection and 10 gourdes for routine maintenance. This
would allow a surplus of 26 gourdes per connection, part of which would be passed on to the
community (representedby the water committee) as a reserve for major repairs and replacement,
andpart of which would accrueto the operator for systemexpansion andprofit. It should also be
noted that for a locality with 500 households 10jobs (kiosk attendants, plumbers, meter readers,
treasurer and professionaloperator) are expectedto be created, thus adding significantly to local
employment.




                                                 74

                                Annex 10: SafeguardPolicy Issues
                          HAITI: RuralWater andSanitationProject

EnvironmentalAssessment

The development objective of the project is to provide water and sanitation services to rural
communities on a sustainable basis. More specifically, the project will (i) provide water services
inparticipating communities using innovative approaches inview of laying the foundations for
project sustainability; (ii)improve sanitation practices in participating communities; and (iii)
strengthen the capacity of SNEP, local government, local water committees, and professional
operators.

The project, at the presentdesignstage, includes two maincomponents:
    0   Capacity building for rural water supply and sanitation (RWSS), monitoring of the
        National Strategy for RWSS, impact evaluation andproject management($2 million).
        Water supply, basic sanitationandhygienepromotion ($8 million).

The project triggers three of the safeguard policies (OPBP 4.01 on Environmental Assessment,
OPBP 4.04 on Natural Habitats and OPN 11.03 on Cultural Property). The processing of these
three policies has been accomplished through the preparation of an Environmental Assessment
report and its adoption by the Government of Haiti (GoH). While there were concerns that the
project might involve land acquisitionand thus trigger OPBP 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement,
assurance was provided before appraisal that land acquisition would not happen under the
project. Thus, OPBP 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlementis not triggeredby the project.

The project was categorized as Category B for Environmental Assessment (OPBP 4.01) as a
precautionary measure to ensure that no negative environmental impacts would be produced, in
particular from the second component. The Environmental Assessment of the project was
conducted during project preparation and it produced the following findings and
recommendations.

The bulk of project beneficiaries will be served through piped systems feeding water kiosks and
standpipes, a common technology throughout concentrated rural areas (with about 500
inhabitants and up) and small towns in Haiti. A smaller part of beneficiaries would be in
dispersedrural areas, which would be servedby handpumps or rainwaterharvestingsystems.

This project will identify participating communities based on objective criteria; community
development using a demand-responsive approach allowing communities a series of choices:
engineering design; system construction and supervision; and support during the early years of
systemmanagement. To the extent feasible, the project will promote the innovative management
approach piloted under the LICUS grant involving professional operators, metering, and the use
of water kiosks insteadof standpipes.

The project's sanitation and hygiene promotion will be carried out in the same communities in
which water services will be improved, because these activities can only be effectively carried
out if water services are introducedor restored. Sanitationservices will focus on the construction


                                               75

of latrines using minimum standards, while using simple techniques in order to avoid
concentrationof benefits on a few beneficiaries.

The impacts that may be generated by the project without proper mitigating measures have been
characterized as follows:
Positive impacts:
        Increased volume o f available potable water and improvement of the quality of drinking
        water.
        Improved access to water resources.
    0   Decreased risk of water-borne diseases.

Negative impacts:
        Competition on water resources may generate scarcity or worsen resource distribution.
        Increased risk of nuisance and health issues from increased waste water production.
        Nuisance during construction and maintenance works.
        Pollution and accident risks during construction and maintenance works.
        Tension within the communities before, during and after the completion o f the works.

Mitigating measures are included inthe Environmental Management Plan (EMP). They basically
apply to:
        The screening phase, with additional studies required to introduce environmental and
        social criteria.
    0   The selection and design phase, with additional baseline and engineering studies.
        The implementation and supervision phase, with the construction of latrines, the
        restoration of sewage systems wherever required, additional water filtering and workers
        protection equipment, springprotection, and some degree o f watershed management.
        The community involvement phase, with facilitation and capacity buildingactivities.

The Environmental Assessment assigns responsibilities for the implementation of the EMP and
for its monitoring. The implementing agency's institutional capacity for safeguard policies will
be strengthened under the project. Inparticular, SNEP staff will be advised and trained inhow to
ensure contractors' compliance with safeguard policies related to the environment, natural
habitats (capturing o f sources that may be located in nature reserves) and cultural property
(chance finds or archeological sites during construction).




                                                76

                                               Annex 11:Social Analysis
                                 HAITI: RuralWater and Sanitation Project

Impact on VulnerablePopulations
The proposed project, by virtue of its geographic focus on rural villages and small towns,
targets some of the poorest and most underserved of Haiti's citizens. Haiti is more
predominantly rural, and its rural population poorer, than the rest of Latin America and most of
the developing world. The vast majority of Haiti's population lives in extreme overty. This i s
especially true o f the nearly two-thirds of the population who live in rural areas`,     86 percent of
whom live on less than $2 a day35and 69 percent of whom live on less than $1a day.36Only 8
percent of rural households have access to water intheir home or on their property.37The World
Bank Agricultural andRural Development study estimates that 41percent of the rural population
spend a significant amount o f time (or of their income) to fetch clean water every day. This has
implications in terms o f the present opportunity cost o f time and increased agricultural
p r o d ~ c t i v i t y . ~ ~

Specifically, the proposed project will have the greatest impact on women and children,
who represent 49.5 percent and 45 percent of the rural population, re~pectively.~~            Women
and children are generally responsible for the often time-consuming task of fetching water.
Furthermore, lack of access to safe water and sanitation has the greatest health impact on
children, as they can be more susceptible to water borne illnesses. Ina small study done inthree
villages in the south as part of the LICUS project, 38 percent of the 7000 families surveyed had
had at least one member with diarrhea in the week preceding the survey. On the national level,
Haiti's average infant mortality rate of 80 deaths per 1,000 live births is far higher than the
regional average o f 27, and closer to sub-Saharan Africa's average o f 94.40

Women and children are also critical to the spread of good practices in hygiene and
sanitation. Hygiene messages delivered through local schools in the proposed project will rely
on children to share lessons learned with their families. Mothers who adopt these practices can
have a strong impact on their families' hygiene and sanitation habits, as they are generally in
charge of cooking and cleaning. The experience of the Community Driven Development (CDD)
pilot project in Haiti showed that women were involved in the community organizations and
project development councils. Special efforts will be made to encourage involvement of women
inthe water committees short of mandatingtheir participation.




34 SEDLAC database: http://www,depeco.econo,unlp.edu.ar/cedlas/sedlac/statistics.htm
35SEDLAC database.
36SEDLAC database.
37SEDLAC database.
38Agricultural andRural Development,M
39Enqutte Mortalitk, Morbidite` et Utilisation des Services, Hai`ti 2000:
httu://www.measuredhs.com/uub%df/FR121/02cha~itre02. (Children under 15 years of age.)
                                                             odf
  World Population Datasheet 2005, PopulationReference Bureau.


                                                                77

Rural Institutions and Leadership
Rural areas suffer from institutional, economic and physical isolation. The World Bank's
Haiti Country Social Analysis (CSA) describes the institutional situation this way: "In the place
of an overly complex formal structure, there is inreality an institutional void that perpetuates the
absence of channels of political articulation on the part of the rural population in particular, and
prevents the flow of information between local communities and central authorities (and
international donors) that could enhance the effectiveness of development policies." Economic
and physical isolation are linked, given that the transaction costs of any productive activity are
higher due to distance to markets, poor transport, lack of access to accurate information, and
general weakness of infrastructure.

Local or central government plays a very limited role in the lives of villagers in rural Haiti.
Historically, the basic administrative unit for both civilian and military administration was the
section rurale, governed by a chefde section. While the chefde section post no longer exists
officially, there i s still a reliance on local leaders as de facto decision makers and authority
figures. The smallest administrative unit i s the section communale, which forms part of a
commune, of which there are several in each of Haiti's ten dipartements. The 1987 constitution
included provisions for decentralization of administrative authority to the sections communales,
but little progress has been made in reality. Local governance was designated to the
administrative councils of the sections communales, or CASECs, but these councils vary greatly
in their operational status. The commune is the only administrative body apart from the central
government that is empowered to levy taxes, but few taxes are collected, leaving communes with
very limited resources.

At the community level, the absence of formal institutions means that there is little sense of
connection to the political and economic center of the country, Port-au-Prince. Land ownershi
i s largely informal and only four percent of rural households have access to a savings account.                         R
Most use livestock as a form of saving, to sell in a time of great need. Seventy-eight percent of
rural householdsown some form of livestock.

The project aims to increase the capacity of SNEP at the central, departmental and local
level. A central rural unit has been established under the LICUS pilot in Les Cayes, and
departmentalrural units are planned under this program. This structure is designed to contribute
to creating a flow of information from localities to SNEP's rural units, and ultimately to the
central bureau in Port-au-Prince. At the national level, the project also includes a corollary
proposal to hire a consultant to increase SNEP's capacity to coordinate the work of NGOs and
other donors working in the water sector and implement the national strategy on rural water
supply and sanitation.

At the local level, improved communication and increased presence of SNEP should
contribute to filling the void between the rural population and government. The project
aims to empower communities to articulate their needs, a process that is dependent upon
decentralization to the extent that communities have access to SNEP and its representatives and
have some sense that their input will be considered. SNEP and its plannedexperts on community


41 ((Gouvernancerurale et institutionslocalesen HaTti: Contrainteset opportunitkspour le dkveloppement,)) NathalieBrisson
Lamaute, Gilles Damais, and Willy Egset, 15 Avril 2005, p. 24.


                                                              78

outreach will actively monitor project sites. The NGO responsible for community outreach will
be required to makea certain number of field visits and provide regular written reports to SNEP.

The attainment of any further administrative goals should not affect the success of the
project in the communities it aims to serve. Ifpassedunder the new government, a draft water
and sanitation framework law (Zoi cadre) would address the lack of decentralization. The law
includes provisions to gradually transfer the responsibility for water and sanitation to
municipalities, which inturn could delegate services to the private sector or water committees.

The institutional void at the local level also translates into an absence of police or any
official body to protect the population and provide security. Although much attention has
been paid to the political instability and violence creating Haiti's current "environment of
conflict," rural areas are much less affected by this. The majority of violence occurs in urban
areas, and primarily in the slums of Port-au-Prince. According to the 2001 household survey,
most rural dwellers feel safe. "While a significant minority in rural areas also expresses fear of
visiting markets and other towns, the figures demonstrate that for three-quarters of the rural
population fear is not a major, daily

Community Selection
The project aims to identify, through a two-stage process, communities with the need and
motivation for improved access to and use of water and sanitation services. The
identification and feasibility stages are designed to gauge communities' needs and demands in
order to select those who not only suffer from lack of access to water and sanitation, but also are
mobilized to address this need along the parameters of the project. SNEP and project staff
responsible for community development will be the primary level of contact with the
communities for the project. Community animators of SNEP and the service provider contracted
by SNEP to work on community development will work with the inhabitants of each locality to
identify needs, strengthen local water committees, and enhance local capacity for the operation
and maintenanceof water and sanitation systems, with the option to hire a private operator.

The project will, for the first time in the history of the Haitian water sector, select
participating rural communities ina systematic way based on objective criteria. It will carry
out a systematic assessment of needs and coverage levels for water supply and sanitation in the
intervention region, linked to a transparent system of selecting participating communities on the
basis of objective criteria. These criteria will include estimates of benefits, costs, and community
commitment. In addition, the project will ensure that selection of participating communities i s
also perceived by key local stakeholders as being objective. For that purpose, a regional advisory
group will be set up consisting of civil society representativesand mayors that would review the
selection of communities and advise the implementing agency inits final choice.

The project's emphasis on community mobilization as a prerequisite for participation
could result in the selection of better organized communities to participate while those with
marginally greater needs are not selected. This risk of not serving communities with the
absolute greatest need is difficult to avoid given the lack of data from which to select
communities and the value the project places on community participation as a contributor to

42World Bank(2006). State Failure and Social Resilience in Haiti: A Country Social Analysis, p. 40.


                                                     79

sustainability. While many NGOs and donors have built water systems in rural Haiti over the
years, communities as a whole have been unable to operate and maintain the systems in a
sustainable fashion. Innovative approaches are required to break the harmful cycle of systems
falling into disrepair and communities waiting for another system to be built inits place.

A transparent process will help manage expectations. Many communities, through Haiti's
informal communications network (or teledjol), have already heard of an upcoming project and
submitted requests to SNEP to participate. Such self-identification, while not the primary basis
for selecting communities, can demonstrate the mobilization and motivation o f a community.
The feasibility stage of the project is designed to more thoroughly assess the communities
selected in the initial identification stage. The firm specializing in inginierie sociale will be
responsible for communicating the criteria used to select communities to ensure a clear
understanding of the process.

The project will rely heavily on community outreach to create realistic expectations for
what can be accomplished. The LICUS pilot project has shown that participating communities
expect project work to proceed at a much faster pace than i s realistically feasible. The rural
population's low access to news media makes it difficult to implement a communications
strategy to ensure mass dissemination of clear messages about project timeframes, as well as
community selection and SNEP's role in rural water supply. According to the 2001 household
survey, only three to four percent of the rural population had read a newspaper or watched TV in
the week preceding the interview. The most important media by far is radio, to which one-third
of the respondents had listened in the preceding week.43 The teledjol, while effective in
spreading news quickly, cannot be depended upon for accuracy or reliability.

Once the community is selected, animators will work with communities to ensure they have
the needed tools to make decisions. For instance, communities should establish rational criteria
to choose professional operators. The LICUS experience showed that communities chose a
trusted community member to serve as the professional operator, instead o f selecting someone
with appropriate technical skills. To address this weakness, communities should receive
guidance from the community animators in the qualifications needed in a professional operator
and the specific tasks that will be required of the operators. Furthermore, training of professional
operators should be offered.

Participatory Approach in the Haitian Context
Haiti has a tradition of deference to individual leaders, but collective efforts on a smaller
scale do function. The World Bank Agriculture and Rural Development study determined that
membership in an organization reduces the probability o f being poor. Examples include
collective work groups (konbits);micro-credit initiatives managed by a small group; farming "by
half," meaning that the owner o f a garden rents half of his terrain to a farmer who farms the
entire property and gives half the harvest to the owner; the quarry owner inthe town o f Pemerle
inthe Southern Department (where the LICUS grant has intervened) who formed a committee of
five people to collect a tax from the community; and water committees that manage small-scale
water systems (hand pumps) as a group.


43((Gouvemanceruraleet institutionslocales en Hayti:Contraintes et opportunitkspour le dkveloppement, NathalieBrisson
                                                                                                     N
Lamaute,Gilles Damais, and Willy Egset, 15 Avril 2005, p. 24.


                                                            80

The proposed project will take advantage of the experience with village leadership
dynamics and participatory techniques gained by the existing LICUS pilot water supply
project (see above under section 2, Rationale for the project). Two among the many lessons of
the project are: i)village structure in Haiti i s hierarchical, with many community members
deferring to acknowledged local leaders to make decisions on their behalf; and ii)interventions
following the ingknierie sociale approach need to be more intensive and need more skills and
resources than those of SNEP's single community animator in the region. These two factors
combined made it difficult for the LICUS pilot project to be truly participatory, in the sense that
it is not known if the views of marginalized or poorer village inhabitants were fully taken into
account. SNEP's community animator dealt primarily with local leaders and relied too much on
imparting information and not enough on seeking the input of the leaders and others to inform
the project's response.However, given time and resource constraints, a different approachwould
have faced serious difficulties.

The social sustainability of the project relies in large part on the service provider that
would provide the functions of ingbnierie sociale under the project. The proposed project
requires a strong emphasis on skilled community animators to avoid marginalizing community
members and sacrificing sustainability. However, the challenge of this should be recognized ina
country with limited resourceskapacity in this area, and a cultural tradition of decision making
by a small group of leaders.

Communication is key to an effective participatory approach. The community animators face
a communications challenge in a number of regards: logistics of arranging meetings, keeping
records of what was said/agreed upon, eliciting the opinions of the population without leading or
raising expectations, and working against a traditional top-down decision making approach. The
LICUS project underscored the importance of keeping written records of meetings with
communities, as this is not inthe local tradition and can prove useful when accounts of what was
agreed upon differ. Project staff must also make sure that communities receive technical designs
intime before launchingbids for works at a formal meeting where they are askedfor comments,
and that the result is ratified by a vote that is documented in written minutes, even if that takes
more time. Trade-offs are an effective way of presenting the choices to be made by the
communities, such as the pros and cons of more kiosks vs. more house connections. It also must
be made clear that budgets cannot be amended once the works contract i s launched. As a lesson
from earlier experience, the respective responsibilities of communities, SNEP and its service
provider will be included in a grant agreement to be signed between SNEP and the local
community representedby its water committee at the feasibility stage of the project.




                                                  81

                       Annex 12: ProjectPreparationand Supervision
                        HAITI: RuralWater andSanitationProject

                                                 Planned                   Actual
 PCNreview                                      12110/2005                12/08/2005
 Initial PID to PIC                             12/20/2005                12121/2005
 Initial ISDS to PIC                            12/20/2005                12121l2005
 Appraisal                                      0911512006                9/14/2006
 Negotiations                                   11/20/2006                11/20/2006
 BoardRVP approval                              1/25/2007
 Planneddate of effectiveness                   311512007
 Planneddate of mid-termreview                  12/08/2010
 Plannedclosing date                            12131/2011

Key institutions responsiblefor preparationof the project:

The project was preparedby the Service National de 1'Eau Potable (SNEP) #1, Les Residences
du Soleil, Rue Georges Sylvain, Delmas 29, Port-au-Prince, Haiti with the assistance of
internationaland local consultantsandthe technical guidanceprovidedby the Bank task team.

Bankstaff and consultantswho worked onthe project included:

            Name                                    Title                        Unit      L
Manuel Schiffler                  Task Team Leader and Senior Economist        LCSFW
Peter Kolsky                      Sr.Water Supply and SanitationSpecialist    EWDWS
UlrichMyboto                          Consultant -OperationsAnalyst             LCSER
KatherineShafer Coleman               Consultant - Social assessment           LCSFW
Alexandre Brailowsky                    Consultant-Policy reforms              LCSFW
Jean-Roger Mercier                    LeadEnvironmentalSpecialist              ESDQC
PatriciaMacgowan                         Sr. ProcurementSpecialist              LCSPT
Ahmadou MoustaphaNdiaye            LeadFinancial ManagementSpecialist          LCSFM
Jennifer Sara                                  Peer Reviewer                    LCSFP
MukamiKariuki                                  Peer Reviewer                  EWDWS
PatriciaAcevedo                              ProgramAssistant                  LCSFW
Yao Wottor                                ProcurementSpecialist                 LCSPT
Fily Sissoko                      Senior FinancialManagementSpecialist         LCSFM

Bank funds expendedto date on projectpreparation:
    1. Bankresources:                                                         $229,365
   2. Trust funds:
   3. Total:                                                                  $229,365

EstimatedApproval and Supervisioncosts:
    1. Remainingcosts to approval:                                           $62,178
   2. Estimatedannual supervisioncost:                                       $110,000



                                              82

                           Annex 13: Documentsinthe ProjectFile
                         HAITI: RuralWater and SanitationProject


Cadre De Cooptration Inttrimaire(CCI), GroupeThtmatique :EauPotableEt Assainissement.
RapportFinal, Mai 2004. (FinalReport of ICFThematic Group onWater andSanitation.)

"Compte-Rendu d'Atelier National pour l'tlaboration d'une strattgie eau potable et
assainissement en milieurural, 10et 11novembre2005. (Minutes of a November workshop on
                                                           "
the National Strategyfor Rural Water Supply and Sanitation)

"Projet DonLICUS Rapportd'Etape No. 2," (LICUS grant stage 2 progress report), June 2005-
March2006.

T. Niyungeko, "Strattgie Nationaleet Dtveloppement du Secteur EauPotableet Assainissement
en MilieuRural. Partie 1:Diagnosticet Analyse du secteur. Dtcembre 2005.
                                                             "



"Water ResourcesAssessment of Haiti," US Army Corps of Engineers,August 1999.

Enqutte Sur Les Conditions de Vie en Hui'ti, Institut Haytien de Statistique et d'Informatique,
2001.

Enqu2te Mortalitk, Morbidite` et Utilisationdes Services,Haiti 2000. (Haiti DHS survey.)

Government of Haiti, "Interim CooperativeFramework Summary Report", July 2004.

Nathalie Brisson Lamaute, Gilles Damais and Willy Egset, "Gouvernance rurale et institutions
locales en Haiti: Contraintes et opportunitts pour le dtveloppement," 15 Avril2005.

PAHONHO Haiti Water and SanitationMonitoring Systemfor Haiti.

PAHO, "Infant mortality inHaiti", 2006.




                                                83

                                            Annex 14: Statementof Loansand Credits
                                                        IDA PortfolioinHaiti
                                                           As of 1211112006

                                                                                                                        Differencebetween
                                                                                                                        expected and actual
                                                                  Onginal Amount m $ Millions                             disbursements

Project ID   FY    PUIPOSe                                  IBRD       IDA       SF         GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.   Orig.     Frm.Rev'd
PO98531     2007   HT Electncity Project                        0.00      6.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     6.08     0.00         0.00
PO93640     2006   HTCDDProject                                 0.00    38.00      0.00      0.00     0.00    33.24     6.23         0.00
PO95371     2006   HT EconomicGovernanceTAG I1                  0.00      2.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     2.06     0.00         0.00
PO95523     2006   HTTransportand Terntorial Development        0.00    16.00      0.00      0.00     0.00    16.46     0.00         0.00
PO90159     2005   HT EmergencyRecovery & Disaster              0.00    1200       0.00      0.00     0.00     9.46     4.61         1.54
                   Management
PO93936     2005   HT GovernanceTechnical AssistanceGrant       0.00      2.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     1.51      1.46        0.00

                                                     Total,     0 00    76.00      0.00      0.00     0.00    68.81




                                                          Statementof IFC's
                                                HeldandDisbursedHaitiPortfolio
                                                           As of 1013112006
                                                       InMillionsof US Dollars


                                                                Committed                                 Disbursed
                                                               IFC                                       IFC
        FY Approval   Company                      Loan       Equity     Quasi     Partic.   Loan       Equity     Quasi      Partic
        2006          DigicelHaiti                 30.00        0.00       0.00      0.00      30.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
        1998          Microcredit                  0.00         0.27       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.27      0.00       0.00
                                 Total portfolio:   30.00       0.27       0.00      0.00      30.00      0.27      0.00       0.00




                                                                             Approvals PendingCommitment
                       FY Approval     Company                           Loan        Equity      Quasi      Partic.




                                            Total pendingcommitment:      0.00       0.00         0.00       0.00




                                                                    84

                                                         Annex 15: Countryat a Glance
                                  HAITI: HaitiRuralWater and SanitationProject



                                                                                    Latin
 Key Development Indicators                                                     Amenca          LOW
                                                                      Haiti     8 Carib.     income           Age dlatrlbutlon, 2005
(2005)                                                                                                                                     Female

Population,mid-year(millions)                                          8.8           551      2,353
Surfacearea (thousandsq. km)                                            28        20,418     29,265
Populationgrowth (%)                                                    1.4          1.3        1.8
Urban poplation (%of total population)                                  39            78         31

GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                       3.9         2,210      1,364
GNI percapita (Atlasmethod,US$)                                        450         4.008        580
GNI per capita(PPP, international$)                                  1,840         8.111      2,486

GDP growth (%)                                                          1.8          4.4        7.5
GDP per capitagrowth ("A)                                              -0.2          3.1        5.6

(moat recent eat/mate, 2000-2M)

Poveriy headcount ratioat $1 a day (PPP, %)                             54             9
Poveriy headcount ratioat $2 a day (PPP, %)                             78            23                     Under4 morlallty rate (per1,WO)          1
Ufeexpectancy at birth(years)                                           52            72         59
Infantmrtallty (per 1,000live births)                                   76            27         80
Child malnutrition("hof childrenunder5)                                 17             7         39

Adult literacy,male ("hof ages 15 and older)                                          91         73
Adult literacy,female (%of ages 15andolder)                                           90         50
Gross pdmaryenrollment,male ("6of age group)                                         121        110
Grosspnmary enrollment,female (%of age group)                                        117         99

Access to an improvedwater source (%of population)                      54            91         75
Access to improvedsanitationfacilities (% of population)                30            77         38         I   OHanl    QLatinAmenca &theCaribbean   I
Net Aid Flows                                             I980       19gO          2000        2005 a
                                                                                                                                                      II
(US$ millions)
Net ODA andofficial aid                                      105       168           208        243         IGrowth of GDPand GDP per capita (Oh)
Top 3donors(in 2004):
  UnitedStates                                               35         50            91         91          10
  Canada                                                       5        10            20         37
  France                                                       7        32            11         25
                                                                                                              0

Aid (%of GNI)                                                7.3       5.9           5.6        6.3
Aid per capita(US$)                                          19         25            26         29         .IO


Lonp-Term Economic Trends                                                                                   .m
                                                                                                                 90          95          03         os
Consumer prices(annual % change)                           17.8       21.3          11.5        14.8
GDP implicitdeflator(annual %change)                       21.4       14.1          11.2                        +GDP              -GDPpercapila

Exchange rate(annual average,local per US$)                  5.0       5.0          21.5       40.7
Termsof trade index (2000 = 100)                            225        132           100        87
                                                                                                               1980-90   1990-2000      20W-05
                                                                                                                    (averageannualgrowrh %)
Population,nud-year(mllllons)                                5.5       6.9           7.9        8.8                 2.3           1.4          1.4
GDP (US$mlilions)                                        1,462       2,864         3,716      4,3m                 -0.2          -1.5         -0.5
                                                                       (%of GDP)
Agriculture                                                           33.0          27.8       25.6                -0.1          -7.4         -1.2
Industry                                                              22.0          16.2       16.0                -1.7           3.2          0.5
  Manufacturing                                                       16.0           8.8        8.3                -1.7          -8.4         -2.2
Sewices                                                               43.0          64.1       51.1                 0.5          -0.3         -0.4

Householdflnal consumptionexpenditure                      81.9       81.4          86.0       93.3                 0.9
Generalgov't Rnalconsumptionexpenditure                    10.1        8.0           7.6        6.3                -4.4
Gross capitalformation                                     16.9       13.0          26.6       23.0                -0.6           8.6          1.5

Exports of goods andsewices                                21.6       17.5          12.3       14.0                 1.2         -10.3          7.7
Importsof goods andservices                                30.5       20.0          32.5       41.0                 2.3          -5.2        10.6
Gross savings                                                          6.4          21.8       23.5


Note: Figuresin Italicsare for years other than those specified. 2005data are preliminaryestimates...indicatesdata are not available.
a. Aid data are for 2004.




                                                                                 85

                                                                                                                                                             Haiti

Balance of Payments and Trade                             2000      2005

(US$ millions)                                                                            Governance IndlCStOts, 2000 and2004

Total merchandiseexports (f.0.b)                           331        458.9
Total merchandiseimports(f.0.b)                           1,086.7   1,308.5                VoiceandamuntaMllty
Net trade in goods and services                            -852.1    -1162.7                       Polibcalmabillty
Workers' reminancesand
  compensationof employees(net)                             578      925                         ReQUlatOtYquality


Current account balance                                    -260      -270                                Rule01 law
   as a % of GDP                                           -6.6       -6.3                      Control01 wmpbon

Netforeign assets (Central Bank, US$) millions              172.3     191.2                                        0       25          YI          I 5      loa

Central Government Finance                                                                        2w4                  Gauntr(8 percenhlerank (C-tW)
                                                                                                                         np., "al"e4 Unpr DMOI RmDI
(% of GDP)
Revenue                                                     8.4        9.6                Scum: Kauimann-Kraay-Maszi, Wcdd Bank
   Tax revenue                                              7.7        6.3
Expense                                                     7.4      13.8
                                                                                       Technology and Infrastructure                             2000        2004
Cash surpius/deliat                                        -2.2       -0.7
                                                                                       Paved roads (%of total)                                    24.3
Highest marginaltax rate (96)                                                          Fixed line and mobilephone
   Individual                                                                           subscribers(per 1,000people)                                  16       e4
   Corporate                                                                           High technologyexports
                                                                                         (36 of manufacturedexports)                                 3.5
External Debt and Resource Flows
                                                                                       Environment
(US$millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                      1,169     1,336.0            Agriculturalland(% of land area)                               58       58
Total debt service                                           44        51.0            Forest area (%of land area, 2000and 2005)                     4.0       3.8
HlPC and MDRi debt relief (expected;flow)                     -                        Nationallyprotectedareas (%of land area)                        ,.     0.4

Total debt (% of GDP)                                      31.5      31.0              Freshwaterresourcesper capita (a.meters)                        ..   1,548
Total debt service (% of exports)                           4.0        8.5             Freshwaterwithdrawal(%of internal resources)                    ..     7.6

Foreign direcl investment(net inflows)                       8.0       9.5             CO2 emissions per capita (mt)                              0.18       0.22
PorHoiioequity(net inflows)
                                                                                       GDP per unit of energy use
                                                                                         (2000PPP$ per kg of dl equivalent)                          7.0      6.3

                                                                                       Energy use per capita (kg of dl equivalent)                 257       270




                                                                                       (US$ millions)

                                                                                       IBRD
                                                                                        Total debt outstandingand disbursed                           0         0
                                                                                         Disbursements                                                0         0
                                                                                         Prinapal repayments                                          0         0
                                                                                         interestpayments                                             0         0

                                                                                       IDA
                                                                                        Total debt outstandingand disbursed                        480        507
                                                                                        Disbursements                                                 8         9
Private Sector Development                                2000       2005               Total debt servim                                             10       50

Time requiredto start a business(days)                                203              iFC (fiscalyear)
Cost to start a business (%01 GNI per capita)                       153.1               Total disbursedand outstandingportfolio                       0        0
Time requiredto register property(days)                       ---     683                 of which IFC own acwunt                                     0        0
                                                                                        Disbursementsfor IFC own account                              0        0
Rankedas a major constraintto business                                                  Portfoliosales, prepaymentsand
   (% of managerssurveyed who agreed)                                                      repayments for IFC own account                             0        0
     n.a.
     n.a.                                                                              MlGA
                                                                                        Gross exposure
Stock market capitalization(%01 GDP)
Bank branches(per 100.000people)


..Note:Figuresin italics are lor years other than those speafied. 2005 data are preliminaryestimates.                                                     9/19/06
   indicatesdata are not available. -indicates ObSeNatiCmis not applicable.

DevelopmentEwnomia. Development Data Group (DECDG).




                                                                               86

MAP SECTION


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD 35101

       U.S.A.                                                                                                                        7330'                                                              7300'                                                                7230'                                                                      7200'
                                     THE                                                                                                                                                                                        Tortue
                                         BAHAMAS                                                                                                                                                                                         Island                                             A T L A N T I C                                         O C E A N
                                                                                                                   2000'                                                                                                                             Ile de la Tortue
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Tortue                                                                                                                                                                       2000'
                                                                        ATLANTIC OCEAN                                                                                                                                                 Channel

                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PORT-DE-PAIX
                                                                                                                                                                               Point Jean-Rabel                                                     St. Louis

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Anse- -Foleur
            C U B A
                                                         DOMINICAN                                                                                                                                                                         Chansolme
                                                            REPUBLIC
                                                                                                                                                                   Jean-Rabel
                                         HAITI                              Puerto Rico
                                                                                (US)                                               M LE ST. NICOLAS                   Price         Gatinette                      Moustique                                                     Le Borgne



                                                                                                                                                               N O R D - O U E S TBassin-Bleu                                                                                                                      Acul Bay
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Port-Margot                                              CAP-HA TIEN
                      JAMAICA                                                             Lesser                                                                                                                                                                                                        Limbe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Les                                                                     Bas Limb
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Mancenille Bay
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Quartier Morin
                                       Caribbean     Sea                                        Antilles                                                                                                                                 Trois                                                                                Plaine                          Coracol
                                                                                                                                                               Baie de Henne                                                                                                                                                    du            Limonade                        FORT LIBERT
                                                                                                                                            Bombardopolis                                                                                     Rivieres                                    Limb
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Pilate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Acul du                                              Terrier
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Nord
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Anse-Rouge                           Gras Morne                                                           Nord                                                Rouge

                                                                                                                                                                        Hennes                                                                                                                                                             Trou Du-Nord
                                                                                                                                                                           Bay
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Milot
     7430'                                                               7400'                                                                                                                                     Colombier                                                                    N O R D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Terre-Neuve                                               Plaisance                                                   Ste. Suzanne              Marion                 To Santiago
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Les                                                                      Grd. Riv.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Poteaux                                               Dondon                du Nord
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Perches             Ouanaminthe

1930'                                                                     H A I T I                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Marmelade                                                       N O R D                         1930'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Bayonnais                Ennery                                            Great

                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Point Lapiere                                                                                              Bahan      Northern
  RURAL WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -      Capotille

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GONA VES                                                                        St. Raphael
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RanquitteVallieres         E S T         Mont
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Quinte                                                                                                                              Organis
                               AREAS OF INTERVENTION:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Monbin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  St. Michel                                                          Crochu           Canice
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             L'Estere
                                       AREA OF INTERVENTION SUPPORTED BY THE WB                                                                                                                                                                                                               de L'Attalaye                             Pignon               La Victoire
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Desdunes
                                       LICUS LOCALITIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Belle              Bouyaha                       Cerca Carvajel
                                       AREA OF INTERVENTION SUPPORTED BY THE IDB                                                                                                                                         Grande Saline                                             Dessalines
                               ASPHALT ROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Est  re                                                      Canot
                               GRAVEL ROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Cerca-la-Source
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Font GrassMa ssade                      Sarnana
                               DIRT ROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Delegram
                                                                                      0           10           20        30         40         50                                                                                                                Pont
                               RIVERS                                                                                                                                                                                                    St. Marc                                                                                                   HINCHE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Sond                            Pte. Riv.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             de l'Artibonite
                               SELECTED TOWNS                                                                   KILOMETERS                                                                                                                               A R T I B O N IA T E                                                                C E N T R E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Thomassique
                               COMMUNE HEADQUARTERS                                                                                                                        S a                                                                                                 Verrettes

1900'                         DEPARTMENT HEADQUARTERS                                                                                                                          i n                                                                                                                                                             ThomoThomonde
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        n d e                             Artibonite         1900'
                                                                                                                                                     GON VE                           t       M       a                                                   Couline                                            RTIBONITE                             Crrf. Mace
                               NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                       ISLAND                                              r c    C  h                                                                                                            Boucan Carre                                                                DOMINICAN
                               COMMUNE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                         a   n        Montrouis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 n  e                                                                                                BoucanCBarrage                    Casse        Roysec
                               DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                   l                                                       La Chapelle                                  arre                                  Peligre
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Peligre                                      Bellad re
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Lake
                               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Dam

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Anse a Galet                                        Donyen                             Saut d'Eau                  Mirebalais                         Croix Fer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Sentard                                                                                    Lascahobas

                                                                                                                                                                         Pointe a Raquette                                                                          Arcahaie                    Torcelel             Ville Bonheur

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Baptiste

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Trianon   Fer-a-Cheval                       Savanette
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Cabare                  Sta. Terrienne
                                           Cape Rose                                                                                                      G
                                       Bonbon                                                                                                                 o                                                                                                                                                                                                          Cornillon
                                                                                         Cayemites                                                               n                                                                                                                                                                       Thomazeau
                                                             JEREMIE                                                                                                   v   e                                                                                                        Port-Au-Prince
                                                                                           Islands                                                                              C  h                                                                                                        Bay                Bon Repos
                        Abricots                                                                                                                                                         a
                                                                         Roseaux                                                                                                             n      n    e                                                                                  Croix des Missions                Shada        Caimen        Saumatre
                                                    Anse                                                                                                                                                   l                                                                                                  Hasco                        Lake

   Dame-Marie                 Moron                                                    Corail                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Crois des Bouquets
                                            Grande                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PORT-AU-PRINCE
                                                                                                      Pestel                      Petite Trou                                                                                                                                        Carrefour                            Delmas G                                   Lake

                 Chambellan     G R A N D E -                                                                                     de Nippes
                                                  Marche                      Carrefour                                                              Anse-a-                                                                                                                                                                      rise
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Gressier                                   Petion-
1830'Anse                              Gebeau    L on                        Charles                                                                 Veau    Petite Riviere                                                                                                                                               Ville                  Ganthier                             To Barahana           1830'
                                 Bass                                                                                                                                                                                                               L og ne
                                         Source                                                                                    Morne                       de Nippes                                                                                                                                                                                      Fond
 d'Hainault                                                                                                  Baraderes              Occo                                                                                                                                                                                       O U E S T                   Parisien                                                   REPUBLIC
                                  Droit  Chaude     Voldrogue                                                                                                                               MIRAGO NE                                                                     Momance
                                                      A N S EBeaumont                                                         N I P P E S              Nippes                                    Crrf. Des Ruisseaux                                              Carrefour Dufort                                                               Blanche
                                                                 Roseaux                                                                         Grande                                                                                                                                                                    Kenscoff
    Les Irois                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Petite
                                                                                                                Carrefour                                              Pemele                            Pont Mirago ne                  Grand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Fonds
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Mirago ne             Go ve      Go ve             Trouin                mel                                                                                       Verrettes
                                                                                         Marceline              Baraderes
                                              Les                                                        Cavaillon                           L'Asile                                                       Lake
          Tiburon       La Cahouane         Anglais                          Camp-Perrin                 ManicheSudre
                                                                                                                            Plaisance                                                                                                                                                                                           Fonds Jean Noel

                                                                                                                              St. Louis                                                                                                                       St.
                                                                                                                               du Sud                      Vieux Bourg d'Aquin                                                                          Etienne                        S U D                         -       E S T
                                        Chardonnieres                           S U D                            Cavaillon                          Aquin                                                                                                                  St. Antoine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Blockauss                                                                                                    Belle-Anse          Bodane     Thiotte
                                              Port- -Piment                                                                     Morisseau        Zanglais                                                                                              La Valle                  JACMEL                                  Marigot
This map was produced by the                                                                                                                                                                                                Bainet
                                                                                 Chantal                                                         d Aquin                                     Cotes de Fer                                                               Grande JacGosselline




Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                        C teaux                                                                                                                                            C tes-de Fer              Bainet                                                     Cayes-Jacmel
The boundaries, colors, denominations                 Roche- Bateau                                         LES CAYES                                                                                                                                                          Cape Jacmel                                                                Grand Gosier
and any other information shown on
this map do not imply, on the part of                                            Arniquet       Torbeck
The World Bank Group, any judgment                                                           Crrf. Joute
on the legal status of any territory, or                                                                           Ile a Vache

any endorsement or acceptance of                                          Port-Salut                St. Jean                                                                                C A R I B B E A N                                           S E A
such boundaries.                                                        Point Gravois                   du Sud
                                                                                                                  Vache Island                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Anse a Pitres
     7430'                                                              7400'                                                     7330'                                                               7300'                                                                7230'                                                                      7200'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NOVEMBER 2006

