Page  1
1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2390 
Project Name 
Haiti Rural Water and Sanitation Project 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Water supply (90%); Sanitation (10%) 
Project ID 
P089839 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF HAITI 
Implementing Agency 
Service National de l'Eau Potable (SNEP) 
Haiti 
Tel: 509-2465300 or 2464131 
 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
May 17, 2006 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
October 5, 2006 
Date of Board Approval 
December 19, 2006 
1. 
Country and sector Background 
 
1.1. Country Background 
 
Haiti is the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere
.
Average per capita income is 
comparable to the poorest countries of Sub-Saharan Africa, and Haiti ranks 153
rd
 (out of 177 
countries) in terms of the Human Development Index. About 78 percent of its population of 8.6 
million lives below the poverty line, with 54 percent in extreme poverty. 
The country’s health 
and social indicators are on the same level as those of the world’s poorest countries: Haiti’s child 
mortality rate of 118 deaths per 1,000 is far higher than the Latin American regional average of 
33, and closer to sub-Saharan Africa’s average of 171.
1
The rural areas exhibit the highest rate of poverty in the country.
 Of the 60 percent of the 
population who live in rural areas, 85 percent live on less than $2 a day and 60 percent live on 
less than $1 a day.
2
Rural education and economic opportunities are extremely limited, and basic 
social services are severely lacking. Basic rural infrastructure (e.g., water and irrigation, feeder 
roads, electricity, and sanitation) is virtually absent or severely depleted, reinforcing isolation 
and exclusion. Only 8 percent of rural households have access to water in their home or on their 
property,
3
and just 11 percent of rural households have electricity, compared to 70 percent of the 
wealthiest quintile.
4
These conditions contribute to rural-urban migration, especially into the 
capital, Port-au-Prince.  
 
1
WDI indicators, 2003 
2
SEDLAC database. 
3
SEDLAC database. 
4
Enquête Sur Les Conditions de Vie en Haiti
,
Institut Haitien de Statistique et d’Informatique, 2001. 
Page  2
2
Rural water coverage in Haiti is the lowest in the hemisphere.
 Data on water and sanitation 
coverage from different sources vary widely,
5
but rural water coverage is estimated at between 
52% and 59%. According to the Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) of 2000, the only 
source providing a breakdown, the rural population relied on the following water sources: 4% 
house connection, 32% standpipes (from piped systems), 6% protected wells (hand pumps), 10% 
protected springs, 2% rainwater collection, 31% from unprotected springs, 6% from unprotected 
wells and 9% from rivers or canals. This means that an estimated 2 million Haitians in rural areas 
rely on unprotected water sources, jeopardizing their health, as evidenced by very poor health 
indicators. In addition, significant time is spent to fetch water, which affects in particular women, 
children, and the poor.  
 
Access to sanitation is also the poorest in the region. 
According to the Joint Monitoring 
Programme for Water Supply and Sanitation, Haiti is in a tie with Bolivia for the lowest degree 
of access to improved rural sanitation
 
at 23 percent. The DHS results show a breakdown with 
only 12% having access to a private improved latrine and 8% using more basic traditional 
latrines, which offer only partial protection from the spread of fecal contamination.  Another 
14% have access to shared improved latrines, while 10% can access shared traditional latrines.  
Fifty-six percent of the population resort to open defecation.  Over a quarter of children under 
five years of age had experienced an episode of diarrhea in the two weeks preceding the survey.  
Diarrhea is particularly common between the ages of 6 to 24 months, exceeding 40% in the two 
weeks before the survey.  These statistics highlight the importance of improving sanitation and 
hygiene in the domestic environment, where such children spend the most time and are most 
vulnerable to infection.  
 
Haiti is considered a “fragile state,” which is reflected in the poor quality of its institutions.
 
The 15 administrations of the last 20 years lasted on average less than a year and a half each.
6
Haiti’s political environment has been one of increasing insecurity, pervasive corruption, and a 
continuous weakening of state institutions and the
 
rule of law. The changing and unreliable flow 
of external aid has exacerbated the situation, affecting levels of public investment and 
sustainability. Public institutions lack capacity, transparency, and accountability.  
1.2 Sector Background 
Institutional capacity for rural water supply is low, and nonexistent for rural sanitation. 
Rural water supply in Haiti is formally under the responsibility of the Service National de l’Eau 
Potable (SNEP), the implementing agency for the proposed project. According to the 1977 law 
creating SNEP (
Loi Organique du SNEP
)
it is an “autonomous state entity with civil and legal 
personality enjoying all the rights and prerogatives derived from this status.” According to the 
law, SNEP is under the supervision of a Board (
Conseil d'Administration
)
presided over by the 
Ministry of Public Works, and its day-to-day activities are managed by a Director General. 
SNEP is responsible for water supply outside the Port-au-Prince metropolitan area. SNEP has 
only limited capacity in rural areas and until recently focused its limited resources on urban 
5
Data sources analyzed include the WHO/PAHO Water and Sanitation Monitoring System for Haiti, the 
WHO/UNICEF global Joint Monitoring Program (JMP) for Water Supply and Sanitation, the Ministry of Health’s 
Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) for 2000, as well as the World Bank’s World Development Indicators 
(WDI). All four sources show different coverage figures.  
6
Draft Haiti Country Economic Memorandum, World Bank, May 10, 2006. 
Page  3
3
water supply in secondary towns. The Ministry of Health also has a rural water unit (POCHEP), 
but this unit is small and inactive for lack of funds. There is no institutional home for sanitation.  
 
Without an institutional presence in rural areas, rural water supply and sanitation 
investment has been unplanned and piecemeal.
 Most investments in rural areas are carried out 
by non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and the Social Fund (
Fonds 
d’Assistance 
Economique et Sociale--
FAES). Between 2000 and 2004, over 40 different NGOs and donors 
contributed an average annual total of approximately $3 million to the rural water sector.
7
The 
Social Fund invested US$1.1 million in nine water and sanitation projects in 2004-2005. There is 
little knowledge about levels of coverage and needs, and thus it is difficult to prioritize 
investments, which are carried out in a piecemeal manner and do not necessarily reach the 
neediest.  
 
Local communities do not maintain infrastructure well.
 Many rural water systems are 
managed by water committees (
Comité d’Approvisionnement en Eau Potable
--CAEP), 
consisting of unpaid volunteers elected by the community, as well as in some cases by a plumber 
hired by the committee. The performance of water committees varies widely, ranging from some 
that regularly collect funds, deposit them in a Bank account, and perform chlorination and 
routine maintenance to those that are practically defunct. Most water committees seem to not 
perform their functions adequately and collect insufficient funds for operation and routine 
maintenance. 
 
The government of René Préval elected in early 2006 intends to reform the water and 
sanitation sector through a framework law (
Loi-Cadre
). 
Since 1996, a draft water and 
sanitation framework law has been discussed in Haiti, but has never been adopted. The new 
government has taken the initiative to substantially rewrite the framework law and intends to 
submit it to Parliament. The framework law aims at the separation of policy/regulatory functions 
from operating functions, decentralization and the introduction of public-private partnerships. It 
aims at creating a water and sanitation directorate (DEPA) within the Ministry of Public Works 
(MTPTC) and regional water and sanitation companies. Furthermore, a rural water and sanitation 
unit in the Ministry of Health, called POCHEP, will be dissolved and integrated into the new 
structures. Ultimately, the law envisages the gradual transfer of the responsibility for water and 
sanitation to those municipalities that have proven their capacity to undertake these 
responsibilities. Municipalities would in turn have the option to delegate service provision to the 
private sector, municipal water companies, or water committees. The law would also--for the 
first time in Haiti--define legal responsibility for sanitation within the public sector. 
 
The substance of the law is still under discussion and the new structures are not expected to 
be put in place soon
,
given that after the envisaged adoption of the 
Loi-Cadre,
 a 
Loi Organique
 
for the regional water and sanitation companies would have to be elaborated and adopted before 
any new structures could be put in place. The submission of a draft framework law to Parliament 
is a condition for the second Economic Governance Reform Operation (EGRO II) submitted to 
the Board in parallel with this project. 
 
1.3 Recent and on-going activities by the Bank and other donors in the sector 
7
PAHO/WHO Haiti Water and Sanitation Monitoring System. 
Page  4
4
The Low-Income Countries Under Stress (LICUS) grant for rural water supply uses SNEP 
as an implementing agency.
 The LICUS project involves two components: (i) preparation of a 
national strategy for rural water supply and sanitation, and (ii) rehabilitation of water systems in 
three communities in the Southern Department. Progress on both components is satisfactory and 
has led to an increase of SNEP’s capacity and motivation. A national workshop was held in 
November 2005 to discuss elements of the national strategy. Under the second component, a new 
management model (professional operators and volumetric tariffs) is being tested to increase 
system sustainability.  
 
The national strategy for rural water supply and sanitation 
initiated under the LICUS grant 
foresees a strengthening of SNEP’s capacity to intervene in rural areas and the establishment of a 
closer partnership among SNEP, NGOs and local government. It involves two parts: A largely 
completed operational strategy that will determine the content of SNEP’s cooperation 
agreements (
protocols 
d’accord
)
with NGOs in terms of technical specifications and community 
contributions; and a global strategy that will include an investment program to be funded by 
various donors and a better definition of the roles of various actors in the sector. The operational 
strategy is expected to be finalized first, at a request of SNEP, and the global strategy will be 
finalized at a later stage once the framework law has been passed.  
 
This project is closely coordinated with the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), 
which is the focal point for the sector according to the Interim Cooperative Framework
 
(
ICF). 
The project is being executed in parallel with a US$15m IDB-supported rural water and 
sanitation program.
8
The Bank’s financial contribution, though modest, has enabled it to play a 
valuable intellectual role in the design and preparation of the program. Elements of the program 
that have resulted from Bank involvement include the use of SNEP as an implementing agency, 
professional operators, and incorporation of a hygiene and sanitation component. The IDB will 
intervene in four departments (Grande Anse, Nippes, l’Ouest and l’Artibonite), while the 
proposed project will intervene in one (South) and in small parts of Nippes that are best reached 
from Les Cayes, the capital of the Southern Department. Both banks will use a similar selection 
mechanism for participating localities and the same operating manual. 
 
The IDB also has supported the execution of a 
“Sector Reform Program” since 1998.
 The 
program intervenes mainly in urban areas, in particular in five towns whose water systems are 
managed by SNEP (Les Cayes, Port-de-Paix, Saint-Marc, Ouanaminthe and Jacmel). The goal is 
to provide more autonomy to operating centers of SNEP that operate these urban water systems, 
while strengthening the role of municipalities in secondary towns. The project is not executed by 
SNEP, but by a Project Management Unit (PMU) under the Ministry of Public Works (MTPTC). 
It also covers some rural systems near the above-mentioned towns. 
 
The Bank’s Community-Driven Development Project (CDD) complements 
the Rural Water and Sanitation project.
 The CDD project transfers resources to 
local community organizations in poor communities by (i) improving access to basic 
infrastructure and support income-generating activities at an estimated average 
8
The IDB uses the term “program” for its overall intervention and the term “project” for each intervention in a 
particular locality. 
Page  5
5
cost of $20,000 per activity, and (ii) improving governance and building social 
capital of communities by increasing citizen participation and transparency. The 
CDD project will ultimately cover almost half the country’s rural communities. 
Concerning water supply, investments are limited to a small range of technical 
options (essentially hand-pumps). The water and sanitation project complements 
the CDD project, because it allows the financing of high-priority investments that 
could not be included under the CDD project because of their size. The proposed 
project will overlap geographically with the first phase of the CDD project in the 
Southern Department. The CDD project is implemented by the PL-480 
Management Office under the Ministry of Planning and NGOs.
 
2. Objectives 
 
Development Objective: Increase access to and use of water supply and sanitation services in 
participating rural communities.  
 
Specific Objectives:  
 
·
Increase the sustained and effective use of safe drinking water in participating 
communities; 
·
Improve use of effective sanitation and hygiene practices in participating communities; 
·
Strengthen the capacity of the implementing agency, local water committees, and 
professional operators in cooperation with local government. 
 
Given low capacity in the Haitian public sector and previous implementation experience with 
Bank projects in Haiti, (i) project design has been kept very simple, (ii) substantial capacity 
building has been included, and (iii) objectives have been kept modest. At the same time, 
coordination with other stakeholders (government agencies, donors, and NGOs) is being actively 
sought beyond the partnership with IDB, which is financing a parallel project to support the rural 
water and sanitation program. 
 
Key indicators will be: Number of beneficiaries gaining access to and using sustainable
9
water 
systems
10
 in participating localities, and number of beneficiaries gaining access to and using 
basic sanitation systems
11
 in participating localities. 
 
9
Systems are considered to be “sustainable” if (i) the systems are functioning as intended and deliver the service 
either continuous or regularly depending on the service level selected; (ii) the water committees meet on a regular 
basis; (iii) tariffs are set at a level that guarantees operation and maintenance of the system, and collected;  and (iv) 
the systems are designed to ensure long-term supply (designed appropriately for yield of source). 
10
 “Water systems” in terms of this project means systems that are “improved” according to the Joint Monitoring 
Programme definition of “improved” water supply. (e.g. Improvement in the access to piped water (for those 
households without access to piped water) or protection of a previously unprotected source.) 
11
 “basic sanitation systems” in terms of this project means systems that satisfy the Joint Monitoring Programme 
definition of “basic” sanitation contributing towards the MDG Target. (e.g., both simple and Ventilated Improved 
Pit latrines, twin pit pour flush latrines, septic tanks etc) which protect the user and the community from fecal 
contamination, 
Page  6
6
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The project was identified and prepared according to the Transitional Support Strategy 
(TSS)
.
The TSS was endorsed by the Bank’s Board of Directors on January 6, 2005, and 
included $132 million in credit and grant commitments over a two-year period, with a focus on 
poverty alleviation through improved access to basic services and infrastructure. The two-year 
strategy aimed at restoring hope by supporting: (i) basic services provision; (ii) job creation; (iii) 
rehabilitation of areas devastated by floods in 2004; and (iv) community initiatives in local 
development. The strategy also focused on restoring credibility in Haiti’s public institutions by 
strengthening economic governance and institutions, bolstering efforts to fight corruption, 
improving transparency, and promoting inclusion and consensus-building on development 
priorities.  
 
The proposed Interim Strategy Note (ISN) for Haiti reflects a continuation of the strategic 
focus of the TSS.
 The ISN will follow the twin strategic pillars of the TSS: to deliver hope to the 
population by helping the Government deliver quick wins in the provision of basic services and 
job creation; and to restore credibility in Haitian institutions by deepening reforms that promote 
long-term good governance and institutional development. The strategy will focus on selective 
interventions in areas where the Government has requested support from the Bank, and where 
the latter has a comparative advantage and complements other donor support. The ISN will be 
presented to the Bank’s Board of Directors concurrently with this project. 
The project supports the ISN in terms of helping the Government deliver quick wins in the 
provision of basic services and restoring credibility in Haitian institutions.
 By using the 
public agency in charge of the sector to deliver services, unlike in the case of most other projects 
in the sector, the project restores credibility in Haitian public institutions. This is also in line with 
the recommendation of the Haiti Country Economic Memorandum to improve the capacity 
within state utilities. 
 
The emphasis on strengthened public institutions is reflected in the proposed project’s 
focus on capacity building within the public institutions in the sector. 
The project would 
initially work with the staff of SNEP, which currently still is the national entity responsible for 
rural water supply. SNEP has demonstrated capacity and their performance under an earlier 
LICUS grant has been positive. Once the new structure of the sector is in place, responsibility for 
executing the project is expected to be largely transferred to the regional water and sanitation 
company in the project’s intervention area. Some functions are expected to remain at the national 
level with the water and sanitation directorate in MTPTC or an associated structure for rural 
areas. Support to the national-level institutions will be provided primarily under the parallel IDB 
operation. 
 
The LICUS grant for rural water supply has provided the Bank with useful hands-on 
experience in working with SNEP as the implementing agency, 
strengthened SNEP’s role 
in the rural sub-sector, and increased its project management capacity.
 The LICUS grant 
has given SNEP experience in Bank financial management and procurement procedures. For the 
implementation of the grant, SNEP staff have already set up a separate accounting system, 
developed an operational manual and familiarized themselves with Bank’s financial management 
and disbursement procedures. Furthermore, the support by Engineers Without Borders-Canada 
Page  7
7
has proven valuable during the LICUS project in terms of strengthening the capacity of SNEP to 
carry out project management, procurement and 
ingénierie sociale 
(see below). The arrangement 
is expected to be continued under the current program. 
 
The project will use a comprehensive methodology known under its French term as 
“ingénierie sociale”
,
for which there is no appropriate English translation.
12
 “Ingénierie sociale” 
is defined as a set of support activities that will: 
 
·
Ensure that project activities respond to user demand, and that users are consulted in every 
important phase of the project; 
·
Create all necessary relationships among stakeholders for joint activities, and to formalize 
these relationships through contracts if necessary ; 
·
Ensure that conditions are created that will allow services to be provided on a sustainable 
basis; 
·
Strengthen the capacity of community-level stakeholders who will be involved in all phases 
of the project.
13
 
The Rural Water and Sanitation Project thus aims to marry the benefits of a community-focused, 
demand-driven approach with the benefits of having a competent sector agency involved in 
terms of procurement, financial management and technical know-how in the design and 
supervision of good-quality works.  
 
The project will build on the beneficial social dynamics created under the CDD project 
through its strengthening of community-based organizations for those communities where 
the projects will overlap. 
The training and capacity building for community-based organization 
under the CDD project would support the implementation of RWSS. SNEP and its service 
provider will have to coordinate with PL-480, the executing agency of the CDD project, and its 
service provider in the Southern Department, PADF, in order to ensure that the two 
complementary approaches are clearly presented to communities.  
 
While many aspects of the project are similar to the CDD approach, there is one key 
difference: 
Communities are not expected to manage funds or to undertake procurement.
 
Most 
works contracts are expected to be well above the threshold of US$ 20,000 currently used under 
the on-going Haiti CDD project (US$38million). Having communities manage such large sums 
has not been tested so far and would entail risks. 
 
The project is coordinated with and complements the CDD project (see above) and other 
Bank projects in Haiti.
 The project is consistent and complementary with the completed 
Economic Governance Reform Operation (EGRO I, $61 million) and an Economic Governance 
12
 “Ingénierie sociale” is not to be confused with the English term “social engineering” which has a completely 
different meaning. Community development, community mobilization, community outreach and community 
participation all describe only specific facets of this comprehensive approach. The concept of “ingénierie sociale” 
has been developed in Haïti in the mid-1990s with the highly successful project to provide water to slum areas of 
Port-au-Prince using local water committees in partnership with the utility CAMEP, suing a service provider (NGO) 
to facilitate the relationship.  
13
 SNEP, Stratégie Eau Potable et Assainissement en Milieu Rural, Directive Opérationnelles, June 2006, p. 18 
Page  8
8
Technical Assistance Grant (ECTAG I, $2 million). The EGRO I focused on strengthening the 
government’s procurement and budgeting practices is consistent with similar work of this project 
within a single government entity. A second phase of EGRO (EGRO II) is being prepared that 
will include additional conditionalities for water sector reform, following on the process started 
in EGRO I  to conduct financial, management and technical audits of CAMEP.  
 
The project is expected to improve economic governance and capacity within the public 
sector in Haiti.
 The project will, for the first time in Haiti, carry out a systematic assessment of 
needs and coverage levels for water supply and sanitation in one region, linked to a transparent 
system of selecting participating communities on the basis of objective criteria. These criteria 
will include estimates of needs, costs, and community commitment. In addition, the project will 
ensure that selection of participating localities is also perceived by key local stakeholders as 
being objective. Furthermore, the project’s focus on capacity building within the implementing 
agency concerning financial management and procurement contributes to the overall 
strengthening of public sector institutions and economic governance at a higher level.  
 
This project will contribute to the higher level objective of improved health in Haiti
.
Intestinal infection (largely diarrhea) is cited by PAHO
14
 as the leading cause of death in 
children under five, and the second leading cause of infant mortality, (exceeded only by perinatal 
infections occurring in the first month of life).  According to the most authoritative available 
estimates, 87% of the burden of diarrheal disease in LAC is attributable to unsafe water and 
sanitation.
15
 (The methodology of health outcome evaluation of water, sanitation, and hygiene 
interventions for an individual project such as this is complex, uncertain, and expensive, so 
health outcomes are not listed in the project results framework.) The evidence from global 
epidemiological experience is clear-cut, however, and indicates that water, sanitation, and 
hygiene interventions can reduce diarrheal disease by as much as fifty percent—far more than 
simple water supply interventions alone. 
 
The project will contribute to social cohesion through helping communities make decisions 
collectively
.
Water is a good entry point for a community development project as it is used by all 
and serves a variety of needs. It provides a natural common issue around which the community 
can unite. The LICUS grant has given the Bank valuable experience in how to effectively 
mobilize the community around water management. 
 
4. Description 
 
The project has two components, the first one aimed at strengthening the capacity of SNEP and 
the second one aimed at directly providing services to communities. 
The project design has 
been kept very simple, while differing in important respects from how interventions in the 
sector have been carried out so far: 
 
·
The project will build, for the first time in rural water supply and sanitation in Haiti, a 
close partnership between a public entity (SNEP) as the implementing agency 
and a service provider (most likely an NGO)
 working under the direction and 
14
 
Infant mortality in Haiti
,
www.paho.org/English/DD/PED/Infant_
mortality
.ppt
,
downloaded 4/27/2006. 
15
 
The Global Burden of Disease and Risk Factors
,
Disease Control Priorities Project, The World Bank 2006. 
Page  9
9
leadership of the public entity. This approach is being promoted both at the national 
and departmental level. 
·
The project will, for the first time in rural water supply in Haiti, 
select participating 
communities based on objective and transparent criteria
 in a systematic, 
department-wide process. 
·
Building on the experience of the LICUS grant, the project will involve 
professional 
operators
 in the operation and maintenance of water systems and introduce 
volumetric tariffs, in order to promote greater sustainability. 
·
Concerning sanitation, the project will not build entire individual latrines, but it will 
test a more cost-effective approach by providing only slabs and working closely with 
communities to motivate them to build superstructures and to dig holes (
sanitation 
promotion
). 
 
Component 1: Capacity Building and Project Management 
 
The activities under this component aim at managing the project and strengthening the 
capacity of SNEP.
 The component includes four main activities. 
 
·
First, it will strengthen SNEP’s regional office in Les Cayes through the recruitment of 
two consultants who are expected to become staff after project closure, as well as through 
the provision of cars, office space and coverage of operating expenses. 
·
Second, it will finance services for an international partner organization to assist in 
project management, documentation, reporting, information technology and supervising 
the work of the service provider, based on an earlier successful partnership initiated under 
the LICUS grant. This activity is foreseen over a period of two years, with the aim of 
making the assistance unnecessary during the remainder of the project. 
·
Third, the Bank would finance services for surveys to monitor the achievement of 
performance indicators one year after the construction of water and sanitation systems. 
·
Fourth, it will assist SNEP in finalizing and disseminating the national rural water supply 
and sanitation strategy initiated under the LICUS grant mentioned above. 
 
This component complements the work done under the LICUS grant on a National 
Strategy for Rural Water Supply and Sanitation.
 The strategy has two parts: Operational and 
Global. The Operational part of the strategy is being developed as a tool to help SNEP and 
MTPTC plan its work and investments and coordinate the work of other actors in the sector. This 
should support the public sector’s planning and coordination capacity in the rural water and 
sanitation sector. The global part of the National Strategy should provide the broader framework 
into which the operational strategy fits, and offer a far-reaching view of what is required to 
achieve long term sector goals. The global strategy will be developed after the operational 
strategy and will reinforce MTPTC’s policy role in the sector. 
 
The component complements US$3m for capacity building to be provided by the IDB 
under its parallel financing.
 The IDB financing covers two areas: First, it aims at strengthening 
SNEP’s functions in rural areas in close relation with the investment component, with an 
emphasis on community development and procurement. Second, it will strengthen SNEP’s 
overall capacity throughout its mandate, including rural and urban areas. It foresees the hiring of 
Page  10
10
an advisor to the Director General for the first two years of the project and the strengthening of 
the technical and financial departments of SNEP. It also foresees an assessment of SNEP’s 
human resources in view of a rationalization of its personnel and salary structure. In addition, the 
IDB will finance vehicles, equipment, and recurrent costs necessary for the project. 
 
Component 2: Water supply, basic sanitation and hygiene promotion 
 
This component will enable participating communities to access and manage water supply 
and basic sanitation services. 
This includes the identification of participating communities 
based on objective criteria; 
ingénierie sociale
16
 using a participatory approach allowing 
communities a series of choices;
17
 engineering design; system construction and supervision; and 
support during the early years of system management. The project will promote the innovative 
management approach piloted under the LICUS grant involving professional operators, increased 
cost recovery, metering, and the use of water kiosks instead of standpipes. 
 
The component is expected to have two windows: one for large-scale investments and a 
second for small-scale investments. 
The large-scale investment window
would mainly finance 
piped gravity systems supplied by springs in localities with about 1,000 to 5,000 inhabitants.
18
 
The piped systems will feed water kiosks and house connections. Water kiosks consist of a small 
concrete structures with faucets on the outside and taps on the inside, thus allowing kiosk 
operators to sell water by the bucket. Both water kiosks and house connections would be 
metered. If pumping should be necessary and cost-effective, the project would give a strong 
preference to renewable energy. Given widespread theft of photovoltaic cells in Haiti, wind 
energy would be the preferred source of energy, relying on hurricane-proof new technologies as 
they are currently being tested in the North of Haiti under a pilot project supported by the World 
Bank’s Development Marketplace. The window would also support the construction of 
blocs 
sanitaires
 next to schools and health centers in localities that have been selected to benefit from 
water supply systems under the large-scale investment window. A 
bloc sanitaire
 is a concrete 
structure with toilets and basic water supply fixtures in two compartments, one for men/boys and 
one for women/girls. The large-scale investment window is expected to account for 80-90% of 
investments, although the allocation between the windows is meant to be flexible. The small-
scale investment window
would contribute to financing hand pumps, rainwater harvesting 
systems and household latrines. Water investments under this window would be selected based 
on prioritized lists established in a participatory manner at the commune level with the support of 
the CDD project, given that the CDD project would not have sufficient funds to finance all 
prioritized investments. Latrines are expected to be financed only in localities benefiting from 
investments in water systems, in order to be able to carry out hygiene promotion in a credible 
manner and in order to maximize health impacts.  
 
The financial policy under the program includes the following key elements:
 
16
 See explanation further above. 
17
 The proposed key choices are: choice between different water service levels (house connection or water kiosk) 
and sanitation service levels (pit latrine and VIP latrine) implying different costs to users; choice in the tariff 
structure (pure volumetric or combined flat rate and volumetric) and level (covering only operating costs and basic 
maintenance, or including a reserve for major maintenance). 
18
 Under exceptional circumstance localities with up to 10,000 inhabitants would be considered. 
Page  11
11
 
·
Tariffs:
 Communities will charge tariffs that recover at a minimum full operation and 
routine maintenance costs. All consumption from piped systems is expected to be 
metered and tariffs will be volumetric. There will be tariffs for water sold in buckets at 
water kiosks, as well as tariffs for house connections, both residential and for public 
buildings. House connections will have a fixed portion including a minimal consumption 
and a volumetric portion for consumption exceeding the minimum. Tariffs for the use of 
hand pumps will be flat rates per household and month. 
·
Up-front financial contribution:
 Communities are required to come up with an up-front 
financial contribution before technical studies will be initiated. The purpose of the 
contribution is to be an indicator of willingness to pay. It should cover, at the minimum, 
several months of operation and routine maintenance costs of the system. These funds 
would not be mingled with project funds, but would rather be used by the community for 
small initial purchases (e.g. for chlorine, a motorcycle, etc.) or be kept in a reserve for 
repairs. 
·
Pass-through conditions for investment funds:
 Following common practice in Haiti 
and in many other countries, project funds for investments will be passed through to the 
community as a grant, given limited ability to pay and given that in urban areas so far 
utilities in Haiti are not required to pay back investment funds either. 
 
Participating localities for the large-scale investment window will be selected based on 
objective, transparent criteria. 
A
tentative long list of about 40 localities has been established 
that would be reduced to a short list of about 12 localities based on an objective eligibility and 
priority criteria. Eligibility criteria include availability of a nearby sufficiently productive, good 
quality source of water; protection of the source or indication of willingness and likelihood that 
the source will be protected; estimated per capita costs of less than US$200; acceptance to pay 
volumetric tariffs covering operation and routine maintenance costs; acceptance of the 
professional operator model; a formal letter requesting to be included in the project; and payment 
of an up-front financial contribution into a fund managed by the water committee. If the number 
of eligible localities is greater than about 12, participating localities will be selected based on 
priority criteria. These include greatest needs (as measured by average walking distance to 
currently used sources of water) and lowest estimated unit costs (as measured by estimates of the 
required works and the number of houses in the locality assessed based on satellite pictures). 
Data to estimated costs and benefits will be collected by the service provider on behalf of SNEP.  
 
Sanitation and hygiene promotion will be carried out in the same communities in which 
water services will be improved.
 This allows for the creation of synergies among water supply, 
sanitation, and improved hygiene interventions. SNEP and Haitian NGOs have experience in the 
construction of 
blocs sanitaires
 for health centers and schools, and the project will support the 
continuation of this work, with a focus on their operation and management as well as upon their 
physical construction.  
 
The approach to sanitation will stress subsidies to promote the construction of individual 
household facilities.
 While other sanitation initiatives in Haiti have involved subsidies on the 
order of $100 - $500 per family, this project will explore the viability of an approach in which 
only the basic slab and seat are subsidized, accompanied by promotion activities. Keeping the 
Page  12
12
subsidy as low as possible while focusing on promotion has two advantages: (1) reducing the 
per-unit subsidy enables the project to provide access to sanitation services to a greater number 
of people; and (2) a low-cost subsidy of appropriate technology may sow the seeds for a small-
scale industry that designs basic sanitation at a price families can afford. The sanitation 
component will thus focus heavily on demand stimulation at the household level.   
 
While sanitation interventions will be coordinated with hygiene promotion activities, the 
differences between the two must be clearly understood.
 Hygiene promotion will thus be 
based on early studies to (a) determine high risk behaviors related to hygiene, sanitation and 
water supply; (b) identify specific motivators for change, such as concepts of cleanliness, 
modernity, education, attractiveness, etc; (c) identification of key channels of communication 
most effective in reaching mothers and children; and (d) development of appropriate messages to 
promote improved hygiene behavior.  The hygiene promotion campaigns can draw substantially 
from recent experience in hand washing campaigns in LAC and elsewhere. SNEP will have the 
institutional responsibility for hygiene promotion under this project. However, since SNEP has 
no experience in hygiene promotion, and given the weakness of other potential stakeholders such 
as 
the Direction de l’Hygiène Publique (DHP) in the Ministry of Health, the service provider (see 
under implementing arrangements) will also undertake hygiene promotion. Solid waste 
management is not considered a priority issue in rural areas and is thus not included under this 
project.  
 
5. Financing 
Estimates of Project Costs, by Components (US$ m)
 
Component 
Unit Cost x Number of Units 
Total Cost 
Capacity Building, and Project 
Management 
 0.82 
Water Supply, Basic Sanitation 
and Hygiene Promotion 
 4.43 
TOTAL Project Costs 
 
5.25 
6. Implementation 
 
The implementing agency for the projec
t
will be the Service National de l’Eau Potable 
(SNEP)
.
According to the 1977 law creating SNEP (
Loi Organique du SNEP
)
it is an 
“autonomous state entity with civil and legal personality enjoying all the rights and prerogatives 
derived from this status.” According to the law, SNEP is under the supervision of a Board 
(
Conseil d'Administration
)
presided by the Ministry of Public Works, and its day-to-day 
activities are managed by a Director General. In reality, the Board has not met in recent history 
thus leaving SNEP directly under the tutelage of the Ministry of Public Works. SNEP is 
responsible for water supply in all areas outside the metropolitan area of the capital. 
 
The institutional arrangements of this project are largely based upon the implementation 
arrangements under the ongoing LICUS grant for rural water supply.
 The Ministry of 
Public Works (MTPTC), the government ministry responsible for water supply and sanitation in 
Haiti, would sign a subsidiary agreement with SNEP, as under the LICUS grant. While the 
Page  13
13
implementation arrangements for the LICUS grant have proven effective, the proposed program 
supported by the Bank and IDB will require an absorption capacity that is more than ten times 
larger (US$4m/year compared to US$0.425m/year). In order to ensure the ability of SNEP, to 
implement the activities under the program, the following measures have been initiated or are 
envisaged: 
 
·
Recruitment of an experienced service provider (see below). 
·
Individual consultants hired by SNEP with the expectation that they would become SNEP 
staff when the project ends. 
·
Capacity building within SNEP for project management and procurement, including 
supervision of the service provider. 
 
The institutional characteristics of the proposed program and the LICUS grant are compared in 
the table below: 
 
Table 1: Comparison of proposed program and predecessor pilot project 
 
Proposed Program 
(WB and IDB) 
Predecessor Pilot Project 
(LICUS grant) 
Ingénierie 
sociale 
Carried out by an experienced 
service provider, in partnership 
with SNEP 
Carried out in-house by SNEP with 
support from two international 
volunteers (EWB-Canada) 
Procurement and 
project 
management 
SNEP, supported by consultants 
and significant training with 
intensive capacity building 
program and Bank supervision; 
continued support by EWB 
SNEP with intensive Bank 
supervision and support by EWB 
Technical design
Carried out by the same service 
provider (consortium) that will 
undertake the 
ingénierie sociale
 
Engineering firm 
Construction Contractors 
Contractors 
Construction 
Supervision 
Engineering firm or service 
provider 
Individual consultant 
Geographical 
Coverage 
About 50 localities in 5 
departments 
3
localities in 2 departments 
Duration 
5 years without the preparation 
phase 
2
years incl. preparation phase 
Amount US$20m 
US$0.85m 
SNEP is the executing agency for the proposed project
.
SNEP will have the fiduciary 
responsibility for the project (financial management and procurement). SNEP has selected one of 
its current employees to become a full-time procurement staff. He and other SNEP staff have 
been trained by the procurement specialist of the IDB office in Haiti and by the National 
Procurement Commission which receives support from the Bank and IDB.  
 
Page  14
14
The project’s financial management will be carried out by SNEP using the same 
arrangements under the LICUS grant.
 For the implementation of the grant, SNEP staff have 
already set up a separate accounting system, developed an operational manual and familiarized 
themselves with Bank’s financial management and disbursement procedures. Additional staff 
will be hired by SNEP to accommodate the higher workload due to the project. 
 
In order to assist in the process of 
ingénierie sociale
,
and to carry out engineering designs, SNEP 
is in the process of selecting a 
service provider
 (NGO, consulting form or a consortium of both) 
for the Southern Department on a competitive basis. The service provider will have as one of its 
tasks to strengthen the capacity in the local office of SNEP and they will be selected partly based 
on their methodology and track record in working with and strengthening of public institutions.
 
Local water committees (CAEP) would have important responsibilities during the 
feasibility and construction stage. 
The CAEP is a community-based organization composed of 
five volunteers elected by the community. Given the weakness of most existing water 
committees substantial assistance would be provided to existing and new water committees in 
order not to overload them during these crucial phases. While water committees have an 
important role, communicating with them is no substitute for communication with the entire 
community. SNEP and its service provider (NGO or consulting firm) would therefore organize 
community consultations on key aspects of the project. These would include community 
contributions, design and location of infrastructure, tariff levels, as well as explaining the 
concept of and rationale for professional operators and water meters. During the construction 
stage, the CAEP will organize the community contribution, check and approve the work and 
assist SNEP and its service provider in resolving any differences between the community and the 
contractor.  
 
In the operating phase, the role of the water committees will change compared to the role 
they have played in the sector so far. 
As mentioned earlier, most water committees do not have 
the capacity to adequately operate and maintain water systems. 
Under the proposed project, 
water committees would therefore delegate operation and maintenance to remunerated 
professional operators.
 Professional operators are expected to operate systems (chlorination, 
cleaning of reservoirs, operation of kiosks, meter reading, billing, collection and management of 
funds generated by tariff revenues), undertake routine maintenance and repair, and ultimately to 
upgrade and expand systems using revenues from tariffs and connections fees. Operators will be 
selected by communities based primarily on the level of trust put in them under simple contracts 
drawn up by the community. These contracts will specify tariff levels and simple service quality 
standards. Contracts are expected to be for one year and will be renewable, with the objective of 
establishing a long-term relationship. Professional operators will be individuals from the 
respective communities, who will in turn hire a small number of employees to assist them. They 
will collect and own revenues, but they will pay a small fee to the water committee to be used for 
miscellaneous administrative expenses. Water committees will supervise professional operators 
by controlling their contractual performance on behalf of the community. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
«
Kabrit anpil mèt mouri grangou nan solèy. » 
Page  15
15
“The goat of many owners dies hungry in the sun.” 
(Proverb used by some Haitians to explain why community-managed infrastructure has failed to 
be maintained in Haiti.) 
 
A
key problem in rural water supply systems in Haiti is the lack of sustainability, due to 
low-quality construction and lack of maintenance.
 Many water systems fall apart less than ten 
years after construction, leading communities to petition donors to rehabilitate them. The low 
quality of construction is due to poor technical designs, poor quality of execution of works, 
inadequate supervision of works (often done by the communities themselves, who lack technical 
expertise). The proposed project will address this problem by using experienced engineering 
firms (working in a consortium with NGOs or firms specialized in 
ingénierie sociale
)
to produce 
technical designs. Furthermore, experienced contractors will be hired to organize the execution 
of works under the supervision of engineers. The whole process will be closely monitored by the 
specialized staff of the implementing agency. This will reduce the risk of poor design and 
execution of works which has been so detrimental to the sustainability of infrastructure in Haiti. 
 
Lack of preventive maintenance and repair, in turn, is due to poor management and 
insufficiency of funds.
 About two-thirds of investments in the sector are dedicated to 
rehabilitation rather than the construction of new infrastructure. This is widely attributed to the 
lack of payment for water by the majority of users (those receiving water from standposts), the 
low tariffs charged for house connections, and to the lack of a specific person that can be held 
accountable for the functioning of the water system. Poor maintenance leads to a vicious circle of 
declining service quality, reduced willingness to pay and further reduction of funds available for 
repair. Community management of infrastructure thus is widely perceived as having failed at 
being sustainable in Haiti. In order to increase the likelihood of maintenance and repair, the 
project promotes a new model that foresees the hiring of professional operators
by the water 
committees on behalf of the community. Professional operators would be contractually 
accountable for the functioning of the system and will be remunerated. Concerning the physical 
and financial aspects of systems, instead of providing water for free at standposts, water would 
be sold in buckets at metered water kiosks. House connections would also be metered and 
households would be billed based on their consumption. 
 
Vandalism and misuse also compromise sustainability.
 A common problem is the destruction 
of main pipes to divert water for irrigation purposes, mainly by farmers close to the source. This 
risk would be mitigated through intensive community participation in setting rules for water use 
that are being perceived as fair by the community. However, among professional operators, 
water committees, informal local leaders, or SNEP, none have the legal authority to enforce such 
rules. These rules need to be ultimately enforced by local government. The CASEC (elected 
bodies at the level of 
sections communales
)
are the appropriate entity to deal with the issue, but 
most of them currently lack legitimacy. This may change after the upcoming municipal elections. 
In any case, strong community organization supported by 
ingénierie sociale
 may be able to 
prevent vandalism from occurring, avoiding the need for heavy-handed enforcement measures. 
 
The risk of lacking 
environmental sustainability
 exacerbates the problem, as the dry season 
yield of many springs has declined significantly because of deforestation and possibly because of 
climate change.
 
One of the eligibility criteria under the project is a dry-season yield sufficient to 
Page  16
16
supply the expected future population served by a piped system. In addition, communities will be 
encouraged to protect and, if need be, to reforest the catchment area of springs. Funding for 
reforestation could be provided from a basin management project supported by the IDB in part of 
the Southern Department (watershed of Les Cayes and Cavaillon). 
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
The following lessons have been incorporated: 
 
·
Design simple and well-defined operations with modest objectives (Operations 
Evaluation Department Country Evaluation).
 The reality and the complexity of the 
Haitian environment have demonstrated the importance of having a clear project design, 
to facilitate preparation and implementation. 
Î
The proposed project keeps its objectives 
simple and well targeted. 
·
Build on the experience of a pilot project.
 
Î
The project builds on a LICUS grant pilot 
project currently underway in three communities in the Southern Department.  
·
Support transparent and timely implementation of the project with adequate procurement 
expertise. 
Previous projects have shown that the lack of clarity in procurement 
procedures can seriously delay project implementation and eventually undermine its 
success. 
Î
The implementing agency has gained procurement experience during the 
LICUS grant execution. In addition, it has received training from IDB’s procurement 
staff in the country office. Further training is foreseen. No objection will be given for 
every single contract, which in itself entails a learning process that was begun under the 
LICUS grant.  
·
Strong involvement and ownership of the implementing agency in order to strengthen its 
capacity
.
Many projects in Haiti heavily relied and rely on foreign consultants and 
PMUs, which deteriorates capacity and motivation in the implementing agency itself. 
Î
The project will not use a PMU structure. Instead it will rely on staff of the implementing 
agency to make all key decisions, with intensive capacity building and supported by 
consultants on an as-need basis. The perspective is that any long-term consultants will be 
integrated into the implementing agency’s staff in the future. 
·
Need to further improve coordination among donors
.
The Interim Cooperative 
Framework (ICF) has highlighted the importance of donor coordination. The joint 
preparation of the proposed project between IDB and the World Bank is an important 
step forward in that spirit. However, cooperation with other donors and with NGOs needs 
to be improved. A national workshop for the preparation of the national rural water 
supply and sanitation strategy has been a first step towards better coordination, especially 
with the numerous NGOs active in the sector. The water and sanitation sector table 
created through the ICF includes all major donors and was intended to hold regular 
meetings, increase information sharing and encourage joint planning, but it has suffered 
from the absence of a full-time person in charge of its organization.  
Î
The sector table 
will be strengthened through a full-time person to be funded by the IDB. The dialogue 
around the national strategy on rural water supply and sanitation will also be pursued 
through regular meetings and dissemination activities.  
 
Page  17
17
9. 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation)  
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
4.01) [X] 
[ 
] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[X] [ 
] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[X] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[X] [ 
] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[
]
[X] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OP
/
BP
4.10)
 
[
]
[X] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[X] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[X]  
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
7.60)
*
[
]
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
7.50)
 
[
]
[X] 
10. List of Selected Factual Technical Documents 
 
Cadre De Coopération Intérimaire (CCI), Groupe Thématique : Eau Potable Et Assainissement. 
Rapport Final, Mai 2004. (Final Report of ICF Thematic Group on Water and Sanitation.) 
 
“Compte-Rendu d’Atelier National pour l’élaboration d’une stratégie eau potable et 
assainissement en milieu rural, 10 et 11 novembre 2005. ” (Minutes of a November workshop on 
the National Strategy for Rural Water Supply and Sanitation) 
 
LICUS grant progress reports. 
 
T. Niyungeko, “Stratégie Nationale et Développement du Secteur Eau Potable et Assainissement 
en Milieu Rural. Partie 1 : Diagnostic et Analyse du secteur. ” Décembre 2005. 
 
“Water Resources Assessment of Haiti,” US Army Corps of Engineers, August 1999. 
 
Enquête Sur Les Conditions de Vie en Haïti,
 Institut 
Haïtien de Statistique et d’Informatique, 
2001. 
 
Enquête Mortalité, Morbidité et Utilisation des Services,
 Haiti 2000. (Haiti DHS survey.) 
 
The Global Burden of Disease and Risk Factors
,
Disease Control Priorities Project, The World 
Bank 2006. 
 
Government of Haiti, “Interim Cooperative Framework Sumary Report”, July 2004. 
 
Nathalie Brisson Lamaute, Gilles Damais and Willy Egset, “Gouvernance rurale et institutions 
locales en Haïti: Contraintes et opportunités pour le développement, ”  15 Avril 2005. 
 
PAHO/WHO Haiti Water and Sanitation Monitoring System for Haiti. 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  18
18
 
PAHO, “Infant mortality in Haiti”, 2006
.
11. Contact point 
 
Contact: Manuel Schiffler 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-7790 
Fax: (202) 676-9594 
Email: Mschiffler@worldbank.org 
 
12. For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
