Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1974 
Project Name 
Haiti Rural Water and Sanitation Project 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P089839 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF HAITI 
Implementing Agency 
 
Service National de l'Eau Potable (SNEP) 
Haiti 
 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
November 18, 2005 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
April 15, 2006 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
August 15, 2006 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Haiti is the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere, with more than 70% of the population living 
below the poverty line.  The rural areas exhibit the highest rate of poverty in the country.   
 
The Bank’s short-term strategy for Haiti is outlined in the 
Transitional Support Strategy
 (TSS) prepared 
in December 2004.  The TSS has a two-pronged approach: delivering hope and quick wins, and restoring 
credibility in institutions.  An extended TSS, of which this project will be part, is under preparation to 
cover the period between the end of FY06 and the approval of the upcoming Poverty Reduction Strategy 
Paper (PRSP) and subsequent CAS (2006-2009) which are expected to be validated by the government 
that will emerge from the elections planned for December 2005. The CAS is expected to continue TSS 
efforts by emphasizing income generating activities through infrastructure rehabilitation and 
strengthening economic governance, including the fight against corruption, promotion of accountability 
and transparency and coordination of external financing.  
 
Coverage:
 Data on water and sanitation coverage from different sources vary widely.
1
However, it is 
generally recognized that both urban and rural water and sanitation coverage in Haiti are the lowest in the 
Western Hemisphere. Rural coverage is estimated between 52% and 59%. According to the Demographic 
and Health Survey of 2000, the only source providing a breakdown, the rural population relied on the 
following water sources: 4% house connection, 32% standpipes (from piped systems), 6% protected wells 
(hand pumps), 10% protected springs, 2% rainwater collection, 31% from unprotected springs, 6% from 
unprotected wells and 9% from rivers or canals. This means that an estimated 2 million Haitians in rural 
areas rely on unprotected water sources, jeopardizing their health, as evidenced by very poor health 
1
Data sources analyzed include the WHO/PAHO Water and Sanitation Monitoring System for Haiti, the 
WHO/UNICEF global Joint Monitoring Program (JMP) for Water Supply and Sanitation, t
he Ministry of Health’s 
Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) for 2000, as well as the World Bank’s World Development Indicators 
(WDI). All four sources show different coverage figures.  
Page  2
indicators. In addition, significant time is spent to fetch water, which affects in particular women, children 
and the poor (a paragraph on sanitation will be added).   
 
Lack of Sustainability as a Key Problem:
 A key problem in rural water supply systems in Haiti is the 
lack of sustainability. Many water systems fall apart less than 10 years after construction, leading 
communities to petition donors to rehabilitate them. The reasons include poor technical designs, poor 
quality of construction, inadequate supervision of works, destruction of main pipes to divert water for 
irrigation purposes, lack of preventive maintenance, and insufficiency of funds for major maintenance. As 
a
result, about two thirds of investments in the sector have to be dedicated to rehabilitation rather than the 
construction of new infrastructure. Lack of environmental sustainability exacerbates the problem, as the 
dry season yield of many springs has declined significantly because of deforestation.  
 
Institutional framework:
 Rural water systems in Haiti are managed by water committees (CAEP) 
consisting of unpaid volunteers elected by the community, as well as in some cases by a plumber hired by 
the water committee. The performance of water committees varies widely, ranging from some that 
regularly collect funds, deposit them in a Bank account and perform chlorination and routine maintenance 
to those that are practically defunct. Most water committees seem to not perform their functions 
adequately and collect insufficient funds for operation and routine maintenance. 
 
Rural water s
upply in Haiti is formally under the responsibility of the Service National de l’Eau Potable 
(SNEP), which is responsible for water supply outside the Metropolitan area. SNEP has only limited 
capacity in rural areas and focuses its limited resources on urban water supply in secondary towns. Most 
investments in rural areas are carried out by NGOs, as well as by the Social Fund (FAES). The Ministry 
of Health also has a rural water unit (POCHEP). However, this unit is inactive for lack of funds. The CCI 
has called for the merger of POCHEP into SNEP in order to bundle resources. 
 
Sector reforms:
 A draft framework law (loi cadre) for water and sanitation, elaborated in 1996, is being 
considered by the Interim Government. The draft law aims at giving formal responsibility for water 
supply and sanitation to municipalities; merging all existing sector institutions into a new institution 
called Office National de l’Eau Potable et de l’Assainissement (ONEPA) that would provide services 
until the capacity of municipalities would be strengthened; and to create a sector regulatory agency. The 
reforms are ambitious and their implementation would necessary have to be gradual.  
 
While it remains unclear if and when the draft law will be passed, the project will aim at ensuring that 
clear benefits arise out of the reforms and disruptions are minimized. A first clear benefit will be the 
synergies from using experienced staff in the fields of financial management, procurement, human 
resources and IT from CAMEP providing support so staff of SNEP after the two institutions will be 
merged. Second, SNEP’s salaries would be increased to be in line with those of CAMEP, thus making it 
somewhat easier to attract qualified staff. Third, the inclusion of sanitation within the legal attributions of 
the new entity ONEPA would facilitate the implementation of sanitation activities in parallel with water 
activities. On the risk mitigation side, the reforms need to be better explained to all stakeholders. In 
particular, concerns of staff of SNEP that would be dissolved under the law need to be addressed by 
explaining how the law would make it easier for them to carry out their work under the new institutional 
framework. MTPTC has already agreed to address this concern. 
 
While it remains unclear when the draft law would be adopted, many important measures – such as the 
strengthening of SNEP - can be supported through the proposed loan even without the new law. 
 
Pilot activity under the water and sanitation component of the LICUS grant:  
The Bank is currently 
supporting SNEP through a component of the Haiti LICUS (Low-Income Countries under Stress) grant to 
(i) prepare a national strategy for rural water supply and sanitation, and (ii) to rehabilitate three water 
Page  3
systems in the Southern Department. Progress on both components is satisfactory and has led to an 
increase of SNEP’s capacity and motivation. A national workshop was held recently to discuss the 
national strategy. Under the second component a new approach will be tested to increase system 
sustainability. The new approach includes (i) the delegation of service provision to professional operators, 
(ii) the installation of meters, and (iii) the conversion of standpipes into water kiosks. The new approach 
has been carefully explained to communities, which have been selected based on their expressed support 
for the new approach. 
 
Coordination with other Bank projects in Haiti and other donors:
 The project is consistent and 
complementary with other Bank operations under implementation or preparation in Haiti (EGRO, ERDM, 
CDD and Basic Infrastructure Projects) as well with IDB projects in the sector (for details see Annex 1). 
The close cooperation with IDB is a particular asset, since IDB is the focal point among the donors for the 
water and sanitation sector under the Interim Cooperation Framework (ICF) and relies on the Bank’s 
conceptual work concerning rural water supply and sanitation. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
Development Objective: To provide water and sanitation services to rural communities on a sustainable 
basis.  
 
Specific Objectives:  
 
·
Provide water services in participating communities using innovative approaches in view of 
laying the foundations for project sustainability; 
·
Improve sanitation practices in participating communities; 
·
Strengthen the capacity of SNEP, local government, local water committees, and professional 
operators. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
Given low capacity in the Haitian public sector and previous implementation experience with Bank 
projects in Haiti, (i) project design will be kept very simple, (ii) substantial capacity building will be 
included, and (iii) objectives will be kept modest. At the same time coordination with other stakeholders 
(government agencies, donors and NGOs) will be actively sought beyond the partnership with IDB which 
is financing this project in parallel. 
 
The project will be implemented as part of the national strategy for rural water supply and sanitation that 
is currently under elaboration with World Bank support. The strategy will include an investment program 
which is expected to be funded by various donors.
2
The strategy covers the period until 2015 and 
foresees, among others, a strengthening of SNEP’s embryonic rural unit through new hires (mainly of 
university graduates) and capacity building; the establishment of a closer partnership between SNEP, 
local government and NGOs; and the establishment of a monitoring and evaluation system. It is 
envisaged that the role of NGOs, who currently dominate the sub-sector, would gradually recede in 
parallel with the strengthening of SNEP’s capacity. Also, the capacity of municipal administrations would 
be strengthened to oversee and assist water committees. 
 
2
Certain complementary activities such as hygiene promotion are not part of the attributions of the 
executing agency and may preferably be financed by other donors. They could be funded under the 
Bank project if such donor support should not materialize during project preparation.
 
Page  4
For the purposes of the project, rural areas are defined as areas that are not served or that are served by 
systems administered by water committees, as opposed to systems administered directly by SNEP in 
some small towns. This definition is different from the statistical convention used in Haiti of classifying 
any locality with less than 5,000 inhabitants as rural. Some small towns with up to 20,000 inhabitants that 
are administered by water committees are thus proposed to be included in the project. A large part of 
project beneficiaries will be served through piped systems feeding water kiosks and standpipes, a 
common technology throughout concentrated rural areas (with about 500 inhabitants and up) and small 
towns in Haiti. An estimated equally large part of beneficiaries would be in dispersed rural areas, which 
would be served by hand pumps or rainwater harvesting systems. The share of these technologies would 
need to be determined during project preparation. 
 
The government has requested the project to be carried out in the departments Grand Anse, Artibonite and 
West which have already been selected for the IDB project, in order not to disperse limited capacities of 
SNEP. Possibly the Southern department will also be included in the Bank project building on the 
experience of the LICUS grant. The list of departments to be included in the project will be further 
reviewed during project preparation, taking into account needs, local capacities, scope of interventions by 
other donors, the limited financial envelope of the current project and synergies with other Bank projects. 
 
Component 1: Capacity building for rural water supply and sanitation (RWSS), monitoring of the 
National Strategy for RWSS, impact evaluation and project management (US$2m)
The activities under this component aim at strengthening the capacity of SNEP’s national office and its 
departmental offices in the participating departments in planning, project management, monitoring and 
evaluation, use of information technology, procurement, community development using participatory 
techniques, and economic analysis. The capacity building effort will be concentrated during the first two 
years of project implementation, but will continue throughout the life of the project. 
 
The component will also include project management (establishment of annual work plans, progress 
reports, procurement, financial management) using an integrated Project Management Unit (PMU) in 
order to ensure sustainability. 
 
Component 2: Water supply, basic sanitation and hygiene promotion (US$8m)
This component will include the identification of participating communities based on objective criteria; 
community development using a demand-responsive approach allowing communities a series of choices;
3
engineering design; system construction and supervision; and support during the early years of system 
management. To the extent feasible, the project will promote the innovative management approach 
piloted under the LICUS grant involving professional operators, metering, and the use of water kiosks 
instead of standpipes. 
 
A
Bank-administered study financed by the Global Partnership on Output-Based Aid (GPOBA) is under 
way to assess the potential of attracting private small-scale operators to invest in the water sector in Haiti, 
similar to the experience in Paraguay. These operators would be paid by the Bank once works are 
completed. Preliminary results show that the Haitian private sector faces major obstacles to invest in the 
water sector, but that NGOs may be interested in the approach. Output-Based Aid (OBA) involving 
NGOs or cooperatives may be tested under the project, both for water supply and for latrine construction, 
3
The proposed key choices are: choice between different water service levels (house connection or water kiosk) and 
sanitation service levels (pit latrine and VIP latrine) implying different costs to users; choice in the tariff structure 
(volumetric or flat rate) and level (covering only operating costs and basic maintenance, or including a reserve for 
major maintenance); choice in the management model (communal or delegation to a professional operator). 
Page  5
but without making it a central part of the project, in order to ensure smooth implementation even if the 
pilot should fail. 
 
Sanitation and hygiene promotion will be carried out in the same communities in which water services 
will be improved, because these activities can only be effectively carried out if water services are 
introduced or restored. Sanitation services will focus on the construction of latrines using minimum 
standards, while using simple techniques in order to avoid concentration of benefits on a few 
beneficiaries. 
 
As mentioned earlier, SNEP has no experience in hygiene promotion. Given the weakness of the 
Direction de l’Hygiène Publique (DHP) in the Ministry of Health the institutional responsibility for 
hygiene promotion is an issue to be addressed during project preparation. Solid waste management is not 
considered a priority issue in rural areas and is thus proposed not to be included under this project.  
 
Estimates of Project Costs, by Components (US$ m) 
Component 
Unit Cost x Number of Units 
Total Cost 
Capacity Building, M&E and Project 
Management 
 2.0 
Water Supply, Basic Sanitation and 
Hygiene Promotion 
 8.0 
TOTAL Project Costs 
 
10.0 
4.  Safeguard policies that might apply 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No TBD 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
An environmental assessment is already under way under IDB financing. The assessment 
will be subject to quality review by the World Bank and is expected to be complemented by 
capacity building in the implementing agency.   
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
X
The implementing agency's capacity related to natural habitats will be strengthened by 
making them aware of the requirements that have to be followed by contractors in case sources 
used for water supply are located in protected areas.   
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X  
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X  
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) 
X
The implementing agency's capacity related to cultural property will be strengthened by 
making them aware of the requirements that have to be followed by contractors in the case of 
chance finds of archeological sites.   
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT  
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
10 
 Total 
10 
Page  6
6. Contact point 
Contact: Manuel Schiffler 
Title: Sr Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-7790 
Email: Mschiffler@worldbank.org 
 
