Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  10/11/2006 
Report No.:  AC2365
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Haiti 
Project ID:  P089839 
Project Name:  Haiti Rural Water and Sanitation Project 
Task Team Leader:  Manuel Schiffler 
Estimated Appraisal Date: October 16, 
2006 
Estimated Board Date: December 12, 2006 
Managing Unit:  LCSFW 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Water supply (90%);Sanitation (10%) 
Theme:  Infrastructure services for private sector development (P) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
5.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
0.25
0.25 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
Development Objective: Increase access to and use of water supply and sanitation 
services in participating rural communities.  
 
Specific Objectives:  
 
-
Increase the sustained and effective use of safe drinking water in participating 
communities;  
 
-
Improve use of sanitation and hygiene practices in participating communities;  
 
-
Strengthen the capacity of the implementing agency, local water committees, and 
professional operators in cooperation with local government.  
 
Given low capacity in the Haitian public sector and previous implementation experience 
with Bank projects in Haiti, (i) project design has been kept very simple, (ii) substantial 
capacity building has been included, and (iii) objectives have been kept modest. At the 
same time, coordination with other stakeholders (government agencies, donors, and 
NGOs) is being actively sought beyond the partnership with IDB, which is financing this 
project in parallel.  
 
Page  2
Key indicators will be: Number of beneficiaries gaining access to and using sustainable   
water systems  in participating localities, and number of beneficiaries gaining access to 
and using basic sanitation systems  in participating localities.   
 
3. Project Description 
The project has two components, the first one aiming at strengthening the capacity of 
SNEP and the second one aiming at directly providing services to communities. The 
project design has been kept very simple, while differing in important respects from how 
interventions in the sector have been carried out so far:  
 
-
The project will build, for the first time in rural water supply and sanitation in 
Haiti, a close partnership between a public entity (SNEP) as the implementing agency 
and a service provider (most likely an NGO) working under the direction and leadership 
of the public entity. This approach is being promoted both at the national and 
departmental level.  
 
-
The project will, for the first time in rural water supply in Haiti, select 
participating communities based on objective and transparent criteria in a systematic, 
department-wide process.  
 
-
Building on the experience of the LICUS grant, the project will involve 
professional operators in the operation and maintenance of water systems and introduce 
volumetric tariffs, in order to promote greater sustainability.  
 
-
Concerning sanitation, the project will not build entire individual latrines, but it 
will test a more cost-effective approach by providing only slabs and working closely with 
communities to motivate them to build superstructures and to dig holes (sanitation 
promotion).  
 
Component 1: Capacity Building and Project Management  
 
The activities under this component aim at managing the project and strengthening the 
capacity of SNEP. The component includes four main activities.  
 
-
First, it will strengthen SNEP?s regional office in Les Cayes through the 
recruitment of two consultants who are expected to become staff after project closure, as 
well as through the provision of cars, office space and coverage of operating expenses.  
 
-
Second, it will finance services for an international partner organization to assist 
in project management, documentation, reporting, information technology and 
supervising the work of the service provider, based on an earlier successful partnership 
initiated under the LICUS grant. This activity is foreseen over a period of two years, with 
the aim of making the assistance unnecessary during the remainder of the project.  
 
-
Third, the Bank would finance services for surveys to monitor the achievement of 
performance indicators one year after the construction of water and sanitation systems.  
 
-
Fourth, it will assist SNEP in finalizing and disseminating the national rural water 
supply and sanitation strategy initiated under the LICUS grant mentioned above.  
 
This component complements the work done under the LICUS grant on a National 
Strategy for Rural Water Supply and Sanitation. The strategy has two parts: Operational 
and Global. The Operational part of the strategy is being developed as a tool to help 
Page  3
SNEP and MTPTC plan its work and investments and coordinate the work of other actors 
in the sector. This should support the public sector?s planning and coordination capacity 
in the rural water and sanitation sector. The global part of the National Strategy should 
provide the broader framework into which the operational strategy fits, and offer a far-
reaching view of what is required to achieve long term sector goals. The global strategy 
will be developed after the operational strategy and will reinforce MTPTC?s policy role 
in the sector.  
 
The component complements US$3m for capacity building to be provided by the IDB 
under its parallel financing. The IDB financing covers two areas: First, it aims at 
strengthening SNEP?s functions in rural areas in close relation with the investment 
component, with an emphasis on community development and procurement. Second, it 
will strengthen SNEP?s overall capacity throughout its mandate, including rural and 
urban areas. It foresees the hiring of an advisor to the Director General for the first two 
years of the project and the strengthening of the technical and financial departments of 
SNEP. It also foresees an assessment of SNEP?s human resources in view of a 
rationalization of its personnel and salary structure. In addition, the IDB will finance 
vehicles, equipment and recurrent costs necessary for the project.  
 
Component 2: Water supply, basic sanitation and hygiene promotion  
 
This component will enable participating communities to access and manage water 
supply and basic sanitation services. This includes the identification of participating 
communities based on objective criteria; ing?nierie sociale  using a participatory 
approach allowing communities a series of choices;  engineering design; system 
construction and supervision; and support during the early years of system management. 
The project will promote the innovative management approach piloted under the LICUS 
grant involving professional operators, increased cost recovery, metering, and the use of 
water kiosks instead of standpipes.  
 
The component is expected to have two windows: one for large-scale investments and a 
second for small-scale investments. The large-scale investment window would mainly 
finance piped gravity systems supplied by springs in localities with about 1,000 to 5,000 
inhabitants.  The piped systems will feed water kiosks and house connections. Water 
kiosks consist of a small concrete structures with faucets on the outside and taps on the 
inside, thus allowing kiosk operators to sell water by the bucket. Both water kiosks and 
house connections would be metered. If pumping should be necessary and cost-effective, 
the project would give a strong preference to renewable energy. Given widespread theft 
of photovoltaic cells in Haiti, wind energy would be the preferred source of energy, 
relying on hurricane-proof new technologies as they are currently being tested in the 
North of Haiti under a pilot project supported by the World Bank?s Development 
Marketplace. The window would also support the construction of blocs sanitaires next to 
schools and health centers in localities that have been selected to benefit from water 
supply systems under the large-scale investment window. A bloc sanitaire is a concrete 
structure with toilets and basic water supply fixtures in two compartments, one for 
men/boys and one for women/girls. The large-scale investment window is expected to 
Page  4
account for 80-90% of investments, although the allocation between the windows is 
meant to be flexible. The small-scale investment window would contribute to financing 
hand pumps, rainwater harvesting systems and household latrines. Water investments 
under this window would be selected based on prioritized lists established in a 
participatory manner at the commune level with the support of the CDD project, given 
that the CDD project would not have sufficient funds to finance all prioritized 
investments. Latrines are expected to be financed only in localities benefiting from 
investments in water systems, in order to be able to carry out hygiene promotion in a 
credible manner and in order to maximize health impacts.  
 
The financial policy under the program includes the following key elements:  
 
?
Tariffs: Communities will charge tariffs that recover at a minimum full operation 
and routine maintenance costs. All consumption from piped systems is expected to be 
metered and tariffs will be volumetric. There will be tariffs for water sold in buckets at 
water kiosks, as well as tariffs for house connections, both residential and for public 
buildings. House connections will have a fixed portion including a minimal consumption 
and a volumetric portion for consumption exceeding the minimum. Tariffs for the use of 
hand pumps will be flat rates per household and month.  
 
?
Up-front financial contribution: Communities are required to come up with an up-
front financial contribution before technical studies will be initiated. The purpose of the 
contribution is to be an indicator of willingness to pay. It should cover, at the minimum, 
several months of operation and routine maintenance costs of the system. These funds 
would not be mingled with project funds, but would rather be used by the community for 
small initial purchases (e.g. for chlorine, a motorcycle etc.) or be kept in a reserve for 
repairs.  
 
?
Pass-through conditions for investment funds: Following common practice in 
Haiti and in many other countries, project funds for investments will be passed through to 
the community as a grant, given limited ability to pay and given that in urban areas so far 
utilities in Haiti are not required to pay back investment funds either.  
 
Participating localities for the large-scale investment window will be selected based on 
objective, transparent criteria. A tentative long list of about 40 localities has been 
established that would be reduced to a short list of about 12 localities based on an 
objective eligibility and priority criteria. Eligibility criteria include availability of a 
nearby sufficiently productive, good quality source of water; protection of the source or 
indication of willingness and likelihood that the source will be protected; estimated per 
capita costs of less than US$200; acceptance to pay volumetric tariffs covering operation 
and routine maintenance costs; acceptance of the professional operator model; a formal 
letter requesting to be included in the project; and payment of an up-front financial 
contribution into a fund managed by the water committee. If the number of eligible 
localities is greater than about 12, participating localities will be selected based on 
priority criteria. These include greatest needs (as measured by average walking distance 
to currently used sources of water) and lowest estimated unit costs (as measured by 
estimates of the required works and the number of houses in the locality assessed based 
Page  5
on satellite pictures). Data to estimated costs and benefits will be collected by the service 
provider on behalf of SNEP.  
 
Sanitation and hygiene promotion will be carried out in the same communities in which 
water services will be improved. This allows for the creation of synergies among water 
supply, sanitation and improved hygiene interventions. SNEP and Haitian NGOs have 
experience in the construction of blocs sanitaires for health centers and schools, and the 
project will support the continuation of this work, with a focus on their operation and 
management as well as upon their physical construction.  
 
The approach to sanitation will stress subsidies to promote the construction of individual 
household facilities. While other sanitation initiatives in Haiti have involved subsidies on 
the order of $100 - $500 per family, this project will explore the viability of an approach 
in which only the basic slab and seat are subsidized, accompanied by promotion 
activities. Keeping the subsidy as low as possible while focusing on promotion has two 
advantages: (1) reducing the per-unit subsidy enables the project to provide access to 
sanitation services to a greater number of people; and (2) a low-cost subsidy of 
appropriate technology may sow the seeds for a small-scale industry that designs basic 
sanitation at a price families can afford. The sanitation component will thus focus heavily 
on demand stimulation at the household level.  
 
While sanitation interventions will be coordinated with hygiene promotion activities, the 
differences between the two must be clearly understood. Hygiene promotion will thus be 
based on early studies to (a) determine high risk behaviors related to hygiene, sanitation 
and water supply, (b) identify specific motivators for change, such as concepts of 
cleanliness, modernity, education, attractiveness etc, (c) identification of key channels of 
communication most effective in reaching mothers and children, and (d) development of 
appropriate messages to promote improved hygiene behavior.  The hygiene promotion 
campaigns can draw substantially from recent experience in hand washing campaigns in 
LAC and elsewhere. SNEP will have the institutional responsibility for hygiene 
promotion under this project. However, since SNEP has no experience in hygiene 
promotion, and given the weakness of other potential stakeholders such as the Direction 
de l?Hygi?ne Publique (DHP) in the Ministry of Health, the service provider (see under 
implementing arrangements) will also undertake hygiene promotion. Solid waste 
management is not considered a priority issue in rural areas and is thus not included 
under this project.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The project is expected to be carried out in rural areas of the departments of the South 
and Nippes.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Abel Mejia (LCSEN) 
Mr Jean-Roger Mercier (ESDQC) 
 
Page  6
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
X
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
X
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
No large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts are expected to be associated with 
this project. Environmental aspects such as protection of spring flows (in terms of quality 
and quantity), hygiene and sanitation have been streamlined into project preparation from 
the earliest phase of project preparation. Any additional measures that may be identified 
as part of the EA will be incorporated into the project design. A first screening of natural 
habitat in the project area has been made, showing that there are several endemic species 
of rodents and birds in the Pic Macaya park at high altitudes adjacent to the project 
intervention zone. Construction of piped water systems is not envisaged in this area. The 
endemic species are not expected to be dependent on the flow of a particular spring for 
their survival, since water resources in the area are abundant and rainfall is the highest in 
the country. Concerning cultural heritage, chance finds of archeological sites in the area 
are unlikely given the limited incidence of such sites in Haiti. Nevertheless, the 
implementing agency has been notitied of the need to comply with its safeguard 
obligations related to chance finds and the standard WB contractual clauses for work 
contracts will be applied.  
 
Small-scale changes in land use may occur through the digging and recovering of 
trenches for pipes on private land, and through the construction of small tanks. Impacts of 
these changes in land use will be compensated within the community during the 
preparatory and design phase of the project.  
 
No expropriation of land will take place and all land transfers will be voluntary.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
No indirect and/or long term negative impacts are expected due to activities anticipated 
under this project in the project area.   
 
Page  7
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
The project has been designed to minimize adverse impacts.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
The implementing agency's institutional capacity for safeguard policies will be 
strengthened under the project. In particular, SNEP staff will be advised and trained in 
how to ensure contractors' compliance with safeguard policies related to the environment, 
natural habitats and cultural property. Capacity building related to safeguards has been 
initiated during preparation and continued during project implementation.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
The key stakeholders are the inhabitants of the rural localities where the project will 
intervene. The project's emphasis on community outreach and participation ensures that 
mechanisms are in place to allow for consultations with stakeholders on safeguard issues.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
08/31/2006 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
09/01/2006 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
09/05/2006 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
Yes 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
OP/BP 4.04 - Natural Habitats 
 
Would the project result in any significant conversion or degradation of 
No 
Page  8
critical natural habitats? 
If the project would result in significant conversion or degradation of other 
(non-critical) natural habitats, does the project include mitigation measures 
acceptable to the Bank? 
N/A 
OP/BP 4.11 - Physical Cultural Resources 
 
Does the EA include adequate measures related to cultural property? 
Yes 
Does the credit/loan incorporate mechanisms to mitigate the potential 
adverse impacts on cultural property? 
Yes 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
No 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
No 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
N/A 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Manuel Schiffler 
 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Abel Mejia 
 
Social Development Specialist 
Mr Alonso Zarzar Casis 
 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Sector Manager: 
Mr John Henry Stein 
 
Comments:   
