Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H270-0-HA 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Rural Water and Sanitation Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF HAITI 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated February 15, 2007  
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H270-0-HA 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated February 15, 2007, between REPUBLIC OF HAITI 
(“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”).  The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
–
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II —FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to three 
million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,400,000) 
(“Grant”) to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project ). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE III 
—PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this 
end, the Recipient shall cause the Project to be carried out by SNEP in 
accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement, satisfactory to the Association, has been 
executed on behalf of the Recipient and SNEP. 
(b) 
The operational manual for the Project, satisfactory to the Association, 
has been adopted by the Recipient and SNEP. 
4.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the 
Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Recipient and
 
SNEP and is legally binding upon the Recipient and SNEP in accordance with its 
terms. 
4.03. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case 
la
ter than the eighteen months after the Association’s approval of the Financing 
which expire on July 30, 2008. 
4.04. 
For purposes of Section 8.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient shall terminate is 20 years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE V 
–
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance. 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministère de l’Economie et des Finances 
Palais des Ministères 
Port-au-Prince 
Republic of Haiti 
Facsimile: (509) 299 17 32 
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  5
4
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF HAITI 
 
By /s/ Raymond Joseph 
Authorized Representative
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Caroline Anstey 
Authorized Representative
 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to increase access to and use of water supply and 
sanitation services in participating rural communities of the Recipient
’s territory.  
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part 1
.
Capacity Building and Project Management
Strengthening the institutional and operational capacity of SNEP within the
 
Recipient’s territory, with specific focus in 
Les Cayes
 Region
,
through: 
 
(a) 
The provision of support for the operations of SNEP, including the 
acquisition of goods, and the provision of relevant technical advisory 
services, including the appointment of selected staff thereto. 
 
(b) 
The provision of support and technical advisory services for Project 
management, documentation, reporting and information technology, as 
well as for supervision of the work carried out by the service provider 
selected under the Project. 
(c) 
The provision of technical advisory services for the carrying out of 
surveys to monitor the achievement of performance indicators after the 
construction of water and sanitation systems. 
(d) 
The provision of support to assist SNEP in finalizing and disseminating 
the Recipient’s national rural water supply and sanitation strategy. 
Part 2
.
Water Supply, Basic Sanitation and Hygiene Promotion
Increasing Participating Communities’ access to, and management of, water 
supply and basic sanitation services using a participatory approach allowing communities 
a
series of community life choices, through: 
(a) 
The identification, appraisal and carrying out, by Participating 
Communities, of Subprojects to finance construction and/or installation 
of selected:  
(i) 
water and sanitation infrastructure, including 
inter alia
,
piped 
water systems to feed water kiosks and house connections; 
sanitary installations and equipment, including 
blocs sanitaires,
 
next to schools and health centers; and 
 
(ii) 
hand pumps and rainwater harvesting systems. 
Page  7
6
(b) 
The carrying out of sanitation and hygiene promotion, including through 
the provision of subsidies for the construction of individual household 
sanitation facilities. 
Page  8
7
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Subsidiary Financing; Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. Subsidiary 
Agreement
 
1.
 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the
 
Recipient shall make the proceeds 
of the Financing available to SNEP under a subsidiary agreement to be entered 
between the Recipient and SNEP, under terms and conditions approved by the 
Association, which, 
inter alia,
 shall include the following
 (“Subsidiary 
Agreement”):  
(a)
 
the requirement that legal representation and administration of the Board 
 
of Directors and other managerial and executive functions of SNEP and 
 
the processing of any changes to such managerial and executive 
 
functions and corresponding staff appointments shall be made, at all 
 
times during Project implementation, only in consultation with the 
 Association; 
 
 
(b)
 
the requirement that SNEP shall be responsible for the execution of the 
 
Project and that it shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
 
Operational Manual, this Agreement and the General Conditions; and 
 
(c) 
the modalities for the contractual payment by the Recipient to SNEP of 
remuneration for the activities carried out for the Recipient under this 
Agreement. 
 2. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
 
manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association and to 
 
accomplish the purposes of the Financing.  Except as the Association shall 
 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate
 
or waive the 
 
Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions. 
B. Implementation 
Documents 
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall cause SNEP to adopt, not later than the Effective 
Date, an operational manual satisfactory in form and substance to the 
Association and consisting of different schedules setting forth, 
respectively, rules, methods, guidelines, specific development plans, 
standard documents and procedures for the carrying out of the Project, 
including the following: 
 
Page  9
8
(i) 
the detailed description of Project implementation activities, 
their sequencing and the prospective timetable and benchmarks 
in relation thereto;  
(ii) 
the Project administrative, accounting, auditing, reporting, 
financial, and disbursement procedures, including all pertinent 
standard documents and model contracts in relation thereto;  
 
(iii) 
the selection criteria for the Participating Communities, and the 
eligibility criteria  for the Subprojects;  
 
(iv) 
the environmental management plan, disclosed to the general 
public on September 07, 2006, and
 
setting forth therein the 
guidelines and the framework for mitigating potential harmful 
effects of Subprojects’ implementation with respect to, 
inter alia
,
cultural property  and natural habitat preservation;  
 
(v) 
the plan for the capacity building activities under the Project;  
 
(vi) 
the plan for the monitoring, evaluation and supervision of the 
Project; 
 
(vii) 
the performance indicators for the Project; and 
 
(viii) 
standardized models to be used for the preparation of Grant 
Agreements. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall cause SNEP to carry out the Project in 
 
accordance with the Operational Manual. 
2. 
In the event that any provision of the Operational Manual shall conflict with any 
one under this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
3. 
The Operational Manual may only be amended from time to time
 
in
 
consultation 
with, and after approval of, the Association.
 
C. Other 
Arrangements 
1. 
The Recipient shall cause SNEP, as needed, to enter into an agreement, 
 
satisfactory to the Association (the Service Agreement) with a service provider 
 
selected in accordance with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this 
 
Agreement and therein setting forth the respective obligations of the parties 
 
thereunder, notably with respect to the preparation and implementation of Part 1 
 
of the Project.  
Page  10
9
2. 
The Recipient shall cause SNEP to enter into agreements (the Grant Agreements) 
 
with Participating Communities, wherein shall be specified, 
inter alia
:
(a) the 
 
modalities for the provision of technical assistance and support for the carrying 
 
out of the Subprojects; and (b) the requirement that SNEP shall, on behalf of 
 
Participating Communities, carry out all the procurement in relation with the 
 
implementation of the Subprojects. 
3. 
The Recipient shall cause SNEP to have the Subprojects identified, appraised, 
 
approved, implemented, managed and evaluated in accordance with the 
 
procedures set forth or referred to in the Operational Manual.
 
4. 
Not later than the first budget proposal to its legislature for its fiscal year 
 
immediately following the Effective Date, and thereafter annually under each 
 
budget proposal during the course of Project implementation,  the Recipient shall 
 
make adequate arrangements therein for the inclusion of counterpart funds in 
 
respect of the Project, as agreed with the Association.  
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
The Recipient shall cause SNEP to monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 
4.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the 
Association.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar 
semester, and shall be furnished to the Association not later than forty-five days 
after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 2. 
For purposes of Section 4.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Association not later than
 
June 30, 2012. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits. 
1. 
The Recipient shall cause SNEP to maintain a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
cause SNEP to prepare and furnish to the Association not later than forty-five 
days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial reports 
for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association. 
Page  11
10
3. 
The Recipient shall cause SNEP to have its Financial Statements and the 
Financial Statements for the Project audited in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements for SNEP and for the Project respectively shall cover the period of 
one fiscal year of SNEP
,
commencing with the fiscal year in which the first 
withdrawal under the Project Preparation Advance was made
.
The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Association 
not later than four months after the end of such period.
 
4. 
For purposes of Paragraph 3 above, the Recipient shall cause SNEP to appoint,
 
not later than six months after the Effective Date, the independent auditors 
referred to in Section 4.09 (b) (i) of the General Conditions selected with terms 
of reference satisfactory to the Association and in accordance with the provisions 
of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding.  
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Page  12
11
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to using Standard Bidding 
Documents agreed with the Association  
(b)  Shopping, subject to using  Standard Request for Quotations
 
agreed with 
the Association 
(c)   Direct Contracting, subj
ect to the Association’s prior consent
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1.
 Quality- 
and 
Cost-based 
Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Quality-Based Selection  
 
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
 
(c) Least Cost Selection 
 
(d) Selection based on Consultant’s Qualifications 
 
(e) Single Source Selection, subject to the Association’s 
 
prior written consent  
 
(f) Procedures for the selection of Individual 
 
Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Association. 
 
Page  13
12
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to: (a) repay the Project 
Preparation Advance in accordance with Section 2.07 of the General Conditions; 
and (b) finance 100% of Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in 
paragraph 2 below. 
 2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated  
(expressed in SDR
)
Percentage of  
Expenditures to be  
Financed
(1)Goods, Works, Consultants’ 
services and  Operating costs 
under Part 1 of the Project 
 272,000 
100% 
(2) Goods,  Works, 
Consultants’ services and 
Operating costs for 
Subprojects under Part 2 of the 
Project 
 2,380,000 
100%  
(3) Refund of Project 
Preparation Advance 
 
476,000 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.07 of the General 
Conditions 
(4) Unallocated 
 
272,000 
 
TOTAL 
 3,400,000
Page  14
13
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made for: 
(a)  
Payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.  
(b) 
Payments under Category (2) for a specific Subproject, until and unless a 
Grant Agreement, including  all relevant environmental management, 
natural habitat and cultural property preservation measures and 
procedures in relation thereto, shall have been entered into between 
SNEP and the Participating Community,
 
all in accordance with the 
procedures, terms and conditions set forth  in the Operational Manual. 
2.
 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2011. 
Page  15
14
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions  
1. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
2. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Recipients” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
3. 
 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005. 
4. 
“Grant Agreement” means an agreement entered into pursuant to Section I.C.2 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
5. “
Les Cayes
 Region” means, for purposes of this Agreement, the Recipient’s 
Département du Sud
 and any other Project area, as determined in the Operational 
Manual. 
6. 
“Operating Costs” means, in respect of Categories (1) and (2) of the table in 
Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the incremental expenses 
incurred on account of Project implementation, including office equipment and 
supplies, vehicle operation and maintenance, communication and insurance costs, 
office administration costs, utilities, travel, per diem and supervision costs and 
salaries of locally contracted employees. 
7. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section I.B.1 (a) of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
8. 
“Participating Communities” mean communities of about 1000 to 10,000 
inhabitants in the Recipient’s 
Les Cayes
 region which, in accordance with criteria 
set forth in the Operational Manual, have been determined eligible to participate 
in Project implementation.  
9. 
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators for evaluating the performance of 
the Project referred to in Section I.B.1. (a)(vii) of this Agreement and set forth in 
the Operational Manual. 
10. 
  “Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
11. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project 
dated November 22, 2006 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Page  16
15
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
12. 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the advance referred to in Section 2.07 of 
the General Conditions, granted by the Association to the Recipient pursuant to 
the letter agreement signed on behalf of the Association on November 15, 2006 
and on behalf of the Recipient on November 21, 2006. 
13. “SNEP” 
means 
Service National d’Eau Potable
,
the Recipient’s water entity 
responsible for Project implementation. 
14. 
“Subprojects” means specific investment projects in water supply and sanitation 
services prepared and implemented by a Participating Community under Part 2 
(a) (i) and Part 2 (a) (ii) of the Project. 
15. 
 “Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.A.1 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Recipient shall make the 
proceeds of the Financing available to SNEP. 
 
