 IEG
                                                                                              Report Number: ICRR14662

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 05/26/2015

               Country: Haiti
             Project ID: P089839                                                  Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Haiti Rural Water And        Project Costs (US$M):                     5.25                 9.85
                         Sanitation Project
  L/C Number:            CH270                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                      5.0                 5.22
      Sector Board:      Water                        Cofinancing (US$M):                      5.0                 4.63

           Cofinanciers: State Building and           Board Approval Date :                              01/30/2007
                         Peace Fund                            Closing Date:          12/31/2011         11/30/2013
          Sector(s):     Water supply (63%); Sanitation (25%); Other social services (12%)
          Theme(s):      Rural services and infrastructure (50% - P); Other human development (25% - S);
                         Administrative and civil service reform (25% - S)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Maha J. Armaly            Christopher David       Christopher David          IEGPS1
                          Nelson                  Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 The Project Development Objective is: “to increase access to and use of water supply and sanitation services in
participating rural communities of the Recipient’s territory” .(Financing Agreement 2007, P. 5 and Project Appraisal
Document (PAD) p. 6).

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

 c. Components:
 Component 1: Capacity Building and Project Management (appraisal estimated cost US$0.92 million; revised
estimated cost US$ 1.47 million; actual cost US$2.58 million). The activities under this component aim at managing
the project and strengthening the capacity of the Societe Nationale d’Eau Potable (SNEP). The component includes
four main activities to: (i) strengthen SNEP’s regional office in Les Cayes through the recruitment of two consultants
and the provision of cars, office space and coverage of operating expenses; (ii) finance capacity building in project
management, documentation, reporting, information technology, and environmental management; (iii) prepare
surveys to monitor the achievement of performance indicators one year after the construction of water and sanitation
systems; (iv) assist SNEP in finalizing and disseminating the national rural water supply and sanitation strategy.

Component 2: Water supply, basic sanitation and hygiene promotion appraisal (estimated cost US$ 4.33 million;
revised estimated cost US$ 8.53 million; actual cost US$7.27 million). This component enables participating
communities to access and manage water supply and basic sanitation services. This includes the identification of
participating communities based on objective criteria using a participatory approach to: engineering design; system
construction and supervision; and support during the early years of system management. Investments consist mainly
of piped water systems.
The piped water system is designed to feed water “kiosks” and house connections. Kiosk operators will sell water by
the bucket. Both water kiosks and house connections are metered. Where pumping is necessary and cost-effective,
the project gives preference to renewable energy. Other water investments include hand pumps and rainwater
harvesting systems.
For basic sanitation, the project supports the construction of individual household latrines as well as blocs sanitaires
next to schools and health centers. Sanitation investments are supported in localities where water systems are built,
in order to carry out hygiene promotion and to maximize health impacts. The Project focuses on the operation and
management of sanitary facilities as well as upon their physical construction. Investments in sanitation require
subsidies to promote the construction of individual household facilities. The project explores the viability of subsidizing
the basic slab and seat, keeping the subsidy as low as possible in order to (a) provide access to sanitation services to
a greater number of people; and (b) sow the seeds for a small scale industry that designs basic sanitation at a price
families can afford.

 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
   Project Cost: The PAD, page 10, indicates that total project costs include US$0.7 million for project preparation.
The ICR includes in the table of Project Costs and Financing (Annex 1, p. 18) two separate entries for: (a) Project
Preparation (revised cost US$337.6 thousand, actual cost US$299.9 thousand); and (b) Project Implementation
(revised cost: US$661.3 thousand; actual cost US$815.6 thousand). These are the costs for the Bank to the prepare
and implement the Project (ICR p. 31), are not normally included in ICR project cost tables, and are not computed as
part of the project costs by this review. Otherwise, project costs, summarized in Sections 1 and 2 of this review, are
reported normally.

Financing: The Project was financed with an SDR3.4 million IDA Grant, and a US$ 5 million the State and Peace
Building Fund (SPF) grant totaling US$ 10 million. Borrower contribution was expected at US$250,000. The ICR
Annex 1, identifies the financing by component to total an estimate of US$10 million at appraisal, and US$9.85 million
at completion.

Borrower Contribution: The PAD, p. 10, indicates that the borrower was to contribute US$0.25 million towards
Component 1 (Capacity Building and Project Management). Due to delays and financial difficulties after the
earthquake in Haiti, this requirement was dropped in the first restructuring in December 2010 (ICR p. xi).

Dates: The original Project (IDA financed) was identified in December 2005, approved in January 2007 and became
effective in August 2007. Financing through the State and Peace Building Fund was approved in November 25,
2008 and became effective in April 2009. The original closing date was December 31, 2011, which was extended for
the SPF grant only to November 30, 2013.

* The State- and Peace-building Fund was established in 2008 to address the needs of state and local governance
and peace-building in fragile and conflict affected situations. It is the Bank’s primary multi-donor trust fund to support
projects that contribute to prevention and recovery from conflict and fragility, operating within the Bank’s mandate,
legal and policy framework.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
The relevance of the Project objectives is substantial. The Project was prepared within the framework of the
Bank-Government Transitional Support Strategy dated December 10, 2004 (FY05-06), which included improving
access to basic services as one of its pillars. The Government focus was to restore and scale up basic services,
including water and sanitation services addressed by this project. The Bank’s long term strategy in Haiti at Project
preparation time was focused on inclusive growth and poverty reduction through local development, institutional
strengthening and support for productive sectors. Specifically, the Bank focused on meeting basic and urgent needs:
through community-driven development approaches and public-private partnerships at the local level while improving
basic social, economic, and infrastructure services.

Water and Sanitation remain important in Haiti’s current development plan (2014-2016). The post-earthquake
strategy in Haiti focuses on supporting regional development and aims to provide planned infrastructure and related
investments combined with locally identified and community-managed investments. Following the earthquake, the
Bank strategy (Interim Strategy Note II, p. 26) was adjusted to reflect Haiti's transition toward longer term
development and aimed to (i) deliver services and other concrete results in the short term to help build public trust
and (2) support Government transition from emergency response to reconstruction and longer-term development by
making catalytic investments, strengthening governance, and building institutional capacity. Water and sanitation in
rural areas became less directly prominent in the post earthquake strategy, but remained important in terms of the
role of infrastructure development and upgrading in regional and national economic development and growth.
 b. Relevance of Design:
The Project design is substantially relevant to the stated objectives. The second component of the Project, with
85% of total cost, focuses on the construction of water schemes and sanitation facilities combined with hygiene
promotion activities. Water supply facilities are to be managed by local professional operators and tariffs would be set
to recover operations and maintenance. Sanitation facilities were to be provided to households (including a subsidy)
and to public institutions such as schools. The first component focuses on institutional building at the national and
local levels and on project management activities. The components directly address the objective of the Project of
increasing access and use of water supply and sanitation services by providing the required infrastructure and
management capacities. The Project design is simple and is substantially relevant to the Project Development
Objective.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

The objective of the Project is to increase access to and use of water supply and sanitation services in participating
rural communities of the Recipient’s territory.

The Project Development Objective was not revised. Key associated outcome targets were revised only to
consolidate the targets of the sources of funding as well as a redefinition of the indicator to align with Bank core
sector indicators (see M&E section). For this reason, a split rating is not undertaken.

For the purpose of this review, IEG parses this objective into two parts, one focused upon water supply and the other
on sanitation services as noted below:

Objective 1 (Substantial)
-The first objective of the Project is to increase access to and use of water supply in participating municipalities

Outputs:

-         15 Comites d”Approvisionnement en Eau Potable et Assainissement (CAEPA – Drinking Water Supply and
Sanitation Committees) created vs. 13 planned.
-        All 9 communities being served by a private professional water system operator signed a contract with the
operator as planned
-        All 9 water system private operators under the project were trained in financial management, technical,
O&M, and community relations as planned.
-        15 water systems built vs. 11 systems targeted during restructuring: 8 piped systems were rehabilitated, 4
new systems were constructed and 3 communities served with a total of 8 hand pumps.
-        DINEPA supported by the Project, vs. 1 water utility supported by the Project. DINEPA is not a water utility,
but a National Directorate for Water and Sanitation.
-        1598 new piped water household connections resulted from the Project vs. 200 planned during restructuring.
-        159 water points (kiosks and communal water points) were constructed or rehabilitated, but only 89 were in
operation (closed due to lack of demand, profitability or maintenance) vs. 40 points planned at restructuring.

Outcomes:

-         59,367 people were provided with access to improved water sources vs. 51,000 people target planned.
This is an increase of 29,367 beneficiaries vs. an increase of 21,000 beneficiaries targeted.
-         As reported in the ICR, every drinking water system was constructed by a contractor approved by the
relevant local water committee and assessed against quality criteria. All new water points constructed or rehabilitated
under the Project were equipped with a chlorinator and every operator uses a kit to measure residual chlorine (a
proxy for water quality). These analyses are performed by the operator and the TEPACs and results are incorporated
into the national water quality monitoring system called SISKLOR.
-       The ICR points out that water distributed by the systems financed under this Project have consistently
complied with safe drinking water standards in place in Haiti

According to the survey conducted at project completion (ICR p. 11):
-       77 percent of surveyed households with a connection were confident in the quality of the treated water
compared with 15% in 2008
-       67 percent of surveyed kiosk users were confident in the quality of treated water compared with 4% in 2008
-       Over 80% of clients are satisfied with private operators
-       65% of surveyed users of kiosks expressed interest in requesting household connections.
Objective 2 (Modest)
-The second objective of the Project is to increase access to and use of sanitation services in participating
municipalities

Outputs

-      13% of target beneficiaries (defined as estimated 2012 population of the 7 communities receiving promotion
campaign) receiving training ion hygiene and sanitation vs 80% planned at restructuring.
-      14 schools and 1 health center received 25 new or rehabilitated latrine blocks (ICR p. 10)
-      14 masons trained in latrine construction vs. 40 planned.

Outcomes

-        4,964 households were using basic sanitation systems at completion vs. 4,060 planned and 4950 targeted at
restructuring; i.e. 1904 additional households vs. 1890 additional households targeted at appraisal, and slightly
exceeding (14 households) the restructuring targets.
-        5,547 students and teachers benefit from access to latrines in the newly installed block latrines in schools
(ICR p. 10).

 5. Efficiency:
  At appraisal, economic benefits expected to come from the project’s water supply systems were estimated based
on: (a) reduced cost to providing the quantity of water currently consumed, and (b) benefits from increased water
consumption (i.e. incremental demand). Health benefits were expected from project intervention, but were not
included in the cost-benefit analysis. Benefits were estimated a comparison of net benefits for a “with project”
scenario and a “without project” scenario involving for newly constructed piped rural water supply projects and
compared with those of a “without project” scenario (PAD p. 21). The “with project’’ scenario involved households
using large amounts of water at or near the house while the “without project” scenario consisted of a continuation of
the status quo where households use only a small amount of water fetched from unprotected sources and often
distant from their homes. The appraisal data came from a field investigations in 84 localities in the four departments
participating departments in the project in Haiti. The benefits derive from (a) reduced cost to provide the quantity of
water currently consumed, and (b) benefits from increased water consumption. The economic internal rate of return
for the selected sample was estimated at 28 percent. Health benefits were expected from project intervention, but
were not included. The economic analysis in Annex 9 of the PAD focuses on calculating per capita cost of water
schemes that would yield the minimum 12% rate of return (PAD p. 69) – which was found to be $170.

Ex-post economic analysis in the ICR consists of a cost-benefit analysis of water supply sub-projects. Project benefits
for water supply are measured using the results from a survey of beneficiaries and from an evaluation study
conducted in November 2013, with estimates of benefits for the facilities that were not yet in operation at that time.
The survey of beneficiaries and the evaluation study were used to determine the main source of supply and the
average daily water consumption of the households. The survey shows that 37 percent of households with a private
connection share it with, on average 1.9 other households. The assessment of the benefits in the ex-post analysis
was based on: (i) the willingness-to-pay as a proxy of the value of water; and (ii) the cost savings accruing to
beneficiaries using the applicable water rates. The beneficiaries save costs associated with the treatment of water.
The cost of treatment is estimated, by reference to international standards, at about US$2 per month per household.

For the ICR cost-benefit analysis, Project costs included the direct costs of the investment itself, implementation, and
system operation costs over the 20 year life of the sub-project. All calculations cover a 20-year period, using constant
prices and excluding taxes and transfer payments. Total investment costs are estimated at US$7.02 million. The
actual average per capita investment cost at completion was found to be $118 (ICR p. 11) well below the target
ceiling cut-off value specified in the PAD ($170). Operational costs include expenditures on staff, maintenance and
other expenditures.

The ICR estimates the ex-post economic internal rate of return (EIRR) at 10.0%. The net present value (NPV) of the
project’s benefits and costs is estimated at US$0.01 million, with 10% discount rate. The EIRR of nine of the 15
sub-projects is close or higher than the 12 percent minimum value specified by cut-off value used in the PAD. The
economic analysis was conducted for water projects representing 70% of the total project costs.

Despite major disruptions due to natural disasters in Haiti, the Project was implemented in a timely manner and
completed within the original time frame of 3 years, with no cost overruns (average unit cost for water facilities was
below estimate). The State and Peace Building financed part of the Project and was extended by two years to allow
for completion of works and to account for its conception and approval two years after the approval of the IDA
financed portion of the Project. With a 10% calculated rate of return at completion, the efficiency of the Project is
rated modest.



 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                        Yes                                       28%                                     0.54%

    ICR estimate                     Yes                                       10%                                     71%
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
      The relevance of the Project objective and design is rated substantial. Efficacy of the first objective (water
access), which reached a larger number of beneficiaries is rated substantial, while the efficacy of the second objective
(sanitation access) is rated modest. and efficiency is rated modest. The outcome of the Project is rated moderately
satisfactory
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
     In addition to exogenous risks such as natural disasters, lack of resources and political stability, The ICR, p. 13
lists specific risks to the development outcome of the Project activities with the mitigation measures where available.:
 * Institutional: The financial dependency of DINEPA and its decentralized structures on donor funding may hamper
efforts to make the system financially sustainable. Future Bank and donor operations aim to support DINEPA in
building sustainable structures in the longer term through a focus on operational and financial sustainability;
* Environmental: Deforestation and agricultural practices threaten the quantity and quality of water sources;
* Social: The existence of different management models, tariffs and subsidies in communities may put at risk the
sustainability of volumetric billing and the viability of the professional operator management model. Political
interference in tariff setting (in favor of providing free water services) in neighboring communities is a set back to the
implementation of sustainable policies for sustainable water provision..
* Financial: The revenue collection rate for professional operators has reached an average of 50 percent (of billed
water), up to 66 percent, and the operators currently allocate an average of 8 percent of total revenues for
maintenance. The lack of financial discipline by the operators as reported in the ICR economic analysis annex (e.g.
poor billing and collection, unreliable financial reporting) also poses a risk to the project’s dependence on the
“professional operator model.”
* Operational: Limited attention, funding and institutional framework for maintenance of the facilities (particularly for
the blocs sanitaires) poses a risk to the operation of such facilities.

Other risks mentioned throughout the ICR include lack of interest by the community to maintain or properly operate
assets created under the Project (e.g. about 70 water points constructed were closed because faucets were not shut
off) (ICR p. ix). Similarly, the operations and maintenance of the bloc latrines, essential in schools, are also left not
attended.

The above risks can severely affect the achievement of project development outcomes into the future. Bank-donor
coordination and intent to address these risks and resolve these problems through continued engagement in the
sector, if coupled with demonstrated community and government commitment are expected to mitigate some of those
risks in the long term.


   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
   The Project responded to strategic priorities of the Government-Bank collaboration at the time of
appraisal. Project preparation drew lessons from similar projects in Africa which used local private operators as
well as a separate pilot project in Haiti which tested the private operator model. The choice of utilizing the private
professional operator model was in line with the sector reform agreed with the Bank following 2005 sector
diagnostic. The project was closely coordinated with the Inter American Development Bank (IDB) which is the
focal point for the sector, and which had prepared a $15 million water and sanitation project which was to be
implemented similarly to this Bank-financed Project. Given its focus on rural areas, the social analysis of the
Project concluded that the Project would benefit the poorest and most under-served of Haiti’s population. This
includes women, who have the major role in collecting water, and children.

The project was prepared, appraised and approved in about a year. The Project satisfied Bank fiduciary and
safeguard requirements. The project relied on the Government’s own structure to implement the Project with the
objective to build capacity in sector agencies. Implementation arrangements were being used under the pilot
project mentioned above. Additional technical assistance was incorporated into the Project to support
SNEP/DINEPA in the role of implementing this larger Project. Sub-projects were to be selected during
implementation based on agreed criteria including availability of good quality protected water source, number of
inhabitants, and acceptance to pay volumetric tariffs. The list of risks and their mitigation measures identified
were realistic and focused on project related risks (e.g. capacity at SNEP/DINEPA, reception by communities of
private operators). The M&E system and the plan for its implementation was in place. Baseline data was to be
collected from feasibility studies. The M&E system was to be supported with beneficiary surveys.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Satisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

Bank supervision of the Project took place consistently twice a year, except for 2010 when it took place only once
(4/2010) after the earthquake(1/2010) and in 2013. The Project was rated satisfactory consistently except for (in
the final years) 2 out of 13 development objective ratings and 3 out of 13 implementation progress ratings where it
was rated moderately satisfactory .

The ICR reports on the challenges faced during implementation, particularly with the natural disasters that
affected Haiti and delayed progress of contracts. The ICR candidly discusses the challenges encountered in
meeting the environmental safeguards requirements (see safeguards below). The Bank team then increased the
participation of the environmental specialist in visits to the sites in order to address environmental concerns. The
Bank team organized tours to similar projects in Latin America and to Benin, and continued to be engaged with
the Government and other donors on the strategy and the sector.

The Bank team revised the Monitoring and Evaluation framework once new financing became available from
State Building and Peace Fund. Key outcome indicators were clarified and simplified and the revised intermediate
indicators reflected the Project activities better. Intermediate indicators were revised to adjust down to adjust for
slow Project performance in sanitation, but at ICR targets were achieved. Despite the increasing importance of
the institutional sanitation component, an indicator for this component was not added. Overall monitoring of
indicators during implementation appears modest until Project completion (ICR p. 8). Given the novelty of the
approach of using private operators and communities combined with the limited capacities in the country,
attention to O&M, cost recovery and post completion arrangements was modest.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    Service National de l’Eau Potable (SNEP) was the Government’s representative for the purposes of the
Project at the time of appraisal and until December 2010. Rural water supply in Haiti was formally under the
responsibility of SNEP, which is an autonomous state entity according to the law. Direction Nationale de L’Eau
Potable et de l”assainissemnent (DINEPA) is the successor to SNEP and remained the main agency in the
government responsible for the water and sanitation sector and for implementing the Project.

The Government was committed to the Project as part of its larger commitment to the reform of the water sector.
A capable project director with good experience in the rural water and sanitation sector was assigned, and a core
implementation team was maintained. The change in the implementing agency was due to overall sector reform.
The change understandably caused delays in project implementation until the new structure became operational.
The Government’s support helped ensure that the Project remained largely on track, even in the face of
exogenous shocks such as the impacts of severe despite considerable exogenous factors such as natural
disasters. DINEPA initiated a rural water supply performance indicator monitoring system and a water quality
monitoring system as part of its mandate. As representative of the Government, DINEPA has limited capacity or
authority to solve problems of political interference (e.g. local politicians promising free water) or long term local
issues such as cost recovery or operations and maintenance.


   Government Performance Rating                                Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The implementing agency is the same as the Government representative for this Project. As mentioned
above, the implementing agency is was changed from SNEP to DINEPA in December 2010. A project
management unit was not created, and SNEP/DINEPA assigned its own staff to implement the Project. This
arrangement was preferred in order to ensure practical knowledge along with the technical assistance was
directed at the responsible agency, Bank-Government discussions are focused with one agency, and a parallel
structure was avoided. DINEPA maintained the core team during the entire project implementation ensuring
continuity in an environment constantly challenged by external shocks. The DINEPA Project Coordinator’s 30-year
experience and skills contributed to keeping the Project on track despite difficult conditions including the
earthquake.

In terms of implementation, both procurement and financial management were rated as moderately satisfactory by
the Bank team due to shortcomings in DINEPA’s performance such as maintaining use of EXCEL rather than
DINEPA’s financial system, weak budget management and delays in account reconciliations and in preparation of
bidding documents. Supervision of safeguard requirements were also weak including lack of protection for water
sources, locating and maintaining latrines, and open faucets. Another shortcoming was the lack of attention to
ensuring that operators trained their staff adequately for effective systems operations and management, which
resulted in the lack of protection of water sources and the closure of about 60 water posts. Attention to training of
operators and the community on operations and management of the system is lacking. The Project was
implemented in a timely manner and remained on track despite natural disasters and the challenges that followed.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The Results and Monitoring Framework in the PAD (Annex 3, page 38) provides indicators to monitor progress in
achieving the main objective of the Project: namely increased access to and use of water and sanitation services.
The M&E framework in the PAD aims to monitor accessibility and use as well as sustainability, payment by
households for water services and the number of blocs sanitaires in schools and public buildings. On the other hand,
the indicators in the Results Framework do not exactly match the table of indicators and arrangements (p. 38-39).

The ICR p. 7-8 indicates that the M&E design suffered from: (i) separate sets of indicators for the Bank, the State
Building and Peace Fund (and for a separate but similar water and sanitation project financed by the InterAmerican
Development Bank); and (ii) poorly defined indicators. Consultants were to design and implement surveys to collect
the required baseline and monitoring data.

 b. M&E Implementation:
      M&E indicators were changed during the 2010 project restructuring. The purposes of the change was to use the
same results framework from the different sources of financing, to consolidate targets, to simplify monitoring
arrangements, and to use the Bank’s core sector indicators (ICR p. 7). Definitions of key indicators were marginally
modified to align with the Bank sector indicators, and continued to monitor access to water and sanitation.
Intermediate indicators agreed under the State and Peace Building Fund were added. Other original intermediate
indicators were dropped due to the difficulty of their monitoring under the circumstances in Haiti. Simpler indicators
such as number of utilities and number of community water points supported were added. An indicator for institutional
sanitation was not included, despite this activity becoming the focus of the sanitation and hygiene promotion activities
(ICR p. 7).

 c. M&E Utilization:
   According to the ICR, information on progress from reports and supervision missions was closely reviewed and
used to take actions to deal with implementation delays. Data on the various results indicators were systematically
used to inform decision-making or resource allocation in the course of the Project.

The final figures for the PDO and intermediate-level indicators were discussed by the DINEPA Coordinator and ICR
Team in order to prepare the ICR (ICR p. 7-8). The teams reviewed the information gathered in supervision missions
and the hygiene and sanitation consultant reports, supplemented by the Coordinator’s first-hand knowledge of the
schemes and interactions with the various professional operators. These figures were used to assess the completed
project and its accomplishments and to prepare for future Projects in Haiti..

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
The Project triggered the safeguard policies on environmental assessment, natural habitats, and cultural property,
and was classified as Category B. An Environmental Assessment report and an Environmental and Social
Management Framework were prepared. Overall safeguards compliance was rated “Moderately Satisfactory” as
monitoring and documentation were not performed systematically (ICR p. 8)

Environment: The main environmental concerns were to: (i) protect water the catchment areas and sources from
pollution and degradation; (ii) select project sites that were safe from flooding, washouts and landslides; (iii) control
wastage of water points; (iv) mitigate pollution, nuisance and accidents during construction; and (v) take proper
measures in case of archeological discoveries and in protected areas. To address these concerns, each feasibility
study included an environmental management plan. DINEPA relied on the engineering firm, which developed the
feasibility studies to address environmental management, and did not have a dedicated staff of its own for this
purpose. (ICR p. 8)

In December 2011, environmental issues were noted such as: (i) lack of protection of areas around the source in the
2 villages visited; (ii) inadequate drainage around the kiosks and standposts; (iii) faucets left continuously open at
some standposts, exacerbated the drainage problems; and (iv) guidelines on latrine location were not disseminated.
Follow up missions paid additional attention to environmental concerns, and the ICR reports that these issues were
resolved (ICR p. 8).

Cultural Property and Natural Habitat. The ICR reports that works throughout the Project did not interfere with
natural habitats or physical cultural resources. Cultural property was covered in the environmental management plans
included in the feasibility studies. The ICR makes a reference to lack of beneficiary and community means to prevent
intrusion into catchment and forest areas (ICR p. 16)

Social. The Involuntary Resettlement policy was not triggered and no specific problems were identified.


 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Financial management was rated “Moderately Satisfactory” throughout the project period. The problems affecting
the management of project funds included: (i) continued use of Excel, rather than the DINEPA financial accounting
software, due to technical problems; (ii) late submission of audit reports; (iii) budget management based on the global
allocation of annual funds to the project, rather than a budget for the estimated cost of implementing activities; and
(iv) a delay in reconciliation of accounts. The ICR does not report on opinion of annual audit reports. The task team
clarified that while audit reports were often received late, they opinions of the auditors were unqualified.

Procurement was rated “Moderately Satisfactory” throughout project implementation, mainly due to delays related to
the preparation of bidding documents which caused delays in project implementation (p. 9), but also due to the
disasters. The task team clarified that while there were delays in procurement, the implementing agency was capable
of putting the project back on track despite the difficulties due to natural disasters and their aftermath. The ICR
includes very little discussion on Procurement challenges..

 c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
Poverty. The Project provides water supply and sanitation services to beneficiaries in the poorest and most vulnerable
populations in the Western Hemisphere.
Gender aspects. Fetching water is a task mostly undertaken by women and girls in Haiti. The Project contributes to
time savings that can be dedicated to other revenue generating activities or to education. Of the 56 trainers and
community workers trained in the Participatory Hygiene and Sanitation Transformation approach, only 22 (40%) were
women.
Institutional Change/Strengthening. The Project supported the government’s efforts to put in place a new institutional
structure for the sector. Low project management capacity, identified at appraisal, was addressed through training.
Capacity-building for professional operators provided new management models for the Haitian rural water sector.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                Reason for
                                                                                    Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Satisfactory                 Moderately        The relevance of the Project objective
                                                            Satisfactory      and design is substantial; efficacy is
                                                                              rated substantial; efficiency is rated
                                                                              modest (rated substantial in ICR). The
                                                                              outcome of the Project is therefore
                                                                              rated Moderately Satisfactory

          Risk to Development Moderate                      Significant       Exogenous risks are high and difficult to
                     Outcome:                                                 mitigate in Haiti. These include natural
                                                                              disasters, political risks. Project risks
                                                                              are also significant and include lack of
                                                                              strong operations and maintenance
                                                                              apparatus as well as cost recovery for
                                                                              operators. Project risks are mitigated by
                                                                              community involvement and donor
                                                                              support.
            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Moderately        Bank performance at supervision
                                                            Satisfactory      lacked sufficient attention to O&M and
                                                                              M&E

       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Moderately        The Borrower representative lacked
                                                            Satisfactory      sufficient attention to the M&E
                                                                              framework and lacked the necessary
                                                                              influence on O&M and cost recovery –
                                                                              which was the responsibility of the
                                                                              operators and the community.

                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
   The following lessons - except for the last one, are derived from the ICR with adjustments.

1.       The success of introducing new water management models using a professional operator depends in part
on (i) the role given to communities in selecting their operators, and (ii) the operators being members of the
community. Continued support of professional operators and their involvement in the construction phase improves
their chances for success.
2.        Institutional sanitation solutions (e.g. latrines in schools) require arrangements for maintenance to be well
planned and implemented to ensure meaningful and continued access.
3.        Infrastructure to protect water sources coupled with the involvement of local farmers or landowners
improve the chances of success in implementing environmental plans for water source protection.
4.       In projects dependent on the communities and private operators, O&M, cost recovery and political
interventions present additional challenges and need focused mitigation measures.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR is well written and concise. It describes a Project that was being implemented in a difficult situation of
natural disasters and the resulting social upheaval.

To strengthen the evidence on the efficacy of the Project, the ICR provides other evidence to substantiate the
Project’s efficacy (ICR p. 10-11) with data from the beneficiary survey, and compares this data with pre-project levels
or to national statistics. The ICR would have benefitted from presenting information on the surveys conducted at
completion and their findings. The ICR often refers to them in general terms in the efficacy and efficiency sections.

On the other hand, cost tables were not consistent with the PAD and included erroneous items not normally reported
as project costs in Bank project documentation such as the costs of the Bank for preparing and supervising the
Project.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
