Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CA-  34/7 - 657-
C;~ 233-cs5r
Report No. 9792-EGT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROJECT
OCTOBER 29, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY IQUIVALENTS
(As of September 1991)
US$ 1.00                -    3.30 Egyptian Pounds (L.E.)
L.E. 1.00               -    US$ 0.3
WEIGHTS A0ND MEASURES
Eyyptian and/or Metric Unit                        English/US Unit
I millimeter (m,n)                            -     0.039 inches
1 centimeter (cm)                             -     0.394 inches
1 meter (m)                                   -    39.370 inches
I kilometer (kin)                             -     0.620 miles
I square kilometer (kmn')                     -     0.386 square miles
1 feddan (fed)                                      0.420 hectares, 1.037 acres
1 hectare (ha)                                -     2.470 acres
I cubic meter (m3)                            -    35.310 cubic feet
I cubic meter per second (m3/s)               -    35.310 cubic feet per second
I liter (1)                                   -     1.057 quarts
1 liter per second (l/s)                      -     0.035 cubic feet per second
1 kilogram (kg)                               -     2.200 pounds
1 metric ton (t)                              -     2,205 pounds
1 kilowatt (kw)                              _      1.360 horse power
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AFD         Administration and Finance Department in EPADP
ARC         Agricultural Research Center
BDAC        Banks for Development and Agricultural Credit
GAO         Central Audit Organization
CIDA        Canadian International Development Agency
DE1P        Drainage Executive Management Project
DRI         Drainage Research Institute
EEC         European Economic Community
E&M         Electrical and Mechanical Department in EPADP
EPADP       Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage Projects
FAO/CP      Food and Agriculture
Organization/World Bank Cooperative Program
CDP         Gross Domestic Product
GOE         Governgment of Arab Republic of Egypt
hAD         High Aswan Dam
HDSER       High Dam Side Effects Research Institute
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
IDA         International Development Association
IFAD        International Fund for Agricultural Development
IMSP        Irrigation Management System Project
KfW         Kreditanstalt  for  Wiederaufbau   (Cerman   Bank   for
International Development Financing)
LCB         Local Competitive Bidding
LIB         Limited International Bidding
MALR        Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
MED         Mechanical and Electrical Department in MPW
MIS         Management Information System
MOH         Ministry of Health
MOIC        Ministry of Internationai Cooperation
MPW         Ministry of Public Works and Water Resources
NARP        National Agricultural Research Project
NDGIC       Netherlands Directorate General
for International Cooperation
NDP         National Drainage Program
O&M         Operation and Maintenance
PBDAC       Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit
PFD         Planning and Follow-up Department in EPADP
PVC         Polyvinyl Chloride
RDD         Research and Design Department in EPADP
RIGW        Research Institute for Groundwater
SOE         Statement of Expenditures
SWRI        Soil and Water Research Institute
USAID       United States A,-ency for International Development
WRC         Water Research  enter
GOVERNMENT OF ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FISCAL YEAR
July I - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROJECT
Table of Contents
Chapter                                                                      Page No.
Loan/Credit and Project Summary           ............ .  i-iii
I.  BACKGROUND
A.  The Economy ........................... . 1
B.  The Agriculture Sector  ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  2
C.  Irrigation and Drainage ..................... . 4
D.  Donor Financing and Project Origin ............... . 6
II. THE NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROGRAM
A.  Approach and Objectives . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
B.  Program  Area   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  11
C.  Agricultural Aspects  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
D.  Technical Aspects ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   17
E.  Estimated Cost of Program ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   20
F.  Program Implementation  ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   21
III.THE PROJECT
A.  Objectives, Scope and Summary Description . . . . . . . . . . . .   22
B. Detailed Features .23
C. Project Costs and Financing Plan .29
D.  Procurement   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  31
E. Disbursements .34
F. Accounts and Audits .35
G. Environmental Impact .36
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Egypt in June
1991, comprising Messrs. Aizad N. Khan, Albert Nyberg, Jamal Fuad, C.P.
Ranganathan, Rohan Wijeratne and Joachim von Amsberg (Bank) and Messrs. Robert
Laporte and James Gallup (consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IV. INSTITUTIONIL ARRANGEMENTS
A.  Institutions  .                  .................        ........         40
B.  Project Implementation Arrangement  ...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   41
C.  Monitoring and Evaluation ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   44
D.  Supervision Plan  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   45
V. BENEFITS. JUSTIFICATION AND RISK
A. Production Impact .47
B. Economic Analysis .49
C. Cost Recovery .50
D. Risks .52
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   53
TABLES IN TEXT
2.1      NDP Areas by Activity  ....................                               13
2.2      Present Yields of Major Crops  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   17
2.3      Program Cost Summary.   ..................                                20
2.4      Implementation of Open and Covered Pipe Drains . . . . . . . . .   21
3.1      Project Cost Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   30
3.2      Financing  Plan   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  31
3.3      Procurement Arrangements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   32
3.4      Disbursement Categories and Amount . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   34
3.5      Disbursement Schedule  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   35
5.1      Incremental Yields . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  47
5.2      Annual Incremental Production  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  48
5.3      Switching Values of Critical Variables . . . . . . . . . . . . .  49
5.4      Sensitivity Tests on Economic Rate of Return . . . . . . . . . .   50
m\qt\ndp\n.wfront



ANNEXES
ANNEX I  COST ESTIMATES. PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
Table 1 Cost Summary - Summary Accounts   . . . . . . . . . . . .   56
Table 2  Project Components Yearly Base Cost  . . . . . . . . . .   57
Table 3  Stumary Account Yearly Base Cost  . . . . . . . . . . . .  58
Table 4  Summary Account Yearly Cost, Includin3 Contingencies  . .  59
Table 5 Breakdown of Summary Accounts in U.S. Dollars   . . . . .   60
Table 6  Breakdown of Summary Accounts in Egyptian Pounds  . . . .  61
Table 7  Summary Account by P-oject Components   . . . . . . . . .  62
Table 8  Tentative Financing Plan for Various Components   . . . .  63
Table 9  Proposed Tender Processing Schedule for Various Equipment
Materials and Civil Works   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   64
Table 10 Summary of Implementation Schedule  . . . . . . . . . . .  72
Table 11 Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of IBRD Loan/IDA Credit    74
ANNEX II  LIST OF AREAS AND VARIOUS REOUIREMENTS
Table 1 Program Areas by Regions  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   75
Table 2  Program Areas for Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . .  76
Table 3 New Areas for Implementation during the Initial Years . .   77
Table 4  List of Equipment for Horizontal Pipe Drainage  . . . . .  78
Table 5 List of Equipment for Open Drains   . . . . . . . . . . .   79
Table 6  List of Vehicles and Other Equipment  . . . . . . . . . .  80
Table 7  Summary of Technical Assistance   . . . . . . . . . . . .  81
Table 8 Schedule for Critical Actions . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   82
Table 9  Supervision Plan ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  83
Table 10 Required Changes in Local Competitive Bidding Procedures   84
Annex III ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Table 1  Land Use and Yield Estimates  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  86
Table 2  Financial and Economic Prices of Main Crops   . . . . . .  87
Table 3 Derivation of Incremental Benefits  . . . . . . . . . . .   88
Table 4  Economic Costs, Benefits and Economic Rate of Return  .    89
ANNEX IV  SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE  90
CHARTS
1.       Ministry of Public Works and Water Resource Organization    91
2.       EPADP  Organization    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  92
MAES     IBRD No. 23183, 23184
m:\egw\ndp\r-ftM



ARAB RZPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Loan/Credit and Project Summary
Borrower                       Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt
Beneficiaries                  Smallholder  farmers  and  the  Egyptian  Public
Authority for Drainage Projects (EPADP) of the
Ministry of Public Works and Wate: Resources
Loan/Credit Amount             IBRD Loan   - US$45 million equivalent
IDA Credit -- SDR 56.4 million
(US$75 million equivalent)
Terms                          IBRD Loan  -- Standard variable interest rate for
a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace
IDA Credit - - Standard IDA for a term of 35 years,
including 10 years of grace
Prolect Obiectives             The overall objectives of the project are to:  (a)
increase agricultural productivity by evacuating
excess water and salts from undrained areas,
reversing the current land deterioration trend;
and (b) improve institutional planning and the
implementation capacity of the drainage subsector.
Prolect Description      :    The project would finance a six-year time slice
of the National Drainage Program (NDP), covering
about 720,000 feddans (fed) and encompassing the
installation or replacement of subsurface drains
and the remodelling of existing open drains
throughout the Nile Valley and Delta. Vertical
drains would be installed as a pilot effort on
5,000 feddans. Technical assistance and training
would be provided to address contractor weaknesses
and to assist in the strengthening of EPADP. A
coordinated monitoring and evaluation program would
be introduced. Special emphasis would be given
to adaptive research for drain installation in
unstable soils, drainage in heavy clay soils,
vertical drainage and the use of PVC pipe for
collectors. In order to reduce fiscal constraints,
m:\egt\ndp\paq*umm



- ii -
an improved system for the recovery of investment
and O&M costs related to subsurfac-.e drainage would
be worked out and implemented.
lenefLts                 :    The total area benefitting from the project is
estimated to be 720,000 fed. The number of farms
expected to benefit would be about 240,000.
Risks                          The  major  risks  are:        (i)  the  limited
implementation capacity of domestic contractors
which could reduce the area installed; (ii)
inadequate budgetary provisions and a possible
shortage of counterpart funds; and (iii) delays
in project implementation. These risks would be
minimized by: (i) prequalification )f contractors
and the provision of technical assistance and
training to contractors and EPADP staff; (ii) an
annual review of the work program and budgetary
provisions by the Bank Group prior to final
government authorization of the budget, as well
as the financing of local cost by various donors;
and (iii) a long lead period for initiating actions
on procurement and design work.
Project Components and Estimated Cost
LE Million               USS Million
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total
Subsurface Drainage
Horizontal Drainage, New      300.7    190.1    490.8    91.1       57.6    148.7
Horizontal Drinage, Renewal   66.3      48.8    115.1    20.1       14.8     34.9
Vertical Drainage               5.2      3.9       2.1     1.6       1.2      2.8
Subtotal                  372.2    242.8    615.0   112.8      73.6    186.4
Open Drains Remodelling          65.5     41.7    107.2    19.9       12.6     32.5
Institutional SuDport
For EPADP incl. M&E            11.2      9.8      21.0     3.4      3.0       6.4
For DRI and RIGW                6.4      2.2       8.6     1.9      0.7       2.6
Environmental Support           3.4      3.6       7.0     1.0       1.1      2.1
Subtotal                   21.0     15.6     36.6      6.3      4.8      11.1
Total Baseline Costs      458.7    300.1    758.8   139.0      91.0    230.0
Physical Contingencies         40.9     24.0      64.9    12.4      7.3      19.7
Price Contingencies           369.7    223.9    593.6    25.8      14.5      40.3
Total Project Costs       869.3    548.0  1.417.3   177.2    112.8    290.0
m.\qt\ndp\pwsumm



- iii -
Fiuna&tn& llau
Percent of
Local    Foreign    Total    Total Costs
-(US$ Million)------
GOE 1/                       130.0       -        130.0        44.8
IBRD                         13.0       32.0       45.0        15.5
IDA                          21.7       53.3       75.0        25.9
Germany (KfW-Grant)           0.8        2.2        3.0         1.1
Germany (KfW-Loan)             7.0      20.0       27.0         9.3
The Netherlands (NDGIC)       4.8        5.2       10.0 ..3.4
Total                 177.3      112.7     290.0       100.0
1   Of which US$17.8 million will be taxes and duties.
Estimated Completion Date             June 30, 1999
Estimated Annual Disbursements
Bank GrouD Fiscal Year
Y93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FX-97   FY98   FY99  FY  000
----------------(USS Million Equivalent)-------------
Bank/IDA                 -      8.0    17.0   20.0   20.0   24.0   20.0   11.0
Percont of Total         -      6.6    14.2   16.7   16.6   20.0   16.7    9.2
Percent of Cumulative   -       6.6    20.8   37.5   54.1   74.1   90.8  100.0
Economic Rate of Return               24 percent
m\K0\ndp\pWosumm



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROJECT
I.  BACKGROUND
A. THE ECONOMY
1.01        Egypt's economy is the fifth largest in the Middle East-North Africa
region. The current per capita Gross Domestic Product (GDP) is estimated to be
about US$550. Egypt has the third largest agricultural sector (following Pakistan
and Turkey) in the region, derived from a relatively small arable area.  The
population of Egypt in mid-1991 is estimated to be 53.8 million. The population
growth rate, which averaged 2.6 percent over the past decade, is expected to
decline to 2.3 percent during the 1990s. Tne past rapid growth rate has resulted
in a young population -- 40 percent of the population is less than 15 years old;
about 55 percent of the populatUon is rural and highly concentrated in a narrow
belt along the Nile Valley and in the Nile Delta.
1.02        Following President Sadat's launching of the open-door policy in
1973, Egypt experienced rapid economic growth until the early 1980s. Real GDP
grew at an average rate of 9 percent per annum between 1974 and 1981.  The
principal sources of growth were oil exports, Suez Canal earnings and workers'
remittances. In contrast, growth in agriculture was below population growth.
However, three significant problems became increasingly important during this
period, seriously affecting growth in the 1980s: the overreliance on petroleum
as a source of growth, budget and balance of payments (current account) deficits
and accumulated economib. distortions due to two decades of government
intervention in pricing and marketing. Nevertheless, the momentum of the 1970s
was maintained (the growth rate was 6-7 percent) until the mid-1980s, while the
problems worsened. By 1986 it was apparent that petroleum could not be counted
on to lead growth and exports; the balance of payments and budget deficits were
unsustainable; and the government-induced distortions had created such widespread
inefficiencies that economic restructuring became inevitable.
The Economic Reform and Structural Adiustment Program:
1.03        Consequently, the Government responded by launching a structural
reform program in 1986 to begin reducing the economic disequilibria.   The
proposed adjustments were appropriate but, except for agricultural reform, were
implemented too slowly to have the intended impact. Following three more years
of sluggish growth, the Government renewed its efforts to develop and implement
a strengthened reform program. The new economic reform and structural adjustment
program (ERSAP) of the Government of Egypt began in March 1990. It has as its
ultimate goal sustainable economic growth, improvement of the standards of living
of the people, and restoration of the country's creditworthiness. The reform
program focuses on three areas. First, pursuing of a vigorous and comprehensive
stabilization program to restore macroeconomic balance and reduce inflation,
primarily supported by an IMF Standby, which was approved by the Fund's Board
in May, 1991. Second, implementing a comprehensive structural adjustment to



- 2 -
stimulate medium- and long-term growth, assisted by a Structural Adjustment Loan
(SAL), which was approved by the Bank's Board in June, 1991. Third, introducing
modifications in current social policies to minimize the effect of economic
adjustment on the poor. The social issues are to receive support from the
freestanding Social Fund for Development (SFD), which is financed y IDA and
oth-r donors, and was approved by the Bank's Board in June 1991.
1.04        The economic refo-m program together with the supporting SAL consist
of the following components, which are designed in such a way to have consistent
economic aims: a) macroeconomic reform to curtail inflation, sharply reduce the
budget and current account deficits, and restored creditworthiness; b) public
enterprise reform to increase efficiency through competition, through
privatization and restructuring of public sector enterprises and reforming
financial relationships between public enterprises, the banking sector, and the
Government; c) domestic price liberalization to increase economic efficiency
through competition and removing of government imposed distortions in the pricing
system; d) foreign trade liberalization to raise growth of total factor
productivity and economic efficiency through promotion of import competition and
export rivalry and removal of government- imposed distortions in the incentive
system; e) private sector reform to increase efficiency through promoting
competition and enabling greater market entry, market exit, and mobility of
factors  of production.    This  adjustment  effort has  been  accompanied  by
considerable external debt reduction. However, additional "belt tightening" will
be required as real per capita incomes are projected to decline over the next
few years.
B. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Imnortance in the Economy
1.05        Despite a land area of one million square kilometers, only about
seven million feddans (fed) (3 percent of the area) is agriculturally productive.
This results in one of the world's lowest levels of agriculturally productive
land per capita, 0.13 fed/capita. Historically, agriculture has been Egypt's
most important sector in terms of output and employment and has made a major
contribution to foreign exchange earnings.  Although it remains the dominant
sector, its relative importance has steadily declined since the mid-1970s. The
sector now accounts for only 16-17 percent of GDP, employs about 35 percent of
the labor force and contributes about 25 percent of the value of merchandise
exports (principally cotton). About 50 percent of the manufacturing labor force
is employed in manufacturing related to cotton, and 25 percent of the merchandise
exports are manufactured products of agricultural origin.
1.06        Growth in agricultural GDP averaged about 2.5 percent during the
1980s, a rate slightly below the population growth rate. The divergence in these
growth rates, coupled with subsidized food and feed products that inflated
demand, resulted in declining agricultural self-sufficiency. In 1960 Egypt was
self-sufficient in many important crop and livestock products but was self-
sufficient only in cotton, rice, and horticultural products by 1990.
M:\qt\ndp\1



- 3 -
Agricultural commodity imports have consistently increased since 1960. Wheat
and wheat flour remains the largest import item, but maize, edible oils, sugar,
meat and milk are also important.
Sectoral ConstrAints
1.07        A  number  of  factors  have  combined  to  constrain  agricultural
production and growth.   The limited (quantity and quality) land and water
resource base presents the overriding constraint to increasing agriculture's
role in the economy. The agricultural l&nd base comprises about 7 million fed;
about 5.5 million fed are alluvial soils of the Nile Valley and Delta.  The
balance consists of calcareous and sandy soils reclaimed from the periphery of
the Delta and the desert. About 1.7 million fed have been reclaimed since 1952,
but the arable area has increased by unly 700,000 fed as urban encroachment
consumes an average of 30,000 fed annually. The land constraint is exacerbated
by declining production in some areas due to waterlogging and excessive salinity.
A land master plan (1986) identified an additional 2.8 million fed as potentially
reclaimable; however, 45 percent of the land identified was categorized as very
difficult to manage and of limited arability under existing technologies. The
construction of the High Aswan Dam (HAD) permitted the entire flow of the Nile
to be captured and the Egypt-Sudan water treaty allocated 55.5 billion cubic
meters (BCM) of water annually to Egypt; about 32-33 BCM represents current crop-
consumptive use. Improved management of the 55.5 BCM and reduced outflows to
the sea could increase the water available for agriculture by 6-8 BCM by 2000.
However, the high salt content will limit the reuse of drainage water.
1.08        Other constraining factors included the pervasive policy intervention
in agricultural pricing, production, marketing and trade. These interventions
distorted market forces and acted to reduce the overall efficiency of the sector.
Weak institutional support, particularly research and extension, has also acted
to limit productivity gains.  Equally important have been the limited public
sector investments in agriculture-irrigation-drainage infrastructure, which
declined fiom 25 percent of the investment budget in the mid-1960s to 13 percent
in the mid-1980s.  The policy and institutional constraints are particularly
binding because the historical agricultural areas remain the principal source
of agricultural growth. Productivity is relatively high in these areas and
requires sophisticated, well-organized and high-quality support services.
The Policy Environment
1.09        The 1986 structural adjustment program included a comprehensive set
of reforms in the agricultural sector. The reforms covered six general areas:
(a) the liberalization of agricultural imports and exports; (b) the removal of
crop area controls and delivery quotas (rice, sugarcane and cotton excepted);
(c) the discontinuance of fixed pricing for crop commodities (rice, sugarcane
and cotton excepted); (d) the reduction of input subsidies; (e) the sale of
public sector land resources to the private sector; and (f) the improvement of
ministerial coordination. The new enconomic reform and structural adjustment
M:\*M\ndp\l



- 4 -
program, initiated in March 1990 will further improve the environment for
sustained agricultural growth.
1.10        Agricultural sector reforms have, in general, led the rest of the
economy in the liberalization of economic activities.   However, some of the
reforms have been implemented more successfully than others. The external trade
environment was  improved  through  tariff reform and wider private  sector
participation in input and commodity imports and exports.   Production ar.
de'ivery controls and fixed prices were eliminated on all crops except cotton
and sugarcane (a floor price was substituted fot the fixed price of wheat),
permitting greater private participation in domestic marketing.  SuDsidies were
reduced for fertilizer and certain livestock feed ingredients and eliminated
for  other  feed  ingredients.    Only  on  cotton  pesticide  subsid'.es  has
implementation lagged.  Almost all of the land formerly cultivated by public
agricultural production companiet. has been sold to settlers and graduate farmers.
Lastly, ministerial functions have been consolidated and some activities have
been transferred to the private sector.
1.11        Sectoral reform has created an environment more favorable to the
farming community and the economy at large. Economic and financial incentives
have converged and less distorted signals are being transmitted to farmers. The
reforms have resulted in improved resource efficiency as demonstrated by recent
changes in the cropping pattern.   The reforms will be largely completed by
1992/93 as agreed under the Structural Adjustment Loan, except for cotton pricing
and cotton pesticide subsidies. Cotton subsector reforms will involve a longer
time period, but the subsector is expected to be fully liberalized within three
to five years.
C. IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE
Nile Irrigation System
1.12        The present irrigation system has evolved since the construction of
the Nile barrages and irtigation canals in 1861. Extending some 1,200 km from
Aswan to the Mediterranean Sea, the system -   sists of 2 storage dams at Aswan,
7 major barrages on the Nile, which divert .. ter into canals, and over 31,000
km of canals serving the agricultural lands. The system is expanding to serve
the needs of newly reclaimed land. Some 0.9 million fed of irrigated land are
at higher elevations, served by 516 pumping stations.
1.13        The canal system is operated and maintained by the Irrigation
Department of the Ministry of Public Works and Water Resources (MPW).   The
Ministry's Mechanical and Electrical Department (MED) maintains the pumping
facilities. The canals deliver water into "meskas," which are channels serving
100 to 500 fed. Meskas, in turn, feed "marwas," which are farm ditches serving
10 to 100 fed. The meska and marwa systems are owned, operated and maintained
by farmers.
M:\egt\ndp\1



- 5 -
1.14        The Nile system is unique as the water source is external to Egypt
and is controlled at a single point, Aswan. Water distribution and farm use
occurs within a complex framework of rotation based on a canal system, coupled
with rotation among farmers at the meska level.  Typically,  farmers in the
historiLa-ly cultivated old lands receive water in the meskas one-half meter
below the elevation of their fields and pump it into their marwas.
Drainage System
1.15        Land and irrigation development has long been a public sector
activity, but, historically, drainage was left to private initiatives. After
the heightening of the old Aswan Dam in 1933, the additional water application
created waterlogging and salinity problems and led to the first large scale
public drainage program, increasing the artificially drained areas to about 2.2
million fed.  The program involved pumping stations and a large, open-drain
system; also, experiments were conducted on subsurface drainage systems.
1.16        Perennial irrigation, made possible by the construction of the High
Aswan Dam (HAD) coupled with the high usage of modern inputs (fertilizer) and
multiple  cropping,  made  the  land  resource  highly  productive.    However,
intensified irrigation has led to a rising groundwater table and increased
problems with waterlogging and salinity, resulting in diminished yields. The
efficient use of irrigation water is being addressed under the United States
Agency for International Development (USAID) Irrigation Improvement Project.
However, improved irrigation efficiency will not mitigate the need for drainage
as water tables need to be lowered in most of the lands to sustain high yields
and high cropping intensities.
1.17        The drainage system for removing excess water from cultivated lands
consists of open drains, pipe drains and pump stations. The open drain system,
built mostly between early 1900 and 1965, serves about 6.5 million fed and
consists of over 16,200 km of open drains. Field implementation of subsurface
drains began with the pilot installation of tiles in 10,000 fed in 1960. During
the First Five-Year Plan (1960-65) about 250,000 fed were provided with tile
drains. Since then, some 3.4 million fed have been provided with subsurface
drainage and improved, open-drain systems. There are 99 pump stations devoted
to pumping drainage effluent.
Irrigation/Drainage Constraints
1.18        Irrigation.  The most pressing problems confronting the irrigation
system are the limited control provided by canal structures, many of which are
only partially functional, and inadequate system operations. With assistance
from USAID, MPW has undertaken to address these problems through the
rehabilitation or replacement of deteriorated structures throughout the canal
system. The Structures Improvement Program began in 1982 and is scheduled for
completion by 1993. In addition, the project has several other components to
strengthen operation and maintenance, planning and research activities.
M:\.g\ndp\1



- 6 -
1.19        Drainage.  In non-pipe drained areas, open drains still operate in
their original form to maintain the water level 1.5 m below the ground. The
large spacing of open drains and the absence of field drains limit the capability
of drains to affect the water table significantly.   Thus,  continuous and
expanding irrigation has resulted in a gradual rise in the groundwater table,
bringing with it waterlogging and increased salinity in most areas that do not
have subsurface drainage to control water table depth. Surveys in 1984 and 1990,
covering about 2.0 million fed determined that waterlogging is widespread
throughout the northern parts of the Delta and in some scattered areas in Middle
and Upper Egypt. Thus, the Government of Egypt (GOE) has accorded high priority
to reducing the groundwater and salinity problems by installing subsurface
drainage systems.
1.20        Maintenance of Canals and ORen Drains. Climatic conditions encourage
profuse weed growth in open channels, which total about 47,000 km. Maintenance
standards and techniques are being addressed under a separate coordinated program
supported by the World Bank, USAID and the Government of the Netherlands. The
maintenance program aims at introducing appropriate and cost- effective practices
for canals and open drains throughout the system.
D.  DONOR FINANCING AND PROJECT ORIGIN
Bank/IDA Lending
1.21        The Bank Group's involvement with drainage in Egypt was initiated
in 1970 under the Nile Delta Drainage I Project (Credit 181-UAR). That project
improved the drainage on 950,000 fed.  Subsequently, four more projects were
approved for drainage implementation: the Upper Egypt I (Credit 393-UAR), the
Upper Egypt II (Credit/Loan 637/1285-EGT), the Nile Delta II (Credit/Loan
719/1439/40-EGT), and Drainage V (Loan 2562-EGT). IDA/Bank financing for the
drainage program has totalled US$238 million. The total area covered by Bank
Group supported projects is 2.84 million fed for open drains and 2.64 million
fed for pipe drains. In addition, the first 4 projects financed the construction
of 22 new pump stations and the rehabilitation of 2 existing stations.
1.22        Other Bank financed projects in irrigation and drainage include an
ongoing Channel Maintenance Project (Ln 2732-EGT for US$45 million) and two
Irrigation Pumping Station Rehabilitation Projects: ongoing Pumping Station I
(Ln 2270-EGT for US$41.5 million) and Pumping Station II (Ln 3198-EGT for US$31
million.) The pumping station projects are intimately linked to the National
Drainage Program (NDP) as much of the drainage water, particularly in the main
drains, is evacuated by pumps.
Project Origin
1.23        The GOE has requested further Bank Group support to extend the pipe-
drained area and to rehabilitate open drains, following the completion of the
on-going Drainage V Project.   Also, the GOE proposes to introduce vertical
drainage in suitable areas. The selection of areas for vertical drainage was
M:\.Gl\ndP\1



-7-
made by the Research Institute for Ground Water (RIGW).  A program approach is
proposed for future drainage activities to facilitate greater flexibility, the
addressing of broad environmental issues and improved planning, resource
allocation and implementation. EPADP proposed various components and a list of
areas to be provided with pipe drainage.
1.24        Following the GOE invitation, preparation was initiated in October/
November 1990 by a Food and Agriculture Organization/World Bank Cooperative
Program (FAO/CP) mission. This mission assisted EPADP in developing a 10-year
(later extended to 12 year) National Drainage Program (NDP, see chapter II) and
designed a First Time Slice for possible World Bank financing. During the twelve-
year program, subsurface drainage would be completed for most areas that either
now or in the near future require drainage. The First Time Slice of the Program
is henceforth referred to as the National Drainage Project (see chapter III).
The preparation report of the FAO/CP team was submitted in March 1991; that
report formed the basis of the Bank's preappraisal mission in April 1991 and
appraisal mission in June 1991.
1.25        Lessons Learned.  Much has been learned about the problems of the
subsector during the Bank's long and substantial involvement with drainage in
Egypt. The first four drainage projects experienced implementation delays of
three to four years, primarily due to delayed effectiveness and overly optimistic
implementation schedules. The principal PPAR findings for these projects are:
(a) the implementation period should consider delaying factors, such as the
lengthy periods required for procurement, and the civil works schedules should
be based on a more realistic implementation capacity; and (b) technical
assistance should be sought from bilateral grant sources as the Government is
reluctant to use loan funds for consultants. The Drainage V Project is under
successful implementation, but completion will be delayed about 1 to 1.5 years,
primarily due to delayed effectiveness.
1.26        Although  the  general  organizational  structure  of  the  agency
responsible for implementation, the Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage
Projects (EPADP), is satisfactory, its performance shows weaknesses in
construction planning and management, construction supervision and follow-up.
In the past EPADP has been unable to enforce the conditions of field drainage
contracts.   EPADP has sufficient experience in the procurement of goods and
works, but inadequate construction planning and delays in tender evaluation,
approval and award have impeded performance. EPADP has progressively implemented
several improvements in the design and construction of drainage works, but past
experience has highlighted the need for: (a) computerized designs, especially
for field drainage, construction planning and monitoring; (b) improved
construction supervision and quality control; (c) better criteria for the
selection of renewal areas and improved techniques for the renewal of old field
drainage systems; (d) more effective impact Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) of
drainage; and (e) improvement in the Operation and Maintenance (O&M) of drainage
systems.   The Bank's continued,  long-term involvement  in assisting EPADP
implement these improvements would enhance the cost effectiveness and quality
of the drainage program, which is a large portion of the agricultural
M:\egw\ndp\1



R-8
infrastructure investment in Egypt.  The Bank would be able to influence program
implementation through biannual reviews of the entire drainage program financed
by the Bank and other donors.   These lessons and experiences have been
incorporated into the design of the proposed project (see para. 4.10 and Annex
II, Table 8).
1.27        Rationale for Bank/IDA Involvement.   Bank assistance strategy in
Egypt accords high priority to financing projects that improve the efficiency
or capacity utilization of existing facilities.   Past Bank involvement has
focused directly on assisting the Government maintain and increase land and
water productivity. The completion of the drainage program is a priority for
the GOE, and Bank Group participation has assisted in attracting resources from
other bilateral/multilateral donors in the past. Continued support by the Bank
Group is needed in the current environment of budgetary constraint, not only to
catalyze donor resources but also to provide the technical advice actively sought
by EPADP, particularly in view of the increasing complexity of future drain
installation in Egypt due to higher water tables and unstable soils.
Financing by Other Donors
1.28        Bank Group participation in the drainage program has helped attract
cofinancing from other donors, including USAID (US$30 million for the Upper Egypt
II Project), the Federal Republic of Germany (US$24 million for the Nile Delta
II Project), and the African Development Bank/Fund and the Netherlands (US$30
million and US$10 million, respectively, for the Drainage V Project).
1.29        Other ongoing drainage project are not part of but coordinated with
the proposed project. The Canadian International Development Agencv (CIDA) is
funding an Integrated Soil and Water Improvement Project (ISAWIP) covering 80,000
fed in the Dakahlia Governorate. This project with a five-year implementation
period was appraised at US$57 million equivalent; CIDA contribution would be
about US$42 million equivalent.   The project,  as planned,  consists of an
integrated package of 8 components, including the remodelling of open drains and
the installation of field drains  in 65,000 fed.   The construction of a
polyethylene (PE) pipe factory for producing drainage collector pipes has been
completed, and the plant is operational. The project is scheduled for completion
by 1994/95.
1.30        The Hamoul Drainage and Soil Improvement Project, approved by the
European Economic Community (EEC), covers 65,000 fed reclaimed from Lake Burullus
in the early sixties.   The project area is located in the Kafr el Sheikh
Governorate, north of the proposed NDP areas. The project includes the ditching
and land improvement works on 30,000 fed, the installation of pipe drains in
35,000 fed and the improvement of irrigation infrastructure.   Other drainage
projects in early stages of formulation include a 60,000 fed project to be
financed by the Islamic Development Bank and a 28,000 fed project to be financed
by the Japanese Government.
M\0M\ndp\1



- 9 -
1.31        The Government of the Netherlands has been involved in training
drainage staff for several years. The most recent training projects have focused
on management training. The Drainage Executive Management Project (DEMP), now
in its third phase, has financed the establishment of a Drainage Training Center
to train equipment operators and supervisors. Other components of the project
have focused on promoting staff development, on improving management skill,
through internal and external training, and on computerized planning and design.
Other Projects Impacting on the NDP
1.32        Of the three other projects influencing agricultural development in
the NDP area,  two are financed by the International Fund for Agriculture
Development (IFAD), and one is supported by the Bank.   These are the Minya
Agricultural Development Project, the Fayoum Agricultural Development Project,
and the Second Agricultural Development Project, respectively.  The two IFAD
projects address the improvement of extension, research and credit services.
The Second Agricultural Development Project covers seven governorates (Sharkia,
Dakahlia, Kafr el Sheikh, Behera, Fayoum, Damietta and Gharbia, of which the
first six are included in the NDP), concentrating on the introduction of improved
technological packages, including farm mechanization, and their timely
application.   As the drainage program will alleviate an important physical
production constraint, the NDP and above projects are complimentary and
reinforcing.
1.33        In  addition,  there  are  several  USAID-financed  projects  that
complement and support the proposed NDP.  The on-going Irrigation Management
Systems Project includes several subprojects that total about US$300 million.
The subprojects include: deterioriated structure replacement; a telemetry system
to monitor and improve system operation; the improvement of irrigation
facilities;  and staff training/manpower development.   The ongoing National
Agricultural Research Project focuses on applied research and staff training and
is quite complementary to the NDP.
M:\*M\ndp\1



- 10 -
II. NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROGRAM
A. APPROACH AND OBJECTIVES
Tihe Program Apgroach
2.01        The productivity of Egypt's limited agricultural  land resource
depends upon irrigation, which can be sustained and improved only with the
drainage of most of the irrigated areas. The Bank Group has assisted the country
in solving drainage problems in the Nile Valley and Delta over the past two
decades.   During this period Egypt's investments in drainage have been on a
project by project basis, which has hampered the long-term planning of resources
and technical manpower. A long-term investment program would facilitate planning
and provide flexibility in permitting the selection of priority areas.   The
proposed program would comprise investments scheduled for a 12-year period, of
which the first 6-year time slice (the project) would form the initial financing
package.
2.02        In areas not previously provided with covered pipe drains, referred
to hereinafter as new areas, the water table, soil salinity and soil stability
conditions are more technically demanding than in areas previously drained.
Furthermore, works proposed for renewal areas would represent a new phase of
drainage activities and the implementation of vertical drainage would involve
new types of works altogether. Hence, the prioritizing of areas to be drained,
appropriate location specific designs and improved construction and quality
control standards are essential. The flexibility and leverage inherent in the
program approach would facilitate the required improvements. The areas to be
drained during the first two years of the program were agreed at appraisal. For
the following years, a two-year rolling program would be prepared and reviewed
annually to ensure the priority draining of areas most seriously inhibited by
water-logging and salinity. Simultaneously, design and specifications would be
reviewed in terms of the suitability of soil and groundwater conditions in
selected areas, which would ensure that the latest improvements in drainage
design and technology are incorporated into the program. Finally, Egypt's budget
position is tight, and the selectivity proposed under the program would improve
the allocation of scarce resources. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that EPADP would submit a report by March 31st of each year for Bank/IDA and
other cofinancier review; this report would cover the achievements and
constraints of the previous year and a detailed rolling program for the following
two years, with budgetary requirements for both the development and recurrent
budget.
2.03        Under the proposed program, the installation of horizontal pipe
drainage would be completed in most of the historically irrigated old lands that
either now require, or are expected to require, drainage.  Desert land reclaimed
m:\eO\ndp\2



- 11 -
between 1965-80 on the fringes of the Delta and in isolated areas of Upper Egypt
have less immediate need for drainage and would be included subsequently.
Objectives
2.04        The main objective of the proposed program would be an increase in
agricultural productivity on 1.77 million fed through the establishment of good
drainage conditions and the evacuation of excess water from the area. The main
component of the program would be the installation of horizontal pipe drainage
networks on 1.74 million fed.  Other works would comprise the remodelling of
existing open drains, covering 0.80 million fed and the construction of tubewells
and ancillary works (vertical drainage) for 30,000 fed. The proposed drainage
works would reverse the present decline in land productivity caused by inadequate
drainage and would result in a net yield increase.
B. PROGRAM AREA
Area Initially ProRosed by EPADP
2.05        The program area initially identified by EPADP totalled 1.97 million
fed and comprised the following:
(a)   1.62 million fed of new areas requiring the installation of covered
pipe drains (field drainage) and the remodelling of open drains
(about 67 percent of the proposed area, or 1.09 million fed);
(b)   340,000 fed of renewal areas that need new field drainage networks
because the previously installed systems are unable to provide
drainage relief; and
(c)   10,000 fed suitable for vertical drainage.
2.06        Generally, the new areas proposed for drainage were based on observed
groundwater levels and soil salinity. In 1984, EPADF conducted investigations
of these parameters as well as of soil permeability, soil texture and groundwater
salinity on a 3-km grid; this provided a sample density of about one observation
hole per 2,100 fed. Approximately 1.2 million fed in the Delta, and 0.5 million
fed in Upper Egypt were sampled. The investigated areas were included in the
NDP, except for those areas covered by other ongoing projects or not requiring
drainage. The water table depths would be confirmed before inclusion of these
areas in the biannual program (para. 2.09).
2.07        During 1990, EPADP carried out investigations similar to the 1984
survey for additional 484,000 fed.   Results of both surveys indicated that
drainage is needed in practically all lands surveyed in the Delta, but only about
34 percent of the area investigated in Upper Egypt is characterized by
waterlogging and salinity. It appears that natural drainage processes in part
m:\eg\ndp\2



-12 -
of the Nile Valley, especially in lands near the river, lead to acceptable water
table depths despite intensive irrigation.
2.08        Drainage renewal will be continuously required as the older installed
drains reach the end of their useful life.  However, some areas will require
early renewal as previous drains were poorly installed leading to a premature
recurrence of waterlogging and salinization.   The latter refers primarily to
isolated installations in the late 1970s. The quality control problems of this
period have since been overcome.
Criteria for Selection of Areas
2.09        The generalized selection criteria for areas to be drained by the
NDP would include one or more of the following: (a) a water table within 100 cm
of the land surface for at least 75 percent of an area; (b) soil salinity
exceeding 4mmhos/cm (250 saturated soil extract) at 25 and/or 50 cm depth,
especially when it occurs in conjunction with a high water table; and (c) areas
where d-clines in agricultural production (about 20 - 30 percent) are reported
due to high water table and/or saline conditions. Additional criteria specific
to each type of area mentioned below must also be met. Together, these criteria
would aim at maximizing the drainage of priority areas under the program.
2.10        The generalized criteria were used for an initial screening of areas
not previously provided with pipe drainage and now proposed by EPADP for field
drainage. Additional criteria that were used in final selection: (a) identified
areas with the potential to evacuate drainage effluent through existing,
remodelled or new outlet drains; (b) low-lying lands or those enclosed by
drainage barriers; and (c) areas where piezometric pressures of the aquifers
bring the water level to within the root zone.
2.11        The general criteria would also be applied to the preliminary
selection of renewal and vertical drainage areas. In order to determine whether
areas having old field drainage systems are to be included in the program, the
additional criteria would include: (a) the malfunctioning of the field drainage
system (i.e., blockage and collapse in laterals and/or collectors), making it
ineffective; (b) cases where intensive maintenance and flushing do not result
in an improvement of the existing situation; (c) the need for drainage to improve
crop production; and (d) farmers views and willingness to pay with respect to
renewal. The complaints of farmers are, at present, the main factor in the
decision making process for including an area in the ongoing renewal program.
While this could be an important criterion for the preliminary selection,
detailed field investigations would be required to verify the need for drainage
if maintenance cannot improve the functioning of the system.
2.12        In selecting areas for vertical drainage, factors expanding on the
generalized criteria would be if: (a) a highly permeable substrata exists
(transmissivity exceeding 5,000 m2 /day) without slowly permeable barrier layers
between the aquifer to be pumped and the root zone; (b) open drains or other safe
m:\eM\ndp\2



- 13 -
disposal areas are available for discharging extracted water that cannot be used
for irrigation or water supply; (c) the vertical drainage system is the most
practical and economical method, giving consideration to the use of pumped water,
annualized costs, etc.; and (d) salt water intrusion will not be a problem.
Areas Selected for Drainage
2.13        The selection of the areas considered to be in need of drainage
relief was based upon survey data provided by EPADP and visible drainage and
salinity conditions.   Areas not recently surveyed would be investigated and
selected according to agreed criteria.   Data on the extent and severity of
specific drainage problems were unavailable for areas proposed for the renewal
of pipe drains and for vertical drainage. Assurances were, therefore, obtained
at negotiations that the selection of renewal and vertical drainage areas would
be based upon required investigations and agreed criteria (paras. 2.09 to 2.12).
The total area of the NDP covers 1.77 million fed, including 0.72 million fed
to be drained during the First Time Slice (1993-98) and 1.02 million fed during
the Second Time Slice (1999-2004). Details by region are shown in Annex II,
Table 1 and summarized below by activity.
Table 2.1: NDP Areas by Activity ('000 fed)
k-W         Renewal     Vettcel
*AtlVit                AAas                     Or iral malal
Field Draineae         1,270        470.                     1,140
Open Drains Remodetling  (800) 1/                            (800) 1/
lubhift La and
Ancittary%rks           v                          30         30
Totat                  1,270        470            so        177
ai Area serving both new areas wid renewal areas. iiaw areas are Jeft1ed as ereas not previousty
provitded with pipe dre nqe.
Location and Drainage Conditions
2.14        The new areas encompassed by both Time Slices of the program total
1.27 million fed. About 80 percent of the proposed area is located in Sharkia,
Damietta, Dakahlia, Kafr El Sheikh and the Behera Governorates in the Delta;
another 10 percent is at the fringes of the Delta in Alexandria and in the Marsa
Matruh Governorates, and the remaining 10 percent is distributed in all
Governorates in Upper Egypt. Approximately 1.05 million fed, located in the
Delta at the lowest elevation, are the most seriously inhibited in Egypt and may
be affected by salinity intrusion from the sea. Technically, this could be the
most difficult land to provide with drainage.   The areas in Upper Egypt are
localized with natural drainage generally impeded by barriers.
ni\qt\ndp\2



- 14 -
2.15        The areas suitable for vertical drainage are scattered in five
Governorates in Upper Egypt, namely Beni Suef, Minia, Assuit, Quena and Aswan.
Generally, these are affected by seepage from adjacent irrigated areas at higher
elevation. The renewal areas would be located throughout the Nile Valley and
its Delta. Some 60,000 fed identified for the renewal of field drainage during
the first four years of the program are located principally in the Menoufia and
Gharbia Governorates in the Delta.
Climate
2.16        The program area is located in a dry zone with a cool winter period
extending from November through March and a hot summer season from May to
September. From the Mediterranean coast in the north to Aswan in the south, the
climate becomes drier and warmer.  The mean monthly temperature in the Delta
ranges between 11.9C and 26.4C .  In Cairo the temperature ranges between
12.3C and 26.60C while in Upper Egypt the range is between 14.3C and 30.7C.
Rainfall is almost entirely limited to a narrow band along the northern coastal
area where it averages 120 mm/year. Rainfall decreases sharply inland, being
only 26 mm at Cairo. In Upper Egypt precipitation falls in negligible amounts.
Relative humidity is high for an arid region, ranging from 52 percent to 75
percent in the Delta and 36 percent to 59 percent in Upper Egypt. Overall, the
climate is ideal for irrigated agriculture and supports a continuous growing
season for irrigated crops.
TooDographv and Soils
2.17        The topography is generally flat from south to north, with a gentle
slope averaging about 8 cm/km from Aswan towards the sea.  Natural drainage
under the best of circumstances is very slow, even though the soils have a thick
base of permeable sands and gravel.  Drainage water from irrigated areas in the
northern Delta, including all NDP new areas, must be pumped because of a flat
topography and gentle slope.
2.18        'tost of the soils in the program belong morphologically to the recent
Nile alluvium. In the Delta areas, the soils are primarily heavy clays, which
tend to be lighter in the southern region. The alluvium averages about 10 m deep
and overlies deposits of water-bearing sands and gravel.   Exceptions to the
dominance of clay in the program area can be found along the desert fringes and
the Damietta Branch and also scattered throughout the middle Delta, where fine
sandy or sandy calcareous soils, silty sand and sandy clay loams occur.
2.19        In Upper Egypt along the Nile Valley the recent alluvium is mostly
clay to clay loam, tending to be coarser upstream from Sohag towards Aswan. The
alluvium varies from 4 to 15 m in thickness and overlies deep deposits of water-
bearing sands and gravel. At the fringes of the alluvial deposits, the soils
become more sandy as they begin to mix with the colluvium from the base of the
desert escarpments.
m\.g\ndp\2



- 15 -
2.20        The alluvial soils are highly productive.   When supplied with
irrigation water and provided with satisfactory drainage, they can support a
variety of crops, vegetables and fruits.
Soil Permeability
2.21        Soil permeability in the Delta ranges from less then 10 cm/day in
heavy clays to 50 cm/day or more in lighter soils. Soils of low to very low
permeability predominate in NDP areas, especially at the northern fringes of the
east and middle parts of the Delta. The drainage of heavy clays with very low
permeability would be undertaken after res arch establishes that such clays could
be effectively drained by covered pipe drains. In the Nile Valley, permeability
is higher with average values ranging from 25 to 80 cm/day.
C. AGRICULTURAL ASPECTS
Demographic Features. Farm Size and Land Tenure
2.22        Rural P2oulation.   It is estimated that the NDP would provide
drainage for about 590,000 farms; drainage would be provided for about 240,000
farms during the First Time Slice. Based on an average family composition of
6 individuals in the old lands, these 590,000 farm families comprise 3.4 million
people who would benefit from the program.  In addition, the farm population of
the old-new lands  included in the program is estimated at about 120,000
distributed over approximately 26,000 farms.
2.23        Land Tenure and Farm Size.  The average net farm size is 3.1 fed in
the Delta and 2.1 fed in Middle and Upper Egypt. Farm fragmentation has become
an important characteristic of agriculture in Egypt; in the last three decades,
the average number of owners increased from 60,000 to 150,000 in Middle and Upper
Egypt. Approximately 50 percent of all land under cultivation is farmed under
some type of leasehold arrangement. Land leasing and crop consolidation allow
large contigous areas of major crops to be grown in blocks.
Agticultural Institutions and Services
2.24        Extension.   The   extension   service   has   undergone   several
reorganizations in efforts to strengthen its effectiveness.   The extension
approach has evolved from centralized planning and control functions involving
regulatory and input distribution activities to a training and visit (T&V)
approach focused on communication and technology transfer. Administratively,
extension is the responsibility of an undersecretary in the Ministry of
Agriculture  and Land Reclamation  (MALR)  headquarters  in Cairo.    In  the
governorates, a director (responsible to the Governorate Undersecretary of
Agriculture) heads the extension service and has under his authority the section
heads for extension in each district.  The final unit in the extension chain
consists of the village extension workers (VEW), who are located in the village
cooperatives. The VEWs are agricultural secondary school graduates and provide
m:\egt\ndp\2



16 -
the link to farmers. The VEWs use T&V methodology, maintaining weekly contact
with about 25 contact farmers. The extension-research linkage has .mproved in
recent years due to several externally financed projects focusing on ihat issue;
however, the linkage remains weak.
2.25        Research.  Agricultural research is conducted within the framework
of the Agricultural Research Center (ARC) of MALR. This is a very large research
organization with over 6,000 research staff, of whom about 750 have PhD degrees.
ARC is, in turn, comprised of several institutes oriented toward commodity groups
or specific functions; these include, among others, Institutes for Field Crops,
Horticulture, Cotton, Sugar, Livestock Production and Animal Health and such
services as the Plant Protection Institute, Pesticide Laboratory and the Soil
and Water Research Institute (SWRI). ARC has received considerable support from
the USAID financed National Agricultural Research Program (NARP) through staff
training, laboratory and transportation equipment, and modest research funds.
However, despite the abundance of well-qualified staff, the institutional
capacity to conduct meaningful research remains constrained by an insufficient
focus on farming systems research, the low level of staff salaries and tight
research budget. Thus, dedication to research is low.
2.26        Credit.  The only institutional source of seasonal production credit
for small farmers is the government-owned Principal Bank for Development and
Agricultural Credit (PBDAC), which includes the 17 Governorate Banks for
Development and Agricultural Credit (BDAC) and the network of about 5,000
branches  and agencies.   Also,  the PBDAC group  is the primary source of
agricultural investment credit.  The banks and agencies are well staffed and
capable of evaluating agricultural investment plans. Adequate attention is given
to loan recovery: the repayment rate is about 97 percent. Borrowers must have
passbooks registered with the village cooperatives, these contain information
on cultivated areas,  cropping patterns,  etc.   Production loans are highly
structured and based upon production packages recommended by ARC. The village
bank agencies, in cooperation with the village cooperatives, stock and provide
inputs (seed, fertilizer, pesticides and other agricultural chemicals); credit
is provided in-kind, except for modest lending for machinery and labor hire.
Subsidized inputs are provided through this mechanism to the extent that these
are recommended/approved by ARC. Additional inputs can be obtained but only in
cash and at full cost.  Agricultural lending enjoys concessional interest rates;
the base interest rates for production and investment credit are 16 and 19
percent, respectively.
2.27        Cooperatives.  Instead of evolving from mutually interested groups
of farmers, agricultural cooperatives have, in general, been imposed from above.
Most cooperatives are multi-purpose, although a few are specialized in fruits
and vegetables, livestock and, more recently, machinery hire. The multi-purpose
cooperatives work closely with BDAC village agencies in supervising the flow of
credit to farmers, in loan recovery and in input supply. They also work with
the Government in the marketing of controlled commodities (sugarcane and cotton)
but work independently in marketing other commodities. They often have tractors
m:\qG\ndp\2



- 17 -
and equipment for hire - principally plows and tillers. With the movement toward
privatization of PBDAC commercial activities (input supply), the role of
cooperatives is expected to increase.
Agricultural Production
2.28        Cropping Patterns.  The most common practice followed in Middle and
Upper Egypt and in the Delta is the three-year rotation based on three major
crops - cotton, full-term berseem (Egyptian clover) and wheat - each of which
occupies the land for about 5 to 7 months. These three crops are planted in the
same plot once every three years, interspersed with broad beans, rice and maize.
2.29        To make farm operations more efficient, cotton, wheat and rice are
usually farmed in large contiguous blocks arranged at the village level by the
cooperatives. All farms grow cash crops, especially vegetables, and many farms
have some perennial crops, mainly sugarcane in Upper Egypt and citrus in the
Delta (grapes are also important in the West Delta).
2.30        The cropping pattern varies within and between districts in the
Delta, as well as between the Delta and the valley.   Rice is a delta crop
covering 23.5 percent of the cultivated area, while sugar cane is grown in the
valley in Upper Egypt on 25.5 percent of the cultivated area. The valley grows
more tomatoes, long berseem, wheat, and broad beans, while maize, cotton and
potatoes are grown equally in both the Delta and the valley.
2.31        Yields and production.  Yields in Egypt generally exceed the world
averages and would be still higher if the negative effects of the high
groundwater level in large parts of the country could be removed. Despite this,
some crops, such as rice and sugar cane, have average yields that are the highest
in tne developing world. Average yields for the major crops are shown in Table
2.2.
table 2.2: Present Yields of Major Crops
CiMp  - -    tSeYIld     0*0         YScld-
;,.^^,*.................i. ..<.^ ,  .^i....... *....._.*........
*  Idhet    *      3.36       Riee         4.8
3.84      Sorbum         36l:-
:-pt =en          ?1'28       Cottt       1i,92
Br. ihe:    :      1.42      iPotatoes    16.8:
oi krsg 4r.4                  S      got ers"   22.8
Tetoea* 21.36                 citrs lu.s2
D. TECHNICAL ASPECTS
2.32        Program Drainaze Works.  The proposed works for the program would
include:
m:\eg\ndp\2



- 18 -
(a)   New  /ALAe    The installation of about 13,000 km of covered field
collectors of cement and PVC corrugated pipes and about 118,000 km
of buried lateral drains of PVC corrugated pipes, with envelope
where necessary, and associated structures.   Also,  these areas
require the remodeling of about 1,200 km of existing open drains,
involving approximately 29 million cubic meters of excavation and
of structures in these channels;
(b)   Renewal Areas.   Field drainage similar to that in new areas,
involving about 4,700 km of collector and 44,000 km of lateral pipes;
(c)   Vertical Drainage.  The construction of 120 deep and shallow wells
with ancillary works; and
(d) Maintenance Buildings. The construction of 30 maintenance centers
and 240 subcenters.
2.33        The water table in about 99 percent of the program area, or 1.75
million fed, would be lowered to safe levels by installing covered pipe drains.
The generally applied design drainage discharge cf 1 mm/day for lateral drains
is acceptable but would need to be increased by the rate of upward seepage in
areas with piezometric pressare. For the purpose of computing drain spacings
for new areas in the Delta, drainage discharge of 1.2 mm/day has been applied
to allow for the expected seepage.   The upward seepage component would be
determined at the time of detailed investigations for construction designs with
assistance from the Water Research Center (WRC) and its specialized constituent
institutes, namely the Drainage Research Institute (DRI) and the Research
Institute for Groundwater (RIGW). The design water table depth currently used
by EPADP is 1.0 m, which is acceptable because research conducted by DRI has
established that depths greater than 0.7 m have insignificant effects on crop
yields in the program area. Nevertheless, there is a trade-off between depth
and spacing, and laterals would be installed as deep as permissible within the
design water level limits of open drains. In areas where hydraulic conductivity
is less than 10 cm/day or lateral spacing of 15 m or less is indicated, drainage
would be deferred until research work proves that pipe drains can benefit such
soils. In this regard, it was agreed that (a) DRI would undertake research on
areas where hydraulic conductivity was less than 10 cm/day; and (b)
implementation in such areas would be deferred until research was concluded and
agreed design criteria were established.
2.34        The field drainage system installed in Egypt is of the composite
type consisting of a network of lateral and collector drains. The laterals are
about 200 m long and discharge into collectors, which evacuate the drainage
water into open drains. Collectors can be up to 2 km long. The layout and type
of structure currently followed in composite pipe drain systems are appropriate.
DRI has done research on modified designs for rice cultivated areas,
prefabricated manholes and flushing procedures for laterals. The results of this
m:\qt\ndp\2



- 19 -
research have not yet been implemented by EPADP. They would be summarized by
DRI in a short report, issued by December 31, 1991, in which EPADP would provide
a schedule for incorporating any recommendations into future designs (see Annex
II, Table 8).
2.35        Corrugated, perforated PVC pipes manufactured by EPADP with 82/72
mm ouv-side and inside diameters are used for lateral drains. Pipes are laid at
a mir.,.mum slope of 10 cm/100 m to minimize sedimentation in pipes.
Specifications and inlet area per meter length are consistent with industry
standards, and installation practices are appropriate.   In the past, gravel
envelopes were generally used around lateral drains for spacings above 60 m.
Because of limited success due to inadequate gravel grading and placement around
pipes, the use of gravel envelopes will be discontinued. Instead, prewrapped
synthetic or natural fiber envelopes would be adopted under the program, where
needed. DRI will undertake research in a pilot area using 50 mm size PVC pipe,
which if proven effective, will be adopted in selected areas.
2.36        Collector drains are generally constructed of plain concrete pipes
with inside diameters of 15 to 40 cm laid at varying slopes. Reinforced concrete
pipes are used when the collector diameter exceeds 40 cm, or in instances where
the collector pipes pass underneath roads and water channels. The concrete pipes
are cost efficient and will continue to be used for collector drains unless soil
and groundwater conditions require the use of PVC corrugated pipe, with or
without filters.   Slotted PVC pipes would be prewrapped with a synthetic or
natural fiber envelope, where required. Based on available soil and groundwater
data, provision has been made for the use of PVC collector pipes to ensure the
quality constructiot. of field drainage works  in about 700,000 fed having
problematic soils or high groundwater tables.   This would represent a major
improvement introdu.-,d under the program.   The design drainage discharge of
covered collector drains depends upon the cropping scheme. If rice is in the
cropping pattern, 4mm/day is applied, and, if not, 3mm/day is used. While the
specifications of collector drains are acceptable, the currently applied safety
factors are excessive, as the measurements undertaken by DRI indicate that the
discharge seldom exc( 's 2 to 2.5 mm/day.  For possible cost savings of up to
4 percent of the tota? cost of pipe drainage, assurances were obtained at
negotiations that EPADP would, with assistance from DRI, provide recommendations
as to the design dra riage discharge of collectors based on: (i) field
investigations on a samp.Le of existing collector drains and collectors designed
for reduced drainage diszharge in selected areas of the Drainage V Project, to
be completed by June 30, 1993; (ii) research on the implications of reduced
design drainage discharge and the replacement of standard collector slope with
a variable slope by June 30, 1994. EPADP would adopt the recommendations in the
design of works to be implemented after December 31, 1994.
2.37        Open drains in the existing network would be deepened and widened
to a depth of no less than 2.5 m below the ground.   Existing in-channel
structures would be either rebuilt or extended. The present criteria used for
design and construction specifications are satisfactory.
m:\eO\ndp\2



- 20 -
E. ESTINATED COST OF THE PROGRAM
2.38           On the 'oasis of 1991 prices, the total base cost of the program is
estimated to be US$523.9 million, including an estimated US$42.9 million in
customs  duties.    The  foreign  exchange  component  is  estimated  to be US$190.6
million.    Cost  estimates  for  the  program  are  summarized  in  Table  2.3.  In
preparing program cost estimates, the following considerations were taken into
account:
(a)    costs  for  open  drain  remodelling  and  the  installation  of  field
drainage were based on recent unit prices of awarded contracts,
adjusted for program area conditions and price escalation as
necessary;
(b)    costs for plant and raw materials  for the production of PVC pipes
were based on recent contracts and on price information from
manufacturers;
(c)    costs  for construction and maintenance equipment and for vehicles
were assessed on unit prices of similar items procured recently in
Egypt or on price quotations from suppliers; and
(d)    costs for the operation and maintenance of PVC plants were provided
by EPADP.
Table 2.3: National Drainage Program - Cost Summary
LE 000                       US$ 000                    X Totat
........ ................-v- .........--- .......-.-  X Foreign    Base
Local   Foreign     Total    Local  Foreign    Total  Exchange   Costs
.-- - -- - -  ----- ----- -----    ---..- .--- - -- - -- - -- - - -- - -- - -- - -- - -
A . SUSSUIFACE OOAIMAri
1. ORIZ DBRAIN. N8V 676197.5  393507.1  1069704.6 204908.3  119244.6 324152.9     36.8    61.91
2. W*R1Z MIN, REM 234913.5  12568.3  36OW1.8  71185.9  38087.4  109273.3          34.9    20.9
3. VERTICAL DRAIN    23342.7   16698.3   40041.0   7073.5   56M.1  12133.6        41.7     2.3
.s*... .. . . *.. . -.. _.. .. . .._._._.._    ......... ... ....  .__.................
-Subtotl    -        934453.6  535893.8  1470347.4 283167.8 162392.1  445559.8      36.4    85.
0 . OPKt# QRA1M8 REN O   123133.6   64566.4  1877W.0  37313.2  19565.6  56878.8     34.4    10.9
t X INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
1. EPADP INCL. M & E 23108.5   18171.5   41280.0   7002.6   5506.5  12509.1       44.0     2.4..
2. DRt RES ACTV     12075.3    294.?   15070.0   3659.2    907.5   4566.7         19.9     0.9X
3. ENVIMRo SUP       0S1.0   7`504.0   145S.0   2136.7   2273.9   t10.6          51.6     0.8
..,... . . w.....4 ....  . .  ,........... .. ...  . ,    ... .... . .  ..............  ._, ..,...
Sibtotul              422.8   28670.2   70905.0  127.4   868.0  21486.4             40.4     4.
.,! ~~. .......... -- t  +.  ......... .. ........... +.,...,. ......... 11-  ....... .. .. ~v  .. ,. .w
Ttat BASELINE COSTS 109022.0  629130.4  172852.4 333279.4  19S645.6 523925.0        36.4   10.0
Physifct contir      94908.3   54899.0  149887.4  28784.3  16636.1  454204         36.6     8.7.
Price Contingencies 126S308.7  686US5.4  19494.1  109675.7  5178.$ 16784.5         34.7    32.0 .
TotatPe'ROJCTS COStS 2457119.0 1370514.9 3827633.9 471739.4 26546.5  737199.9       36.0   140.7 
umwmunuu suum.                   gi:nu2=m:~um :auw   muu2m:                    -,.
..   ..      *  *....................................................................*. ... .... .. ....... ^....... .. ... .
7/18/1991  14:21
m:\eot\ndp\2



- 21 -
F. PROGRAM IMPLEENTATION
2.39        The critical activity for program implementation is the installation
of covered pipe drains. The total area of field drainage under the program has
been based on an average implementation rate of 170,000 fed/year in the early
1980s, compared to the present output of about 150,000 fed/year. The proposed
rate is expected to be achieved with the improvements to be introduced under the
program. These improvements would include the use of more pipe laying machines,
the use of laser equipment to control drain installation, the intensive training
of machine operators and mechanics and improved construction planning and
management. Allowance for the demand from ongoing projects reduces the expected
implementation rate for the First Time Slice (the Project) to an average of about
120,000 fed/year.   In the Second Time Slice, the proposed rate of 170,000
fed/year would be achieved throughout.   The construction of tubewells and
ancillary works for vertical drainage is proposed to commence in the fourth year
and would continue until the completion of the program.
2.40        Most areas to be provided with field drainage during the initial
years would be those where open drains have already been remodelled or would be
remodelled by program inception. This approach would ensure that benefits from
investments already made would not be delayed. Other main considerations in
phasing implementation were that the program objectives should not conflict with
the priority completion of on-going projects and that the remodelling of open
drains would precede the installation of field drainage in a cost-effective
manner. Furthermore, the proposed implementation takes into account the time
required for planning, design and contracting, as well as realistic
administrative and financing needs.
2.41        The remodelling of open drains and the installation of field drainage
is projected to proceed as shown in Annex II, Table 2. The proposed phasing of
these two main components is shown in Table 2.4.
Table 2.4:  Implementation of Open and Covered Pipe Drains ('000 fed)
-   Time St ie I  TiUS t*.' I
C1993-9"19)204
eW-Atv"  od Lodhe            S90                                  .130
- OldVWiLme 1t                                 -            140
Sihtot.l                     590                 h8               1.am      -
*eAas                        130 ."0                               470
total Cowre PlpeOrens        m2                1,02              *1t4
haUlline G* orbiai           480                 S2 W0
m:\*0\ndp\2



-22 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. OBJECTIVES. SCOPE AND SUMMARY DESCRIPTION
Objectives and Scope
3.01        The proposed project consists of the First Time Slice of the National
Drainage Program. The main objective of the project would be to improve the
capacity of EPADP to implement the drainage program in areas where waterlogging
and salinity have become major constraints to maintaining and increasing land
productivity. The lowering of both the water table and salinity would reverse
the deterioration of land and increase agricultural production on about 720,000
fed. Some of the proposed areas have problematic soils and/or high water tables.
The renewal of old, field drainage systems and the implementation of vertical
drainage present new types of challenges. Hence, improvements to be introduced
under the project would emphasize improved capability and state of the e-:t
technical designs and more effective construction planning and management.,
quality control and Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E).   The project would also
address the deteriorating environmental situation created by the discharge of
untreated raw industrial and domestic waste into a few open drains 'para. 3.46).
Summary Description
3.02        The First Time Slice would include the following components:
(a)   Subsurface Drainage
(1)   The installation of covered pipe drains in new areas totaling
about 590,000 fed;
(2)   The renewal of covered pipe drains in an area of about 130,000
fed; and
(3)   The installation of 20 deep wells (vertical drainage) to drain
about 5,000 fed in selected areas.
(b)   Surface Drainage
(1)   The remodeling of existing open drains serving an area of about
480,000 fed.
(c)   Institutional Support to EPADP
(1)   The  provision  of  vehicles  for  investigation,  design,
construction, M&E and maintenance activities;
(2)   The provision of field investigation,  survey and office
equipment and microcomputers;
(3)   The provision of technical assistance with specialists for
designautomation, constructionplanning, management assistance
t\ets\ndp\3



- 23 -
to contractors, M&E and studies related to the renewal area;
a new outfall drain; drainage impact surveys; and the
Management Information System (MIS)/computer requirements of
EPADP; and
(4)   The provision of overseas study tours/training and local
training for EPADP staff.
(d)   Institutional Supgort to DRI and RIGW
(1)   The provision of vehicles for monitoring and various research
activities;
(2)   The provision of equipment for field investigation, laboratory,
monitoring and office use;
(3)   The provision of technical assistance with specialists for
M&E and research activities related to horizontal field
drainage and vertical drainage for DRI and RIGW, respectively;
and
(4)   The provision of seminars, workshops and local training for
DRI, WRC and RIGW staff.
(e)   Environmental AsRects
(1)   The provision of vehicles for field investigation and the
implementation of the first phase of an action plan;
(2)   The provision of field and laboratory equipment for testing
and analyzing of water quality and pollution control devices
for demonstration purposes and related goods;
(3)   The provision of technical assistance for the preparation of
a phased program on environmental aspects and an advisory
service to implement the initial phase of the program; and
(4)   The provision of overseas and local training for staff.
B. DETAILED FEATURES
Subsurface Drainage (Base Cost: US$185.1 million')
3.03        New Areas.  The water table in the new areas would be controlled at
safe levels by installing covered pipe  drains.  The areas selected for pipe
drainage would be those in most urgent need of drainage relief following the
criteria agreed to with EPADP (paras. 2.09 to 2.12). Designs have been completed
for about 110,000 fed with implementation scheduled during the first two years
(see Annex II, Table 3). For these areas, a detailed investigation of water
table depth, soil salinity and soil permeability on a 300 m grid was carried out
in 1990.
1/   Not including US$1.3 million institutional support for RIGW related to
vertical drainage.
m\oto\ndp\3



- 24 -
3.04        Design and specifications  for field drainage,  as well  as for
materials to be incorporated in such works, would be consistent with industry
standards. Design would be adjusted for local conditions and would follow the
broad technical criteria discussed in paras. 2.33 to 2.37, incorporating the
latest developments in drainage technology and design.
3.05        Lateral drains of slotted PVC corrugated pipes would be installed
at a depth of 1.4 to 1.6 m, at a spacing varying with soil conditions. While
the actual spacing would be determined from soil permeability measurements taken
in the predesign field survey, the results of a reconnaissance survey show a
range from 20 to 100 m with a weighted average of 46 m. It is assumed that for
about one third of the new area, laterals, with an envelope and laid by machines
in continuous length, would be required. The use of pipes prewrapped with a
synthetic or natural fiber sheet is recommended, and provision has been made in
the cost estimates for the use of such materials and for the prewrapping of one
third of the laterals.   For the remaining two thirds of the laterals, soil
conditions do not require the use of envelopes.
3.06        Concrete collector pipes would continue to be used where they could
be appropriately installed. The use of corrugated PVC pipe is recommended in
about 240,000 fed assumed to have problematic soils; the size of the area would
be confirmed during predesign investigations.   The corrugated PVC pipe would
have outside diameters from 12.5 cm to 35.5 cm. If soil conditions require it,
a graded gravel base of 5 cm minimum would be provided beneath the collector pipe
and along its length. Open and buried manholes would be constructed at intervals
of 180 to 240 m at junctions with laterals to allow for inspection and
maintenance. Each manhole would be extended for at least 25 cm below the bottom
of the connecting main collector pipe to serve as a silt trap. To improve the
quality of construction, prefabricated manholes have been designed by DRI. EPADP
would produce these in one of the pipe production factories and gradually
introduce their use under the project.
3.07        Renewal Areas.  A new phase of drainage activities to be initiated
under the First Time Slice requires the renewal of existing but ineffective field
drainage systems on 130,000 fed. The selection of renewal areas would be based
on the investigation and criteria given in paras. 2.09 and 2.11. The design for
each area would be location-specific but consistent with standards specified for
such works in the new areas. Completed project analyses and investigat.ion of
some 30,000 fed indicate that lateral drain spacing would vary from 20 to 80 m.
The weighted average spacing for cost estimates was taken as 43 m. Collectors
would be constructed with concrete pipes. However, provision has been made for
corrugated PVC collectors to be installed in about 20 percent of the area, to
ensure quality construction in problematic soils.
3.08        Production of Corrugated PVC Pipes.  EPADP is both the sole user and
sole manufacturer of corrugated PVC pipe in Egypt; pipe is produced in 7
factories (12 extruding units), 4 in the Delta (Damanhur, Zifta, Tanta and Aga)
and 3 in Upper Egypt (Beni Suef, Assuit and Quena). The possibility of utilizing
alternative PVC pipe sources and/or privatizing EPADP factories was assessed,
m:\*t\ndp\3



- 25 -
with the objective of reducing pipe costs. The cost of manufacturing corrugated
PVC pipe in Egypt is similar to fob prices (Italian and Dutch ports). However,
the bulky nature of pipes creates costly sea and inland transportation, making
import unat ractive. Private manufacturers, located in the larger urban areas,
produce a heavy PVC sanitary pipe and light PVC connectors for EAPDP corrugated
drainage pipe. Private entrepreneurs could doubtlessly be encouraged to install
production equipment in the rural areas and relocate them periodically; however,
it is improbable that this could be accomplished without providing a price
incentive greater than the current production cost. Further, the quality of the
connector produced is variable with frequent "thins."  Given this situation,
reliance on private manufacters for corrugated pipe appears impractical.
3.09        Because of a decreasing annual need for PVC pipe in Upper Egypt, it
is proposed that two factories in Upper Egypt be closed and that all pipes be
produced in the factories at Beni Suef and in the Delta. In order to meet the
demand for PVC pipes, provisions have been made for: (a) replacing the production
units at Zifta; (b) renewing the extruding lines at Aga; (c) converting the
polyethylene line for laterals at Aga to PVC pipe production; (d) building a new
facility at Damanhur to produce PVC collector pipes; (e) creating facilities to
produce artificial envelopes and prewrap PVC pipes; (f) supplying bulk transport
and supporting equipment; and (g) supplying PVC powder and additives.   The
equipment required for the above is listed in Annex II, Table 4.
3.10        Pipe Laying Eguipment.  The project would provide the required pipe
laying machines and supporting equipment, including spare parts. The equipment
requirements are based on contract packages, the output of collector and lateral
laying units suitably adjusted for local conditions and supporting equipment to
maintain required pipe-laying output after ccounting for equipment that would
be available from ongoing projects.   The equipment required to complete the
720,000 fed of field drainage under the project and cover the initial years of
the Second Time Slice of the NDP operation is listed in Annex II, Table 4. In
addition to 30 percent spare parts of machine value supplied with the new
machinery, provisions would also be made to supply spare parts for old equipment,
corresponding to about 10 percent of the purchase value for each year of
operation.   Two trenchless pipe-laying machines would also be procured for
demonstration and experimental purpose.
3.11        Maintenance Facilities and Equipment.   The project would provide
for the construction of 12 maintenance centers (about 50,000 fed/center) and
about 96 subcenters for pipe drains maintenance, each covering about 5,000 fed.
Mobile units equipped with transport and flushing units would be assigned to each
center. Equipment required for the maintenance of pipe drains is listed in Annex
II, Table 4.
3.12        Vertical Drainage.  In areas affected by seepage water from adjacent
fields irrigated at higher elevations, in unstable soils and in some of the
renewal areas, vertical drainage appears technically promising and economically
competitive with covered pipe drains, provided the lands are underlain by highly
permeable substrata.   In the long run,  the conjunctive use of canal and
m:\ogt\ndp\3



- 26 -
groundwater, serving both irrigation and drainage purposes, might be a more
attractive possibility for large areas in the Nile Valley and in the southern
part of the Nile Delta.
3.13        The proposed activities are: (a) to install vertical drainage only
in waterlogged areas for which there are no alternative remedial solutions; and
(b) to investigate the introduction of tubewells for vertical drainage purposes.
About 5,000 fed have been identified for implementation under the project.
About 20 production wells each up to 80 m deep and serving a 250 fed area with
a capacity of 60 to 80 1/sec, would be installed. These wells would be placed
in areas where waterlogging and a lack of irrigation water are problems and
where groundwater salinity levels would not exceed the tolerance of the crops
grown in the area.
3.14        In view of Egypt's limited experience with vertical drainage and
given t"at area identification has only been done on a reconnaissance level,
assurances were obtained at negotiatioxLs that RIGW/EPADP would: (a) complete
the investigations, design and tender documents for the implementation of
production wells,  by  December  31,  1992;  (b)  formulate  procedures,    in
collaboration with the Irrigation Department and MED, for the participation of
beneficiaries in the construction and eventual operation of wells by June 30,
1993; and (c) implement the procedures for those wells constructed after June
30, 1994.
Remodeling of ORen Drains (Base Cost: USS32.5 million)
3.15        Remodeling would cover all existing open drains in new areas,
wherever this work was not carried out under previous drainage projects. About
1,200 km of open drains serving 480,000 fed would be remodeled under the project.
The open drains would be deepened and widened according to the criteria given
in para. 2.37, with an estimated excavation volume of about 18 million cubic
meters. The estimated number of cross drain structures to be rebuilt include
about 700 bridges, 20 siphons and 200 aqueducts. For open drain remodelling,
design criteria and specifications followed by EPADP are acceptable.
3.16        About 850 fed of land would be acquired for remodeling works.  This
land would be lost for agriculture, but, in exchange, an area occupied now by
tertiary open drains of about the same acreage would be available for cropping
after field drainage installation.   Therefore, the proposed works would not
reduce the total cultivable land. As in the past, the acquisition of land is
not expected to pose any problem.
3.17        Construction EauiDment and Spare Parts.  In order to complete the
remodeling of open drains for the whole program, the construction equipment
listed in Annex II. Table 5 would be procured in two packages, both under the
project (First Tima Slice). This would ensure the availability of equipment and
the continuity of work without interruption during the Second Time Slice of the
program.   Provision is also made for spare parts, up to 10 percent of the
m:\egl\ndp\3



- 27 -
equipment purchase price in addition to about 20 percent of equipment value in
spare parts included in the unit rate of each piece of equipment,
3.18        Maintenance Equipment. The project would provide equipment as listed
in Annex II, Table 5 for the maintenance of open drains. The provisions are made
for hydraulic excavators with long booms and such attachments as flail mowers
and shallow draft buckets for weed mowing operations. Motor graders with slope
blades are provided to maintain the drain banks and side slopes.   The first
procurement of maintenance equipment would be during the third year of
implementation (i.e., FY95) with spare parts up to 20 percent of the equipment
purchase price in addition to about 10 percent spare parts of equipment value
to be procured in following years.
Institutional Support to EPADP (Base Cost: US$6.4 million)
3.19        Vehicles and Equipment.   Vehicles are required by EPADP:  (a) at
headquarters for administrative functions, predrainage investigations and M&E,
including assessments of physical performance and the effectiveness of existing
field drainage systems; (b) at field directorates to assess the open drain
remodeling requirements and construction supervision; and (c) at field
maintenance centers for maintenance activities.  The requirement for vehicles
is detailed in Annex II, Table 6.  The GOE will seek financing for imported
vehicles from bilateral assistance and grants.
3.20        The project would provide for the procurement of  (a) 25 P.C.
computers with software for design automation, the physical planning of works
and the assessment of implementation activities and for use  in the pipe
production plants; (b) survey equipment; and (c) miscellaneous office equipment
required at the headquarters and field offices. The equipment requirement is
listed in Annex II, Table 6.
3.21        Technical Assistance and Training.  Specialized services would be
required for design automation; a management information system (MIS) for
implementation planning, M&E and short studies related to renewal areas; the
planning of a new outlet drain to serve the area on the left bank of El Nasr
Canal; and an MIS requirement study.  Provision has been made for a total of
about 70 person-months of internationally recruited and 25 person-years of
locally recruited professional services. These services would be spread over
a period of three to four years for the expatriate professionals and six years
for the local professionals. An annual provision of about US$9,000 for 6 years
would be made to meet unfunded associated costs covering the drainage impact
surveys and analysis under the M&E program to be carried out jointly by EPADP,
the Statistics Department of the Ministry of Agriculture and Reclamation and DRI.
The details for the specialized inputs and short studies are given in Annex II,
Table 7.
3.22        Technical assistance would be financed from non-Bank source(s).
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that MPW would cause EPADP to (a)
undertake studies and engage consultants according to the agreed terms of
m:\qt\ndp\3



- 28 -
reference; and (b) contract services with consultants and/or experts whose
experience and qualifications are acceptable to the Bank.
3.23        Training.  Provision would be made for overseas training for about
30 key staff at EPADP in management and the latest technology related to the
design, construction and O&M of drainage works, as well as the  management
information system.   The total provision of about 70 person-months would be
spread over 4 years for study tours and attendance at professional seminars and
specialized workshops. A lump sum provision of about US$265,000 would be made
to cover the local training spread over 5 years in the field of management and
administration,   computers,   design  and  investigations  and  construction
supervision. Local training would also apply to the staff of contractors engaged
in drainage works. The in-house training would be conducted by the expatriate
experts working with EPADP, professional and senior staff of WRC, DRI, RIGW, SWRI
and other specialized training institutes in Egypt.  Training provisions are
expected to be financed through the Netherlands' Directorate General for
International Cooperation (NDGIC) bi-lateral assistance.
Institutional Support to DRI and RIGW (Base Cost; USS3.9 million2)
3.24        Vehicles and Equipment.  In order to improve mobility and undertake
field investigations and research, vehicles are urgently needed by DRI and RIGW.
The provision of vehicles and equipment is detailed in Annex II, Table 6 and
includes two stations wagons, eight single and double cabin pick-ups and four
motorcycles. A lump sum provision of about US$340,000 would be made to procure
basic equipment for field investigations, and laboratories, some equipment for
demonstration purposes, computers and office equipment.   Provisions would also
be made for geophysical equipment and recorders to be used by RIGW in their
investigations and miscellaneous monitoring equipment (Annex II, Table 7) to be
used by DRI.
3.25        Technical Assistance and Training.  Specialized services would be
required for the research activities of DRI and RIGW for field and vertical
drainage,  respectively.   Provisions would be made for 40 person-months of
internationally recruited professionals.
3.26        Provisions would be made for overseas study tours and the local
training of research scientists and technical staff working at both DRI and RIGW
(Annex II, Table 6). Financing aspects and assurances mentioned in para. 3.22
for EPADP technical assistance and training would also apply to these activities
at DRI and RIGW.
3.27        Recurrent Expenditures.   Provisions would be made to cover such
annual expenditures as incremental vehicle O&M for experimental work, field
monitoring and laboratory operation.   Provisions for these operations over a
2/    Including US$1.3 million institutional support for RIGW related to
vertical drainage.
m:\egt\ndp\3



- 29 -
period of 6 years would amount to about US$290,000.   In order to attract
qualified scientists to research activities, provisions would be made to pay
incentive allowances to seven scientists.   DRI and RIGW would engage 12 new
professionals and scientists, 46 technicians and about 10 support staff  to
undertake   project-related  adaptive  research,   monitoring,   testing  and
investigations. An annual provision of about US$400,000 would be made to cover
incremental costs, field allowances, and miscellaneous expenditures.
Environmental Support (Base Cost: USS2.1 million)
3.28        The project provides institutional support in order to address some
of the environmental issues (para 3.46), strengthening the ability of involved
agencies to improve environmental conditions. A water quality impact assessment
study is expected to be launched by December 31, 1991. The resulting drainage
water management action plan, coordinated by the Water Research Center (WRC)
and supported initially by USAID and subsequently by the project, would take the
form of technical assistance and pilot demonstrations in specified industries
(food processing, slaughterhouses, leather tanning, electroplating, etc.) in
order to reduce effluent pollution through minimum-cost management and process
techniques. Under the project, provision would be made for (a) vehicles, field
and laboratory equipment for testing and analyzing water quality and pollution
control devices for demonstration purposes; (b) technical assistance for the
preparation of a phased program on environmental aspects and an advisory service
to implement the initial phase of the program; and (c) overseas and local
training of staff.
C. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
3.29        The total project cost is estimated at LE 1,417.4 million (US$290.0
million), of which LE 548.0 million (US$112.8 million), or 38.9 percent, is
foreign exchange. Project costs were based on the estimated length of lateral
and collector pipe drains and quantity estimates for earthwork and the types of
structures for remodeling open drains; unit rates were obtained from various
contracts recently awarded under the Drainage V Project (Loan 2562-EGT), with
some adjustments for variations in unit prices.  EPADP pays taxes and duties
ranging from between 5 percent and 20 percent for imported equipment and
materials, except for 100 percent customs duty on vehicles; this is reflected
in the unit rates. All costs are based on prices as of June 1991. Physical
contingency factors were based on the degree of preparation and the firmness of
details available; these were 10 percent for covered pipe drains for both new
and renewal areas; 5 percent for pipe laying and maintenance equipment and
training activities; and 15 percent for vertical drainage equipment and for
quantities used for civil works associated with the remodeling of open drains.
No physical contingency was applied to equipment for PVC pipe production or open
drain remodeling and maintenance, maintenance buildings, recurrent costs for
pipe drainage, vehicles and equipment or technical assistance associated with
institutional  support.    Costs  due  to expected price  increases  over  the
implementation period amount to about 17.6 percent of the base cost plus physical
contingencies, assuming the following annual inflation rates.
m:\egt\ndp\3



- 30 -
1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999
- --------------percent---------------
Foreign Exchange Component                      3.4    3.4    3.4    3.4    3.4    3.4    3.4
Local Currency Component                        15       9       6       5       5       5       5
The  implicit  exchange  rate  used  in  the  cost  calculations  reflects  price
contingencies  based  on  the  constant  purchasing  power  parity  of  the  Egyptian
pound. The project completion date is June 30, 1999.
3.30           Details  of cost estimates are presented  in Annex  I,  Table  1-7 and
are summarized in Table 3.1 below.
Table 3.1: National Drainage Project - Project Cost Summary
LE 000                        US$ 000                  % Totat
-------------------------  --^---  ---            -----        %Foreign ease
Loeal   Foreign      Total    Local  Forign    Total  Exchane Costs
.......... ........................ .  ......................................  .*.. ........  ... ..........
A SUBSURFACE ORAINAGE
1. HOR12 DRAINAGE, NEW  300705.5  190076.1  490781.6   91122.9  57598.8  148721.7       38.7  64.7
2. HC*IZ DRAIN, fEtEW    66310.3   48783.2  115093.5   20094.0  14782.8  34876.8        42.4  15.2
3. VERtICAL ORAINAGE      5239.9    3853.1    9093.0    1587.8   1167.6   2755.5        42.4   1.2
.. ... .... ... .... _. M_ ........ i*. ....    _. _ ....... _.._. _......... . - ....... ............ -.._
Stbtotal                  372255.6  242712.5  614968.1  112804.7  73549.3  186354.0       39.5  81.0
B . OPEN DAINS REMOD      65519.5   41687.5  107207.0   19984.4  12632.6  32487.0         38.9  14.1
C . IMSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
1. EPADP INCL. M & E     11257.3    9767.7   Z1025.0    3411.3   2959.9   6371.2        46.5   2.8
2. DRI RES. ACTtV.        6350.?    2263.8    8614.5    1924.5    686.0   2610.5        26.3   1.1
3. ENMRONMENT SUP         3419.5    3615.5    7035.0    1036.2   1095.6   2131.8        51.4   0.9
*   ._............ 1    v ........ .......-   .1--*P    w+   *_.....  I.........   _+  +_._+
subtotel                  21027.5   15647.0   3674.        6372.0   4741.5  11113.5       42.7   4.#
...-  - -- - - - -- - - -    I---.-..-  --- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -   --------------  ... ...... 
totat BASELINE COSTS     458802.5  300047.1  758849.6  13M1.1  9023.4 229954.4            39.5  100.0
Physicat tontingemsies  40909.7   24030.3   64940.0   12396.9   7281.9  19678.8        37.0   8.6
Price Contingencies    369742.6  223903.7  593644.2   2544.1  14548.3  40392.4         36.0  17.6
Totat PROJSCTS COSTS      869454.8  547981.1  1417435.8  177272.0  112753.6 290025.6      38.9  126.1
.. ... .... *. ....... . --   . .. ........ ...... . o...... v . .............. .... .... 4....... -.-......- .. -......--..  .  
7/1111191  1S:05 
3.31            Financing Plan.   The Government has requested assistance  from the
Federal Republic of Germany through KfW and from the Netherlands through NDGIC.
KfW is expected to provide financing of about DM 50 million (equivalent US$30
million), ten percent of which would be a grant. The grant funds would be used
to cover both the local and foreign expenditures related to environmental aspects
and the imported vehicles for EPADP, DRI and RIGW. The loan portion of KfW
financing would finance foreign exchange costs of equipment, materials and a
portion of local costs related to civil works contracts and the production of
m:\egt\ndp\3



- 31 -
PVC pipes. NDGIC is expected to provide financing of about DFL 20 million
(equivalent US$10 million) through its bilateral assistance program. NDGIC
financing would cover all of the foreign exchange and most of the local cost
requirements for Technical Assistance and Training, vertical drainage, two
trenchless pipe-laying machines for demonstration/testing, research activities
and institutional support to EPADP. The cofinancing would be on the basis of
parallel financing. A tentative financing plan for various components is shown
in Annex I, Table 8. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that GOE would
confirm the cofinancing arrangements for the project by December 31, 1992.
3.32        As the project has a low foreign exchange content (about 39 percent),
and in view of budgetary constraints, the Government has requested assistance
in financing local expenditures; the cofinanciers and the Bank/IDA propose to
finance some of the local expenditures.   The proposed Bank loan of US$45.0
million and the IDA credit of US$75 million would finance about 44 percent of
the project cost, net of duties and taxes; this would meet about 76 percent of
the foreign costs and 20 percent of local costs; other cofinanciers contributions
would meet the remaining 24 percent of foreign costs and 7 percent of local
costs. The proposed financing plan is summarized in Table 3.2.
Table 3.2: Financing Plan (US$ million)
Locat Foreign  Totat
8ank Group
IBRD                    13.0   32.0   45.0
1DA                      21.7   53.3   75.0
KfW (GYermay)
Grant                    0.8    2.2    3.0
Loan                     7.0   20.0   27.0
NIDGC (Netherlands)        4.8    5.2   0.0
Ooverment of Egypt        130.0         30.0
Totat                     177.3  112.?  290.0
D. PROCUREMENT
3.33        Procurement arrangements for the components to be financed by the
Bank Group are summarized in Table 3.3. Each of the cofinanciers will have its
own procurement requirements; only the total amount is defined in Table 3.3.
The proposed equipment and civil works tender processing and completion schedules
are shown in Annex 1, Table 9. Procurement for all items under the project would
be carried out by EPADP.
3.34        All equipment and materials to be financed from the Bank loan
proceeds would be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the
Procurement of Equipment. Egyptian manufacturers competing under International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) would receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15
percent of the CIF price or the prevailing custom duty applicable to non-exempt
nL\s\ndp\3



- 32 -
Table 3L3: Procurement Arrangements
 --------------US S               .il.ion  .f.- ... ...
Other E/
tCh        LCB         Others hI   Cofinencier Total
A.      mlment end mateals
1.    PVC Pipe Production Nachinery            8.0                                3.0           11.0
( 7.0)                                            t 7.0)
2.    PVC Powder and Additives                35.0                               11.0           46.0
(32.0)                                            (32.0)
3.    Pipe Laying and Auxitiarr               20.0                                6.0           26.0
Equipment                             (18.0)                                            (18.0)
4.    Construction & Maintenanee              10.0                                              10.0
Equipment for Open Drains             ( 9.0)                                            (9.0)
S.    Vehicles                                                                    3.5            3.5
6.    Spare Parts                                                      a.0        5.0           13.0
( 7.0)                    ( 7.0)
7.    Misc. Equipment - Computers,
Field Investigation, Laboratory
Demonstration, Office Equipment                                             1.5           1.5
8.    Equipment for Vertical Drainage                                              1.0           .0
Subtotal                               73.0                     8.0           0        1..
(66.0)                 t 7.0)                     (73.-)
B.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Sii                                                       :.g.k
1.    Maintenance & PVC Factory                           4.0                            -   
Suildings                                         C 2.0)                                ( 2.0)
2.    Subsurface Drainage works               78.0                                25.0         103.0
(38.7)
3.    Walls, Dritlings, Testing  &
Instaltstion Contracts                             --                       1.0           1.0
4.    Open Drains 8 Remodeling                           12.0                                   12.     .
(4.0)                             (4.0)} : -
$idtotal                               78.0        16.0                     0           120.0
(38.7)  -     .0                                  (46.7:
C.    Technical Assistafne & Traininga
1    Inatitutional Support to                 0.3                           .     2.5        -
EPADP, ORt and 31GW                    (0.3)                          :-                 . $
2.    Env ental SLport                                                            -1.0           1.t0L$ 
3.  rafinIg                                                                      .1.
S"tota t                                0.3 ..
(0.3)                                             03
0.
1.    Land Acquisition   C Crop Co;wensation                                      30.1 .0.              .
2.    oecurrent cost - Selaries &
Altowances etc.                                                    -4.                    4    -
3.    "'ita  Dutfes and Taxes                                                     7.1
Totat                                  5                        8&;
(105.0)     ( 6.0.)    .   :. 0-
f Fles in parenthesis represet auowto to be ftFrT"D*              tenret-
W Diret purchase or Lt8 for equfpmnt and materials.
St To be finamed by other cofinancSare u%der separate arrangements  n b              : 00:.
m\eg\ndp\3



- 33 -
importers, whichever is less, provided they can prove that the value added to
the product in Egypt exceeds 20 percent of the ex-factory bid price. All bidding
packages for equipment and materials estimated to cost US$750,000 equivalent or
more would be subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement documentation.
Other contracts would be sul'ject to ex-post review after contract award. These
limits would result in p.ior review of contracts representing about 70 percent
of the loan/credit. Consulting services, if any, to be financed from the loan
proceeds would be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants. All documents relating to the procurement of consulting services
to be financed from the Bank loan proceeds would be subject to the Bank's prior
review. Consultants for technical assistance would be engaged according to the
procedures and guidelines of the agency financing this component.
3.35         EquiRment and Materials.  ICB procedures in accordance with Bank
guidelines would be used for the procurement of pipe laying equipment, corrugated
PVC pipe production machinery, PVC powder and additives, and construction and
maintenance equipment for the remodeling of open drains. Vehicles to be imported
under Bank Group financing would also be procured under ICB procedures. These
items (totaling US$73 million, including c^ntingencies) represent more than 40
percent of the total cost of components financed by the Bank Group. Where
compatibility of spare parts or other items with installed equipment is required
or where items are available from a sole source of supply only, contracts would
be negotiated directly with the manufacturer or authorized agent. International
shopping, based on at least three price quotations from at least two countries,
would be used for items of small value with an estimated value of up to
US$200,000 equivalent each. There would be an aggregate limit on international
shopping of US$3 million.
3.36        Civil Works.  Contracting for the Bank Group financed parts of field
drainage would follow ICB procedures. Bids would be invited from prequalified
firms/contractors from the Bank-eligible countries (see para. 4.11).  Slicing
and packaging procedures adopted under the ongoing project would be used, whereby
contractors may bid for only part of the works or for the entire works. In the
past, civil works contracts did not generally attract foreign or big contractors,
and only slices of package were awarded to small contractors, who, typically,
have a weak financial base, inadequate technical staff and limited support
equipment. To attract private contractors and encourage the local contracting
industry, which has difficulties in obtaining foreign exchange, EPADP would
purchase the equipment and spare parts on behalf of the contractors and deduct
costs from the contractors' progress payments.
3.37        Civil works for the remodelling of open drains, maintenance centers,
subcenters and sheds and small buildings required for PVC pipe production lines
are not suitable for ICB because they are small, scattered throughout the area
and would be implemented in small parcels during the construction period. These
works, amounting to US$4 million, would be procured following local competitive
bidding (LCB) procedures. LCB procedures are generally consistent with the need
for economy and efficiency in the execution of the project. There are, however,
a few procedures that are inconsistent with the Bank Procurement Guidelines and
m-\eg\ndp\3



- 34 -
others that require clarification. These procedures and proposals to improve
them are detailed in Annex II, Table 10. During negotiations, agreement was
reached regarding these changes needed to make the procedures aceptable to the
Bank. EPADP would introduce agreed revisions in the standard bidding documents
and submit the revised documents to the Bank Group after approval by the State
Counsel.
3.38        Small items costing less than US$100,000 and miscellaneous equipment
and materials for office, laboratory, field investigations and office furniture,
which are not suitable for ICB, may be awarded on a competitive basis to reliable
suppliers after quotations have been obtained from at least three such suppliers.
The aggregate amount of such locally procured goods would not exceed US$2.5
million equivalent.
E. DISBURSEMENTS
3.39        The proposed Bank loan of US$45.0 million and IDA credit of US$75.0
million (equivalent SDR 56.4 million) would be disbursed in 7 years against the
following categories at rates shown in Table 3.4.
Table 3.4: Disbursement Categories and Amount
Amamt (mit ion US$)      X of Expenditure
rae~~~~~~~~I .                DA       iQ.l   _g inEo
1. Cit Works                17.4    $1.1     48.5   50 of toot.t
IWAttlitlon of Iforizantat                           expenditure
Wr.tnog. Open grfl1n Raol t ir .
md Oultdinp for Pipe fictorles
mnd lfttaintce Centers  
2. Equip#nt, vwhctes         25,1    39.1      64.2    100C of fo-grl    tuoo...
Spares *rxi Natertats                                * OO Qf lOC. I 0900dIturS
(ex-factory Mest)-
Box of =e turef. #
lafttty prcured Item,
S. Tchn1cat Assistonce  .             0.3       0.3   leas of total
wnd Trainins                                          XPenditur -.
4. Unttocated               .         4.
Total                      45.O    75.0   -20.0
3.40        All  applications  for  disbursement  would  be  made  by  EPADP.
Disbursements would be made against full documentation except for payments
against contracts of less than US$300,000 equivalent, which would be disbursed
against  statements of expenditures  (SOEs).   It is estimated that total
procurement under SOEs would be about US$3 million. Supporting documents for
SOE claims would be retained at EPADP, DRI and RIGW headquarters and made
available for inspection by Bank supervision missions and project auditors.
m:r\sWt\rdp\3



- 35 -
EPADP would aggregate withdrawal applications for reimbursement so that the total
amount would not be less then US$20,000 equivalent. For internal procedural
reasons EPADP has not used a Special Account in the past. However, provision
is made under the project for such account in case EPADP decides to use it.
3.41        The estimated schedule of IBRD/IDA credit disbursements is given in
Table 3.5 and in Annex I, Table 11. The disbursement profile is projected over
a seven year period from January 1993 to December 1999.  The profile follows
fairly closely the disbursement for agricultural projects in Egypt.
Table 3.5: Disbursement Schedule (US$ million)
----------.IBRD Fiscat Year --.---.-.
1993  1994  19s   1996  1997   19    199   200
AmuMt             -     8.0  17.0  20.0  20.0  24.0   20.0  11.0
Cuw.tative        -     8.0  25.0  45.0  65.0  89.0  109.0  120.0
F.   ACCOUNTS AND AUDITS
3.42        EPADP, DRI and RIGW, like all Government agencies, are subject to
COE expenditure control and auditing procedures. The Central Directorate for
Administration and Finance of EPADP, DRI and RIGW would be responsible for
establishing and maintaining separate accounts for the project, reflecting, in
accordance with appropriate accounting practices, the operations and expenditures
of the project. The Central Audit Organization (CAO), an independent auditing
agency currently responsible for auditing the accounts of ail of MPW agencies,
would audit the project accounts.  CAO performs continuous audits, generally
preparing three interim reports each year and consolidating its findings in an
annual report. CAO has been responsible for submitting audit reports for other
Bank-financed projects, which have been found acceptable.   In the past, the
submission of audited accounts slipped about six months. The revision of the
submission date to nine months, instead of six, after the end of the fiscal year
has improved the submission timing.   In order to strengthen the accounting
function, provision has been made under the project for the training of
accounting personnel and for the streamlining of the accounting system within
EPADP, DRI and RIGW, using the MIS to be introduced under the project. These
improvements would help insure the timely preparation of accounts.
3.43        Assurances were obtained at negotiations:  (a) that all project-
related contracts and documents for disbursements made against SOE would be kept
for at least one year after the fiscal year in which the last withdrawals from
the loan/credit accounts were made; (b) that the accounts would be audited by
CAO or an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank Group; (c) that the audit
would include the examination of all SOEs and audits of Special Account submitted
to the Bank for reimbursement; and (d) that audited accounts, together with the
auditor's reports, would be furnished to the Bank Group within nine months of
the end of each fiscal year.
m:\ot\ndp\3



- 36 -
G. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
3.44        The project has been assigned Environmental Assessment Category B.
A limited environmental review was carried out by the FAO/CP preparation mission
to address key technical and institutional issues. The results were reviewed
and recommendations developed by an environmental consultant who participated
in both the preappraisal and the appraisal mission.
3.45        Positive Impact.  The project is expected to have a positive impact
on the environment and the population within the area serviced by the improved
field drainage systems. The provision of field drainage would contribute towards
ensuring the stability and productivity of the agricultural system.   With
declining drainage capabilities, and without the project, the soils in the
project area would be subject to a gradual and slow process of salinization and
waterlogging.  Project interventions would help keep and maintain the water table
and salinity at low levels, thereby promoting improved conditions in the project
area. Also, the transfer of some open field drains to subsurface pipe drains
would reduce the habitat for the bilharzia snail vector. The induced effects
under the project of increasing the use of fertilizers and pesticides and the
use of herbicides in the maintenance of open drains, have been examined and found
negligible. The Government recently abandoned the use of herbicides, which is
a positive environmental step.
3.46        Open Drains.  In spite of the positive impact of field drainage,
there are environmental issues connected with open drains that receive the
outflow from field drainage systems. The identified issues are external to the
NDP and include: (a) the presence of bilharzia and measures taken by the
Government to control schistosomiasis; (b) the effect of planned drainage works
on environmentally valuable wetland and/or other natural habitat; (c) the mixing
of drainage water with clean canal water for reuse, which impacts on
municipalities located downstream of mixing points; and (d) the pollution caused
by the uncontrolled discharge of raw industrial and domestic waste into some open
drains located near the industrial and populated areas. The following describes
the current situation and initiatives proposed to address these issues.
(a)   Bilharzia:  The bilharzia disease continues to be prevalent in five
governorates in the Delta. The prevalence rate in Alexandria and
in the Qalubiya Governorate is about 10 percent, approximately 22
percent in Daqahliya and Sharqiya and over 30 percent in the Beheira
Governorate. The control measures used by the Ministry of Health
(MOH) are chemotherapy (oral use of drugs), focused application of
molluscicides and public health education. The use of chemotherapy
drugs has provided the most effective control in the Philippines,
Brazil and other parts of the World.  MOH is using this approach
successfully (over 90 percent effective) and has funding from many
sources; no additional funding is provided under the project. There
are serious environmental consequences to the use of molluscicides
in canals and drains. MOH is aware of this and has significantly
reduced their aggregate application from over 300 tons in the mid-
m:\egt\ndp\3



- 37 -
1980s to about 50 tons in the early l990s. Future application will
be triggered only when local infection rates exceed 20 percent.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that: (a) MPW would employ
practices, such as destroying or removing cleared weeds and silt to
prevent snails from reinfecting the drains, to reduce the frequency
and need for molluscicides; and (b) WRC, in cooperation with MOH,
would prepare a short report on the prevalence of the disease and
the use of molluscicides for the Bank's review each year with the
first report due on June 30, 1992.
(b)   Wetlands and Natural Habitat:  Field drainage is provided on lands
that have been under cultivation for decades, and none of these
lands are known to be wetlands. However, some of the agricultural
areas that lie close to the coastal natural lakes may be extended
by  reclamation.    To avoid  this,  assurances  were  obtained at
negotiations that (a) field drain installation would be limited to
the inland side of coastal drains and existing cultivated areas
which lie more than 200 m away from the natural coastal lakes; (b)
EPADP would include a map and information for reclaimed areas on
agriculture production and the dates of the reclamation of such
areas as part of the two year rolling program, which is subject to
annual review (para. 2.02); and (c) any proposal to drain areas
between the main drains and the coast or lake shore should be subject
to full environmental assessment, in accordance with national
regulations prior to approval.
(c)   Reuse of Drainage Water:  Drainage water from agricultural areas on
both sides of the Nile Valley is returned to the Nile River,
throughout Upper Egypt and the Southern Delta.  It is also mixed
with fresh water in the Damietta and Rosetta branches of the Nile
and in several irrigation canals.   Currently, 3.4 billion cubic
meters (BCM) of drainage water is mixed with fresh water in canals,
and MPW plans to build additional pumping stations to mix 7 BCM of
drainage water by the year 2000. The addition of drainage water to
fresh water canals increases the volume of water available for reuse
but reduces the water quality.  Most project areas, however, are
located downstream of existing or planned pumping stations for water
reuse. Therefore, the project would not impact significantly on
agricultural water reuse.   DRI monitors the salinity and sodium
absorption ratio (SAR) through an extensive network of measurement
stations in canals and drains for the design of drainage water reuse
projects. However, the monitoring of other water quality parameters
indicative of sewage and/or industrial waste is lacking.   Since
there are significant public health concerns (e.g., sewage pathogens,
parasites, industrial wastes, salinity, etc.) regarding mixing
drainage water upstream of drinking water intakes, these concerns
must be addressed and ways found to ensure that the water received
by downstream users meets designated use/water quality criteria.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that: (a) where drainage
m:\sgO\ndp\3



- 38 -
water from the project is mixed with fresh water, the water received
by downstream users would meet designated use/water quality criteria;
(b) DRI would prepare, by June 30, 1993, a detailed report showing
the location of all known drinking water intake points and the
current quality of water at the existing and proposed reuse mixing
points and at all downstream withdrawal points. The report would
recommend measures to be undertaken to improve the quality of water
downstream of current and proposed mixing stations. Where drinking
water intakes existed in canals downstream of existing drainage
mixing points (or where the construction of mixing stations had
already begun), the report would recommend measures to address public
health concerns.   DRI would also introduce in its water quality
monitoring a monthly reading of 24-hour composite flow samples and
analyze samples for pH,  turbidity,  suspended solids,  dissolved
solids, volatile solids, total solids, chlorides, sulphates,
alkalinity, hardness, oil and grease, dissolved oxygen, biochemical
oxygen demand, chemical oxygen demand, fecal coliforms, aluminum,
boron and 6 heavy metals (copper, chromium, lead, nickel, selenium
and zinc).
(d)   Industrial and Domestic Waste Pollution:   Drainage water from
agricultural land inevitably collects residues of applied fertilizers
and agricultural chemicals. Some drains also receive the sewage from
Cairo and other municipalities as well as industrial waste. Some
well known sources of industrial pollution are Mahala El Kobra
(textiles), Kafr El Ziad (pesticides, inorganic chemicals and edible
oils), Alexandria (oil, soaps and detergents and textiles), Cairo
(steel, textiles, metal finishing, as well as untreated domestic
sewage) and Talkha (fertilizer). The present state of pollution in
the affected drains and in the lakes in the Northern Delta is
serious. The existing monitoring network provides some data on the
conventional pollutants, but virtually nothing is known about the
presence of toxic and hazardous pollutants from industrial sources.
In areas where drains contain high concentrations of raw sewage and
industrial waste, the poor water quality impacts on the natural
habitat of the environment and creates human health problems for the
populations who use the water.  The contribution of the proposed
project to solving the comprehensive and serious problems of
industrial and domestic water pollution in Egypt, which are
essentially external to the drainage subsector, can only be modest.
The water quality impact assessment study, being financed under the
USAID assisted Irrigation Managsment Services Project, would lead
to an action plan that would subsequently be supported by the
project.   This action plan would:  (a) evaluate information on
pollution discharge identify sources with quantities and toxic
contents of industrial and municipal water discharges, and prioritize
the most important sources of pollution; (b) develop and implement
a licensing and monitoring plan including recommendations for
required legislative changes and institutional arrangements; and (c)
m:\gt\ndp\3



- 39 -
provide specialized technical assistance to implement the recommended
strategy and pilot projects in selected industries.
3.47        Other Environmental Work. The Bank (EM3IN) is assisting the Egyptian
Environmental Affairs Agency (EEAA) in the preparation of an Environmental
Strategy Paper. This study, expected to be distributed for discussion by the
end of January 1992, will include a component on water quality degradation.  In
addition, an environmental impact assessment study for the proposed Industrial
Restructuring and Pollution Control Project will assess air and water quality
in the Helwan Industrial Complex.  Also, the UNDP financed, Bank administered
Water Security Project includes a component on drainage water quality and reuse.
m:\sO\ndp\3



- 40 -
IV. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
A. INSTITUTIONS
The Ministry of Public Works and Water Resources (MPW)
4.01        MPW is responsible for the development of water resources and the
construction and maintenance of the irrigation and drainage systems.   The
Irrigation Department of MPW is responsible for the O&M of all public canals.
The semi-autonomous EPADP is responsible for implementing the drainage projects
and maintaining both surface and subsurface drainage systems.  Both of these
organizations are structured along regional lines with a general directorate in
each governorate. WRC conducts research on water-related issues including the
reuse of drainage flows through 11 of its research institutes, 3 of which are
of particular concern to the NDP, i.e., DRI, RIGW and the High Dam Side Effects
Research Institute (HDSER). The Mechanical and Electrical Department (MED) of
MPW is responsible for installing, operating and maintaining all irrigation and
drainage pumping stations. An outline of the organization of MPW is given in
Chart No. 1.
Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage Projects
4.02        EPADP is responsible for the design, procurement and implementation
of all drainage works, as well as for maintaining field drainage systems and open
drains. The authority is headed by a chairman and assisted by a vice chairman.
There are four departments at its Cairo headquarters: Research and Design (RDD),
Planning and Follow-up (PFD), Electrical and Mechanical (E&M) and Administration
and Finance (AFD).  Each department is headed by an undersecretary, excepting
E&M. RDD is responsible for all predrainage investigations and the design of
field drainage works through its Field Investigation and Design Directorate and
for the design of buildings and pumping stations through its Buildings and
Structures Design Directorate. PFD is responsible for budgeting, the preparation
of five-year plans, annual work programs, and monitoring implementation progress
through its Directorate of Planning and Follow-up. The Monitoring and Evaluation
(M&E) Directorate of PFD monitors the drainage works through soil and water
sampling. E&M is responsible for the supervision of new pumping stations built
by EPADP and for the procurement of construction equipment and vehicles through
its Directorate of Equipment; the Directorate of Pipe Factories is responsible
for the procurement of equipment and PVC powder, etc., for the factories and for
pipe production. AFD conducts administration and financial matters through its
two directorates, one for administration and another for finance. EPADP employs
about 4,600 permanent staff in its headquarters and regional offices. Of these,
about 600 are civil, mechanical and agricultural engineers and another 950
technical assistants.  EPADP has adequate staff, but staff distribution over
field directorates would require some adjustment.
4.03        In the field, EPADP is structured into five regional groupings: Upper
Egypt, Middle Egypt, the East Delta, the Central Delta and the West Delta. Each
m:\egt\ndp\4



- 41 -
regional office is headed by an undersecretary with separate directorates for
works and for maintenance.  The number of directorates in each region varies
according to the size of the area to be implemented or maintained. Typically,
a regional office consists of five directorates, two for the implementation of
pipe drains and for the remodelling of open drains and three for the maintenance
of both pipe drains and associated open drains. In total, there are 25 field
directorates, 12 for implementation and 13 for maintenance. The organization
of EPADP is shown in Chart No. 2.
Other Institutions Involved in Drainage
4.04        Water Research Center and Research Institutes (WRC).  WRC is an
umbrella organization of MPW that comprises 11 constituent institutes conducting
research on various facets of water. WRC administers the research program and
is also responsible for training MPW staff through its training institute.
4.05        Drainage Research Institute (DRI). DRI was established in 1976 under
an Egyptian-Dutch initiative and is organized into four research divisions: Field
Drainage, Surface Drainage, Field Surveys and Economic Evaluation. Its technical
staff numbers about 60, mostly civil and agricultural engineers with a few soil
scientists and agro-economists.   In the past, the institute focussed almost
exclusively on research related to the land drainage program using pilot studies
and surveys to test design criteria, materials and construction methods. More
recently the institute has been engaged in water reuse studies.
4.06        Research Institute for Groundwater (RIGW).  RIGW has carried out a
number of geohydrological studies and surveys in support of the land drainage
program and conjunctive use of groundwater. RIGW has concentrated its research
on the generated seepage from the new land schemes located at higher elevations,
which has caused waterlogging and salinization problems in the old lands. RIGW
is a small institute with limited staff.
4.07        Soil and Water Research Institute (SWRI). SWRI is a member institute
of the Agriculture Research Center of the Ministry of Agriculture.  Its main
function is to carry out soil surveys of irrigated lands and of those lands to
be reclaimed. SWRI has conducted extensive research on the drainage of the heavy
clay soil in the northern part of the Middle Delta. SWRI has also undertaken
researcht on the effects of concurrent applications of gypsum and subsoiling in
enhancing drainage.
B. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
4.08        Project Coordination.  EPADP would be responsible for implementing
the project, along lines broadly similar to those followed under the ongoing
Drainage V Project.  Although the project would be implemented primarily by
EPADP, there are other agencies outside EPADP whose input is essential for the
timely execution of various components. RIGW is expected to assist EPADP in the
initial investigation and preparation of preliminary plans for the vertical
drainage component.   Detailed design, tender documents for drilling and the
m:\egW\ndp\4



- 42 -
installation and procurement of equipment related to vertical drainage would be
the responsibility of various departments in EPADP, which already handle similar
activities for covered pipe drainage. A special directorate would be established
in the EPADP Upper Egypt regional office for the implementation and maintenance
of wells. DRI is responsible for research connected with covered pipe drains,
including the impact of drainage on water tables and salinity as well as the
reuse of drainage water. DRI would also monitor water quality at selected points
in the open drains and analyze samples for various parameters (see para 3.46(c)).
In addition to coordinating the work of various research institutes, WRC would
be responsible for the environmental activities under the project evolving from
the water quality impact assessment study (paras. 3.28 and 3.46(d)).  Similarly,
assistance, from other ministries would be required to address the pollution
created by the discharge of industrial and domestic wastes into open drains.
To facilitate implementation, a project coordination committee has been
established, which was a condition of Board Presentation. The committee would
be chaired by the chairman of EPADP and composed of members from WRC, the
irrigation sector, MED, the Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation, the
Ministry of Industry, the Ministry of Housing and the Egyptian Environmental
Affairs Agency (EEAA). The committee would meet quarterly to address various
implementation issues and review the annual work program.
4.09        Status of Proiect Preparation.   EPADP has acquired considerable
experience in design, procurement and implementation during the execution of
five Bank-assisted projects over the last two decades. The latest bidding
documents used for the procurement of equipment and PVC powder, the installation
of pipe drains and the remodeling of open drains would be used in tenders for
the proposed project, with only minor modifications. The project would install
pipe drains on new areas of about 110,000 fed during the initial two years. The
areas selected for implementation during the first two years are listed in Annex
II, Table 3. The design office of EPADP has enough trained staff to finalize the
construction design of the initial two year program by June 30, 1992. It is
expected that EPADP would submit all tender documents for the first year of
implementation soon after negotiations and award contracts immediately after
loan effectiveness. Land acquisition for the remodelling of open drains would
be completed six months prior to the award of contracts. For initial contracts,
land acquisition is expected to be completed by June 30, 1992 (see Annex II,
Table 8). The proposed processing schedule for equipment, materials and civil
works contracts is shown in Annex I, Table 9 and summarized in Annex I, Table
10.
4.10        ImRlementation  Improvements.    In ordtr  to address  past  EPADP
weaknesses in implementation (see para. 1.26), a list of actions was agreed upon.
These actions include (see Annex II, Table 8 for target dates):
(a)   The upgrading and streamlining of the management system in the
Directorate for Planning and Follow-up (PFD) for construction
planning and management;
(b)   The activation of the recently established Directorate for Management
Information Systems (MIS) to increase, streamline, and monitor the
m:\egt\ndp\4



- 43 -
use of computers for planning realistic targets in both physical
and financial terms;
(c)   The development of guidelines and reporting procedures  for the
quality control of drainage works;
(d)   The redeployment of technical supervisory staff from Upper Egypt to
the Delta to strengthen field supervision activities in the region
of concentrated implementation;
(e)   The establishment of a Human Resource Development and Management
Directorate in the Chairman's Office of EPADP to develop a training
poli^y for EPADP staff and coodinate human resource development;
(f)   The automation of drainage  system design and the computerized
production of technical drawings and bills of quantities; and
(g)   The training of field supervision staff and contractor staff using
the Drainage Training Center established under the Drainage Executive
Management Project (DEMP) and other comparable centers, if necessary,
to meet training demands.
4.11        In addition, some essential parts of field drainage tender documents
need to be revised to promote more efficient performance by contractors. The
usual size of present contracts is small and duration in most cases does not
exceed two years, so the recovery of equipment costs and spare parts in such a
brief period leaves a negligible amount for normal operating revenues. As a
result of this cash flow problem, many contractors are unable to complete their
contracts. Currently, almost 30 public and private contractors are working on
field drainage.  Many contractors are one to two years behind scheduled dates
of completion.  To improve the situation, it was agreed with EPADP that: (a)
every two years, EPADP would prequalify local contractors and foreign contractors
who wish to be eligible for bidding on ICB contracts for field drainage works.
Prequalification criteria would include financial strength, past performance,
the availability of equipment and the adequacy of technical staff.   The
prequalified contractor list would be subject to the Bank's review, and only
those prequalified would be allowed to participate in the bidding; (b) EPADP
would include in bid documents a list of minimum equipment requirements, and,
for post-qualification, each bidder would furnish documents on finances, past
performance, amount of work in hand and technical staffing. Bids that did not
meet the minimum requirement would not be considered responsive; (c) EPADP would
consider three options to recover the entire cost of owner-supplied construction
machinery: (i) a leasing option based on the normal, useful life of the equipment
and a yearly lease amount equal to supplier-recommended depreciation, plus the
opportunity cost of capital investment with the contractor responsible for
maintenance and damage covered with an insurance taken by the contractor; (ii)
leasing with the option to buy; and (iii) the option that equipment cost is
recovered in six years instead of the contract period and that the equipment is
handed over against a bank guarantee, which the contractor would obtain using
assets as collateral; and (d) the project provides for technical assistance of
about eight person months of an internationally recruited advisor and six staff
years of an experienced advisor recruited locally to assist the contractors in
the management of contracts, equipment and spare part and the training of their
staff. Assurances were obtained at negotiations from EPADP that: (a) contractors
m:\et\ndp\4



- 44 -
would be prequalified for participation in tile field drainage works; (b) the
prequalification list would be subject to the Bank's review and only prequalified
contractors would be eligible to participate; (c) foreign contractors would be
eligible to participate; and (d) equipment costs would be recovered under an
option to be agreed upon the Bank by June 30, 1992, and such an option would be
put into effect for contracts awarded after December 31, 1992
4.12        EPADP would consider the following options for the supply of spare
parts for pipe laying machines: (a) to maintain a spare parts store adequately
stocked and provide spares, on contractors' request, at original cost plus
storage and overhead costs; and (b) to ncrease the contractors' foreign exchange
portion from a minimum of 15 percent (given currently as advance payment) to a
larger percentage as requested and adequately justified by the contractors at
the exchange rate prevailing as of contract award. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that EPADP would agree with the Bank by June 30, 1992 on the
procedure for the supply of the spare parts and adopt such procedures for all
contracts awarded after December 31, 1992.
4.13        Future Research Activities.   DRI is expected to continue and/or
undertake research activities on the following issues to assist EPADP in carrying
out the program: (a) pipe installation in unstable soils; (b) test of trenching
and trenchless installation; weighing the benefits of concrete vs PVC pipe and
gravel vs. synthetic or natural fiber envelope materials and smaller size lateral
pipes; (c) drainage of slowly permeable clay soils, in cooperation with SWRI
(para. 2.33); (d) the M&E of installed systems; (e) selection of renewal areas;
(f) the unit flow rate (mm/day) to be used in collector design; (g) the use of
50 mm PVC pipes as laterals (para. 2.35); and (h) DRI would conduct
seminars/workshops to familiarize EPADP staff with criterias and procedures for
design and installations.   In addition to the summary of previous research
results (para. 2.34), DRI would provide a short report by December 31, 1991,
giving a research priority list, estimated costs and research schedule. RIGW
would play an important role in the investigations, planning and research
activities related to vertical drainage.
4.14        Financial requirements for Operation and Maintenance (O&M) of the
drainage system are currently under study (para. 5.14), but it is accepted that
budgetary allocations have been insufficient to operate and maintain the
irrigation/drainage system adequately.  Given this situation, the Ministry of
Finance has requested EPADP to prepare a Board Paper justifying the total O&M
financial requirements (e.g., a zero-based budget). Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that the Ministry of Finance would provide O&M funds consistent
with maintenance needs.
C.  MONITORING AND EVALUATION (M&E)
4.15        Past M&E Programs.  EPADP carried out an ex-post evaluation program
from 1976 to 1985 covering about 800,000 fed with assistance from the
Agricultural Economics and Statistics Division of MALR. As no variables other
than yields were measured, the approach followed did not permit the
m:\egt\ndp\4



- 45 -
identification of factors contributing to yield differences between subareas
and overtime.   The DRI crash program was pursued over a period of six crop
seasons (1978-87) to measure the effect of field drainage on agricultural
production through crop cuttings.   The program was discontinued as Dutch
assistance for the program was discontinued.
4.16        Ongoing M&E Program.   DRI is carrying out a program in pilot or
experimental areas to compare actual with potential drainage benefits. Since
1976, the M&E Directorate of EPADP has monitored water and soil salinity,
permeability, and water table depths. This effort was strengthened under the
Drainage V Project and now includes some 500 sites.   Total area under this
program is about 500,000 fed.   Baseline monitoring is undertaken prior to
drainage installation reinitiated one year after field drainage construction
and continued for at least three more years. To improve the information on crop
response to field drainage, DRI would continue its program of monitoring water
table depths, soil salinity and crop yields in pilot areas.
4.17        Proposed M&E Program.  The proposed program would be pursued through
two inter-related subprograms: EPADP would expand its monitoring of physical
characteristics, and DRI would implement an impact assessment on crop production.
This would allow: (a) a continued assessment of both physical performance and
the effectiveness of drainage systems with an analysis of crop yield data for
selected areas; (b) the evaluation, in physical and economic terms, of yields
and of the production response to installing drainage systems; and (c) the
development of planning criteria for use in selecting future drainage and renewal
areas.
4.18        The collection of data would include water table depths,  soil
salinity, the discharge in manholes and collector outlets, crop yields and the
inputs used with total production. EPADP has made arrangements to obtain crop
yield data for selected areas from MALR and would analyze the data to determine
the impact of drainage.   To capture the drainage impact directly, DRI would
initiate an intensive monitoring exercise in several villages to identify
separately the impact of drainage installation and other technologies and the
cultural practices employed. This would provide "before vs after" and "with vs
without" perspectives on drainage.  DRI would analyze the data collected and
present the analysis to EPADP for a full evaluation.
4.19        The  proposed  activities  are  expected  to provide  quantitative
relationships between the yields of major crops and constraining water and soil
factors, including drainage. The results, expressed in economic terms, would
be translated into criteria for the priority ranking of those areas still to be
drained or those requiring the renewal of pipe drainage.
D. SUPERVISION PLAN
4.20        Borrower Contribution.  Progress reports would be submitted at the
end of March and the end of September of each year. These reports would focus
on (a) the physical progress of subsurface and surface drainage works, areas for
m:\qt\ndp\4



- 46 -
which survey, investigation and design work was completed during the reporting
period; and equipment procurement under various contracts during the period and
accumulative for each contract; (b) the status of bid processing for each tender
and reasons for delays, if any; (c) the status of technical assistance and
various studies, particularly the M&E of drainage impact; (d) the annual work
program and budgetary requirements for counterpart funds and O&M funds (March
report only); (e) the status of counterpart funds in relation to the approved
budget and annual work program; (f) the status and any changes introduced in the
agreed biannual implementation program; (g) the status of Bank disbursements,
including pending withdrawal applications and projected disbursements for the
following six months; (h) the status of disbursements by other cofinanciers; (i)
a summary of the issues raised by the previous supervision mission and their
resolution; and (j) the status of miscellaneous issues, such as legal covenants,
accounts and audits and staff training.   The detailed annual report on the
rolling two-year implementation program (para. 2.02) would be included with the
March progress report.
/4.21       Project Monitoring and Coordination would be the responsibility of
the EPADP Department of Planning and Follow-up.   Review meetings, with the
participation of field directorate staff, would normally be held in May and
November of each year. The meetings would be chaired by the chairman of EPADP
or his representative. EPADP would be responsible for coordinating arrangements
for review missions by the Bank and other cofinanciers and for providing
information required by the missions. Missions would normally be accompanied
by the undersecretary in charge of PFD or the technical director general nttached
to the chairman's office. The Bank would make efforts to supervise the project
jointly with other cofinanciers.
4.22        On arrival,  mission briefing meetings would be chaired by the
chairman of EPADP and attended by the undersecretary in charge of PFD and by
representatives of WRC, DRI and RIGW and other concerned directorates of EPADP,
both at headquarters and in regional field offices. Wrap-up meetings would be
chaired by the chairman of EPADP. A tentative supervision plan is shown in Annex
II, Table 9, providing for 17 supervision missions, including a mid-term review
requiring 122 staff weeks over the life of the project.
4.23        Midterm Review and Completion Reports.   A midterm review of all
project activities would be conducted jointly by EPADP, the Bank Group and other
cofinanciers. To facilitate such a review, EPADP would prepare a detailed report
and submit it to the Bank Group by June 30, 1996 for a joint review by September
1996. The project completion report would be prepared by EPADP and submitted
to the Bank Group not later than six months after the loan closing. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that EPADP would submit: (a) a detailed progress
report for the midterm review by June 30, 1996; and (b) the project completion
report not later than six months after the loan/credit closing.
m:\eVt\ndp\4



47 -
V. BENEFITS. JUSTIFICATION AND RISK
A. PRODUCTION IMPACT
5.01        The proposed activities of the project have two important impacts.
Drainage installation would lower the groundwater table and reduce soil salinity,
thereby leading to rapidly improved yields. The project also addresses a long-
term issue: without the project, future yields would progressively decline from
their current levels. Thus, there are two subsets of benefits: (a) the avoidance
of further yield (production) losses, which would result if the groundwater and
salinity problems werc to persist; and (b) the productivity increase resulting
from reducing groundwater/salinity problems.  The latter is overwhelmingly the
most important of the benefit subs3ts. The sum of the benefits represents the
"without and with" the NDP rather than a "before and after" situation. Insofar
as improved drainage may have a positive yield interaction with other potential
changes in agricultural technology or cultural practices, the benefits are
understated.
5.02        The benefits from the project were computed for 14 major crops (13
in the Nile Valley and 11 in the Delta); thus, many high value, but low volume,
commodities were excluded, biasing the benefits downward.  The future decline
in yields without the project was assumed to be 10 percent over 20 years (i.e.,
0.5 percent annual reductions) for all crops. The incremental yield increases
anticipated from implementing the NDP range from 5 percent for sorghum to 20
percent for cotton and citrus.  The incremental yields for the commodities are
summarized in Table 5.1.
Table 5.1: Incremental Yields
Crop      Yietd ]MI=ss
Sorghum *
earley *            10
wheat               10
maize *             10
RIc* *              10                   : .:  :-
Soyabean *          10
Orandbees *         10                      : 
Berseem             15.:.
Sugarcane           15
VegetabLes & Roots  15
Seed Cotton         20
Citm                20
* includes both grain ai straw              . :.:.:
5.03        The above statistics are based on monitoring data obtained from
areas with modest drainage problems; thus, where severe drainage problems exist.
the realized benefits would be greater. Past experience indicate, that benefits
MW:9\ndp\5



- 48 -
accrue rapidly after drainage is installed. It is assumed that 50 percent of
the benefits accrue in the first year following installation; 75 percent in the
second year; 90 percent, in the third year, and full benefits are enjoyed in the
fourth year.
5.04        While drains are under continuous installation, for purposes of
analyses it was assumed that a two-year period is required to tender and
implement the installation contracts. Thus, while 20,000 fed are proposed for
drainage installation in year 1, installation completion will occur in year 2,
and the first benefits will be realized in year 3.
5.05        Although different cropping patters are used to describe delta and
valley production patterns, regional yield differentials were not evaluated as
only 12 percent of the new/renewal drainage is proposed for the valley. Cropping
intensities were assumed to be 1.92 and 2.02 for the Delta and Nile Valley,
respectively.
5.06        The  crop  areas  affected by  the  project  and  the  anticipated
incremental annual production at maturity are contained in the following table.
No separate benefits were computed for vertical drainage areas as this drainage
mode is proposed on only 5,000 fed during the project.  However, as vertical
drainage is proposed on land most seriously affected by high groundwater tables,
the benefits of such drainage were assumed to be 150 percent of the benefits
achieved through horizontal drainage.
Table 5.2: Annual Incremental Production
Incremantal   Incrementst
Comrod1ty      drained area  sroduetloo
(1000 fed)   (1000 tons)
IAeet               226        32
Naize               233        42
nice                208        42
Sorohun              14         1
Barley              21          2
Long Beaeeu         290        796-:
Shaft Serseem       15l        208
Soyabean             4         0.4
Seed Ctton          166        27
Saree                12        56
$road*"              38         5
Potateoe            28         30
Thtte               44         59
CitauS              31         30
5.07        There are ready markets for the incremental production.   Well-
established export market channels exist for cotton, rice, vegetables and citrus.
As Egypt is a net importer of the other commodities, the domestic market would
readily absorb the incremental production.
M:\0\1ndp\5



-49 -
B. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
5.08        Price  forecasts  provided  by  IEC  (the  International  Economic
Department) indicate a reversal of the long-term decline in real prices. Real
price increases are indicated for cereals (particularly wheat) sugar and cotton,
and relatively constant prices are indicated for oilseeds and citrus.  These
price forecasts were used in computing farmgate prices and the benefits for these
commodities. The prices of vegetable crops were assumed to remain constant. As
all the commodities except berseem are traded, economic prices were defined as
farmgate bc_.der price equivalents, with appropriate adjustments for quality
differentials.   For berseem, the economic price was obtained by applying a
conversion factor of 0.85 to the financial price to adjust for the premium prices
forages receive because of tariff and quantitative restrictions in the domestic
meat market.
5.09        Economic costs were derived from financial costs by excluding taxes,
duties and subsidies.   A conversion factor of 1.25 was used for maintenance
centers and subcenters, reflecting the highly subsidized cement and steel
components. Recurrent costs for the 0&M of the drainage system installed during
the project are assumed to continue after implementation until the end of the
investment's assumed useful lifetime after 30 years and include a depreciation
charge for the machinery used in O&M. As investments in workshops, institutional
strengthening, technical assistance and research apply broadly to the country's
drainage activities, only 50 percent of these investment costs were allocated
to the NDP. All other incremental investment costs are included in the cost
stream.   No incremental production costs were included as the benefits are
assumed to derive solely from drainage; no other farm investments nor any
additional input usage is considered in the analyses. The estimated ERR for the
base case scenario is about 24 percent.
Sensitivity Analysis
5.10        The project's profitability is quite robust under various scenarios.
Switching values indicate that the investment would remain viable under a wide
range of alternatives (at a discount rate of 12 percent.)
Table 5.3: Switching Values of Critical Variables
YaWiam "s ithJinmJlt
Incremeneta lSX
Innetwmt Cot t125X
Detay in emnef it                    6 years
5.11        The economic rate of return under scenarios that are more probable
than indicated by the above switching values are shown in the following
sensitivity analyses.   The 70 percent probability distribution for commodity
1A\kt\ndp\5



- 50 -
price forecasts is approximately 25 percent of the price forecasts; these
boundaries are represented in Table 5.4. As the table indicates, the project
remains economically viable even under highly adverse scenarios.
Table 5.4: Sensitivity Tests on Economic Rate of Return
Ugonmig sael ef Return
Eloneni product prices         RmUnAt
Smeario
Base Case                      19.0        24.0         28.4
Investment cost increase 25%  15.7         20.1         24.1
tncrementaL yietd reduced 25%  14.7        19.0         22.8
Benefits delayed 2 years       14.7        18.2         21.1
tnvestment cost increase 25%
and yield reduced 25%         11.9        15.7         19.1
Investment cost Increase 25%
and benefits delayed 2 years  12.4        15.6         18.2
Ineremental yietd reduced 25%
and benefits delayed 2 years  11.6        14.7         17.4
C.  COST RECOVERY
5.12        Cost recovery has two components: to recover the cost of services
provided for the whole irrigation and drainage system, i.e., the O&M costs and
to recover investment costs. For the O&M costs, the Government has attempted
to effect cost recovery through a variety of taxes and levies on landowners.
To recover investment costs, initiatives were taken under the Bank assisted
drainage projects, and significant progress has been achieved with respect to
increasing the recovery of drainage investment costs from the benefitted farmers.
In comparison to other countries, Egypt is beginning to serve as an example for
drainage investment cost recovery. However, cost recovery in relation to total
costs is still insufficient, and additional measures to increase cost recovery
in line with the objectives of the Structural Adjustment Loan are required to
enhance economic efficiency and reduce the burden on the government budget.
Recovery of OReration and Maintenance Costs
5.13        Some preliminary evaluations suggest that farmers are now paying
about 35 percent of the direct irrigation/drainage O&M costs and indirectly
contribute  to O&M  through  the  land  tax.    Before  the  liberalization of
agricultural prices and production and delivery quotas, there was an implicit
taxation on agriculture resulting from the low procurement prices for major
crops. With the weakening of the Government's financial situation, the recovery
of O&M costs has become a priority issue in the Bank's sectoral dialogue with
the Government.
5.14        The Bank Group, through its earlier operations (the Drainage V
Project, Ln. 2562-EGT, and the Channel Maintenance Project, Ln. 2732-EGT),
MR\egt\ndp\5



- 51 -
persuaded the Government to enhance cost recovery.  However, these operations
failed to take a system-wide view of the financial requirements involved in the
delivery of water through a network of barrages, canals, pumping stations, etc.
In order to develop an appropriate strategy for cost recovery for the system as
whole, with due regard to the beneficiaries' capacity to pay, a comprehensive
study is underway under the Pumping Stations Rehabilitation Project II (Loan
3198-EGT'.   The study was expected to be completed by June 30, 1991, and an
agreed phased plan for implementation developed by December 31, 1991. Due to
delays in the effectiveness of the project and to the Gulf crisis, the study is
now expected to be completed by March 31, 1992. In view of fiscal constraints,
it is important that the Government initiate the implementation of the agreed
phased plan as early as possible. To achieve early implementation and further
strengthen the assurances of previous loans, arsurances were obtained at
negotiations that: (a) the study would be completed and submitted for review by
the Bank Group by March 31, 1992; (b) the Government would provide the Bank
Group with a phased action plan, by October 31, 1992, for achieving O&M cost
recovery within five years; and (c) the Government would initiate the
implementation of the agreed plan no later than July 1, 1993.
Recovery of Investment Costs
5.15        Egyptian law (Law No. 12 of 1984) requires full recovery,  from
farmers, of the field drainage investment costs without interest, over a 20-
year period, commencing 1 year following installation completion.   Cost is
computed as the sum of the installation contract value, the cost of the pipes
supplied by EPADP, farmers' compensation for crops destroyed during installation
and an administrative charge of 10 percent of the installation contract, all on
a feddan basis.   These data are sent to the Survey Authority of MPW, which
determines the ownership of the areas drained and the charges applicable to each
farmer; this information is then supplied to the Ministry of Finance (MOF), which
informs the local land tax offices. The land tax offices are responsible for
collecting and transmitting the funds to the public treasury. The estimated cost
of pipe drainage under the project is about LE 825/fed. Adding administrative
and collection costs, an annual recovery payment of LE 48/fed would be required
by the law; this represents about 12 percent of the annual incremental farm
income at full development (based on representative farm models of 3 fed). Under
current zero-interest charges, the cost recovery index (ratio of recovered amount
to investment costs) and rent recovery index (ratio of recovered amount to rent
accruing to beneficiaries), assuming a 7.5 percent collection cost and a 12
percent discount rate, are 0.25 and 0.10, respectively.
5.16        Prior to FY89 there was no incentive for land tax collectors to
vigorously pursue the collection of assessed drainage cost recovery. A modest
incentive program was initiated in 1989 whereby the tax collectors would share
2.5 percent of the funds collected. Since then, the recovery rate has increased
from about  50 percent  to an estimated 70 percent  for FY91.   Additional
incentives, amounting to 7.5 percent of the funds collected, have been proposed.
These additional incentives are expected to lead to a further increase in the
collection rate.
M:\egt\ndp\5



- 52 -
5.17        It is important that the costs to be recovered be appropriately
defined.   Consequently, EPADP would review the cost components of drainage
investment and the overhead costs to determine if the 10 percent administrative
cost was sufficient and, if not, adjust it as necessary. The cost of collection
(7.5 percent) would be added to the total cost to be recovered.  EPADP would
submit a preliminary assessment of total drainage investment costs by December
31, 1991.  Assurances were obtained at negotiations that: (a) a comprehensive
study, including any required regulatory changes, based on a review of the
preliminary assessment, would be completed by September 30, 1992. This study
would contain a detailed action plan for measures to gradually increase the
recovery of investment costs within an agreed time period. The final study would
be reviewed by the Bank Group and other cofinanciers; (b) the agreed plan would
be implemented by September 30, 1993 as far as no regulatory changes were
required; and (c) measures requiring regulatory changes would be implemented
within six months of approval, expected to be no later than December 31, 1994.
D. RISKS
5.18        There are only minimal risks associated with implementing the
project.   The primary risk is an inability to increase  the capacity to
implement/install horizontal field drainage systems.   Recent implementation
rates have averaged about 150,000 fed annually and are estimated to reach 170,000
fed in 1994. Should the improved rate not be achieved, the benefits generated
would be less than anticipated. This risk is mitigated through the pre- and
post-qualification of contractors, the provision of technical assistance and the
training of contractor staff.
5.19        Another risk is delayed implementation.   However,  this risk is
minimized through an early preparation of bidding documents for civil works and
equipment. These documents would be fully prepared prior to Board presentation.
Further, EPADP has had many years of experience in implementing drainage
projects. However, there is a very real risk that counterpart funding will be
constrained, thereby limiting the rate of installation. This risk is partially
reduced through financing a portion of the local costs from donor funds. There
remains, however, the risk of delayed effectiveness of the loan.
5.20        There is a very small risk that productivity increases would be less
than anticipated. The incremental yield estimates were based on statistics from
areas where drainage problems were more modest than in the areas covered under
this project.  The production benefits are independent of any improvement in
technology or cultural practices as they result solely from improved drainage.
5.21        Costs are based on recent procurement contracts and are unlikely to
alter significantly. All costs were estimated in economic terms, thus the phase-
out of energy and other domestic subsidies would not affect the economic
viability of the project.
M:\egt\ndp\5



- 53 -
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01        The following assurances were obtained from the Government at
negotiations.
(a)   EPADP would submit a report by March 31 of each year for
Bank/IDA review covering the achievements and constraints of
the previous year and a detailed rolling program for the
following two years with budgetary requirements (para. 2.02);
(b)   EPADP would select the areas for vertical drainage and the
renewal of horizontal drainage which are to be included in the
biannual program on the basis of required investigation and
criteria agreed upon with the Bank Group (para. 2.13);
(c)   EPADP would, with assistance from DRI, provide recommendations
as to the design drainage discharge of collectors based on:
(i) field investigations on a sample of existing collector
drains and collectors designed for reduced drainage discharge
to be completed by June 30, 1993; (ii) research on the
implications of reduced design drainage discharge and the
replacement of standard collector slope with a variable slope
by June 30, 1994. EPADP would adopt the recommendations in
the design of works to be implemented after December 31, 1994
(para. 2.36);
(d)   GOE  would  cause  RIGW  and  EPADP:  (i)  to  complete  the
investigations,   design  and  tender  documents  for  the
implementation of wells for vertical drainage by December 31,
1992; (ii) to formulate the procedures for participation of
beneficiaries in the construction and eventual operation of
wells by June 30, 1993, in collaboration with the Irrigation
Department and MED; and (iii) to implement these procedures
for such wells constructed after June 30, 1994 (para. 3.14);
(e)   MPW would cause EPADP, DRI and RIGW: (i) to undertake studies
and engage consultants according to the agreed terms of
reference; and (ii) to contract services with consultants
and/or experts whose experience and qualifications are
acceptable to the Bank (paras. 3.22 and 3.26);
(f)   GOE would confirm the cofinancing arrangements for the project
by December 31, 1992 (para. 3.31);
(g)   GOE would cause EPADP, DRI and RIGW to: (i) keep contracts and
documents for disbursements against SOE at least one year after
m:\.gt\ndp\S



- 54 -
the end of each fiscal year; (ii) have their accounts audited
by CAO or an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank Group,
which would also include the examination of SOEs and audits
of Special Account; and (iii) furnish the audited accounts,
together with the auditors' reports, within nine months of the
end of each fiscal year (para. 3.43);
(h)   GOE would cause: (i) MPW to employ practices such as destroying
or removing cleared weeds and silt to prevent bilharzia snails
from reinfecting the drains; and (ii) WRC, in cooperation with
MOH, to prepare a short report on the prevalence of the
bilharzia disease and the use of molluscicides for Bank review
each year, with the first report due on June 30, 1992 (para.
3.46(a));
(i)   GOE would cause EPADP to: (i) limit the installation of field
drains to the inland side of coastal drains and existing
cultivated areas, which lie 200 m away from the natural coastal
lakes; (ii) submit for Bank Group review along with the
biannual program, a short report on the lands included in the
program that are located close to the coastal lakes.
Information would include a map, agriculture production data
and the dates of the reclamation of such areas; and (iii)
subject any proposal to drain areas between the main drains
and the coast or lake shore, to a full environmental assessment
in accordance with national legislation, prior to approval
(para. 3.46(b));
(j)   MPW would ensure that where drainage water from the project
is mixed with fresh water, the water received by downstream
users will meet designated use/water quality criteria (para.
3.46(c));
(k)   EPADP would: (i) prequalify contractors for participation in
the field drainage works; and (ii) would recover equipment
costs and supply spare parts under an option to be agreed upon
with the Bank Group by June 30, 1992; said option would be put
into effect for contracts awarded after December 31, 1992
(paras. 4.11 and 4.12);
(1)   GOE would cause MOF to provide adequate funds for the operation
and maintenance of the drainage system consistent with
maintenance needs (para. 4.14).
(m)   EPADP would submit by June 30, 1996, for Bank Group review,
a detailed report for the midterm review, as well as a project
completion report not later than six months after the
loan/credit closing (para. 4.23);
m:\*o\ndp\8



- 55 -
(n)   GOE would cause MPW to: (i) complete and submit for Bank Group
review the O&M cost recovery study under the Pumping Stations
Rehabilitations Project II (Loan 3198-ECT) by March 31, 1992;
(ii) submit to the Bank Group a phased action plan, by October
31, 1992, for implementing the agreed recommendations of such
study for achieving recovery of O&M costs within five years;
and (iii) initiate implementation of the agreed plan not later
than July 1, 1993 (para. 5.14); and
(o)   GOE would cause EPADP to: (i) complete a coriprehensive study
based on the review of the preliminary assessment of the
composition of drainage investment costs, including a detailed
plan for measures to increase recovery of investment costs and
recommendations for any regulatory changes, by September 30,
1992; (ii) implement agreed recommendations requiring no
regulatory changes by September 30, 1993; and (iii) implement
recommendations requiring regulatory changes within six months
of approval, expected to be no later than December 31, 1994
(para. 5.17).
6.02        MPW has established a project coordination committee, which was a
condition of Board presentation (para. 4.08).
6.03        With the above assurances, the project would be suitable for a Bank
loan of US$45 million for a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace at the
standard variable interest rate, and an IDA credit of SDR 56.4 million
(equivalent US$75 million) for a term of 35 years, including 10 years of grace
at standa:d IDA terms. The borrower would be the Government of the Arab Republic
of Egypt.
m:\et\ndp\8



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROJECT
Sumary Accounts Cost Summry
LE 000                           US 000                         X Totat
---------------------------------   ------------------------------   X Foreign    Base
Local   Foreign     Total        Local  Foreign    Total      Exchange      Costs
1. liNVESTNENT COSTS
.1.................
A. CIVIL ORIKS                  245022.3   44081.7  289104.0       74249.2  13358.1  87607.3          15.2      38.1
8. E0UIPMET AND NATERIALS       100008.1  240571.4  340579.5       30305.5  72900.4  103205.9         70.6      44.9
C. VEHICLES                       5037.5    4312.5    9350.0        1526.5   1306.8   2833.3          46.1       1.2
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE           2410.0    7250.0    9660.0        730.3   2197.0   2927.3           75.1       1.3
E. TRAINING                       1340.0    2230.0    3570.0        406.1    675.8   1081.8           62.5       0.5
F. LAND ACO.JIS. & COPEINS.      78840.0       0.0   78840.0      23890.9       0.0  23890.9           0.0      10.4
G. MISCELLANEOUS                   452.5     577.5    1030.0        137.1    175.0    312.1           56.1       0.1
............. .......................  .......................  ...........  --------------------
Total INVESTMENT COSTS          433110.4  299023.1  732133.5    131245.6  90613.1  221858.6           40.8      96.5
It. RECLRRENT COSTS
......... ................. .....I
A. OPERATION AND NAINT.          14309.0     694.0   15003.0       4336.1    210.3   4546.4            4.6       2.0
B. SALARIES & ALLOWANCES          9223.1       0.0    9223.1       2794.9       0.0   2794.9           0.0       1.2
C. MISCELLANEOUS                  2160.0     330.0    2490.0        654.5    100.0    754.5           13.3       0.3
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE              0.0       0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0      0.0           0.0       0.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS            25692.1    1024.0   26716.1       7785.5    310.3   8095.8            3.8       3.5
Total BASELINE COSTS            458802.5  300047.1  758849.6    139031.1  90923.4 229954.4            0.0      100.0
Physical Contingencies        40909.7   24030.3   64940.0       12396.9   7281.9  19678.8          37.0       8.6
Price Contingencies          369742.6  223903.7  593646.2       25844.1  14548.3  40392.4          36.0      17.6
Total PROJECTS COSTS            869454.8  547981.1  1417435.8    1M72.0  112753.6 290025.6           38.9      126.1
7/11/1991 16:53
Irlj
(D X
*.\EGTRndp\-i



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROJECT
Project Components by Year
Base Costs  LE 000                                          Total
93         94         95         96         97         98    LEO0O    USS000
A . SUESURFACE DRAINAGE
1. HORIZONTAL DRAINAGE, NEW       13712.0  110717.8   91235.6   93436.6   84928.4   96751.2  490781.6  148721.7
2. HORIZONTAL DRAIN, RENEW            0.0   20957.0   19361.5   23797.1    20042.6   30935.3  115093.5   34876.8
3. VERTICAL DRAINAGE               1390.5    1040.5       890.5      760.5    2010.5    3000.5    9093.0    2755.5
Sub-total                            15102.5  132715.3  111487.6  117994.2  106981.5  130687.0  614968.1   186354.0
B . OPEN DRAINS REM0ELING             2873.0   23624.0   21925.0   16205.0   25275.0   17305.0  107207.0   32487.0
C . INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
1. EPADP INCL. N & E               1165.0    5230.0    8650.0    2990.0    1780.0    1210.0   21025.0    6371.2
2. DRI & OTHER RES. ACTIV.         1720.5     1840.0     1245.0     1155.0     1110.0     1544.0    8614.5      2610.5
3. ENVIRONMENT SUPPORT              782.0    2288.0      1983.0      783.0      603.0      596.0    7035.0    2131.8
Sub-totat                             3667.5     9358.0    11878.0    4928.0      3493.0     3350.0    36674.5    11113.5
Totat BASELINE COSTS                 21643.0   165697.3   145290.6   139127.2  135749.5  151342.0  758849.6  229954.4
Physical Contingencies             1601.4   11768.7   12728.2   12905.0   12240.5   13696.2   64940.0   19678.8
Price Contingencies                8690.6   96651.3  101829.7  111973.1   122406.2  152095.3  593646.2   40392.4
Total PROJECT COSTS                  31935.0  274117.3  259848.5   264005.3   270396.2   317133.5  1417435.8  290025.6
Taxes                              1558.1    21111.0   18247.3   14686.6   14117.5   16363.3   86083.7   17684.8
Foreign Exchange                  10573.7  150810.5  108003.4   92404.0   86904.4   99285.0  547981.1   112753.6
7/11/1991 16:53
, z
MD >\
Kt\EG-T\ndp\ann



AMB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROJECT
LE 000
Sumary Accounts by Year
Base Costs                                     Foreign Exchange
93        94       95        96        97         9'     Total        X    Amount
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
AO. CIVIL WORKS                  8290.0   43604.2   51702.8   59325.0   59815.0   66367.0  289104.0        15.2   44081.7
B0. EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS      6850.5  101616.0   66349.0   56445.0   51965.0   57354.0  340579.5        70.6  240571.4
CO. VEHICLES                      460.0    3270.0    5110.0       0.0       0.0     510.0   9350.0        46.1    4312.5
DO. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE         1730.0    2870.0    2415.0    1445.0     770.0    430.0   9660.0         75.1    7250.0
EO. TRAINING                      220.0     840.0    1140.0    840.0    430.0       100.0   3570.0        62.5    2230.0
FO. LAND ACQUIS. & COMPENS.      2485.0   10815.0   14665.0   16425.0   16425.0   18025.0   78840.0        0.0       0.0
GO. MISCELLANEOUS                  40.0     450.0     500.0       0.0       0.0      40.0    1030.0       56.1     577.5
Total INVESTMENT COSTS          20075.5  163465.2  141881.8  134480.0  129405.0  142826.0  732133.5       40.8  299023.1
II. RECURRENT COSTS
HO. OPERATION AND MAINT.          270.0     635.0    1620.0    2583.0    4005.0    5890.0   15003.0        4.6    694.0                         OD
10. SALARIES & ALLOWANCES        1057.5    1147.1    1338.8    1614.2    1889.5    2176.0   9223.1         0.0       0.0
JO. MISCELLANEOUS                 240.0     450.0    450.0    450.0    450.0    450.0    2490.0           13.3    330.0
KO. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE            0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS            1567.5    2232.1    3408.8   4647.2   6344.5   8516.0   26716.1           3.8    1024.0
Total BASELINE COSTS            21643.0  165697.3  145290.6  139127.2  135749.5  151342.0  758849.6       39.5  300047.1
Physical Contingencies        1601.4   11768.7   12728.2   12905.0   12240.5   13696.2   64940.0        37.0   24030.3
Price Contingencies           8690.6   96651.3  101829.7  111973.1  122406.2  152095.3  593646.2        37.7  223903.7
Total PROJECT COSTS             31935.0  274117.3  259848.5  264005.3  270396.2  317133.5  1417435.8      38.7  547981.1
Taxes                         1558.1   21111.0   18247.3   14686.6   14117.5   16363.3   86083.7        0.0        0.0
Foreign Exchange             10573.7  150810.5  108003.4   92404.0   86904.4   99285.0  547981.1       100.0  547981.1
7/11/1991  16:53
M  z
M8:\EGT\nldp\amtt



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROJECT
Stumary Accounts by Year
Totals Including Cantingencies
USS 000
93        94        95        96        97        98     Total
1. INVESTNENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS                    2947.9   15792.2   19684.0   23301.9   24201.5   27649.5  113577.1
S. EWIPNENT AND MATERIALS         2342.0   35521.1  2408.0   21816.5   20649.5   23596.5  128633.6
C. VEHICLES                        146.8    1076.0    v44.8        0.0       0.0     192.1    3159.7
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE            552.0     944.6     824.4     510.4     281.1     162.0    3274.5
E. TRAINING                         77.3     303.8     428.5     326.6     172.7      41.5    1350.4
F. LAND ACWUIS. & CONPENS.        846.4    3806.7    5401.6    6270.4    6452.3    7305.3   30082.7
S. MISCELLANEOUS                   12.8      147.7     170.5       0.0       0.0      15.1     346.1
Total INVESTMENT COSTS           6925.2   57592.2   52961.8   52225.8   51757.1   58962.0  280424.0
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. OPERATION AND NAINT.            86.4      207.8     557.7    918.6    1465.8    2231.5    5467.8
B. SALARIES & ALLOWANCES          338.4      375.4     U1.0      574.3     691.7     820.0    3260.8
C. MISCELLANEOUS                   76.7      147.4     154.7     159.9     164.6     169.6     873.0
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE             0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Totat RECUIRRENT COSTS            501.5      730.7    1173.3    1652.8    2322.2    3221.1    9601.6
Total PROJECT OSTS                7426.7   58322.8   54135.1   53878.6   54079.2   62183.0  290025.6
7/11/1991 16:53
4 B
t\zd\
tDz
4>-IH
R1n\Raw\1



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROJECT
Projects Corponents by Year
Totals Including Contingencies
USS 000
93        94         95         96        97         98     Total
A . SUBSURFACE DRAINASE
1. HORIZONTAL DRAINAGE, NEW      4790.5   39442.9   34296.1   36218.9   34024.2   39800.2  188572.7
2. HORIZONTAL DRAIN, RENEW          0.0    7250.9    7274.1    9247.8    8041.3   12699.9   44513.9
3. VERTICAL DRAINAGE               443.9     346.3      313.2      280.6     813.6    1255.3    3452.9
Suh-Totat                            5234.4   47040.1   41883.3   45747.3   42879.0   53755.4  236539.5
B . OPEN DRAINS RENODELING           1014.1    8179.0    8151.1    6355.3    9907.0    7161.5   40768.0
C . INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
1. EPADP INCL. N & E              375.5    1742.3    2989.5    1086.5        664.8     457.9    7316.5
2. DRI & OTHER RES. ACTIV.        549.7      603.6      427.5     410.1      406.0      581.8    2978.8
3. ENVIRONNENT SUPPORT            253.1      757.9      683.6     279.3      222.4      226.5    2422.8
Sub-Totat                            1178.3    3103.8    4100.7    1776.0    1293.2    1266.1   12718.1                                                   1
0
Totat PROJECTS COSTS                 7426.7   58322.8   54135.1   53878.6   54079.2   62183.0  290025.6
= ==-- -__--_==-                    i_________==_===
........ ............... .. ......... . . .. .. .. . . .. .. ..... . .     .... . .. ..     .... . .. .
7/11/1991 16:53
t.n 
kt\E3Tndpk-t



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROJECT
Summmry Accounts by Year
Totals Including Contingencies
LE 000
93         94         95         96         97         98      Total
===CC======= X -=__=C==========2======-=
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS                      12676.0   74223.5    94483.2   114179.4   121007.7   141012.6   557582.4
S. EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS          10070.4  166949.4  118598.4   106900.9  103247.5  120342.0  626108.5
C. VEHICLES                           631.1    5057.2    8375.0          0.0        0.0      979.8   15043.1
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE              2373.7    4439.8    3957.0    2500.8    1405.3          826.2    15502.9
E. TRAINING                           332.5     1427.8     2056.6     1600.4      863.6      211.4     6492.4
F. LAND ACGUIS. & COMPENS.           3639.5    17891.3    25927.9   30725.1    32261.3    37257.0   147702.1
G. MISCELLANEOUS                       55.0      694.3      818.6        0.0        0.0       76.9    1644.8
Total INVESTMENT COSTS              29778.4   270683.2   254216.5   255906.6  258785.5  300706.0  1370076.2
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. OPERATION AND MAINT.               371.5      976.8    2676.8    4501.3    7329.0   11380.5   27235.8
B. SALARIES & ALLOUUNCES             1455.1    1764.5    2212.6    2813.9    3458.6    4182.2   15886.9
C. NISCELLANEOUS                      330.0      692.8      742.7      783.5      823.2      864.8    4237.0
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                 0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                2156.6    3434.2    5632.0    8098.7   11610.8   16427.5   47359.7
Total PROJECT COSTS                 31935.0   274117.3   259848.5   264005.3   270396.2  317133.5  1417435.8
7/11/1991 16:53
M:W\ET\ndp\-n1



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROJECT
Summary Account by Project Component
LE 000
HORIZONTA                           OPEN                 DRI &                              Physical            Price
L      NORIZONTA               DRAINS     EPADP      OTHER    ENVIRONNE                Contingencies       Contingencies
DRAINAGE,   L DRAIN,   VERTICAL  REMODELIN  INCL. M       RES.        NT               ---
NEW       RENEW     DRAINAGE      G         & E       ACTIV.    SUPPORT       Total     X      Amount       X    Amount
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A . CIVIL WORKS           197279.0    42003.0     2110.0    47712.0        0.0        0.0        0.0   289104.0    10.6   30713.0    82.2   237765.4
B . EQUIPMENT AND MAT     239593.0    61107.0     2455.0    35175.0     1025.0      724.5      500.0  340579.5    8.2   28078.5    75.6  257450.5
C . VEHICLES                   0.0        0.0      460.0        0.0     7640.0      510.0      740.0    9350.0      0.0        0.0     60.9    5693.1
0. TECHNICAL                   0.0        0.0      495.0        0.0    4980.0    1305.0    2880.0    9660.0    0.0             0.0    60.5    5842.9
E . TRAINING                   0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0    2970.0         0.0      600.0    3570.0   10.0        357.0    71.9    2565.4
F . LAND ACWtIS./COWP      47200.0   10400.0         0.0   21240.0         0.0        0.0        0.0   78840.0    7.3    5760.0    80.0   63102.1
G . MISCELLANEOUS              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       50.0      480.0      500.0    1030.0    0.0          0.0    59.7       614.8
Total INVESTMENT COSTS    484072.0  113510.0    5520.0  104127.0   16665.0    3019.5    5220.0  732133.5    8.9   64908.5    78.3  573034.2
1I. RECURRENT COSTS
A . OPERATION AND MAINT.   4118.0      1330.0      870.0    3080.0    4360.0        975.0      270.0   15003.0    0.2         31.5    81.3   12201.3
B . SALARIES & ALLOW        2591.6      253.5    2133.0         0.0        0.0    4140.0       105.0    9223.1      0.0        0.0    72.3    6663.8
C . MISCELLANEOUS              0.0        0.0      570.0        0.0        0.0      480.0    1440.0    2490.0    0.0           0.0    70.2    1747.0
D . TECHNICAL ASSIST           0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0     0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS       6709.6     1583.5    3573.0    3080.0    4360.0    5595.0    1815.0   26716.1           0.1       31.5    77.2   20612.1
Total BASELINE COSTS      490781.6   115093.5     9093.0   107207.0   21025.0      8614.5     7035.0   758849.6    8.6   64940.0       78.2   593646.2
Physical Contingencies   45295.2    10007.0      616.5     8664.3      297.0        0.0       60.0   64940.0
Price Contingencies     385099.6   94184.1      7175.2   83255.6   13814.1    5645.1    4472.6  593646.2    8.0   47452.3
Total PROWECT COSTS       921176.4   219284.6    16884.7  199126.9   35136.1    14259.6   11567.6  1417435.8    7.9   112392.3    41.9  593646.2
Taxes                    56648.8   14098.2       820.4    8207.8    5230.6        403.2      674.7   86083.7    7.6    6524.3
Foreign Exchange        349924.8   90136.6    7338.2   75044.0   16070.5    3677.1    5789.9  547981.1            7.5   41099.1
7/11/1991  16:53
Ok\E13Rndp\-i



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROJECT
Tentative Financing Plan for Various ComprA^ents (USS mittlion)
Bank Group                        KfW (Germany)                     NDGIC (Netherl.)   GOE    Total
IBRD         IDA                  Loan         Grant g/             Grant b/
Project Comwonent      For   Loc    For   Loc    Tot    For   Loc    For   Loc    Tot    For   Loc   Tot    Loc    For    Loc        Total
Horizontal Drain New   21.0   8.7   34.5  14.0  78.2   15.0   5.5                   20.5    0.9          0.9   89.0    71.4  117.2  188.6
HorizontaL Drain Ren    5.0   2.0    9.0   3.3   19.3    5.0   1.5                   6.5                       18.7    19.0  25.5   44.5
Vertical Drainage                                                                            1.4   1.6   3.0    0.4      1.4    2.0    3.4
Open Drains Re odell    6.0   2.3    9.5   4.4   22.2                                                          18.6    15.5  25.3   40.8
Inst Support EPADP                    0.3          0.3                  0.9          0.9    2.2   1.3   3.5    2.7      3.4    4.0    7.4
DRI ard Research                                                        0.1          0.1    0.7   1.9   2.6    0.3       0.8    2.2    3.0                           1
Envirowrental Support                                                   1.1   0.9    2.0                        0.3      1.1    1.2    2.3                          co
Total                  32.0  13.0  53.3  21.7  120.0   20.0   7.0    2.1   0.9   30.0    5.2   4.8  10.0  130.0   112.6  177.4  290.0                                I
l/ KfU Grant for envirormental support and imported vehictes.
f  Includes two trenchless laying machines, vertical drainage, technical assistance, training and misc. equipment for EPADP, DRI and RIGW.
bo2
ao H
\t\*Q



Arab Repabllc of Egypt - atiomal Drainagc Project - Proposed Processing Sc1ekile for Equfpaent, Materials and Civil Uorks
Fron  Aurd Ctr  Fin   Description                                                         Tender Preparation         Tenders/Prop Process               |Civil Works    Equipent/laterials
T No Year Type 1
survey  Bank Re Preqtal ProplBi Evaluat Bank ReAdv Pa  Start   Calple Manufac Equiput Doetive
To   No o Proc Fin                                                                        Dec PrejAdverti Issue 0 Prepar JRecO   jArd  EMblti  Date   1Date   Shippini Testing Date
r Uo ttr         2
30|    30|    30          601      30|    30         30      720 IM  YY       270 1    60 II   YY
i  993D                  onta  Drainge - Prequalification for                                            Jan-92
101            works to be arded in FY93 and 94                                                     Apr-92
II   4 K   15         Itotal araoI0.0   e                                              1p-2I Au- I                ItO 9    De-2I Ja-3I Fe-3IMr    I                   I        I9I
.,.... ....................................................................................... ...... ....... ............... ............................  ...........................................  ... ...
I 119310L JIM  l"    Horizontal Drairnae - 4 contracts for a                            feb-92  AJ-92             AUg-92 lOct-92 lov-92  Dec-92  Jan-93 I 1 95 |
4    4 |ICB          t totl area of 60,000 fed                                         |Apr-922 |u9-922 |         |Oct-92 |Dec-92  Jar-93 |Feb-93 |ar-93   3 95 
120                                                                 1
S 119931P   JIM   IP oC pwed r -  bout 2Z800 tons for 60,000 fed                       |Jul:92 |AU992 | Sp-92 lOctN 92 |Dec-92 lJan-93 jFeb-93 I              I       Imar993 jmby93 I 7 93
6 11993IPP1  JIM) IPIpe Productlon Lines - 2 lateral lines and one                     IAug-91 IOct 91 lNov-91 IDec-91 IMar-92  IApr-92          -92 1        1        Jiun-92 'Jan-94 1 4 94
1  ICB  or   |collector linr inct related equipnent                              jSep-91 |                   Feb-92 |                                            N I  I  jar-94|
g    |    |    l~KflJ                                                                I       O         1             90                1       1        1                600
7 119931C I I       lBuildings  nd other civit works related                           Nov-92  Mar-93  Apr-93  May-93  Juul-93              iSep-93 lOct-93    6 94 |          |
1  |t CB |        |to new pipe production lines                                      Feb-92 |           |Jun-93 I                                  I        I |
III    I                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~120 1   I    I                            240    I    I 
8  19931PJ  JIBM  JIpe laylng machines - 3 contracts for 30 lateral                     Jutl92 |Nov-92  Dec-92  Jan-93  Apr-93 IMay-93  Jun-93 I               I      IJul-93  Apr-94   6 94
|      10     3   C8  nmid   12 coector and one trenchless laying machine                oct92                     Mar-93 I                                             K I        9
I. ..... .. ... .. ....... ............ .. ......... .............. ......... .............. ... ... .. ...... ....... ... . ... ..................................
11 119931PuN JIM8    Supplementary equipment for pipe laying machines                    Jul-92 |Nov-92  Dec-92 |Jan-93 |Apr-93 jMay-93 IJun-93                         Ju-93  Apr-94   6 94
1         ICS   wid  f                                                             Oct-92           j        jar 93                     1                 1       jay-94j 
Gj    I    |    |KN   |                                                              1   120 1         I        |    go i         I        I        I        I       I        I 
I................... .......................................................................................................................... .................. .............................. ... ...... .... ......... ..  ----------------------
12  19931F   |IBRD IDirect purchase of spare parts for existing                          Aug-91 IOct-91 INov 91 jDec-91 liar-92 |Apr-92 |May-92 |              |       IJun-92 I           4 94
131  2 10P  |         factories                                                                                     F eb-92                   Jul-92 |t|g 60                               6 94
.. . ................. .. ..... ..... ...... .......... .. ... .................................                     ----------------------------------
14 I1993MIP.N UIB I   Direct purchase of spare parts for existing pipe                  |Jut-92 IAug-92 ISep-92 IOct-92 INov-92 tDec-92 IDec-92 I              I        Jan-   I         1 4 93
171  4 1DP  |         laylng equipeent                                                                    1        DeC93                      N o r 9                   A p   0 |        1694
a18 I19931VEH IDutch|Vehicles and other support equipment for EPAOP                     |Jul-92 ISep-9I  |Oct-92 INov-92 lJan-93 IFeb-93 lMar-93 I             I       |Apr-93            12 93
19 1  2 |DRI. RIG                                                                       1      1          |       |Feb'-93           1                                 1oct 93|
20 119931O    JIM   Open drains reaodeliing - three contract covering                   1Oct-91 IFeb-92 INar-92 IApr-92 IJun-92 IJul-92 IAug-92 iSep-92 | 9 94 1                |                 OQ vZ
|22 |3         aC bout 70,000 fed                                                                         1        1       1                       1            1               1        1           
0



Arab ReptbLlc of Egypt - National Drainae Project - Pror-,sed Processing Schedule for Equixpent, Materials and Civil Works
IFrom Awrd Ctr jFin  |Description                                                   ITender Preparation       ITenders/Prop Process             Civil Works   jEquipment/Nateriats   |
T No Year Type                                                                                                                                    _ .  ----- -----------------------------
I    I     I                                                               Survey jeank Re Prequal Prop/BiSEvaauatlBank Re Adv Pay Start CPopve ManufaclEquiiptjelive|
To  lN  o Proc iFin                                                                  Doc Pre|Adverti Issue 0 Prepar IRecomn lAward  jMobiliz Date    Date  IShippin|Testing|Date  I
IT HolCtr ip    2                                                                     ----------------- ---------------------  ----1----                  --     --------------------
I                                                                                                                                            30oC2r0 260 I       I                    --
C               =    C                                                                                                                                  ----- 30 1  30 1  30   60 1  30   1  30   3  1  720   MM Y r  270Y1  60 MM
23 199i3ODEG IBR L  bvation equipnent ard spare parts for existing                  Nov-91 I1ar-92  Apr-92  May-92  Ju-92  Aug-92  Sep-92                      Oct-92  Oct-94 '12 94
1   ICG B     exc3v equipment if requested by contractors                     Feb-92                  IJun-92                                            Sep-94 I
I    I    I      I                                                              I   120                                                                       720
(DX
0
1llh
ODF 



rab Republic of Egypt - National Drainage Project - Proposed Processing Schedule for Equipment, Materials and Civil Works
From Awrd Ctr  Fin   Description                                                   ITender Preparation      ITenders/Prop Process             ICivil Vorks    Equipment/naterials
T No Year Type I1    .---                                                                                                                                       -----------
Survey  Bank RelPrequal Prop/BilEvaluat Bank ReIAdv Pay Start   Comple Manufac Equipat Delive
To   No 0 Proc Fin                                                                  Doc PrefAdvertilIssue D Prepar jRecorm  Award  |hobiliz Date    Date   Shippini Testing iDate
T No Ctr      12                                                                    --                                                        I-I-I
301    30       30       60|   30|    30          30     720 iN YY1   270 1   60 IM YY
-- Iiooc'                                                         , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---- ----
24  1994 NDL 1IBRD )Norizontal Drainage - 7 contracts for about                   I Jun-92  Oct-92  Nov-92 IDec-92  Feb-93 lMar-93 lApr-93 1 ay-93 1 5               i       I
32    9  ICB         116,000 fed and 2 contracts for 20,COO renewal area          IOct-92  Fe-93 2Mar-93  Apr-93  Jun-93 |Jut-93 (Aug-93  Sep-93 | 9 95 | 
l   1*                                                        1  ~~~~~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~ ~~ ~~~~~120                               
|33 11994P    'Kf)  IPVC Powder - about 5,300 tons for 116,000 fed                'May      Jun- 93  Jul-93 'Aug-93  oct-93 iNov-93  Dec-93 |an-94  NMar-94   5 94
| 34 |2                two contracts                                                IJun93                   i Sep-93   t     |       |          |       |     Apr-94
. .............................. .-.*-------*-----------......................................................................................  * --------------------------------
| 35 119941PPL |IBRD fConversion PE lines to PVC                                    Imov-92 IJan-93  Feb-93  Mar-93 Jun-93 |Jul-93 |Aug-93             I      ISep-93 INa'-95 | 7 95 |
1 (ICB  or   |Dec-92                                                                                 |Apr-92                           I       I       Jun-95
|KfW  |                                                                  60 1        1            9D0 I       I       I                I      1  600|
....    ... ............. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . ..  . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . .- -          -
36 11994 PLM 11BRDI lSupplementary equipment for pipe laying machines              Jut-93 INov-93 IDec-93  Jan-94  Apr-94  May-94 iun-94 I                   Jul-94 jApr-95   6 95
1  ICS land                                                                  Oct-93          ID       Feb-94 I        I-                       I                 r  Aug-95
I  I |    |Kf I |                                                                  120          I       I   90 I|        I       I |A|g|i
-     -     --              -      -      -     -      -      -     -      -      -     -       -     -     -       -     -     --            -     --            -
37 11994 PL  IKfU  IDirect purchase of spare parts for existing pipe              (Oct-93  Nov-93 IDec-93 IJan-94 lJan-94  Mar-94 1Apr-94                    N May-94 I       1 7 94 1
39    3 (DP  |      |laying machines                                              |SeP94  Oct-94 |NOV-94  Dec-94  Jan-95 3IFeb-95 (Mar-95 I          |       Apr-95 |         |6 95
l  l  l   l     l                                                              lI  I   I                1    30   1      1       1       1               1    60   i   1t_1              c
| 40 119941ViM IKfI  IVehictes for EPADP                                           Dec-93 |Feb-94 lMar-94 (Apr-94  Jun-94  jJu-94  Aug-94            I        s 9Sep-94      ' 55 9
1           r ant                                                               Jan-94          j        May-94                  I       i                Mar-9 5                I 
t    |    i    |  |                                            |~~~~~~ ~ ~~ ~~~ ~ ~ ~~~ 60  I"           I       I        I       I      1   1   80       1   
-- - - -  - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - ---    --- -- - -- - -- -  -- - -- -- - -- - --  - -- - -- -- - -- - --  - -- - -- -- - -- -  -- - -- -
141 11994KAINIKfU  iNorizontal drainage - maintenance equipment                   IJun-93 lOct-93 1Nov-93  Dec-9   Mar-94  Apr-94 1Nay-94                    Jun-94            5 95
I"  |(1 ICe I          inctuding vehicles for WRC                                   |Sep93 |F N               (eb93 IMa 9  (Apr-9ar-45 a                              I              i
III       I                                                                                              120   1  1  901                I                                       j
1 42 11994100  IIBRD 10pen drains remodetling - five contracts covering            Jun-92  |Oct-92  Nov-92 IDec-92 IFeb-93 1ar-93  Apr-93  May-93   5 95
46    5  LCS '      'about 100,000 fed                                             Oct9   Feb-93   ar-93  Apr-93  Jun-93 |Jul-93  Aug-93  Sep-93   9 95
i II |     1*                                                            1 1201           I       I        I       I        I       I       I       I i       {  1
47 1199410DEO l Ifw  lExcavation equipment and spare parts for existing            Feb-92 iJun-92 IJul-92  Aug-92 lOct-92                                    JNov-92 IDec-92 I  I  lIan-93  lOec-94   3 95 1
| |  1  IC3           excavating equipment if requested by the contractors           May-92         |Sep-92                              | (   D   ( |         Feb-95
11                                                                       I l  |          l       |120                                       1       1               i       I
I                                              ---..                                                  -                                           I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- - -- - - -- - - -   - - - -
m  fDH Xi
xD 
00



Arab Republic of Egypt - Natfonal Drainage Project - Proposed Processing Schedule for Equipment, Materials and Civil Uorks
From Awrd Ctr  Fin   Description                                                      Tender Preparation       Tenders/Prop Process              Civil Works   lEquipment/Materiats
T No Year Type 1                                                                                                                          ,-- 
rrvey peBank Re Prequat Prop/i lEvaluat Bank Re Adv Pay Start - Co-pleMa       -fac E-uip-t -Delive
To   No o Proc Fin                                                                   1Doc Pre Adverti Issue D Prepar iRecoam  lAward  jMbiliz Date    Date   Shippin Testing iDate
T No Ctr        2                                                                                          30      6-     -    -      -    -      --301-                            -
30 |   30 1    30        60 |   30 |   30 |    30         720 11 YY 1   270 |   60 Ij  YY
t,ff NDL IBRD  Norizontal Drainage - prequalification for works                                 Jun-93
O              to be awarded in FY 1995 and 1996                                               Sep-93
48 119ff5ID 11IBRD IHorizontal drainage - 7 contracts for about 114,000              Jun-93  Oct-93  Nov-93  Dec-93 iFeb-94 MNar-94 |Apr-94  May-94 I5 96 |
5|9|ICB |       fed area snd 2 contracts for 25,000 fed reeaw                  IOct93 |Feb-94  M"ar-94 |Ap-4|u94|u9  |u9   Se94|96|                               |               |
11951 I.IIIllt
57 119951 P   |IBRO IPVC powder - about 6,400 tons for 139,000 fed                  IMay-94 IJun-94 IJul-94 IAug-94 IOct-94 INov-94 1Dec-94                     Jan-95 IMar-95 I 5 95
58e1 2  ICB          two contracts                                                   J               I       jSep94 I                                   !       Apr-95 I 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .                                                                                                                      60
T59 119951PPL jIBRD IPipe production lines - one lateral machine                    INov-93  Jan-94  Feb-94 I ar-94 IJun-94 |Jut-94 |AU-9                      ISep-94 May-96   7 96
|  1  [ICB Ior   Iincluding related equipment                                   IDec-93      I            IApr-94                  1                        IJJun-95 I       i
II        j C KfW   I                                                           1    601         1        1 901                    i                        1  600 1 
60 119951PLM hIBRD lDirect purchase of spare parts for existing pipe                lOct-94  Nov-94 1Dec-94 IJan-95 1Jan-95  sMar-95 JApr-|95                   Iay-95            I  795
61    2 IDP  Iand  I aying iachines                                                  Sep-95 IOct-95  N ov-95  Dec-95  Jan-96 1Feb-96  Mar-96                    Apr-96         11696
I  I  IKf~~~~~~~~~~~~I I                            I    I                        30'~~~~~~~~~~~~~I    I6I I                            I0         19
KfW                                                                  I                1            30                                                 60 i     11        {      C
162 119fflF   lKfU  IDirect purchase of spare parts for existing                    lNov-92 IJan-93 IFeb-93 IMar-93 IJun-93 IJul-93  Aug-93 I                   jSep-93           7 9I
|63 |2  DP           factories                                                      |Oct-93 |Dec-93  Jan-94  Feb-94  |         Jun-94 |Jul-94 |                 I AU94
l    l    l    l  l                                            ~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~                        ~~~~~1 60 1 11  90  1   1               600 1        
64 1199510D  IIBRD lOpen drains remodelling - five contracts covering               IJun:93  3Oct-9   Nov-93 IDec-93 IFeb-94 |Mar-94 IApr-94 jMay-94 | 5 96 |           I       I
68     5 |LCB        about 100,000 fed                                              |Oct; 3  Feb-94 1Mar-94  Apr-94  Jun-94  JuL-94 1Aug-94  Sep-94   9 96
69 11995100NE118RD IMaintenance equipment for open drains                           IApr-94 IAug-94  Sep-94 lOct-94 IJan-95  Feb-95 1Mar-951 |Apr-95 IJan-96 1 3 96
I  [  |CB |or   I                                                                |J1;94 |                  1ov-94 1                                           Feb-9LS|
0%    1
Kf~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f 120            901 
I.-
(DI
"h
CoD



rab Repub(fc of Egypt - Nntionat Drairnae Project - Proposed Processing Schedule for Equipment, Materiats and Civil Works
From Awrd Ctr  Fin   Description                                                       Tender Preparation        Tenders/Prop Process              ICivil Works   lEquipment/Materials
T  No  Year  Type  1                                                                   .                         ------------------                                   ....  .
Survey 1Bank RelPrequal Prop/BilEvaluatl9ank ReIAdv Pay Start  |Coaple Manufac Equipmt|DeLive
To   No oProc Fin                                                                      Doc Pre|AdvertilIssue D Prepar iRecoem |Award   Nobiliz Date   |Date   ShippinITestinglDate
T No Ctr        2                                   .            .                . ..-----.-.-.--
30 1    30 1    30       60       30 1    30 1   30        720 INK  YY     270 1   60 IM TY
71 1996 HDL  IORD  Horizontal drainage - 8 contracts for about                        Jun-94  Oct-94  Nov-94  Dec-94  Feb-9f  Mar-ff  Apr-95  May-95   5
I~~~~~2o~~~~~~~00   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~jJa.  jFb9  Mr5                               N*95 1Jm95 lJut 95 1Sep 95599
19 10  ICO         120,000 fed area and 2 contracts for 30,000 fe  reea               4e9   Jan95Febf    r ffMy-ff  Jn-f   Ju-fSp-f 99
80 11996 P    110RD IPVC powder - ebout 6,900 tons for 150,000 fed                    May-95 IJun-95 iJul-95 IAug-95 lOct-95 INov-95 IDec-95                      IJan-96  Noar-96   5 96
81    2  [ICB I       two contracts                                                   J iun-           I        Sep-95           I       I                 I      1 Ap960 
.. ...... ...... ........... . ... ... .. . .......................... .. . .....  ..........                        ..   ...............................
82 119961PPL lKfW  IPipe production lines - one lateral line                         INov-94 IJan-95 IFeb-95 IMar-95 IJun-95 IJul-95 iAug-95 I                     Sep-95 IHay-97 1 7 97
I1  ICB        including related equipment                                    |Dec-94 |           |              IApr-5           I                         I|un-96 i
I                                                                                      1    60                         90                                           1  600
I.....   .................      .. ......................... ................................................ ..................... ..................................................... ....................................I
I8fX3 I1996IPLM IIBRO I Pipe laying machines - one contract for 10                    Jul-f95 iNov-95 1Dec-95  Jan-96 lApr-96 iMay-96  Jun                         Jul-96 'Apr-97   6 971
I   I       ad   lateral machines                                                Ioct-95 |         I       |Jut-96 |                          t               1|ay-97 |
I          1KfW  |including related equipment                                    1   120 1         1       |    go           I       I        I |             I        I |
84 119961PtN IIBRD ISupplementary equipment for pipe laying machines              -  IJul-95 INov-95 lDec-95  Jan-96  Apr-96  May-96  Jun-96                  I   Jul-96  Apr-97   6 97 | 
 1 [CB  and  I                                                                      Oct-                      F       I I 90 1                                           I  May-95
t           K"1 Kf                                                                    120                       90                                                                             0     lll lc
85 119961PLM  I1ORD  Direct purchase of spare parts for existing pipe                |Oct-ff   Nov-9  |Dec-95 IJan-96  Feb-96  oMar-96  APr-96 W                    ay-96 |        1 7 96 |
87 | 3  DP  land  Ilaying machines                                                   |Sep-96 |Oct-96 |NOV-96 |Dec-96 |JJan-97Jan-97 |Mar-97 I             |        Apr-97          16 97
I    I    I lKfW                                 I                                                 1 I  I  I    30           1       1        I               1    601       1 
88 119961F   JlBRD foirect purchase of spare parts for existing             |          Nov-93  Jan-94  Feb-94 lMar-94  Jun-94 IJul-94 fAug:94            |         Sep-94 I          7 96
| 89 | 2IDP 0   r    factories                                                       1Oct-94  Dec-94  Jan-95  Feb 95  May J95 liun-95  Jul-95                      Aug-95            6 97|
I                                                                                         |       |        l        Kfw  60  90    i  i                           600 i
90 11996jMAIN1KfW  Ilioritontal drainage - maintenance equipment                      Jun-95  Oct-5  Nov-95  Dec-95  Mar-96  Apr-96   ay-96 I                     lI Jun96           5 97
| |1 tXCB     I                                                               ISepf95 |         I        Jan-96 |                                           Mar -97  
i91  119961 O 11RD lopen drains remodelling - five contracts covering                 iJtn-94 IOct-94 9 Nov-94 IDec-94 iFeb-95 iMar-95 IApr 95 IMay-95 I 5 97
9 f 9      6 LCS      about 100,000 fed                                              IOct-94 IFeb-95 IMar-95 IApr-95 IJun-95  Jul-95 IAug-95 ISep-95 1 9 97
I  ',                                                    ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~1 120 1    I          1    1   I    I   I
..... ...... .. ............. ... ... .... .-.. .---......................... ... -........ .............. ... ... .................. ................................... ...............-
1 96 1199610D  |KfW  10frect purchase of spare parts for existing                      |Jun-93 1Oct-93 1Uov-93 IDec-93 f|Feb-94 |Mar-94 jApr-94 |                   M |Nay-94 1      |D7 96 o
D1|P  |        excavation equipment                                             a9  I       94 1Oct-94 |Nov-94 JJan-95 |Feb-95 |Kar-9f  I          I        A.9|              6 97
| _ = =ufs cn.s-ssu-=                                     -uctr=u                   ==-=--=a~  e*-=S =  c   r   ==--======-x=======.  === 0=a
( D HjT
0
0:1



Arab Rep.htic of Egypt - Natfoalt Drainage Project - Proposed Processing Schetatle for Equipmnt, Materiats and Civil Works
From Aurd Ctr  Fin   DsrpinTender Preparation                                                              Teniders/Prop Promes            ICivil Works    Eq.aipaet/Rateriats
T   No  Year   Type   I.. . . . . . . . . . .                                                               .. . . . . . . .. .. . . . .    .. . . . . . . . . . .   . .. . . . .
Survey  B6ank Re IPrequat Prop/Bi lEvaluatlBank ReIAdv Pay  Start  i CcWte Nanufac Equipat iDetive
to   Xo oProc Fin                                                                 IDoc Pre Advertill ssue 0 Prepar IReco.. lAward  lMobilIiz Date   IDate  ShippinI Testing jDate
T No   Ctr     2                                                                   .. . . . . . . . . . .     . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
_________     ________                        I   ~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~301    301    30  601    30~   30 1   30    720 INNYY       270 1   60 INN Y
I1997IHEDL I    I Horizontal Drainage - prequatification for works                            JtI                            I I 95
j0              to be awarded in FT 1997 ard 1998                           1                Sep:95 I                                                 
.I--   - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - -- - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - -                 - - -  - - - -
97 119971N0L I        orizontat drainkage - 8 contracts for aboult               1Jun-95   Oct-95 iNov-95 I Dec-95 ~Feb-96 jNar-96 I Apr-96  May-96 15981 
106   10 I C          25,000 fed area and 2 contracts for 35,000 fed              Sep-95  Jan-96  Feb-96 I a       -96      JuMa -96 .h I-6Jul-96 lAug-96 I 8 98   I       I
l i i i            irenewat area                                                    120 1        1      .1ar96Na         I       I        I       I      II
IC7S99   P  W    pvc powder - about 7,300 tows for 160,000 fed               IMay-961JW1n-96 (Jut-96  Au-96 (Oct-96 (Nov-96 (Dec-96                    JanV7(a 9    5 9
10    1996 ~PLM 11BRD lPipe laying machinies - one contract for 10              Jul-96 iNov-96 IDec-96  Jaon-97 ~Apr-97My9 ~ Jun-97 j                    Jut-97   Ar9    6 98
1ICS ~and   lateral machines                      ~Oct96                                         .Jl97                    I               I       jay~8 
I110 I W199~PLM  tSBR! ISupqplementary equipment for pipe laying machines          Jul-96   Nov-96  Dec-96  Jan-97  Apr-97  May-97 liun-97 I                Jul-97 jApr-98  6 98 
I  [ICS  or4d  ISep-96 I                                                                   I       1Feb-9  I        I                               Aug-981 
K~fW                                                               1 120 1         I       I   901I                                              I 
III111997!1PLM  lOBRD Ioirect purchase of spare parts for existing pipe           Oct-96  Nov-99,6 lDec-9   Jn-97 1Jan-97 I ar-97 I Apr-997 I              may-97 I        I7 97
113    3             tDoln   Ilying machines                                      Sep-97 IOct-9   No-9   0ec -97  Jan-98  Jman-98 ~Mar-9            I       Apr-98           6 98
1  IKfW 1                                             I~ ~              ~          ~~~~~~~~ ~~ ~~~~~~ I          30~                60 1  ii
1145  1997wf    IBRD (irect purchase of spare parts for                           Nloov-94  Jan-9.5  Feb-95  lMar.95  Jun-95  Jiul-95 lA    I              ISep-9            7 97
j116  219DPA1[or   facoriestldange-nitnnc   qiun                                  1Ju-      e   5  Jnov- I'96      INa-6Jn9   J   96                        AugJ-96          598
1II    1Kf                                                                   1   601                       901I        1                                  600;a
117  1997I 00  lORD 1ope raizns dreinagel  - mfivrwe ontractscvrn                JL- 95  Oct-95  Nov-96 IDec-95   ebr-96  MApr-96  Ap-9y   My-96l5u98         97          I     9
Ii                                                                                120I                                   I 90~ ~
121       LCB I                                                                                    'J about 100,000 fed  Sep9   Jan-96   eb-96  Mar-96  My9   Ju-9    ul-96  Aug-96   8 98
1191             Direct                                                                               II                               I                        
122 11910D  l[BR  lIrc  purchase of spare parts for existing                      Jun-94  Oc-4 INov,-94 IDec-94  %Fb9  lMr95pr-95                          fMy-9          '17971
I 1 OP      ~~excavation equipaient                                       May-95 I Sep-9                          IM-5~o-9    a-6Fe-6Mr9Ap96I                     I68 
iii   I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11201                                                                                      1            7201 
(123 119971 VOD (lORD iVertical drainage - drilling for about 20 wells      ~      Mar-95 l Oct-95 INov-95 Dec-95 IFeb-96 Inr-6May-96 liJul-96 112 97  Jiuvl-96  Ocrt-997 112 97
I ~ICB ~or   I covering about 5,000 fed including casing,                  Sep-95 I        I         Jan-96        jMr9                             Nov9  I a-9                  x
I  ~~~~D~utchiscreerts, tests etc                                                 2101                         1       1  601       601101             14501O
.. . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . ..  . . . . ..-.    . . . . .  . . . . . . .. . .-         - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -H--    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



Arab RepiNlic of Egypt - National Drainage Project - Proposed Processing Schedute for Equipment, Materials and Civit Works
Ia                       = =22222G22 ==22 G2 __=__=-222=2G =============== 2  -2=2-22222==CC 2-=2 ============2222-==_==_C=    G _I-= 
From Awrd Ctr  Fin   Description                                                   iTender Preparation       Tenders/Prop Process             ICivit Works   1Equipment/NateriaLs
T No IYear Type I                                                                                                                                                       ----------
T  llo rear Type 1                                                             15urvey IBank Re|P;equat P;op/Bi|Evaiuat|Bank RelAdv  Pay Start CPraletMaafacREquiAttDeIive
To   go o Proc Fin                                                                IDoc Pre|Adverti|lssue D Prepar IRecomn lAuard  IMobiliz Date   |Date   ShippiniTesting Date
;   30 1    30       30       60      30      30       30     720 IM YY |  270 )    6O IIN YY
124 11997 DWP )IBRD IVertical drainage - pups and electrical motors                1Mar-96 iJul-96  Aug-96  Sep-96 lJan-97 iNar-97 |Apr-97  May-97   5 98 lJw-97 |Feb-98 | 4 98
i    1 DP   Dtor    for 20 wells including installation and tests             ;J2-96                     Nov-96      60Mar-98                                             I
I    Iutchi                                                2                 1201                     120)1 60)            I           360)         I2401    50 1
(D I" tll
0
OD



rob Repubtic of Egypt - National Drainage Project - Proposed Processing Schedule for Equipzent, Materials and Civil Uorks
From Aurd Ctr  Fin  Description                                                  Tenider Preparation     ITenders/Prop Process           Icivil Works   iEquipment/laterials   |
T No Year Type 1                                                                                                           --                                          --- *-l-*-
I No1  YPe1eISurvey |Bank RejPrequalIPro,p/Bi I Evaluat lBank RelAdv Pay| Start   Ccmple Nanufac EquipmtlDetiveJ
To   No o Proc Fin                                                               Doc PrelAdvertilIssue Di Prepar  Recom lAward  lMobilizI Dete    Date  Shippin TestinglDate
T    No   Ctr  2--                                                                   - - - - - - - - - -  -- - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - -- -  - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - -
I         I                                                                     =30      30|   30        60 1    30 1   30 1    30       720 IK YY      270 1    60 IN YY
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~---------                              -             ------------------------- ---------
125 1998 NDL  tRD |Horizontal drainage - 7 contracts for about                   Jun-96  Oct-96  Nov-96  Dec-96 IFeb-97 Mar-97 Apr-97 IMay-97 1 5 991            i
134   10  IC8        115,000 fed area and 3 contracts for 45,000 fed             Sep-96 lJan-97  Feb-97 Mar-97  May-97  Jun-97  Jul-97 iAug-97 I 8 99 I                  I
1               irenewaL area *                                                 120                                                                 I
135  1998 P    18RD  PVC powder - about 7,300 tons for 160.000 fed               May-97  Jun-97  Jul-97 AUg-97 loct-97 INov-97 lDec-97 I          1      Jan-98 MKar-98 1 5 98
136    2  IC8        two contracts                                               Jun-97                   Sep-97                                         1Apr-98
1137 119981PLM  tIBRD iDirect purchase of spare parts for existing pipe          lAug-96 iDec-96 IJan-97 IFeb-97 iMay-97 |Jun-97 lJul-97 I        I      IAug-97          1 7 98 i
138    2  DP   and  laying machines                                              |Jul-97 |Nov-97 |Dec-97 lJan-98 |Apr-98  May-98  Jun-98 I               |Jul-98           6 99 i
|    i    |    |~~fW  i                                                          120 1        1       1   90 I        I       I       I              I            
139 1199810D  |18RD lopen drains remodelling - five contracts covering          liun96 |Oct-96 'Nov-96 'Dec-96  Feb-97 |Mar-97 lApr-97 |May-97 1 5 99                    I |
ii                                              Sep:96 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'n7IN:  MaI 7   a9   Iun9  I                       1     1     11AS-7   89
143    5  LC9 |      about 100,000 fed                                           SJun-97 |JUl-97  Aug-97 1899
*                                          |  1Z0 |         l       l       l       ,       ,       l       l      l        l       |      |~~~120 
144 119981D010 [RD jDirect purchase of spare parts for existing                 iAug-96 IDec-96 |Jan-97 IFeb-97 |May-97 jJun-97 IJul-97           I      I Aug-97        I  98
1 *DP         excavation equipment                                        i Jul;97 |Nov-97 |Dec-97  Jan-98            a    Jun-98                IJul-98            6 99
* - In order to attract bigger contractors for efficiency
and economy, wherever practical, these contracts will be
grouped into packages and put to bids under IC8
procedures with one package couposed of 3 to 4 groups.
24-Jul-91
p 3 IlZ
oq a,z
ID I-' t
O(D
%O1-4
0
OD



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROJECT
...................................
Su.aary of Imlpehentation Schedule
............................................... ........................................................................................................... ......... .................................................................................
No of  I 1991/1992           1992/1993         1993/1994         1994/1995         1995/1996         1996/1997         1997/1998         1 1998/1999
.ctlvlty                                                       ConI                                                                                                                                                      I.
tracts   1  2   3   4    1   2   3   4    1  2   3   4    1  2   3   4    1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4    1  2   3   4
1. Prequalification  for Horizontal  Drainage                                      ...                        ...                                 ...                                  ...
2. Horizontal Drainage - Civil Works                                  4             ..... ......... ***  ****_     *
9                     ............ . . ...... _*_                           ***
9                    {                     ................ ............   *
10                                                          ............ .... _ _ ***  ..............  I
...........=. ............-
10                                                                                              ............
3. Open  Drains Remodelting                                           3       .........
5                     .........                _                            ***
5                                     . . .....       .                                       ***
5                                                                           *. * __                             ***
5                                                                                             ************ ._....... .            ***
5                                                                                           . ..........               _
4. Civil Works for Pipe Production                                    I                           ........ ...
5. Pipe Production Lines                                              1 ..... ..                                                                                     
1 I                                                         ********** .***********  *
11                                                                             **.- .... .***** _******   *
6. Pipe Laying Nachines  incid Supptements                            4                     ............
I                                       ............ ..***t***.  
2                                                                           ........... ..... ._i 
2                                                                                             ............
7. Excavation Equipment                                               1        ........ ...                                                                                           
1 .... .... .****** ***  ********* *** ******I  ................. I
S. Maintenance Equipment                                              1...........
1                                                                     **I. *--------***1-*1 1*. ......... *.**1 1
. 1  I                                          I                                          *i.--.---- ..... *l*********** i ........................I
iI                                I                                                      ---               *********
9. Spare Parts for Factories                                         2 ........... | - | -
2                           ........*,E,****.
2                                                           .*                                  **********************
2.................... I
fD  >.a 
............... ............................... ,............. ..............                       .       ... ,.,, -----------------------------------------
X:%eqt%ndp%Jva% iep ched.                                                               Plaming, design and tender processing  until contract award                                              I'''
08/29/91                                                   *        Contract  Implementation                                                                             Fh



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROJECT
Sumary of Imptementation Schedlte
No of  1991/1992    1992/1993    1993/1994    1994/1995    1995/196    1996/1997    1997/1998 _ 1998/1999  i
Activity                                     Con-   ----------- ------------ ----               ---- ----------  ----------  ---------I----------I
tracts  1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4  12 3 4   1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4
10. Spare Parts for Pipe Laying Machines         4               ............                                       
3                             . .......
2                                           ......
2                                                                       I   ........
11. Spare Parts for Excavation Equipment           I                         1. ........... ...  ********               * **
III    .                                                 I .          I... *******-I-I ............
1 1 1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~....... .... '''' '1'*1I
12. Vehictes afd S4,port Equipment               2               ......... ****** 
13. PVC Powder                                 I                 ........ **** *                                                i
12* .. ......**** ,
21                                    ...._...
21                                                                1**
14. VerticaL Drainage                            2                                                .... '..........''''-.
i~~~                                     I II  Ti
N:\egt\ndpjna\impsched                                   ..... .Planning, design and tender processing untit contract award ............... 
08/29/91  .. ......I*****Contract ImpLementation



- 74 -
ANNEX I
Table 11
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROJECT
Estimated ScheduLe of Disbursement of IBRD Loan/IDA Credit
IBRD Fiscal Year                   Semester         Cumulative        Project           Egypt
And Semester                       USS               US                                 Agriculture
Ending                             MiLlion           MiLLion                                X
1993
June 305 1993                        -                 -                                   0.0
1994
Decenber 31, 1993                    3.0               3.0              2.5                3.0
June 30, 1994                        5.0               8.0              6.7               10.0
December 31, 1994                    8.0              16.0              13.3              14.0
June 30, 1995                        9.0              25.0             20.8               22.0
1996
December 31, 1995                   10.0              35.0             29.2               30.0
June 30, 1996                       10.0              45.0             37.8               34.0
1997
December 31, 1996                   10.0              55.0             45.8               42.0
June 30, 1997                       10.0              65.0             54.2               58.0
December 31, 1997                   12.0              77.0             64.2               62.0
June 30. 1998                       12.0              89.0             74.2               70.0
December 31, 1998                   10.0              99.0             82.5               74.0
June 30, 1999                       10.0             109.0             90.8               82.0
2000
December 31, 1999 /                 11.0             120.0             100.0              86.0
pj Closing Date Decenber 31. 1999.
m:\egt\nd6p\arO



- 75 -
ANNEX II
Table I
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROGRAM
Program Areas by Resion
NDP ('000 fed)l/               First Time Slice (t000 fed) 2/
Open J       Pipe         Vertical    Open O         Pipe         Vertical
Drains       Drains       Drainage    Drains        Drains        Drainace
New Areas:
East Delta                    221          326                       130           160
Middle Delta                  289          436                       180           240
West Delta                    108          268           -            70           140           -
Upper Egypt                    62          100          30 4/         40            50           54/
Suibtotal New Areas             680         1130          30           420           590           5
Renewal Areas I/                             470          _               -          130          _
Total Old Lands _/           680          1600          30           420          720 
Old New Lands /               120          140           -            60             -          _
Grand Total                     800         1740          30           480           720           5
_1' Includes First Time Slice areas for open drains and subsurface drainage.
2 Areas to be executed during the first two years have been agreed and the remainder to be prioritized and
agreed periodically based on reconnaissance surveys.
a/ Open drains remodelting to precede installation of pipe drains.
- Mostly areas affected by seepage from adjacent irrigated lands at higher elevation.
;  Areas where the existing old pipe drain systems are ineffective to provide drainage relief.
Lands historically irrigated in the Nile Delta ard its Valley.
y/  Desert lands reclaimed between 1965-80.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROGRAM
Program Areas for Inplementation ('000 Feddan)
Time Slice I                         Time Slice 11                         Totals (without 1992)
FY                                  1992   1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998   1999 2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  TS I  TS It both
NDP-Yr                                         1    2      3     4     5     6      7      8     9    10   11    12  1-6    7-12   1-12
1. Horizontal Pipe Drainage
A. On-going Projects
Drainage V (IBRO)                61      60                                                                          60      0     60
ISAWIP CCIDA)                    20     20    20                                                                     40      0     40
Hamout (EEC)                      8      10     8                                                                    18      0     18
Istanic Dev Bank                 15     20    20    14                                                               54      0     54
Delta Other Financirig            7      10                                                                          10      0     10
Upper Egypt II (KfW)              3                                                                                   0      0      0
Egypt/Drainage V (AFSD)   25                                                                                    0      0      0                    1
4.panese Financing                      10    10      8                                                                                                  <
Valley Other Financing           11      10                                                                          10      0     10                    0
West Nubariya (Proposed IDA)                   10    20    20    20                                                  70      0     70                    1
S Tb Total                         150    140    68    42    20    20      0                                           262      0    262
B. National Drainage Progra_n
New Areas - Old Lands                   20    92   108   120   120   130    100   100    90    90    80    80       590    540   1130
New Areas - Old-New Lands                                                     20    20    20   20    30    30         0    140    140
Renewal reas                                   10   20    30    30    40      50    50    60    60    60    60      130    340    470
Sub Total                                  O0  102   128   150   158   17n! 170   170   170   170   170   170          720   1020   1740
Total Horizontal Drainage          150    160   170   170   170   170   170  i170   170   170   170   170   170        982   1020   2002
11. Vertical Drainage (NDP)                                            2     3      4     5     4     4     4     4        5     25     30                '- 
111. Open Drains Remodelling (NDP)           20    60   100   100   100   100    100    90    70   60                    480    320   800                  H H
M:\es\ndp\w"H-w



- 77 -
ANNEX II
Table 3
ARAB REP'UBLIC OF EGYPT
NATIONAL ORAINAGE PROJECT
New Areas to Be Invlemented during Initial Years
Areas ('000 fed)
Catchment Area                1993     1994     1995    1996+    Total
East Delta
Serw P.S.                       4        19        8        0       31
El Iraad P.S.                                              25        25
Main Kasabi                                                28        28
Sub-total                     4        19        8       53       84
Middle Delta
P.S. No.3                                14       25       17        56
P.S. No.6                                         22       21       43
P.S. No.4                       7        24       14        0       45
P.S. No.11                      6        23       24        4        57
Sub-total                     13       61       85       42      201
West Delta
Haress P.S.                                                64       64
El Tabiya P.S.                                             45       45
El Deshoudy P.S.                3        12       15        4       34
El Boussily P.S.                                           25        25
Sub-total                     3        12       15      138       168
Total Delta                    20        92      108      233      453
Upper and Middle Egypt
Etsa                                                       10        10
Kabkab 4                                                    8         8
Abu Denkash                                                 9         9
Total Valley                    0         0        0       27       27
Grand Total                    20        92      108      260      480
Areas after 1994 are tentative and subject to revision upon amnual
review of priority areas.
It\.t\ndp\ndp-



- 78 -
TabLe 4
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROGRAM
List of Equipment for Horizontal Pipe Drainage
Time SLice I      Time Slice II
Equipment                               Unit          (93-98)           (99-2004)      Total
For PVC Pipe Production
1.  New Laterals Lines                  No          2                                    2
2.  Renewal Exist.Lat.Lines             No           1                  2                3
3.  New Collector Lines                 No           1                                   1
4. Conversion of P.E. Collector
Line to PVC                        No           1                                    1
5.  Silos and Bulk Transport            Set         3                   3                6
6.  Envelope Laterals Wrapping          No          2                   1                3
7.  Envelope Seamless Wrapping          No          8                   4               12
S.  Flat-bed Trucks                     No          16                  8               24
9.  Fork Lifts                          No          16                  8               24
10. Pick-ups 4x4 C2 tons)              No          18                  6                24
11. Misc. Support Equipment             L.S.
12: Spare Parts                         L.S.
Pipe Lavina Eauipment
1.  Collector Laying                    No         12                 22                34
2.  Lateral Laying                      No         50                  56              106
3.  Trenchless Pipe Laying              No          2                   2                4
4.  Laser Sets                          No         62                  55              117
5.  Hydraulic Excavator 0.4 cu.yd       No         20                  13               33
6.  Front-end Loader                    No         20                  13               33
7.  Fuel Trailers                       No         20                  13               33
8.  Fork Lifts                          No         20                  13               33
9.  Pick-up 4x4 (2 tons)                No         60                  35               95
10. Tractors 90 h.p. with
Trailers                           No          60                 36               96
11. Spare Parts                         L.S.
Maintenance Equipment
1.  Drain Flushers                     No           50                25                75
2.  Water Tanks                         No          50                 25               75
3.  Booster Pumps                       No          50                 25               75
4.  Tractors (65-70 h.p.)               No          80                 40              120
5.  Mud Pumps                           No         200                100              300
6.  Spare Parts                         L.S.
m:\.gt\ndp\anU2



- 79 -
ANNEX II
Table 5
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROGRAM
List of Equipment for Open Drains
Remodeling and Maintenance
Quantity
Time Slice I    Time Slice II
Eaulcment                                            Unit             (93-98)           (99-2004)         Total
Construction Eauimnent
1.      Draglines 3/4 cu.yd.                        No                10                                  10
2.      Hydraulic Excavator, 0.4 cu.yd.              No               12                                  12
3.      Tractor, crawler 140 h.p.                    No                5                                   5
4.      Motor Graders (125 h.p.)                     No                5                                   5
5.      Wheeled Tractors (90 h.p.)                   No                8                                   8
6.      Miscellaneous Attachment
and Equipment                               L.S.
7.      Fuel Tralters                                No                7                                   7
8.      Spare Parts                                  L.S.
Maintenance Eau-moent
1.      Hydraulic Excavators, 0.4 cu.yd.            No                 4                 4                8
2.      FlaIl Mower & Shallow
Bucket Attachments                          Set               8                 8                16
3.      Motor Graders (125 h.p.)                     No                3                 3                 6
4.      Side Boom Attachments                        Set               8                 8                16
S.      Miscellaneous Attachments                    Set               8                 8                16
6.      Spare Parts                                  L.S.
t\*w\rdp4u\ 4



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROJECT
Institutional SuDcort to EPADP and Other Research Institutes
List of Vehicles and Other Eauipment Reouirement (first time slice only)
EPADP                                            RESEARCH
Need        Regional   maint.        Others                   WRC         DRI         RIGW
quarters    Field       Centers    (M"E)         EPADP        (Envir)    (H.Dr.)    (V.Dr.)        Other
Offices     Subcent.                 Sub-total                                        Sub-total  Total
A. VEHICLES
1.  Stations Wagons 4x4              6           8             -          1            15          2           2            -           4           19
2.  Double Cb, 4x4 Pick-up           4            7            2          2            15          4           -            2           6           21
3.  Single Cab, 4x4 Pick-up          6           l8            4          2            !O                                   -           -            30
4.  Pick-up (localty produced)       -            -            -           -            -          -           5            4           9            9
5.  15 Seater, Uicro-buses           I            5            -           -            6          -            -           -           -            6
6.  Notorcylces (125 cc)            10           15           40          5            70                      2            4           6           76
B.  MISC. EQUIPMENT
1.  P.C. Caonuters                                                                                                                                                      o
with Softare                    11          13             -          1           25           -           6           1             7          32                 0
2.  Survey Equipnt (Sets)            -            I                                     I -                    1            -            1           2                  1
3.  Office Equipment (Sets)          1                                                  I  -                                             1           2
C. FIELD AND
LABORATORY EQUIPMENT
1.  Field Investigation (Set)                                                                       1          1            1             3          3
2.  Laboratory Equipment (Set)                                                                      1          1            -             2          2
3.  Demonstration Equipment                                                                         1           -           -             1           1
4.  Soil Augers                                                                                                a 8          -             8          8
5.  EC Meters                                                                                                  5            -             5          5
6.  Infitr aeters                                                                                             15            -            15          15
7.  W.Level Recorders                                                                               -          3           10            13         13
8.  Salinity Recorders                                                                              -          4            -             4          4
9.  Peruea Meters                                                                                   -          4            -             4          4
10. Geo-physical (Sets)                                                                             -                        1           1          1              F
(DX>
c1 4



- 81 -
ANNEX II
Table 7
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROJECT
Institutional Support to EPADP and Other Research Institutes
Summarv of Technical Assistanrc  and Trainina Inaut
A.  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                             International    Local
(Staffmonths)    (Staffyears)
1.  Design Automation                            4                 4
2. Management Information System
Construction Planning                    14                5
3.  Monitoring & Evaluation                     24                 6
4.  Construction Industry Service                8                 6
5.  MIS and Computing Needs Study               L.S.
6.  Drainage Impact Study                       L.S.
7. Short Studies
Renewal Areas                             4                -
Manufacturing Facilities
New Outlet Drain for Left                16                -
Bank of Nasser Canal
Other                                     2                -
Subtotal                                    22                 -
8. DRI and RIGW Activities
Research Management (DRI)              24                 -
Vertical Drainage (RIGW)                 5                6
MiscelLaneous/Unforeseen (DRI)           5                -
Special Study (RIGW)                    6                _
Subtotal                                    40                6
B.  TRAINING                                         (Staffmonths)
1. EPADP - Overseas Training
Management                               10
TechnicaL                               44
MIS (Computers)                           8
Trainers                                  8
Subtotal                                    70
2. EPADP - In-house Training
Management, Administration               LUMP
TechnicaL and Computers                 SUM
Contractors Management                   PROVISION
3. Envirorinental Support
Overseas Training                        10
Local Training                           L.S.
C.  SALARIES AND ALLOWANCES (DRI. RIGW)              DRI              RIGW
1.  New Professional Staff (No)                 8                 4
2.  New Technicians (No)                       30                16
3.  New Support Staff (No)                      6                 4
4. Allowances & Incentives
Professional Staff (No)                   5                2
Support Staff (No)                        2                1
Field Allowances                        L.S.              L.S.
m:\*t\ndp\antb.5



- 82 -
ANNEX II
Table 8
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROJECT
Schedule for Critical Actions to Be Comoleted during Initial Period of Invlementation
Action                                                                              SAR Para No      Taraet Date
(a)     Submitting short report by EPADP and DRI suimmarizing research results    2.34               Dec 31. 1991
and providing implementation schedule;
Cb)     Launching a Water Quality Impact Assessment Study (USAID funded);          3.28              Dec 31. 1991
(c)     Submitting revised standard bidding documents for field drainage for    3.37                 after  State
the Bank Group's review                                                                     Counsel
Approval
(d)     Completing design of field drains and tender documents for initial    4.09                   Jun 30, 1992
two years of inplementation;
*e)     Coqpleting land acquisition for remodeling of open drain contracts    4.09                   Jun 30. 1992
to be awarded during the first year of implementation;
Cf)     Activation of the recently established directorate for Management    4.10 Cb)                Dec 31, 1991
Information Systems (MIS);
(Cj     Development  of guidelines and reporting procedures  for quality    4.10 (c)                 Dec 31, 1991
control of drainage works;
(h)     Redeployment of technical supervisory staff from Upper Egypt to the    4.10 (d)              Jun 30, 1992
Delta;
ti)     Final  arrangements  for  the establishment  of  a  Human  Resource    4.10 (e)              Jun 30, 1993
Development and Management Directorate in the Chairman's Office;
CJ)     Finalizing agreed preliminary pre-qualification documents for field    4.11                  Oct 31, 1991
drainage work contracts;
Ck)     Decision on improved arrangements for recovery of equipment costs    4.11                    Jun 30, 1992
from contractors;
(l)     Decision on inproved arrangements for procurement of spare parts for    4.12                 Jun 30, 1992
contractors;
(m)     Submitting a short report by DRI on research priorities with scedule    4.13                 Dec 31, 1991
and estimated cost;
(n)     Submitting research proposal for intensive monitoring exercise by    4.17                    Dec 31, 1991
DRI;
(o)     Submitting a preliminary study on composition and magnitude of    5.14                       Dec 31, 1991
drainage costs.
M.\egt\ndp\ndP1mp



- 83 -
ANNEX II
Table 9
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROJECT
Suoervision Plan
Supervision Mission                Office Review
Including Report Preparation (SW)      and ProcurementtSU)  Total (SW)
Mission    Civil        M&E     Envir.  Special   Task      Procurm.
FY Type of Mission      Timing   Drain.Eng.  Research  Special.   Irput   Manager   Matters
92 To expedite initial   3/92         2.0                  1.0       1.0       1.0       2.0       7.0
procurement efforts
93 To expedite project   8/92         2.0       1.0                  1.5       2.0       1.5       8.0
effectiveness and
procurement efforts
Supervision           2/93         2.0         -       1.0        1.0       1.0       1.0       6.0
Sub-total for FY 93                4.0       1.0       1.0       2.5       3.0        2.5      14.0
94 Supervision & Review 9/93          2.0       1.0          -       2.0       2.0       2.0       9.0
FY 95 & 96 Program
Supervision           3/94         1.5         -       1.0        1.0       1.0       1.5       6.0
Sub-total for FY 94                3.5       1.0       1.0       3.0        3.0       3.5      15.0
95 Supervision           9/94         2.0         -        1.0       1.C       2.0       2.0       8.0
Supervision           3/95         2.0       1.0         -        1.5         -       1.5       6.0
Sub-total for FY 95                4.0       1.0       1.0       2.5        2.0       3.5      14.0
96 Supervision & Review  9/95         2.0       2.0                  2.0       2.0       1.0       9.0
FY 97 & 98 Progran
Supervision           3/96         1.5         -       1.0        1.0       1.0       1.5       6.0
Sub-total for FY 96                3.5       2.0       1.0       3.0        3.0       2.5      15.0
97 Midterm Review        10/96        3.0       2.5        1.5       2.0       2.0       1.0      12.0
Supervfsion           4/97         1.5         -                  1.0       1.0       1.5       5.0
Sub-total for FY 97                4.5       2.5       1.5       3.0        3.0       2.5      17.0
98 Supervision           9/97         2.0       1.0        1.5       2.0       1.5       1.0       9.0
Supervision           3/98         1.5         -                  1.0       1.5                 4.0
Sub-total for FY 98                3.5       1.0        1.5      3.0        3.0       1.0      13.0
99 Supervision           9/98         2.0       0.5        1.0       2.0       1.5       1.0       8.0
Supervision           3/99         2.0                    -       1.5       1.5                 5.0
Sub-total fot FY 99                4.0       0.5        1.0       3 5       3.0       1.0      13.0
2000 Supervision           9/99         2.0          *         *       1.5       1.5       1.0       6.0
SupervisIon           3/2000       2.0       1.0        1.5       1.5       2.0         -       8.0
Sub-total FY 2000                  4.0       1.0        1.5       3.0       3.5       1.0      14.0
m:\egt\ndp\MU.7



- 84 -
ANNEX I1
Table 10
Page 1 of 2
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROJECT
Rewuired Changes and Clarifications in Local Convetitive Biddina Procedures
12%      Issue                    Recouernndation/Arorooriate Action                               Reference
I       Local preference of       Margins of preference do not apply to methods of                Guidelines;
15X to goods, works      procurement other than ICB. No local preference should           pare. 3.1;
and services (unless     apply in procurement under LCB. Ministerial exemption            OPN 4.03
decided otherwise by     should be sought for Bank/IDA financed contracts.
Minister) permitted      Comparison of bids would be on delivery cost including
under LCB.               duty and hence no additional preference would be
reasonable.
2       LCB procedures            Exceptions would adversely affect competitive bidding           Guidelines;
permit that bids         process and may lead to abuses. Bids received after bid          para. 2.45
received after bid       closing time specified should not be coisidered and should
opening deadline,        be returned unopened.
but during bid
opening session may
be accepted if the
delay was beyond the
bidder's control and
if the bid is in
favor of the
Treasury.
3       LCB procedures            Practice to negotiate to reduce price can be abused and it    Guidelines;
provide that the Bid     must be made clear under what circumstances this can be          para. 2.60
Evaluation Committee     permitted. Bid Evaluation Committee can negotiate with the
fmay negotiate with       lowest evaluated bidder only when the bid exceeds owner's
the lowest bidder to     estimated cost by a substantial amount.
reduce bid to market
level prices.
4       LCB procedures            This is acceptable for small works or turnkey contracts in    Guidelines;
required civil works     which the contractor is responsible for both design and          para. 2.16
contractor to verify     construction. However, for other large works, design and
soundness of             specifications are generally the responsibility of the
specifications and       Engineer. In such cases, verifications of design and
designs as though        design criteria would result in duplication of Engineer's
they were submitted      responsibility, increase cost and cause delay and possible
by himself.               legel implications. Therefore, need for clarity of the
bidding documents including setting forth clearly the work
and responsibilities of all parties including
Designer/Engineer and contractor. The bid documents should
include procedures to reflect the provision of para. 2.16
od the Guidelines.
k-egSn0dp\ndpkb



- 85 -
ANNEX 11
Table 10
Page 2 of 2
S       LCB procedures            This provision is unclear. Bidders are not informed as to       Guidelines;
provide that foreign     which of the two prices are binding and how bids will be         para 2.20 to
bidders may bid in       evaluated. Bidding documents should specify the procedure        2.26; OPN
their currency but       for applying exchange rates for bid evaluation and               4.03
must give value in       payment. Normally bids should be requested only in one
Egyptian Pounds.         currency:
(a)     Under LCB local currency can be specified; and
(b)     If foreign participation is expected, procurement
should be ICB.
6       LCS procedures            Bidders should be allowed to modify/withdraw bid prior to       General
require that the         bid opening (without loss of bid security).                      Principles
withdrawal of bid                                                                         of Contract
before bid opening                                                                        Law
results in loss of
bid bond. Bids may
not be withdrawn
once submitted.
7       LCB procedures            Extension of bid validity, in exceptional circumstances,        General
require that once        should be requested in writing from all bidders before           Principles
the validity of bid      expiration date, and bidders should be required to provide    of Contract
bond expires, if not     suitable extension of bid security.                              Law
withdrawn bidder
remains comaitted
without any
acknowledgement.
fMig1rp\krldpWb



- 86 -
ANNEX III
Table 1
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROGRAM
Land Use And Yield Estimates
Land Use                                      Yield
Crop                      Delta            Valley            Base             Without NDP       With NDP
(percent)                                           (tons/fed)
Wheat                      .285              .409             1.4              1.26              1.54
Maize                      .300              .369             1.6              1.24              1.78
Rice                       .305              0                2.0              1.80              2.20
Sorghum                     0                .186             1.4              1.26              1.47
Barley                     .029             .016              1.0              0.90              1.10
Long Berseem               .392             .284             18.5             16.65            21.25
Short Berseem              .210              .092             9.2              8.38             10.58
Soybear,                    0               .057              0.9               .81              1.00
Seed Cotton                .222              .187             0.8               .72              0.96
Sugar Cane                  0                .162            29.7             26.73            34.16
Broad Beans                .041             .124              0.8               .72              0.92
Potatoes                   .037             .037              7.0              6.30              8.05
Tomatoes                   .058             .058              8.9              8.01             10.24
Citrus                     .041             .039              4.8              4.32              5.76
Cropping
Intensity                 1.920            2.020
m:\e0\ndp\an&ll



- 87 -
ANNEX III
Table 2
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROJECT
Financial And Economic Prices Of Main Crobs
1991                      1991                       1995
Items                                     Financial                 Ecoromic                   Economic
_ _ _ __     _ (rzlected)        _
(LE/ton)
Wheat                                        470                       615                        762
Maize                                        430                       520                        528
Rice (Paddy)                                 610                       890                        948
Sorghum                                      410                       500                        508
Barley                                       450                       580                        589
Berseem                                       17                         15                        17
Soybean                                      850                       985                       1061
Seed Cotton                                 1873                      4700                       5038
Sugar Cane                                    50                        85                         94
Broad Beans                                  322                      1550                       1550
Potatoes /                                   320                       375                        375
Tomatoes                                     300                       300                        300
Cit,Js A/                                    600                       800                        787
p/   The fermgate equivalent of the export prices of potatoes and citrus are about LE750 and LE600/ton
respectively. However, most production is below export quality. Average quality is assumed to be
about 50X of export value.
m:qtondp\wi&2



-  88  -                                              ANNEX  III
Table 3
ARAB REPUBLIC OF ECYP
NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROJECT
DERIVATION OF INCREHENTAL BENEFITS
Incremmental Land Drained and Available for Production
199S     1996      1997      1998      1999     2000
(thou. re.                                  otlL Area
TOTAL          20.00   102.00   128.00   150100   150A00f1c0.0
Land Use by         e                  15.00    91.00 1e5.20   135.-00   1 5s .O0   153'00                tbou.
area and  rop. Valley                  Z.0     10Z       I  80    15.00    15.00    17 00                  fed
Wheat              0.285    0.409       5.95    30.33    38.07    44.61    44.61    50.56                 214 13
Maile              0.300    0.369       6.14    31.30    39.28    46.04    46.04    52.17                 220.97
Rice (paddy)       0.305    0.000       5.49    28,00    35.14    41 18    41.18    46.67                 197.64
Sorhuwo            0.000    0.186       0.37      1.90     2.38      2.79      2.79      3.16              13 39
BaIley             0.029    0.016       0.55      2.83     3.55      4.16      4.16      4.71              19.94
Long Derseem       0.392    0 284       7.62    38.88    48.79    57.18    57.18    64.80                 274.46
Short Berseem      0.210    0 .092      3.96    20.22    25.37    29.73    29.73    33 69                 142.70
Soybean            0.000    0.057       0.11      0.58     0.73      0.86      0.86      0.97               4.10
Seed Cotton        0.222    0.167       4.37    22.29    27.97    32.78    32.78    37.15                 157.32
Sugarcane          0.000    0.162       0.32      1.65     2.07      2.43      2.43      2.75              11.66
Broad Beans        0.041    0.124       0.99      5.03     6.31      7.40      7.40      8.38              35.50
Potatoes           0.037    0.037       0.74      3.77     4.74      5.55      5.55      6.29              26.64
Tomatoes           0.058    0.058       1.16      5.92     7.42      8.70      8.70      9.86              41.76
Citrus             0.041    0.039       0.82      4.16      5.22     6.12      6.12      6.94              29.38
crop. intensity   1.920    2.020                                                                Total   1389.60
Incremental Yield In Year Following Imolemnntation
Yield                  Year 1   Year 2   Yesr 3   Year 4   Year S
Base  Improved                               (tEi4ed 
Wheat                         1.40      1.54               0.07      0.11      0.13      0i4      0.14
Maize                         1.60      1.78               0.09      0.13      0.16      0.18      0.18
Rice (paddy)                  2.00      2.20               0.10      0.15      0.18      0.20      0.20
Sorthum                       1.40      1.47               0.04      0.05      0.06      0.07     0.07
Barere                        1.00      1.10               0.05      0.08      0.09      0.10     0.10
Long  Brseen                 18.50    21.25                 1.38  * .06        2.48      2.75     2.75
Short Berseem                 9.20    10.58                0.69      1.04      1.24      1.38      1.38
Soybean                       0.90      1.00               0.05      0.07      0.09      0.10     0.10
Seed Cotton                   0.80      0.96               0.08      0.12      0.14      0.16     0.16
Sugorcanie                   29.70    34.16                2.23      3.34      4.01      4.46     4.46
Broad beans                   0.80      0.92               0.06      0.09      0.11      0.12     0.12
Potatoes                      7.00      8.05               0.53      0.79      0.95      1.05      1.05
Tomatoes                      8.90    10.2#                0.67      1,01      1.21      1.34      1.34
Citrus                        4.80      5.76               0.48      0.72      0.86      0.96      0.86
Incre ental Production
1995     1996      1997      1998      1999     2000      2001      2062      2003     2Q04      2005
(thou. tons)
Wheat               0.42      2.75      6.60    11.77    17.68    24.25    27.58    29.27    29.98    29.98    20.98
Maize               0.55      3.65      8.76    15.62    23.46    32.18    36.60    38.84    39.77    39.77    39.77
Rice (paddy)        0.55      3.62      8.70    15.53    23.32    31.98    36.37    38.59    39.53    39.53    39.53
Sorghum             0.01      0.09      0.21      0.37     0.55      0.76      0.86      0.92     0.94      0.94      0.94
Bare                0.03      0.18      0.44      0.78      1.18     1.61      1.84      1,.5      1.99     1.99      1.99
Long berasem       10.48    69.19   166.16   296.46   445.21   610.63   694.50   736. _   754.78   754.78   754.78
Short Berseem       2.74    18.05    43.35    77.35   116.16   159.32   181.20   192.28   196.93   196.93   196.93
Soybean             0.01      0.04      0.09      0.16     0.24      0.33      0.38      0.40     0.41      0.41      0.41
Seed Cotto.n        0.35      2.31      5.54      9.89    14.85    20.36    23.16    24.58    25.17    25.17    25.17
Sugarcane           0.72      4.77    11.45    20.43    30.69    42.09    47.87    50.79    52.02    52.02    52.02
Broad Beans         0.06      0.39      0.94      1.67     2.51      3.45      3.92      4.16      4.26     4.26      4.26
Potatoes            0.39      2.56      6.16    10.99    16.56,   22,63    25.74    27.31    27.97    27.97    27.97
Tomatoes            0.78      5.13    12.32    21.98    33.01    45.27    51.49    54.64    55.96    55.96    55.96
Citrus              0.39      2.59      6.21    11.08    16.63    22.82    25.95    27.54    28.20    28.20    28.20
Xco_omio Pr).ces
195     1996      1997      1998       1999    2?221ton)"0         2002      2003     2004      2005
Wheat             761 99   796.86   831.78   866.68   901.58   936.48   902.95   869.43   835.90   802.38   768.85
Maize             527.80   548.28   568.76   589.24   609.71   630.19   617.59   604.99   592.38   579.78   567.17
Rice (paddy)      947.85   959.41   970.98   982.54   994.11  1005.67   984.55   963.43   942.31   921.19   900.07
Sorghum           508.00   528.93   549.86   570,79   591.72   612.65   599.78   586.92   574.05   561.19   548.32
BarLhum           589.28   613.56   637.84   662.12   686.39   710.67   695.75   680.82   665.90   650.98   636.05
Long berseem       17.15    17.34    17.53    17.72    17.92    18.11    17.55    17.00    16.45    15.89    15.34
SFort Berseem      17.15    17.34    17.53    17.72    17.92    18.11    17.55    17.00    16.45    15.89    15.34
Soybean          1060.85  1038.14  1015.44   992.74   970.04   947.33   962.49   977.65   992.81  1007.96  1023.12
Seed Cotton      5038.40  5021.27  5004.14  4987.01  4969.88  4952.75  4794.26  4635.77  4477.28  4318.80  4160.31
Sugarcane          93.93    95.90    97.67    99.84   101.81   103.79   106.03   108.27   110.51   112.75   115.00
Broad Beans      1550.00  1550.00  1550.00  1550.00  1550.00  1550.00  1550.00  1550.00  1550.00  1550.00  1550.00
Potatoes          375.00   375.00   375.00   375.00   375.00   375.00   375.00   375.00   375,00   375.00   375.00
Tomatoes          300.00   300.00   300.00   300.00   300.00   300.00   300.00   300.00   300.00   300.00   300.00
Citrus            787.20   782.16   777.12   772.09   787.05   762.01   756.83   751.65   746.46   741.28   736.10
Incremental Beneflts
1995     1996      1997      1998      1999     2 200   2001        2002      2003     2004      2005
Wheat                317    2 190    5.489   10 205   15 942   22,712   24, 907   25 448   25,059   24,054   23.049
Maize                 292    1,999    4,980    9,205   14,305   20 279   22 602   23,495   23.562   23, 060   22,557
Rice (paddy)          520    3,478    8.449   15,255   23,179   32.161   35,809   37,183   37,248   36,413   35,578
Sorghum                 7       45       113       210       327      465       517       537       538      526       514
Barly                  16      112       280       519       807    1,147    1,277    1 328    1.328    1.298    1 269
Long Beresem          180    1,200    2,913    5,255    7,977   11,058   12.191   12,528   12 413   11 995   11,577
Shirt B,ersee         47       313       760    1.371    2.081    2.885    3,181    3,269    3,239    3,130    3,020
Soybean                 6       39        92       160      235       315       363       392       407      414       420
Seed Cotton        1,761   11,586   27,729   49.305   73,790  100.859  111,040  113,933  112.699  108,709  104.720
Sugarcane             68       457    1,121    2 040    3,124    4,368    5 075    5,499    5,749    5,866    5,982
Broad Beans            92      605    1.453    2 593    3 894    5,341    6.075    6 448   68602    6,602    8,602
Potatoes              1        962    2,309   4120    6,187    8,486    9,652   10,242   10,490   10,490   10,490
Tomatoes             233    1,539    3,696    8,594    9,902   13,582   15,447   16 391   16,788   16,788   19,788
Cltrus                308    2,022    4,824    8 552   12.:760   17,386   19,639   20,697   21,051   20.905   20,759
TOTAL    3,993   26,545   64,209  115,383  174.511  241,042  267,778  277,388  277,171  270,248  283,325



- 89 -
ANNEX I II
TabLe 4
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROJECT
Economic Costs. Benefits and Economic Rate of Return
Net
Year       Costs    Benefits    Benefits
(LE million)
1        20.2         C.0       -20.2
2       163.1         0.0      -163.1
3       142.3         4.0      -138.3
4       136.5        26.5      -109.9
5       133.6        64.2       -69.4
6       149.6       115.4       -34.2
7         7.6       174.5       166.9
8         7.6       241.0       233.5
9         7.6       267.8       260.2
10         7.6       277.4       269.8
11         7.6       277.2       269.3
12         7.6       273.2       262.7
13         7.6       263.3       255.7
14         7.6       263.3       255.7
15         7.6       263.3       255.7
16         7.6       263.3       255.7
17         7.6       263.3       255.7
18         7.6       263.3       255.7
19         7.6       263.3       255.7
20         7.6       263.3       255.7
21         7.6       263.3       255.7
22         7.6       263.3       255.7
23         7.6       263.3       255.7
24         7.6       263.3       255.7
25         7.6       263.3       255.7
26         7.6       263.3       255.7
27         7.6       263.3       255.7
28         7.6       263.3       255.7
29         7.6       263.3       255.7
30         7.6       263.3       255.7
ERR =       0.240
M:\egt\ndp\elr



- 90 -
ANNEX IV
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Prolect File
Preparation
Al       National Drainage Proeram, Preparation Report, Prepared by FAO/CP, Main Text and Amexes 1-7;
February 1991
APDraisal
e1       Changes and Revisions Introduced after Preparation
82       Pre-Appraisal Mission Report on Equipment Requirements and Pipe Production
83      Working Paper: Environmental Aspects (James Gallup, Consultant); June 1991
84      Working Paper: Aspects (Robert Laporte, Consultant); June 1991
85      Aide Memoire on Procurement Issues
86      Aide Memoire on Computing Needs
B7       Egyptian Law No. 12 from 1984 (Cost Recovery)
B8       Cost Tables for National Drainage Project (6 years)
89       Cost TabLes for Nationat Drainage Program (12 years)
m:\egt\ndp\env



- 91 -
ARAB REPUULIC OF EGYPT
Natfwcl DrafnAce Prolect
" naltrv of PublIc Works #d Water Semurcee   General Oroanmzetion
A tN"ISTERt 
toc, e. en  I   CEht    r  H    Znosb      pww
mm                                  21
-  $EESWTH        omaI
opt 9 WIS           MP)
11JDIMVWA1UJ                                                   G  I tS                         LO" mm
r     WC=                  $EC= sD |XECUOm
STATIT"M  KW*QMIT 11                                mm  W                               Uwe 1 :
f                 ~~~~~s i
H'f,  1  1OtSlillCT5 n^nI"P
nSNTE\d\             OZAThItNI tL7I
PARAGIMNT   gXtCUTtOX~~~~
OF /P



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Fational Drainage Project
General Oroanization of Egyptian Pubtlic Authority for Drainaoe Projects (EPADP)
I~~~~                                                                                                  ~       ~~~ I  I  I
Organ Matters    DG Security      Inspection                                                        DG Techn Off    Public Ret       Legal Office
CHAIRMAN
|DG Nunsn Res|  |DG MiS     l                                                    KConsultJJ       |ecretary 
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u t 
VICE
CHAI RMAN           D   COfc
Mchan/Elec      U  Research      US Upper         US Middle       U l est          us Middle        US East         U Acininstr    US Plam rig
LDepartment     Land Design       Egypt           Egypt           LDelta           Delta            eLta          lFinance            Follow up
DS Pipe         DG Field Inv    DG (P)            DG (P)          DG (P)           DG (P) South    DG (P) South    DG Finance        DG Planning
Factories       Design           Assuit           Beni Suef       West Delta       Middle Delta    East Delta                        Follow Up
DG           l  DG Buildgs       DG (P)           DG (P)          DG (M)           DG (P) North    DG (P) North    DG Ahninistr    D6 Monitor.
Equipment   |  Structures  S| hag                 N rMinya        West Delta       Middle Delta    East Delta                        Evaluation
DG (M)          DG (P)           DG (M)                           DG Qalibiya      DG (M)
Ouena           Quena            Beni Suef                                         Sharkiya
DG (M)          DG (P)           DG (M)                           DG Gharbiya      DG (M)          Note:
Kom Omed        Kom Omed         Minya                                                             US      = Under Secretary
DG     = Director General
DG (P) = Director General, Project
DG ()           DOG (M)                          DG Minufiya      DG (M)           DG (M) = Director General,
Assuid          Fayoun                                                                      Maintenance
DG (M)
Sohag
M: \9\ndp\ dF,



Aleddz>~~~~~~~~~~~~p _            )        see iBRED 23184.r
g   .   _                      X                       =                 9           9  (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ISAEL ,
QATTARA                                                            (
35. DEPRESSION                                                                                                             0
IRO~~~~~~~~~~SN
0,.:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3-
A,> ,,,.,!>                                                                    v
OFSs ,.    ,BS.                    otief           6 0..../
West R/ Fosho(4b5                         V         sso                     I
SAUDI
West So-6ooI                                                                        ARABIA
WESTERN
W~~~~~~~~E EE        S T E R N Al/}:   
\,9          ~~D E S E R T                 )s
Ftt 
N'.        t 
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E SO S    Io/ _"3
A-~~~~~~~
T. - /                              hfi  
7 ~ ~     ~ ~ ^$ A.-. PR
To 0.661. 0..,:  to Osos ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~    ~    ,1T                              1 P-SW
ARAB REPUBlIC OF EGYPT
NATIONAL  DRAINAGE  PROJECT                                   -SwANDA.
UPPER AND MIDDLE EGYPT                                  'h  ,
E] HORIZONTAL DRAINAGE PROGRAM (BOTH TIME SLICES5
'   VERTICAL DRAINAGE PROGRAm BOTH TIMELICES)
O  CMES AND TOWNS
*   NATIONAL CAPITAL
- MAIN ROADS
RAILROADS
RIVERS
- ----- APPRG.IMATE GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES
%   OCCUPIED TERRITORIES                                                               KILOMETERS
r.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r.......
U~~~~~~~~~~~~                    20 Ao N    OID
<                                           ~~~~SUDAN                                -o
<  30O                           32                                 g        @        F         -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



30>                                                                3r                                                                   3r
ZoghIoA-                                                                      
* E1    <   ~Zoiney ,.PS.~; 3 PS.  /L                                       rN.. I   FUnkour
.oussiIy~ E                                       Q         J@. 3     2         Ps.
Alexandria                                       B                                       s                 No 2                /
, E,, T  t                       'RSNo. 'va'sv        ^                              '' No        /               S
_7                       31 0 Kafr                          h ,
Haress                   Donmanhur'.
;Morw       aress'\    lTrExga\                                                  :     \               /       "*-s                                               
Tohreer  a''\ /, <e { /(f
N,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT                                                              .,
NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROJECT                                                i-                     ,   l                    /-i
LOWER EGYPT                                                                                               -
FIRST TIME SLICE OF PROGRAM (YEARS 1.61
IIZiZ]   NEW AREAS                                                                       (                                   /
L7171    RENEWAL AREAS
SECOND TIME SLICE OF PROGRAM (YEARS 7-12)
NEW AREAS                                                )/.
RENEWAL AREAS                                        3-2 -
Qli]  WEST NU8ARIYA PROJECT AREA                    !)                                                 /                                                          M . S"RAI
DRAINAGE BASIN BOUNDARIES                                        F
MAIN IRRIGATION CANALS                                                  .     Delto Borraoes |                                                  -           J0RDAN
MAIN DRAINS                                                                 9 Rosetto and     "att.
BARRAGES                                                                       .                                                                              SAU
0     DRAINAGE PUMPNG STATIONS                                                          -                                                                              A I
*g    NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                    ;                                                    ARAB REPUBt.C
O      TOWNS AND CITIES                            0           10          20 MIES            CAIRO                                               OF EGYPT
O  30~                     OCCUPIED TERRITORIES                        0      10    20    30 KILMTERS         J                                            01-          
C                                                                                                                                                         30 o
C) 30'            ~~~O30                                                               3 K                                                                      SOMARS



