Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22226
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-34170; IDA-23130)
ON A
CREDIT/LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF IDA US$75 MILLION EQUIVALENT AND IBRD US$45 MILLION
EQUIVALENT
TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR THE NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROJECT
May 16, 2001
Rural Development, Water and Environment Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective September 2000)
Currency Unit = Egyptian Potnd
L.E. 3.4 = US$ 1.0
US$ 0.29 = LE 1.0
1 feddan = 0.420 hectares, 1.037 acres
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EPADP Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage Projects
CIDA          Canadian International Development Agency
DEMP          Drainage Executive Management Project
DRI           Drainage Research Institute
FAO/CP        Food and Agriculture Organization,World Bank Coop.
IBRD          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA           International Development Association
KfW           German Bank for International Development Financing
M&E           Monitoring and Evaluation
MED           Mechanical and Electrical Department in MPW
MPW           Ministry of Public Works and Water Resources
NDP           National Drainage Program
O&M           Operation and Maintenance
PVC           Polyvinyl Chloride
RIGW          Research Institute for Groundwater
WRC           Water Research Center
Vice President:   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director:    Mahmood Ayub
Sector Manager/Director:    Salah Darghouth/Doris Koehn
Task Team Leader:    Tijan Sallah



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                           1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              1-3
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 3-8
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                     8
6. Sustainability                                                                         9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     10-11
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   11-12
9. Partner Comments                                                                  12-18
10. Additional Information                                                               18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                     19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 20-21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 22-31
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                     32
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                     33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                        34
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Implementation Completion Report
Republic of Egypt
Ln. No. 3417/Cr. No. 2313
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the National Drainage Project which was
approved on November 26, 1991 and became effective on September 1, 1992.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Tijan M. Sallah and the economic analysis of the ICR was prepared
by Ms. Marie-Laure Lajaunie. The report is based on material in the project files and those provided by
the implementation authority as well as information provided by Mr. Nejdet Al-Salihi, the Task Team
Leader, who supervised the project implementation. Ms. Conchita Castillo assisted in the preparation.






Project ID. P005146                                       Project Name: NATIONAL DRAINAGE
Team Leader: Tijan M. Sallah                              TL Unit: MNSRE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: Mlay 16, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: NATIONAL DRAINAGE                              L/C/TF 1tVmber: CPL-34170;
IDA-23130
Country/Department: EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF                               Region: Middle East and North
Africa Region
Sector/subsector. Al - Irrigation & Drainage
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  05/31/90                                 Effective.                    09/01/92
Appraisal:  04/30/91                                  MTR:                        10/18/97
Approval:  11/26/91                                Closing:  12/31/99            12/31/2000
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF EGYPT/EGYPTIAN PUBLIC AUTHORITY FOR
DRAINAGE PROJECTS (EPADP)
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jean-Louis Sarbib                          Caio Koch-Weser
Country Manager:     Mahmood Ayub                               Ram K. Chopra
Sector Manager:      Salah Darghouth                            Prem C. Garg
Team Leader at ICR:   Tijan M. Salah                            Aizad Khan
ICR Primary Author:   Tijan M. Sallah
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time:
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The main objective of this project was to increase agricultural productivity on about 720,000
feddans through the establishment of good drainage conditions and the evacuation of excess water from the



area. Under the project, it was envisaged that the drainage program, through installation of horizontal pipe
drains and remodelling of existing open drains, would lower both the water table and salinity and reverse
the deterioration of land and increase agricultural production. Vertical drainage was also to be introduced
on a pilot basis to help address drainage in areas with problematic soils and/or high water tables. Another
objective was to improve the capacity of the Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage Projects (EPADP) to
implement the drainage program in areas where waterlogging and salinity had become major constraints to
maintaining and increasing land productivity. The project was also expected to address the deteriorating
environmental situation created by the discharge of untreated raw industrial and domestic waste into a few
open drains.
Assessment of the objective
The project's objectives were realistic in that the quantitative targets set for installation of
sub-surface drainage were achievable, and EPADP has a long established implementation capacity to
oversee implementation of drainage works. Where the capacity was inadequate, the project contributed to
building that capacity. Also, project objectives were responsive to borrower circumstances and priorities in
that the completion of the drainage program was accorded high priority by the Government of Egypt
(GOE) and is critical to the long-term viability of Egyptian agriculture, where groundwater table and soil
salinity associated with intensified irrigation have been rising. The environmental objective however should
have included broader consultation, at appraisal, with environmental agencies dealing with mitigating the
environmental risks envisaged to avoid duplication. Fortunately, this was done during implementation.
3.2 Revised Objective:
None.
3.3 Original Components:
The original components were:
Component                          Cost (US$m)                      Rating
(a) Subsurface Drainage                    185.1                       HS
(b) Surface Drainage                      32.5                         HS
(c) Institutional Support for EPADP        6.4                         S
(d) Institutional Support for DRI and RIGW  3.9                        S
(e) Environmental Aspects                  2.1                         S
3.4 Revised Components:
Since project effectiveness, several changes have occured in the project's components.
(a)    The IDA/IBRD group legal agreement was amended in 1993 to enable the procurement of
US$37.8 million worth of electro-mechanical equipment and spare parts urgently required for equipment
replacement in some of the drainage pumping stations, including 4 completely new pumping stations, spare
- 2 -



parts for three pumping stations, 23 emergency pumps, 25 electric generators, 10 mobile workshops, and 2
telescopic cranes. These stations were originally included in the Pumping Station Rehabilitation Project II,
but were then excluded following a restructuring of that project. Since both projects were closely linked
under the same Ministry and had similar development objectives, redirecting funding to rehabilitation of
high-priority drainage pumping stations was necessary to complement the investments in subsurface and
surface drains; thereby enabling the effective evacuation of drainage water from the main drains .
(b)    Vehicles and equipment valued at US$ 3.6 million (not envisaged at appraisal) were procured from
project funds to enable the Irrigation Department to carry out better operation and maintenance of the
irrigation network. This was necessary due to the complementarity between field drainage and irrigation,
and that it did not make sense to implement field drainage without ensuring that the irrigation network was
properly functioning.
(c)    The vertical drainage component estimated at US$ 2.8 million, envisaged to provide vertical
drainage in the form of 20 deep wells to drain 5,000 feddans in waterlogged areas with unstable soils, was
postponed from the project to give a chance to the Research Institute on Groundwater (RIGW) to carry out
investigations of two pilot areas with 10 vertical drainage wells. Following the investigation, the project
area for vertical drainage was to be selected and designs and implementation carried out. However, the
vertical drainage pilots were found problematic because of problems such as power availability to do the
pumping, skills, and soil permeability. Moreover, in the context of the experiments, the Chairman of the
Water Research Center (who has authority over RIGW) informed EPADP that the two pilots in El Minya
and Beni Suef were also not succesful unless the wells were utilized for both irrigation and drainage
purposes. Accordingly, EPADP redirected the funds for the vertical drainage component to cover 20,000
fed of subsurface drainage in renewal areas.
The changes above in (a) and (b) were financed from savings in the provision of pipe laying
equipment and PVC powder for pipe manufacturing.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project was thoroughly prepared and peer reviewed at entry.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project has substantially achieved most of its objectives. Physical objectives, in terms of the
actual implementation of field/subsurface drainage, have exceeded appraisal targets by 3 percent and for
79% of the cost envisaged at appraisal. The successful implementation of field drainage, which involves
horizontal buried pipe drains in farmers fields, has resulted in marked increases in productivity associated
with a lowering of both water table and salinity. The project has significantly built EPADP's capacity
through training and introduction of improved drainage technologies. Except for the enviroument
component, the project has also satisfactorily coordinated with other related institutions, such as MED, the
Irrigation Department, DRI, and complemented their work and, as feasible, supported their requirements in
so far that they were urgently needed and related to the achievement of the project's development outcomes.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Subsurface Draina2e (Base Cost: US$ 185.1; IBRD/IDA and KfW financed):
- 3 -



The SAR envisaged, under the project, the installation of subsurface drains in: (i) new areas
totaling about 590,000 feddans; (ii) renewal areas (areas in need of rehabilitation where previously
installed field drainage are malfunctioning) covering about 130,000 fed; and (iii) the installation of 20 deep
wells (vertical drainage) to drain about 5,000 feddans in selected areas, and (iv) the construction of 12
maintenance centers (about 50,000 feddans/center) and 96 subcenters for pipe drain maintenance (covering
about 5,000 feddans each). Although slightly modified, this component has been more than fully
achieved. Subsurface drains have been installed in new areas totalling 590,500 feddans (against the
appraisal target of 590,000 feddans) and 150,650 feddans of renewal areas (against the appraisal target of
130,000 feddans), resulting in a total achievement of installed subsurface drainage of 741,150 fed
(exceeding the total appraisal target of 720,000 feddans for subsurface drainage by 3 percent). The
installation of 20 deep wells for vertical drainage of 5,000 feddans in selected areas was not carried out for
reasons given in para 3.4 (c) above and the funds associated with it were redirected to other project
activities. EPADP has implemented the maintenance centers and sub-centers but financed them through the
local budget.
The installed subsurface drainage is a time slice of the national drainage program of 6.8 million
feddans, of which 4.8 million feddans have been implemented to date. The laterals are about 200 m long
and discharge into collectors, which evacuate the drainage water into open drains. Collectors can be up to
2 km long. Areas selected for subsurface drainage were those with water tables within 100 cm of the land
surface for at least 75 percent of the area, soil salinity exceeding 4 mmhos/cm at 25 cm depth and areas
where agricultural production declines (of about 20-30 percent) were reported due to high water table
and/or saline conditions. Areas selected for renewal included those where: (a) the subsurface drainage were
malfunctioning (i.e., through blockage and collapse in laterals/or collectors; (b) maintenance and flushing
did not improve the effective functioning of the laterals, and (c) where there was adequate willingness to
pay by farmers.
Significant improvements were observed in the quality of subsurface drainage work under the
project. Contractors are using laser controlled trenching and pipe-laying machines and other support
equipment (replacing the manual pipe laying) which have helped tremendously to improve both the
efficiency and quality of tPeir work. In collaboration with the Drainage Research Institute (DRI), the pipe
laying trenchless V-plow, procured under the project for experimental and demonstration purposes through
Netherland's finance, has been sucessfully tested under the project, and this technology would facilitate
field implementation activties and limit contractor's disturbance of farming activities in the follow-up
NDP-II project. The Drainage Training Center (DTC), supported through Netherland (Dutch) parallel
financing under the project, was used by contractors for training of their staff, which in turn was reflected
in the better quality of their field drainage work.
(b)    Surface Drainage (Base Cost: US$32.5; IBRD/IDA and KfW financed):
The SAR envisaged, under this component, the remodeling of existing open (surface) drains
serving an area of about 480,000 feddans. This component has been more than fully achieved. Open
drains serving 510,000 feddans (exceeding the appraisal target of 480,000 feddans by 6 percent) have been
implemented under the project, resulting in 1,344 km length of open drains, and the rebuilding of the cross
drain structures of 672 bridges (against 700 units envisaged in the SAR), 19 siphons (against the 20 units
in the SAR) and 202 aqueducts (against the 200 units in the SAR). Some of the structures were less in
number than envisaged at appraisal due to optimization in design during implementation. The remodelling
of open drains involved the deepening and reshaping of the drainage network that were required before
installing the field (subsurface) drainage. It also included the rehabilitation of the existing appertained
structures on these drains. Substantial equipment and machinery were procured to carry out and support
- 4 -



open drain remodelling activities. Since the open drains are linked to the subsurface field drains, their
rehabilitation has contributed significantly to improving overall drainage efficiency in the project area in
Egypt.
(c)    Institutional Support to EPADP (Base Cost: US$ 6.4 million; IBRD/IDA, Netherlands and
KfW financed):
In order to help improve M&E, MIS, and O&M activities and to improve EPADP's performance,
the SAR envisaged the provision, under this component, of 60 vehicles, six microbuses, 25 personal
computers, survey laboratory and office equipment, 40 staff months of technical assistance, 70 staff
months of overseas training, and 23 local training courses and seminars. This component has been
substantially achieved. Equipment, vehicles and machinery were procured under the project and wherever
there was a divergence between planned and actual, it was because of changed needs. Vehicle
procurements were all financed through IDA/IBRD and KFW loans and credits. However, the majority of
the technical assistance and training were financed through Netherlands bilateral assistance and grants.
KfW support through equipment, TA and training provision has also subtantially contributed to the
development of an MIS and the associated strengthening of M&E activities for EPADP. KfW, between
1994-1997, provided funding in the form of a grant of DM 3 million to support EPADP's establishment of
an M&E system to assist the drainage authority with information collection, processing, and use in making
prioritized management decisions regarding maintenance and rehabilitation of the drainage network. Two
regional units were established in West Delta at Dammanhour and in the Middle Delta in Tanta. EPADP
built three laboratories (with equipment provided by KfW) in Dammanhour, Tanta, and Zagazig in East
Delta to carry out analysis of soil and water salinity, and soil texture. In addition to helping EPADP's
management, the M&E system is used for training of EPADP's staff. The M&E units collect data on soil
and water conditions including water table depth, ground water salinity, hydraulic conductivity, soil salinity
and alkalinity, as well as crop yields, using a "before" and "after" drainage approach.
Netherlands bilateral assistance was channelled through their Drainage Executive Management
Project Phase IV (DEMP IV) financed by the Netherlands government. DEMP was initiated in 1983 and,
in its fourth stage under NDP, consisted a grant of DFL 13 million (against the appraisal provision of
US$6.4 million) and was completed on June 30, 1998. DEMP IV's objective was to strengthen and
upgrade EPADP's staff in four departments and that of drainage contractors to mprove the standard of
implementation, quality control and maintenance of drainage works. Under DEMP IV, support was
provided to EPADP in the form of technical assistance and training in six main activities: (i) the Drainage
Training Center (DTC); (ii) Human Resource Development (HRD); (iii) the Planning and Follow-Up
Deparment (PFD); (iv) the Mechanical Department (MD); (v) the Field Investigation and Research
Department (FIRD) and (vi) the Management Infornation System (MIS). The program has achieved
significant progress in establishing and expanding the training activites of the DTC in Tanta in the last six
years. The DTC provides training to about 300 staff every year, with an increase to 500 staff starting in
1996. The training covers fields as diverse as basic computer skills; practical courses in civil, mechanical
and agricultural engineering; GIS; surveying; and overall human resource development.
Under the project, more than 2,000 EPADP staff and contractors' trainees have benefited from
184 training courses, and about 700 trainees have benefited from 33 on-the-job training programs in
technical, financial and managerial aspects of the drainage system. In addition, the DEMP program has
helped strengthen EPADP's capacities significantly through overseas training of 143 of EPADP's staff,
including 18 of senior management, 20 of middle management and 105 of junior technical staff. Apart
from providing useful support for EPADP, this institutional support component is substantially on track.
As a result, EPADP has requested and agreed to further support from the Netherlands Government for a
- 5 -



DEMP V program, supported in parallel under the Bank/KfW-financed NDP-II project, to further
strengthen its capacities through training and technical assistance.
(d)    Institutional Support to DRI and RIGW (Base Cost: US$ 3.9 million; IBRD/IDA and
Netherlands financed):
The SAR envisaged the provision of vehicles and equipment to DRI and RIGW to improve
mobility and enable them to undertake field investigations and research, and some equipment for
laboratories, demonstration purposes, and for office support. Specialized services in the form of technical
assistance and training was to be provided to support the research activities of the two institutions on
subsurface field drainage and vertical drainage (the base cost for this component included US$1.3 million
institutional support for RIGW related to vertical drainage). This component has been substantially
achieved. This component, mainly financed by the government of Netherlands, has supported the research
activities of DRI in carrying out the NDP program in the following aspects: (i) pipe installation in unstable
soils; (ii) trenchless installation on about 4,000 feddans using a V-plow trencher; (iii) modified system of
field drainage with rice cultivation; and (iv) studies to review the current criteria used by EPADP for the
renewal program and the preparation of a proposal for a revised criteria, based on field conditions, with
beneficiary participation, including also the monitoring and evaluation of the installed systems. The
trenchless drainage experiment was carried out in between April and July 1997 in the Hares Pumping
Station command area (8,000 feddans) in the Delta Region, where 50 percent was under V-plow trenchless
and 50 percent used trenching machines. Preliminary results were successful and EPADP has conducted
further testing with a good chance that the technology would be introduced to EPADP staff and
contractors. Some 18-26 DRI staff benefited from five two-day tailor-made training courses organized at
the British Council, and two DRI staff have attended the land drainage course at ILRI.
In line with the recommendations of the Environmental Action Plan (EAP) in 1992, support was
provided under the project by the Government of Netherlands, under their bilateral assistance program, to
DRI and RIGW focussing on water quality issues of drainage and groundwater. The "Monitoring and
Analysis of Drainage Water Quality Project" (US$1.8 million) has helped in the institutional strengthening
of DRI and the establishment of a routine monitoring network for drainage water quality in the Nile Delta
and Fayoum, including chemical, physical and biological analyses of the collected water samples and data
management and publication. The "Environmental Management of Groundwater Resources Project"
(US$1.85) has helped to integrate qualitative and environmental aspects in the management and
development of groundwater resources. A monitoring network has been set up, as well as site
investigations of groundwater pollution being carried out, and a pilot project on artificial recharge in desert
areas is being implemented.
(e)    Environmental Aspects (Base Cost: US$ 2.1 million; IBRD/IDA and KfW financed):
Despite the positive environmental impacts expected from this drainage project, the SAR envisaged
the project to provide institutional support to environmentally-involved agencies to address some of the
environmental issues connected with open drains but external to NDP. These issues include: (i) the
presence of Bilharzia and measures taken by the Government to control it; (ii) the effect of planned
drainage works on environmentally valuable wetland and/or other natural habitat; (iii) the mixing of
drainage water with clean canal water, which impacts on municipalities located downstream of mixing
points; and (iv) the pollution caused by the uncontrolled discharge of raw industrial and domestic wasted
into some open drains located near industrial and populated areas. A water quality impact assessment
study was to be carried out and a resulting drainage water management action plan prepared. This
component also entailed the provision of vehicles, field and laboratory equipment, technical assistance and
- 6 -



training to monitor and test water quality, to demonstrate pollution control devices and prepare a phase
program on environmental aspects and advisory services to implement the initial phase of the program.
Because many of these environmental activities proposed at appraisal were being carried out under various
governnent supported programs, this component was not carried out under the project. However, the
project unit has continued to liaise with involved government agencies that have been active during
implementation in addressing the environmental issues.
For issue (i) on bilharzia control, the Endemic Diseases Control Department of the Ministry of
Health is implementing, with the support of the Bank's National Schistomisais Control Project, a very
ambitious plan for the control of schistomiasis. The departrnent was able to develop and introduce an
adapted diagnostic method and new epidemiological strategy for mass treatment of affected communities.
Millions of people in the Delta have been treated under this strategy. The Ministry of Health is expected
to broaden the geographical scope of treatment to cover Middle and Upper Egypt and the Sinai.
For issue (ii) on mixing drainage water with fresh water, the RAMSAR convention (1971)
considers the areas surrounding Lake Burollous as wetlands of international importance, especially as a
waterfowl habitat. Under the project, a detailed report and map was prepared, showing the potential areas
to be remodelled in the command area close to the lake boundary. This report was submitted to the
Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency (EEAA) in July 1993 for their review and clearance.
Under issue (iii), the reuse of drainage water is controlled by two agencies: the Drainage Research
Institute (DRI) and the Mechanical and Electrical Department (MED) in charge of the mixing stations.
Under the Bank-financed Pumping Station Rehabilitation Project, the quality of the drainage water at the
intake of the two main mixing stations in the Northern Delta was monitored and significant improvement in
water quality was reported. The DRI, on the other hand, has, in addition to its routine monitoring of the
quality of drainage water, developed guidelines for the sustainable reuse of drainage water for irrigated
crops to reduce long-term degradation of soils and therefore reverse declines in yields. The guidelines were
done through the Drainage Water Irrigation Project (DWIP) funded by the African Development Bank.
The guidelines are in the form of three matrices easy to use by personnel who receive basic technical
training.
For issue (iv), some open field drains have been converted to buried drains which has contributed
to the reduction of the discharge of waste effluents into the drainage system. These open drains used to be
sinks for direct discharge of wastes and, since they have been buried, they are no longer sources of
pollution. While most of the open drains convey agricultural drainage water with no industrial wastes, only
a few are affected by industrial and domestic waste water. Open drains are furthermore protected under the
Pollution Control Law 48 of 1982, and the Environment Protection Law 4 of 1994 and its executive
regulations of 1995, which give industry a compliance period of three years (ending in 1998). Concerning
domestic waste, which is beyond the scope of this project, the Government of Egypt, with international
support, has considered several measures to minimize this source of pollution.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The recalculated Economic Rate of Return for the project is 19% against the 24% anticipated at
appraisal. Although below the appraisal target, the ERR is well above the OCC of 12% for Egypt, and
reconfirms project viability. This is a good achievement. In fact, the reason for the difference between the
appraisal ERR estimate and that at completion is due to the more optimistic real price forecast utilized at
appraisal. Despite an agricultural production under the project well above appraisal expectations,
commodity price revisions downwards have resulted in lowered agricultural benefits than was anticipated.
- 7 -



On the cost side, costs are also slighly higher than expected. Lower benefits and higher costs therefore
explain a lower economic rate of return.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rate of return was estimated at appraisal.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project has succeeded in building significant capacity in EPADP and among contractors. It
has trained EPADP's staff in O&M, improved its capacity for field investigation, design, contract
preparation and quality control, constructed drainage maintenance centers and sub-centers, provided
O&M equipment for the irrigation networks, and supported the institutional capacity of EPADP in
developing a Management Information System (MIS), Geographic Information System (GIS), and
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) of EPADP's drainage activities, including their impacts. The project
has also provided pipelaying and construction equipment to support and upgrade contractors' capacity for
timely and quality implementation.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
S.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The project encountered two initial delays: (i) it lost about ten months between board approval on
November 26, 1991 to effectiveness on September 1, 1992, and (ii) it encountered delays in the execution
of the drainage civil works due to contractor problems. Effective implementation of subsurface drainage
required close coordination between EPADP, contractors and benefitting farmers. Because IBRD/IDA and
KfW shares in civil works were paid through the local EPADP budget and only reimbursed later, this
tended to overburden the local budget and result in delays in timely payments of contractors' certificates
and thereby slow down implementation. In the follow-up NDP-II project, donors' share in contractor
certificates may be more efficiently paid through use of special accounts.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Timely payment of crop compensations to farmers following subsurface drainage installation has
been an issue. Crop compensation is generally not given until subsurface drainage installation in an entire
area is completed. Also, in the initial years of the project, the cooperation between DRI and EPADP was
not the best, which adversely affected the implementation of the drainage research activities under the
project. However, with the appointment of a new director at DRI in 1993 who had worked previously at
EPADP and a new chairman at EPADP appointed in 1992, the cooperation between the two institutions
improved considerably.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Due to the highly satisfactory implementation of the civil works and the realization of cost
efficiencies, it was possible for EPADP to accomodate additional activities which were consistent with the
project's development objectives and thereby expand project benefits. Although the project experienced
physical and procurement delays in the initial years, EPADP was able to make up for these implementation
shortfalls in later years through better planning and greater institutional support. For example, the
replacement of obsolete pipelaying machines and the support for the pipe producing facilities under the
project has strengthened EPADP's and contractor capacity to respond effectively to implementation of the
- 8 -



drainage program. Furthermore, capacity building at EPADP through TA and training in improved site
investigation, design, implementation, and introduction of better technologies have subsequently contributed
to timely and quality implementation of the project. The main factors which positively affected project
performance were: (i) using GIS facilities, replacing concrete pipes by corrugated Polyethylene/PVC pipes
for collectors, (ii) replacing the manually laid gravel filter with factory pre-wrapped synthetic fabrics for
laterals, (iii) precise laying of drainage pipes using laser directed pipelaying machines, and (iv) studies and
training of EPADP technical and managerial staff and contractors. EPADP's improved O&M and M&E
capabilities under the project have laid a foundation for the easy start-up of the follow-up NDP-ll.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Total project costs amounted to about US$331 million (exceeding the US$290 total project costs
envisaged at appraisal by about 14%). Changes in project costs are due to three factors: (i) using US$37.8
million to provide electro-mechanical equipment for drainage pumping stations; (ii) US$36.5 million
increase in open drains remodelling; and (iii) US$17.8 million increase in EPADP's institutional support.
These increases in costs are partially offset by: (i) US$39.0 decrease in cost associated with subsurface
drainage in new areas, (ii) US$8.7 million decrease in cost related to field drainage in renewal areas, (iii)
the postponement of US$3.5 million related to the vertical drainage program, (iv) the non-implementation
of US$2.4 million associated with environmental support, and (v) US$2.7 associated with savings in the
support for DRI component, all summing to a total decrease of US$56.3 million. Although, because of a
favorable exchange rate between the US$ and the SDR, there has been a gain for EPADP during
implementation from the IDA credit of US$3.28 million, this was offset by the unfavorable exchange rate
between the DM and US$, which resulted in a decrease of US$3.2 million for EPADP from the KFW Loan
and Grant. Overall, the increase in actual project cost against what was envisaged at appraisal was
financed by the government.
Cost Recovery:
Egyptian law (Law 12 of 1984) requires full recovery, from farmers, of the field drainage
investment costs without interest over a 20 year period, commencing one year after installation completion.
As can be seen in Table 3.12 in Annex 3, cost recovery of investment costs in drainage has performed quite
well. The ratio of the amount recovered to the amount to be recovered has increased over the life of the
project from 60% in 1991 to more than 100% since 1996. This is partly explained by an increase in the
incentive for tax collectors from 2.5% to 7.5% of the funds collected.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
Sustainability of investments carried out under this project is likely. First, the civil works carried
out for field drainage and rehabilitation of open drains are done at a high standard of construction, and
should therefore endure their useful life. Second, EPADP's monitoring and maintenance capacity has been
considerably enhanced through provision of equipment to maintenance centers, sub-centers, and training of
EPADP staff and contractors, and this would facilitate routine preventive maintenance and contribute to the
longevity of project investments. Third, sustainability is enhanced by the direct recovery of subsurface
drainage costs from beneficiaries and also through the proceeds of the land tax, all of which helps generate
funds to cover operation and maintenance costs. Fourth, work is also underway to strengthen drainage
users associations to enable greater control and management of the drainage system by the beneficiaries.
-9-



For example, EPADP has started involving farmers in maintaining the subsurface drainage networks
through formation of Drainage Users' Associations at the collector drains level.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regtular operations:
Farmers resumed cultivation as soon as field drainage installation were completed. EPADP
continues to provide O&M for the sub-surface and open drainage system.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance in identification and preparation of the project was satisfactory. The Bank
worked closely with the FAO/CP to support the efforts of EPADP in identifying the drainage program,
defining project components, considering altematives, and pushing for sustainability. The Bank played a
constructive role in helping EPADP adopt a program approach to the National Drainage Program.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's role in supervision has been satisfactory. The Bank contributed to the success of the
project through periodic and timely supervision, closely coordinating with EPADP and providing
professional technical advise, as necessary. About 17 supervision missions were carried out by the Bank,
during which Bank staff worked closely with EPADP staff, reviewing and solving implementation problems
as they arose. The Bank helped EPADP staff familiarize themselves with its procurement policies, and the
Bank's presence has served as a catalyst for other donors to participate in funding the National Drainage
Program. KFW representatives frequently joined the Bank's supervision missions. The Bank and KFW
approvals, financing and reimbursements were done regularly without complications.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance has been satisfactory, in that it maintained realism and flexibility,
as its staff kept themselves focussed on the project's development objectives.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance has also been satisfactory. EPADP worked cooperatively with the FAO/CP
and the Bank and KFW missions, in jointly identifying issues and constraints, providing data, and
designing the project.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Borrower performance was satisfactory, except for the initial delays in ratifying the loan/credit
agreement, which resulted in delays in project start-up.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
EPADP's performance has been satisfactory. EPADP worked closely with the financiers during
supervision and has gained considerable experience from the preceding Bank-financed projects and was
therefore able to utilize that experience to comply with Bank requirments for ICB tendering and thereby
- 10-



carry out efficient procurement and expedite project implementation. EPADP has also consistently carried
out surveys and designs of areas for drainage improvement in a timely and competent manner. An accepted
criterion was developed with Bank support for the identification of new areas and those for renewal to be
provided with subsurface drainage. Technical specicifications were also standardized.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Borrower performance overall has been satisfactory, which has resulted in the successful
implementation of the project.
8. Lessons Learned
The following are the lessons learned from implementing this project:
(i)    Flexibility in implementation is key to guaranteeing success under this type of project. Under NDP,
a flexible approach was utilized in the selection and prioritizing of areas for installation of new subsurface
drainage or for their rehabilitation. The Bank and implementing agency maintained flexibility in the
program to reallocate resources to cover urgently needed areas, which arose during implementation.
(ii)   In the Egyptian context, project implementation timetable should give full consideration to the
length of time required between board approval and effectiveness because Parliament does not often ratify
loan/credit agreements within a short period. Under this project, about ten months were lost between board
approval and effectiveness. The combined focussed efforts of the Ministry, EPADP, MOIC and the Bank's
Resident mission must continue to be mobilized to accelerate the ratification process.
(iii)   Although EPADP has had considerable improvements in its institutional capacity, further
institutional building is needed, especially support to computerize: (a) the design process of its drainage
works and in construction planning and monitoring; (b) its operation and maintenance of the drainage
system, and (c) the monitoring and evaluation of drainage impacts. In the case of latter, evaluation of
impacts should not only stop with physical parameters but should also include social parameters such as
contributions of drainage to income improvements and poverty reduction. Some of this is being taken up in
the follow-on NDP-II project, which would start soon following effectiveness.
(iv)   Crop compensation to farmers as a result of crops damaged during subsurface drainage installation
should be incorporated into the drainage installation contract to be paid directly to farmers by contractors
to circumvent the delays fanners experience in getting their compensation under the current system where
EPADP manages the compensation.
(vi)   Coordination among concemed environment actors, to avoid duplication and forge integration, is
key to the success of environmental interventions. Under the project, the environmental component was
not carried out because it was being taken care of by other initiatives and programs. However, it was
found that the responsibility for carrying out a complex environmental mitigation program, involving other
organizations such as the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Land Reclamation and the Ministries of
Housing and Industry, requires consultation with them at appraisal and during implementation, and
developing ways to collaborate and integrate efforts to achieve successful outcomes. With the newly
established Environment Unit at EPADP, a nucleus is being established that would help build capacity and
coordinate environmental concems in drainage.
(vii)   Having repeater projects with the same implementation agency (EPADP) has considerable benefits.
- 11 -



It allows the building of a core professional team at EPADP that is familiar with World Bank requirements
for project implementation, and saves implementation effort and time.
(viii)  In view of increasing fiscal costs to EPADP of maintaining the drainage network and the need for
greater beneficiary participation, under NDP-I a start has been made to initiate the formation of drainage
user groups to handover some responsibility and accountability to users.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency
Ministry of Water Resources and Irrigation
Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage Projects
13 Giza St. Postal Code 12211 Giza, Egypt
Chairman Office
Our Ref No.: 786      Date : 23/4/200
To:   Mr. Usaid El-Hanbali
Task Team Leader, Agricultural Operations
Country Department, Europe, Middle East, and North African Region World Bank
Washington, D.C.   Fax: NR. 01-202-477-1374
From: Eng. Mohammed Fathy
Chairman of EPADP
Subject: EPADP Evaluation & Comments on the NDP I
Dear Mr. El-Hanbali:
Reference is made to Mr. Tijan Sallah letter dated 16 April 2001, concerning his request
to EPADP to submit the World Bank with its comments and evaluation of the NDP I
achievements.
Please find attached herewith a memo of "EPADP Evaluation of the Project
Achievements."
In this concern, I would like to thank the Bank groups and the other donors that
contributed to the success of the project through their periodical supervision and close
cooperation with EPADP's staff and by providing EPADP with professional advice.
Finally, we would like to express our appreciation for your support hoping to continue this
fruitful cooperation in the coming project, NDP II.
Best regards,
Sincerely yours,
Eng. Mohammed Fathy A. Hassan
Chairman of EPADP
24/4/2001
- 12 -



THE NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROJECT
(Ln. 3417/Cr. 2313-EGT)
Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
EPADP'S EVALUATION OF PROJECT ACHIEVEMENTS
Back2round
Drainage is considered as one of the main important tools to develop the agricultural land,
maintaining its fertility and preventing deterioration of its properties. Efficient maintenance is the
most important element to be highly considered to attain the best performance of such system.
Under the national drainage program, the Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage Projects
"EPADP" is aiming to provide a total command area of 6.4 million fed. With subsurface drainage
as well as rehabilitation of the old deteriorated subsurface drainage networks. The plan includes
also remodeling of 70 million fed of surface open drains to maintain required depths for effective
subsurface drainage.
So far about 5.0 million fed (78%) have been provided with subsurface field drains and
open drain systems serving 7.1 million fed (99%) are improved and remodeled. The drainage
systems are served by about 99 pumping stations devoting to pumping drainage effluent.
The implemented drainage works are the product of successive co-financed projects by the
WB Group, KfW and other financiers. The on-going NDP has started in 1994 with the first
slice-I (NDP-I), which was completed in December 2000. A follow-up project NDP-II,
co-financed by the WB Group, KfW, Dutch Government, European Import/Export Bank, and
other donors has been recently appraised and expected to be effective by June 2001.
Proiect Obiectives
The objectives of the NDP-I are to: (i) improve the efficiency of EPADP to implement
the drainage program; (ii) lowering of both the water table and salinity would reverse the
deterioration; (iii) increase agricultural productivity on about 720,000 fed (increased to 741,150
fed); (iv) apply trials of vertical drainage wells (was postponed to future activities); (v) improve
technical designs, more effective construction planning and management, quality control, and
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E); (vi) address the deteriorating situation created by the
discharge of untreated raw industrial and domestic waste into open drains; and (vii) improve
institutional planning and the implementation capacity of EPADP.
Other objectives were added to the project to: (i) include the electromechanical equipment
and spare parts urgently required for drainage pumping stations; (ii) provision of equipment and
vehicles required by Irrigation Department for the O&M requirements.
The project succeeded substantially achieved the project targets. Physical objectives have
- 13 -



increased by about 3% with proven increase of productivity and lowering both water table and
salinity. Under the project, technical designs are considerably improved and more effective
construction planning, management and quality control were followed.  The project has
implemented a successfully M&E program.
The project has satisfactorily built up EPADP's institutional capacity, through applying
latest technologies, and training procedures.
Impacts and Benefits
The farm net income was increased by 71%, 57%, 39% in Delta, Middle Egypt and Upper
Egypt, respectively.
The estimated actual Economic Rate of Return (ERR = 31%) is 7% higher than the
anticipated at appraisal (ERR = 24%). Incremental farm incomes resulting from drainage are
substantial and estimated at more than 40% of the without project net production value.
The project has supported development of human resources through provision of training
and technical assistance enabling the satisfactorily building of EPADP's skills.
Under the project, 184 training courses for more than 2000 EPADP and contractors'
trainees and 33 on-the-job training programs for 700 trainees have been provided in the technical,
financial and managerial aspects.  T.A. and studies specified in SAR have largely been
implemented under it.
The project has been able to fulfill satisfactorily its objectives of lowering the water table
and controlling soil salinity to a level below critical depth for various crops through introducing
covered lateral and collector drains.  It also has effectively contributed to the relative
improvement of human health restricting the sites of propagation and infection of schistosomiasis
by eliminating water logging which form health hazards to rural population.
Amounts recovered costs from beneficiaries have considerably increased during the period
from year 1990 to year 2000, raising from LE 5.4 million in 1990 to LE 19.4 million in 2000.
Amounts recovered, as a percentage of those to be recovered, have increased from 59.7% in 1991
to more than 100% in 2000.
EPADP has started involving farmers in maintaining the subsurface drainage networks
through formation of Drainage Users' Associations at the collector drains level.
Improvement in project investigations, design and technologies have contributed in timely
and quality implementation of the project. Main factors positively affected project performance
are: (i) using of GIS facilities, replacing concrete pipes by corrugated PE/PVC pipes for
collectors; (ii) replacing manually laid gravel filter with factory pre-wrapped synthetic fabrics for
laterals; (iii) precise laying of drainage pipes using laser directed pipelaying machines; and (iv)
studies, TA and training all levels of EPADP's technical, financier and management staff and
- 14 -



contractors.
Replacement of aged pipelaying machines, and extending the capacity of the pipe
factories, through the project and other donors' financed projects have insured the irmplementation
capacity of EPADP and the contractors to meet the future needs of the National Drainage
Program.
Evaluation of the Performance
The works carried out under the project are generally highly satisfactory, and should give
the normally expected life before renewal, given the EPADP the routine preventive maintenance
program.  Its maintenance capacity has been enhanced by the provision of equipment,
maintenance centers, sub-centers, training contractors and EPADP staff and technical assistance
under the project. The budget allocations for routine maintenance are low, but considered by
EPADP to be adequate to sustain works.
During preparation and with the high satisfactory assistance the Bank the preparation
study has covered adequately the project design and investigations, contracting and
implementation. In all fields, it has taken in consideration progressive updating technologies and
tools.
The project has satisfactorily coordinated with several institutions and complemented their
requirements in relation with the project, such as Irrigation Department, MED, NWRC, MALR,
Survey Department, etc.
In terms of sustainability, the project is satisfactorily recovering costs of subsurface front
beneficiaries.
Proiect Implementation
The actual implementation of subsurface drainage for new areas is highly satisfactory and
exceeded the planned by 500 fed to be 590,500 fed. Additionally, 4,500 fed are expected to
complete by June 2001 after PCD. Overall achievements are 59,906 km of laterals and collectors
pipe drains. Total costs of this component amounted US$ 149.6 million (70% of appraisal).
The actually implemented areas under subsurface renewal component are 150,650 fed.
Exceeding the planned by 650 fed (4%). Overall achievements are 15,284-km of laterals and
collectors pipe drains. Total costs of this component amounted US$ 35.8 million (81% of
appraisal).
Open drains serving 510,000 fed have been remodeled, which exceeds the SAR garget by
about 6%. Overall achievements are 1.344 km of drain lengths, 672 bridges, 19 siphons and 202
aqueducts. Total costs of this component amounted US$ 77.3 million (190% of appraisal).
Support was provided to MED for provision of equipment for rehabilitation and
- 15 -



maintenance of drainage pumping stations including: spare parts for three pumping stations, 23
emergency pumps, 25 electric generators, 10 mobile workshops, 2 telescopic cranes and 4
complete new pumping stations costing US$ 37.8 million.
Provision support for the operation and maintenance of the irrigation networks in the form
of nine hydraulic cranes and 80 D/ cab pickups.
Notable progress has been attained in improving and updating technologies. Usage of
factory pre-wrapped synthetic filter fabrics, corrugated PVC/PE collectors and laterals has been
generalized. Under the project production equipment, machinery, PVC/PE materials and chemical
compounds are procured.  Accordingly, the annual implementation capacity has exceeded
200,000 fed. Which improved the quality and accelerated rate of implementation. Under the
project, three pipe manufacture machines, 3 synthetic filter wrapping, 46,000 tons of PVC/PE and
related chemical have been provided.
Using laser controlled trenching pipelaying machines for installation of both laterals and
collectors was generalized to replace manual lying. In combination with DRI, pipelaying
machines trenchless V-plow has been successfully tested. 14 trenching pipelaying machines have
been procured on sail to the contractors, as well as one V-plough trenchless machine for
investigation needs.
Preceding effectiveness, early start of investigations and preparation of designs ahead of
effectiveness has allowed for early start of implementation stages. Preceding staff training and
using updated technologies, such as GIS and computer-aided programs has a positive impact on
the performance and quality.
At PCD of the NDP-I, designs were completed an additional area of 109,900 fed for the
proceeding NDP-II project.
The final procured equipment sets have successively served the actual project needs. They
will also assist in better performance in the follow-up NDP-II.
The Bank Group and other donors contributed to the success of the project through timely
supervision, close coordination with EPADP and by providing professional advice to EPADP.
Supervision missions worked closely with the staff of EPADP, reviewing and solving
implementation problems as they arose. Moreover, the Bank managed to play a constructive role
in adopting a program approach for the National Drainage Program and familiarization the
EPADP with Bank procurement policies. The Bank presence has also had the positive effect on
encouraging other donors to agree to fund national drainage projects with EPADP. The Bank
carried out Mid-Term Review in October 1997, which enabled the Bank and the project staff in
MED to jointly take stock of progress, resolve outstanding problems, and agree on next steps on
the implementation program for remaining period of the project.
EPADP's performance has also been satisfactory, except for initial delays in project start
up owing to ratification of the Loan Agreement. Implementation has been considerably improved
- 16 -



later on. EPADP has gained considerable experience from the preceding World Bank-financed
projects and was therefore able to utilize that experience to comply with Bank requirements for
ICB tendering and thereby expedite project implementation and efficient procurement of
equipment. The project has also considered compliance related to monitoring of impact of
drainage and the collection of cost recovery charges following completion of the drainage works.
The outcome of the project is highly satisfactory in terms of areas developed and TA and
training specified for the project, although it was largely funded under DEMP. Large amounts of
maintenance equipment and facilities have been funded by the project. Due to these and the
maintenance policy of EPADP, the facilities installed are likely to provide optimum service over a
long period of time.
EPADP has given attention for improving t4echnologies and tools through adaptive and
operative research in coordination with DRI and the project consultants and trained staff.
LESSONS LEARNED FOR CONSIDERATION IN FOLLOW-UP NDP-II PROJECT
Given the relatively slow pace of implementation of civil contracts for subsurface field
drains situated on farmers small irrigated parcels and the extensive need for detailed coordination
between implementing agency, contractor and beneficiary fanner; the implementation period
should consider the delaying factors.
The first four drainage projects had encountered considerable implementation delays of
three to four years mainly due to delays ineffectiveness and very optimistic implementation
assumptions.  Delays encountered in the fifth drainage project, which was satisfactorily
completed, was reduced to 1.5 years due primarily to delays in effectiveness while the period
between Board Approval and Effectiveness date was reduced to about 11 months for the
completed NDP-I. The concentrated efforts by the MPWWR, the Bank's Resident Mission and
Task Team need to be mobilized in the NDP II, to ensure accelerated process between Board and
Effectiveness.
Main factors positively affected project performance are: (i) using of GIS facilities,
replacing concrete pipes by corrugated PE/PVC pipes for collectors; (ii) replacing manually laid
gravel filter with satisfactory pre-wrapped synthetic fabrics for laterals; (iii) precise laying of
drainage pipes using laser directed slaying machines; and (iv) studies, TA and training all levels of
EPADP's technical financier and management staff and contractors.
Although early drainage projects, and in particular, the National Drainage Project, have
provided institutional support for EPADP, further assistance will be needed to continue in the
follow-on project NDPII in: (i) computerization of the design process for drainage works,
construction planning and monitoring; (ii) the operation and maintenance of drainage system; and
(iii) impact monitoring and implementation. The continued assistance to EPADP in implementing
these improvements would enhance the optimum use of resources in the drainage programs,
which forms a large percentage of investments in agricultural infrastructure.
- 17 -



To guarantee project success, a flexible selection criteria approach is necessary for this
type of projects for selection and prioritizing areas of new subsurface drainage and for
rehabilitation. It is therefore important that the Bank and implementing agency maintain flexibility
in the program to reallocate resources to cover urgently needed areas, which come up during
implementation.
In the Egyptian context, full consideration should be given to the length of time required
between Board Approval and Effectiveness for the Parliament to pass the necessary legislation.
Giving EPADP the responsibility of carrying out a complex environmental mitigation
program which involves activities related to other organizations such as MOH, MALR as well as
Ministries of Housing and Industry is not always successful. In future projects, integrated efforts
of different concerned organizations need to be considered.
Mitigation actions for environmental deterioration in main and branch drainage networks
when passing though villages and towns (due to discharging untreated sewage and garbage) need
to be considered in follow-up projects. Mitigation actions such as buried pipe drains, construction
of local sewage pipe systems furnished with sewage compact treating units, diversion of the drains
outside the housing areas, public awareness campaigns, etc.
TA and training accomplishments have laid a foundation for easy start of the follow-up
NDP-II, where capable trained staff, improved design, implementation, O&M and M&E
capabilities became available.
Upgrading physical and institutional performance of EPADP will allow for better
accomplishments in the follow-up NDP-II.
Following large investments for supporting EPADP's pipe factories and improved pipe
technology and productivity has made EPADP the sole manufacturer have corrugated drainage
PVC/PE pipes. Rashness in pipe manufacture privatization needs to be halted until insuring
quality and quantity manufacture capacity could serve the extending implementation rates.
WB16O53
P:\EGYPT\RE\5 l46\lCR\EPADP's Evaluation of Project Achievements.doc
May 15, 2001 3:59 PM
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 18 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Appra A MTR Target Actual at Project completion
._________________ _  Uri  Taget        OCt 1997         )ec/31/2000
Investigation & design of subsurface drains      1000 fed      590         700.4              700.4
Subsurface drainage, new
Area                                             1000 fed      590         590.5              590.5
Collector length                                   km         5,900        6,756              6,761
Lateral length                                     km         54,870      53.100             53,145
Subsurface drainage, renewal
Area                                             1000 fed      130        150.65              150.65
Collector length                                   km         1,300        1,500              1,725
Lateral length                                     km         12,090      13,950              13,559
Vertical drainage
Area                                             1000 fed       5                     Cancelled
Wells                                             Number       120
Open drains rehabilitation                       1000 fed      480         510                 510
- 19 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Costs by Procuremet Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category      ice        Procurem entMethod       ,               To<l o
t4CB     ~Other     _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _
1. Works                     78.00          16.00         0.00         26.00        120.00
(38.70)       (8.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)      (46.70)
2. Goods                     73.00          0.00          8.00         31.00        112.00
(66.00)       (0.00)        (7.00)        (0.00)      (73.00)
3. Services                   0.30          0.00          0.00          5.20         5.50
(0.30)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.30)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.00         52.50        52.50
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                     151.30         16.00         8.00         114.70       290.00
(105.00)       (8.00)       (7.00)        (0.00)      (120.00)
Project Costs by Component
Project Component    Appraisal Estimate    Actual/Latest Estimate  Percentage of Appraisa
1
1. Subsurface Drainage
a. Horizontal, New Area    188.6                 149.6                 79%
b. Horizontal, Renewal      44.5                  35.8                 81%
c. Vertical Drainage         3.5                  0.0                   0%
2.Open Drains               40.8                  77.3                190%
Remodelling
3. MED, Pumping              0.0                   37.8              New Activity
Stations
4. Institutional Support
a. EPADP, including          7.3                  25.2                 345%
M&E
b. DRI & RIGW                3.0                    0.3                 11%
c. Environmental Support     2.4                   0.0                   0%
d. Irrigation Dept.          0.0                   4.7               New Activity
Support
Total                      290.1                  330.8                 114%
- 20 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category         iCB            NC            OtherNBF.                   Total Cost
........C         .         O t h e r  _ _ _  _ _ _    . . . . . , , _ _ _
1. Works                        93.00           12.50          39.30          0.00          144.80
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                        108.50          4.10           45.50          0.00          158.10
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
3. Services                      5.00           0.00           23.10          0.00          28.10
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                        206.50          16.60         107.90          0.00          331.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemment units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component              Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate
D   Bank     Govt.      CoF.      Bank       Govt      CoF.    Bank   Govt   CoF.
A. Subsurface Drainage
Horiz. Drainage, New     78.20      89.00     21.40      51.30     86.10      12.40    65.6   96.7   57.9
Horiz. Drain., Renewal   19.30      18.70      6.50      13.50      19.40     3.00     69.9  103.7  46.2
Vertical Drainage         3.00      0.40       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.0    0.0    0.0
B. Open Drains           22.20      18.60      0.00      27.00     42.20      8.20    121.6           0.0
Remodelling
C. Institutional Support
For EPADP incl. M&E       0.30      2.70       4.40      2.80       11.40     10.90    933.3  422.2  247.7
For DRI and RIGW          0.00      0.30       2.70      0.30       0.00      0.00      0.0    0.0    0.0
Environmental Support     0.00      0.30       2.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.0    0.0    0.0
Irrigation Department     0.00      0.00       0.00      2.20       0.40      2.10      0.0    0.0    0.0
Support, Added Activity
D. MED Pumping Stations,   0.00     0.00       0.00      28.50      7.10      2.30      0.0    0.0    0.0
Added Activity
Total*                   123.00    130.00     37.00     125.60     166.60     38.90    102.1  128.2  105.1
- 21 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Economic Re-Evaluation
The economic analysis presented in this annex follows closely the methodology applied at the project's
appraisal.
Cost-benefit Analysis
A cost-benefit analysis was carried out to estimate the Net Present Value (NPV) and Economic Rate of
Return (ERR) of the project. First, financial flows were calculated for both the "with" and "without"
project scenarios. Then, financial flows were adjusted to their economic values. No residual values were
included in the analysis. Benefits flows are assumed over a period of 30 years (the economic life of the
drainage systems). A 12% discount rate representing the opportunity cost of capital is used to calculate the
present value of benefits and costs.
Proiect benefits
(1) Incremental Yields. The project's main benefits are derived from the installation/renewal of field
drainage in areas where waterlogging and salinity have become major constraints to maintaining and
increasing land productivity. Relief of the drainage constraint not only arrests falling yields but also
improves them over time.
Project benefits have been calculated on the basis of the changes in yield assuming no change in
agricultural practices. These changes in yields are measured by comparing the "with" and "without"
drainage scenarios, that is the combination of: (i) an increase in yields following field drainage and (ii)
avoidance of further yield decreases, if waterlogging and soil salinity problems were to persist. The former
is the only benefit stream that was included in the analysis at appraisal. This analysis follows the same
conservative approach.
Incremental yields following field drainage depends on crop response to reduced salinity and the water
table, as well as the specific tolerance of crops to these conditions. Incremental yields were estimated for
14 major crops (13 in the Nile Valley and 11 in the Delta). Incremental yields are expected to be about the
same in the Valley and Delta.   At appraisal incremental yields were supposed to be the same for
rehabilitated and new areas, the same approach is followed in this recalculation or re-assessment. Although
incremental yields assumed at appraisal ranged from 5% to 20%, actual incremental yields observed at
completion are higher, except for Maize and Citrus.
Incremental yields at appraisal and actual incremental yields are summarized in table 3.1 of this annex.
(2) Land Use Patterns.
Land use patterns in both the Nile Valley and the Delta have changed over the life of the project. This is
partly due to field drainage that enabled the cultivation of higher value crops in areas where waterlogging
and saline conditions prevented cultivation. The switch to higher value crops is one of the major benefits of
drainage. Yet, at appraisal, it was assumed that land use patterns would not change. This analysis will
follow the same conservative approach using the same crop mixes as the ones used at appraisal. They are
shown in the table 3.2 of this annex.
- 22 -



(3) Benefits Build-up
The build-up of benefits is related to: (i) the gradual implementation of the piped subsurface drainage
program and (ii) the effects of drainage on crop yields over time.
(a) Implementation of the drainage program is shown in table 3.3. At appraisal, it was assumed that field
drainage would be installed on 720,000 feddans over a period of 5 years, of which 90% would be in the
Delta area. Actually, implementation has been slower, as a total of 600,000 feddans were covered after 5
years, but targets were exceeded by 20,000 feddans at project completion. The incremental land drained
and available for production are shown in table 3.4.
(b) Following the assumptions at appraisal, it is assumed that 50% of the benefits accrue in the first year
following installation; 75% in the second year, 90% in the third year, and full benefits are obtained in the
fourth year. The effects of reduced waterlogging on crop yields are assumed to be almost immediate
whereas that from reduced salinity become more tangible the fourth year after installation of field
subsurface drainage. Table 3.5 shows incremental yields following implementation.
(4) Incremental Agricultural Production
Incremental agricultural production is shown on table 3.6. It is slightly higher than the one forecasted at
appraisal. This is the result of two factors: larger area covered by field drainage and higher yields for most
of the crops.
(5) Prices
At appraisal. price forecasts provided by the International Economic Department of the World Bank
indicated a reversal of the long-term decline in real prices of commodities. They forecasted price increases
for cereals, sugar and cotton, and relatively constant prices for oilseeds and citrus. These price forecasts
were used in computing farmgate prices and project benefits. At completion, economic prices for traded
commodities have been calculated using the price data in the World Bank publication, "Commodity Price
Data", dated November 2000 and prepared by The Commodities Team, Development Prospects Group,
The World Bank. These shadow prices are presented in table 3.7 of this annex. These prices were
adjusted to their farmgate equivalents, with appropriate adjustments for quality premia. Historical prices
were adjusted using year 2000 as the base year. For non-traded commodities, such as berseem, financial
prices are assumed to represent economic prices. Economic prices of most of the commodities were
over-estimated at appraisal.
Proiect's Costs
Following the SAR's methodology, only 50% of the institutional strengthening component cost and 10% of
the cost for pumping stations was included in the analysis since this component benefit the entire country's
drainage activities. In addition, the taxes and duties, the costs of land acquisition and farmers compensation
were excluded, as they are financial transfers. All other incremental investment costs were included in the
analysis. No incremental production costs were included as the benefits are assumed to derive solely from
drainage; no other farm investments nor additional input usage is considered in the analysis.
The actual project cost is US$ 282 million in current dollars of which 35% are foreign costs and 65% are
local costs. Using the MUV inflation index for the foreign costs and the GDP deflator for the local costs,
the actual costs have been converted to the year 2000 price.
- 23 -



Economic returns
Following the SAR's approach, the ERR of the project is estimated at 19% (against the appraisal estimate
of 24%). This confirms the viability of the project. Although incremental agricultural production is higher
compared to appraisal, the ERR is lower because of the revision downwards of the actual commodity
prices against the higher prices predicted at appraisal.
Cost Recovery
Egyptian law (Law 12 of 1984) requires full recovery, from farmers, of the field drainage investment costs
without interest, over a 20 year period, commencing one year after installation completion. As can be seen
from table 3.12 below, cost recovery of investment costs has performed very well. The ratio of the amount
recovered on the amount to be recovered has increased over the life of the project from 60% in 1991 to
more than 100% since 1996. This is partly explained by an increase in the incentive for tax collectors from
2.5% to 7.5% of the funds collected.
Table 3.1: Incremental Yields
Sorghum                                      5                               7
Barley                                       10                              10
Wheat                                        10                              15
Maize                                        10                              9
Rice                                         10                             12
Soybean                                      10                             10
Broadbean                                    10                             15
Berseem                                      15                             15
Sugarcane                                    15                             15
Vegetables and Roots                         15                              15
Seed Cotton                                  20                             20
Citrus                                       20                             15
Source: National Drainage Project SAR, 1991 and Field Monitoring Data.
- 24 -



Table 3.2 Land Use Patterns
Crop                                 Land Use (percest e)V
___ __ __ __ __ __Delta                                      Vallev
Wheat                                     0.285                         0.409
Maize                                     0.30                          0.369
Rice                                      0.305                           0
Sorghum                                     0                           0.186
Barley                                    0.029                         0.016
Long Berseem                              0.392                         0.284
Short Berseem                             0.210                         0.092
Soybean                                     0                           0.057
Seed Cotton                               0.222                         0.187
Sugar Cane                                  0                           0.162
Broad Beans                               0.041                         0.124
Potatoes                                  0.037                         0.037
Tomatoes                                  0.058                         0.058
Citrus                                    0.041                         0.039
Cropping Intensity                        1.92                          2.02
Source: National Drainage Project SAR, 1991
Table 3.3 Implementation of the pipe drainage program ('000 feddans)
fr E, ,, ,,Par .                                  Actual
Year             D._R              VO iDel..a.    __.
1993-94             18                 2                111               30
1994-95             92                10                76                18
1995-96             115               13                93                12
1996-97             135               15                92                24
1997-98             135               15                133                6
1998-99             153               17                31                 2
1999-00                        _ _         __77                            8
2000-01                        _ ________               20                 8
Total             648                72               633                109
- 25 -



Table 3.4: Incremental land drained and available for production by Year ( 000 feddans)
Annural inema land drained and available for roducion
Thousand Feddains
Land use by area             1992-93 199344 1994-95 1995-96 1996.97  1997498   1996-99  1999-00 2000-1 2001-02    2002.03   Total
andavp         Total            -       -    141.68   94.04  104.68   116.40    139.30   32.55   84.85     28.34     -    741.84
Delta            -            111.48   76.44   92.58    92.10    133.00   30.85   76.50     20.00    -    632.95
Valley    -      -     30.20   17.60   12.10    24.30      6.30    1.70    8.35      8.34     -    108.89
Wheat          0.29    0.41     -       -     44.12   2898   31.33    36.19      40.48    9A9   25.22       9.11     -    224.93
Maze           0.30    0.37     -       -     44.59   29.43   32.24    36.60     4222    9.88   26.03       9.08     -    230.07
Rice           0.31             -       -     34.00   23.31   28.24    28.09     40.57    941    23.33      6.10     -    193.05
Sorghum         -       0.19    -       -      5.62    3.27    2.25     4.52      1.17    0.32    1.55      1.55     -     2025
Barley         0.03     0.02    -       -      3.72    2.50    2.88     3.06      3.96    092    2.35       0.71     -     20.10
Lor Berseem    0.39    0.28     -       -     52.28   34.96   39.73    43.00     53.93   12.58   32.36      10.21    -    279.04
Slrt Berseem   0.21     0.09    -       -     26.19   17.67   20.56    21.58     28.51    6.63   16.83      4.97     -    142.94
Sybean          -       0.06    -       -      1.72    1.00    0.69     1.39      0.36    0.10    0.48      0.48     -      6.21
Seed otton     022      0.19    -       -     30.40   20.26   22.82    24.99     30.70    7.17   18.54      6.00     -    160.88
Sugar Caie      -       0.16        -          4.89    2.85    1.96     3.94      1.02    028    1.35       1.35     -     17.64
Broadbeas      0.04     0.12            -      8.32    5.32    5.30     6.79      6.23    1.48    4.17      1.85     -     3945
Potaoes        0.04     0.04            -      5.24    3.48    3.87     4.31      5.15    1.20    3.14      1.05     -     27.45
TartoDes       0.06     0.06    -       -      8.22    5.45    6.07     6.75      8.08    1.89    4.92      1.64     -     43.03
Citrus         0.04     0.04    -       -      5.75    3.82    4.27     4.72      5.70    1.33    3.46      1.15     -     3020
Table 3.5: Incremental Yield Following Implementation
Yield        year 1   year 2   year 3   year 4   year 5
Base  Improved                      ton/fed
Wheat               1.4      1.54     0.07     0.11     0.13      0.14     0.14
Maize               1.6      1.74     0.07     0.11     0.13      0.14     0.14
Rice                  2      2.24     0.12     0.18     0.22      0.24     0.24
Sorghum             1.4      1.50     0.05     0.07     0.09      0.10     0.10
Barley                1      1.10     0.05     0.08     0.09      0.10     0.10
Long Berseem       18.5    21.28      1.39     2.08     2.50      2.78     2.78
Short Berseem       9.2    10.58      0.69     1.04     1.24      1.38     1.38
Soybean             0.9      0.95     0.03     0.04     0.05      0.05     0.05
Seed cotton         0.8      0.96     0.08     0.12     0.14      0.16     0.16
Sugar Cane         29.7    34.16      2.23     3.34     4.01      4.45     4.45
Broad beans         0.8      0.92     0.06     0.09     0.11      0.12     0.12
Potatoes              7      8.05     0.52     0.79     0.94      1.05     1.05
Tomatoes            8.9    10.24      0.67     1.00     1.20      1.34     1.34
Citrus              4.8      5.52     0.36     0.54     0.65      0.72     0.72
- 26 -



Table 3.6 Incremental Agricultural Production
Thousand tons  1992-93  19934%  1994-95 1995-96 1996-97 1997-98 1998-99  1999-00 2000-01    2001-02 2002-03 2003-04    2004-05
Wheat            0.00    0.00    3.09    6.66   10.80   15.65    20.82    24.10      27.55   29.84   30.82      31.36   31.49
Maize            0.00    0.00    3.21    6.93   11.28   16.35    21.83    25.32      28.98   31.40   32.43      33.00   33.13
Rice             0.00    0.00    4.08    8.92   14.93   21.65    29.78    35.03      40.53   43.97   45.41       46.19   46.33
Sorghum          0.00    0.00    0.28    0.57    0.85    1.23     1.46      1.59      1.74    1.87    1.93        1.97    1.98
Barley           0.00    0.00    0.19    0.40    0.67    0.97     1.31     1.53       1.76    1.91    1.97       2.00    2.01
Long Berseem     0.00    0.00   72.53  157.31   258.45  374.74   505.63   589.42    677.42  734.24  758.28      771.51   774.34
Short Berseem    0.00    0.00   18.07   39.30   65.00   94.25   128.06   149.78     172.56  187.10  193.22      196.57  197.25
Soybean          0.00    0.00    0.05    0.10    0.14    0.21     0.25     0.27       0.29    0.32    0.33       0.33    0.34
Seed cotton      0.00    0.00    2.43    5.27    8.63   12.52    16.85    19.61      22.52   24.40   25.20       25.64   25.74
Sugar Cane       0.00    0.00   10.90   22.70   33.51   48.55    57.78    63.04      68.79   73.95   76.48      77.99   78.59
Broad beans      0.00    0.00    0.50    1.07    1.69    2.46     3.19     3.65       4.14    4.48    4.63       4.71    4.73
Potatoes         0.00    0.00    2.75    5.95    9.73   14.10    18.92    21.99      25.21   27.32   28.22      28.71   28.82
Tomatoes         0.00    0.00    5.49   11.87   19.39   28.11    37.70    43.82      50.25   54.45   56.24       57.22   57.44
Citrus           0.00    0.00    2.07    4.48    7.32   10.62    14.26    16.58      19.02   20.61   21.29       21.66   21.74
Annual Incremental Production at project maturity (thousand tons)
Assumption at  Estimates at
appraisal     Completion
Wheat                30             31
Maize                40             33
Rice                 40             46
Sorghum               1              2
Barley                2              2
Long Berseem         755            774
Short Berseem        197            197
Soybean              0.4            0.3
Seed cotton          25             26
Sugar Cane           52             79
Broad beans           4              5
Potatoes             28             29
Tomatoes             56             57
Citrus               28             22
- 27 -



Table 3.7: Farmgate Economic Prices ( 2000 LE/ton) - Estimates at project completion
__________=____________                              F~a~cia                           ...   Eonom      Prices
Wheat                                                       653                                        569
Maize                                                       500                                        450
Rice                                                        600                                       464
Sorghum                                                     500                                       459
Barley                                                      583                                        583
Berseem                                                      50                                        50
Soybean                                                    1050                                       909
Seed Cotton                                                2540                                       2378
Sugar Cane                                                   90                                        65
Broad Beans                                                 1161                                      1161
Potatoes                                                    320                                        375
Tomatoes                                                    300                                        300
Citrus                                                      600                                        529
Source: Financial prices: NDP2, Economic Prices NDP2 and Team Estimates
Table 3.8. Real Commodity Prices (2000 LE/ton)
Estimates at project completion
LElton                   1994.95  1995-96  1996-97  1997-98  1998-99  1999-00  2000-01  2001-02           2002-03  2003-04   2004-05
Wheat                         680       792      788       635      542       543        558         560       585      612          642
Maize                         520       646      657       528      474       450       460          497      529       538          550
Rice                          577       639      651      638       592       502       463          475      494       508          524
Sorghum                       506       605      608       504      453       433       440          459      489       507          527
Barley                        669       799      803       666      599       573       581          607      646       670          697
Long Berseem                   50        50       50        50       50        50        50           50        50       50           50
Short Berseem                  50        50       50        50       50        50        50           50        50       50           50
Soybean                       962      1048     1167      1082      914       875       908          857      862       918          924
Seed cotton                  3213      3177     3012     2822      2364      2266      2431         2473     2474      2507        2562
Sugar Cane                     90        88       85        77       59        57        64           63        62       62           63
Broad beans                  1161      1161     1161      1161     1161      1161      1161         1161     1161      1161         1161
Potatoes                      375       375      375       375      375       375       375          375      375       375          375
Tomatoes                      300       300      300       300      300       300       300          300      300       300          300
Citrus                        529       529      529       529      529       529       529          529      529       529          529
Estimates at project appraisal
LE/ton           199496    199506    199697    1997-08    199809    199900    2000-01           2001402    2002.03    200304    200405
Vw\                  730        764        797        830         864        897        865        833         801        769        737
M&e                  506        525        545        565        584         604        592        580        568         556        543
RPie                 908        919        930        941        952         964        943        923         903        883        862
Sorghum              487        507        527        547         567        587        575        562         550        538        525
Baby                 565        588        611        634         658        681        667        652         638        624        609
Lai Baseen            16         17         17          17         17         17         17         16          16         15         15
ShotBeen              16         16         16          16         16         16         16         16          16         16         16
Sobean              1016        995        973        951         929        908        922        937         951        966        980
Seed cohn           4827       4811       4795       4778        4762       4745       4594       4442        4290       4138       3986
sgarCane              90         92         94         96          98         99        102        104         106        108        110
Biad beam           1485       1485       1485       1485        1485       1485       1485       1485        1485       1485       1485
Poabes               359        359        359        359         359        359        359        359        359         359        359
Trna3bes             287        287        287        287         287        287        287        287         287        287        287
Cibus                754        749        745        740         735        730        725        72D        715         710        705
- 28 -



Table 3.9 Incremental Benefits
LE 10O         199243  199394  199445  199506  199697  199748  1998-99  1999400 200041              2001-02  2002.03  2003404      200405  200506
W7-et                0         0    2099    5274    8510    9945    11285    13088            15385    16714    18036        19196   20211   20211
Maize                0         0     1671    4477    7408    8630    10339    11404           13325   15601    17148         17769   18215   18215
Pice                 0         0    2353    5701       9720    13804   17643    17586         18764   20888    22438         23469   24276   24276
SCrTI                0         0      139      347      514      618      661       689         764       858      944         998    1046    1046
Barley               0         0      124      323      535      643      783       875        1022      1157     1272        1342    1400    1400
Long Bei5ean         0         0    3627    7866    12923   18737   25282    29471            33871    36712   37914         38575   38717   38717
Short Beseem         0         0      904    1965    3250    4713        6403      7489        862B    9355    9661           928    93         9863
S    tbean           0         0       45      101      167      224      225       235         266      270       281         305      310      310
Seed cOto            0         0    7813   16739   26005   35324   39830    44444             54751   60361    62363         64292   65950   65950
&W Carle             0         0      979    1998    2861       3725    3390       3597        4424    4622    4710           4846    4942    4942
o  beris             0         0      579    1239    1967    2851        3707      4243        4809    5202    5374           5471     5497    5497
Pdbtes               0         0     1032    2233    3648    52B9    7093          8245        9455    10245    10581        10766   10808   10808
Tcnae5               0         0    1646    3561       5816    8433    11310    13146         15076    16335   16871         17166   17232   17232
CburLs               0         0     1095    2370    3875    5618        7542      8771       10062    10903   11261         11458   11502   11502
Tobl        0         0   24105   54193   87198   118554  145493   163282           190603  209222  218854         225482  229969  229969
000 US$ (2000)     -         -      7,090   15,939   25,646   34,869   4Z792    48,024       56,060   61,536   64,369       66,318   67,638   67,638
Table 3.10: Domestic and International deflators
Y_ ar                                                  ,   erW  I                                 GIP Deflator
1992                              105.6                              0.95                               1.97
1993                              105.3                              0.95                               1.63
1994                              109.2                              0.92                               1.46
1995                              117.8                              0.85                               1.34
1996                              112.5                              0.89                               1.23
1997                              107.2                              0.93                               1.14
1998                              105.2                              0.95                               1.08
1999                              102.4                              0.98                               1.04
2000                               100                                  1                                 1
2001                              103.8                              0.97                               0.97
- 29 -



Table 3.11: Economic Analysis - Rate of Return
Estimates at project completion        Estimates at project appraisal
Year        Costs         Benefits    Net Benefits    Costs    Benefits  Net Benefits
(US $ Thousands - 2000 base)
1         27,117               .      -27117         6,043                  (6,043)
2          25,360                     -25360        48,790         -       (48,790)
3          47,125            7,090    -40036        42,568       1,197     (41,371)
4          40,991           15,939    -25052        40,833       7,927     (32,906)
5          35,462           25,646    -9815         39,965      19,205     (20,760)
6          59,781           34,869    -24912        44,752      34,521     (10,231)
7          43,055        -42,792       -263          2,273      52,200      49,927
8          17,690          48,024     30334          2,273      72,093      69,820
9            3              56,060    56057          2,273      80,110      77,837
10           3              61,536     61533          2,273     82,982       80,708
11           3              64,369     64365          2,273     82,922       80,649
12           3              66,318     66315          2,273     82,922       80,649
13           3              67,638     67635          2,273     80,828      78,555
14           3              67,638     67635          2,273     78,764      76,490
15           3              67,638     67635          2,273     78,764       76,490
16           3              67,638     67635          2,273     78,764       76,490
17           3              67,638     67635          2,273     78,764       76,490
18           3              67,638     67635          2,273     78,764      76,490
19           3              67,638     67635          2,273     78,764       76,490
20           3              67,638     67635          2,273     78,764       76,490
21           3              67,638     67635          2,273     78,764       76,490
22           3              67,638     67635          2,273     78,764       76,490
23           3              67,638     67635          2,273     78,764       76,490
24           3              67,638     67635          2,273      78,764      76,490
25           3              67,638     67635          2,273      78,764      76,490
26           3              67,638     67635          2,273      78,764      76,490
27           3              67,638     67635          2,273     78,764       76,490
28           3              67,638     67635          2,273     78,764       76,490
29           3              67,638     67635          2,273     78,764       76,490
30           3              67,638     67635          2,273     78,764       76,490
IERR         19%                                 24%
- 30 -



Table 3.12 Cost Recovery
Amount to be recovered   ADmount recovered    Recovered as a % of to
LEI 000                LE' 000           be recovered (%)
1990                  6,600                  5,405                    82
1991                  11,100                 6,629                    60
1992                  11,100                 8,813                    79
1993                  12,800                 11,005                   86
1994                  13,000                 11,548                   89
1995                  13,500                 13,114                   97
1996                  15,000                 15,010                  100
1997                  15,000                 16,542                  110
1998                  15,000                 16,027                  107
1999                  17,000                 18,414                  108
2000                  18,000                 19,399                   108
Source: EPADP annual reports
- 31 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)     Implementation   Development
Month/Year   Count            Specialty                       Progress       Objective
IdentificationlPreparation
FAO/CP
Appraisal/Negotiation
Supervision
(1) 10/92                   2   E                                    S              S
(2)  3/93                   4   E,C                                  S              HS
(3) 11/93                   2   E                                   HS              HS
(4) 4/94                    2   E                                    S              HS
(5)  6/95                   2   E,I                                 HS              HS
(6)  2/96                   1   E                                   HS              HS
(7)  6/96                   3   E,C                                 HS              HS
(8)  2/97                   3   E,C,I                               HS              HS
(9) 10/97                   5   E,I,C,A                              S              HS
(10)  5/98                   4   E,I,A                              HS              HS
(11) 11/98                   3   E,C,I                              HS              HS
(12)  2/99                  2   E,I                                 HS              HS
(13)  5/99                  14   E,I,C,A                            HS              HS
(14)  8/99                   3   E,C,I                              HS              HS
(15) 11/99                  5   E,C,I                               HS              HS
(16)  2/00                  5   E,C,I                               HS              HS
(17) 10/00                  4   E,C,I                                HS             HS
ICR
Mission Staffing Specialization: E-Engineer, C-Economist, I-Institution Specialist, A-Agriculturalist
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               18.5                         59.7
Appraisal/Negotiation                    85.5                        101.5
Supervision                             98.49                       335.84
ICR                                         8                         28.0
Total                                  210.49                       525.04
- 32 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
 Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
Z Sector Policies                         O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
 Physical                                *H OSUOM ON ONA
 Financial                               O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
 Institutional Development               0 H  O SU * M  0 N  0 NA
ZEnvironmental                            O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
Social
F Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Gender                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
D Other (Please specify)           0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
X Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
Z Public sector management                0 H  * SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
E Other (Please specify)                  0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
- 33 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
F Lending                                            OHS OS  OU  OHU
? Supervision                                        OHS OS  OU  OHU
1 Overall                                            OHS OS OU OHU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
X Preparation                                        O HS * S   O U   O HU
I Government implementation performance              0 HS 0 S  0  U  0 HU
? Implementation agencyperformance                   * HS O S  O  U  O HU
E Overall                                            OHS OS  OU   O HU
- 34 -



