Docwnint of
The World Bank
FOR OMCJL USE ONLY
/ 3'//7-64F
RepwtNo. P-5605-EGT
'I':.                            'I
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$45.0 MILLION
AND A
CREDIT IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 56.4 MILLION
TO THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
F'JR THE NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROJECT
OCTOBER 29, 1991
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY BOUIVALENTS
US$1.00                        3.30 Egyptian Pounds (L.E.)
L.E.1.00                      US$0.3 (September 1991)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
EgzDtian and/or Metric Unit                      English&US Unit
1 millimeter (mm)                                 0.039 inches
1 centimeter (cm)                    -            0.394 inches
1 meter (m)                         =            39.370 inches
1 kilometer (km)          O                       0.620 miles
1 feddan (fed)                                    0.420 hectares, 1.037 acres
I square kilometer (km2)            -             0.386 square miles
1 hectare (ha)                      -             2.470 acres
1 cubic meter (m3)                  -            35.310 cubic feet
1 liter (1)                         =             1.057 quarts
1 liter per second (l/s)            =             0.035 cubic feet per second
1 kilogram (kg)                                   2.200 pounds
1 metric ton (t)                     G            2,205 pounds
1 kilowatt (kw)                                   1.360 horse power
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
CAO         Central Audit Organization
DRI         Drainage Research Institute
EPADP       Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage Projects
FAO/CP      Food and Agriculture Organization/World Bank Cooperative Program
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GOE         Government of Arab Republic of Egypt
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
IDA         International Development Association
KfW         Kreditanstalt fiar Wiederaufbau (German Bank for International
Development Financing)
LCB         Local Competitive Bidding
LIB         Limited International Bidding
M&E         Monitoring & Evaluation
MOH         Ministry of Health
MPW         Ministry of Public Works and Water Resources
NDGIC       Netherlands Directorate General for International Cooperation
NDF         National Drainage Program
O&M         Operation and Maintenance
PVC         Polyvinyl Chloride
RIGW        Research Institute for Groundwater
WRC         Water Research Center
GOVERNMENT OF ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARA REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROJECT
Loan/Credit and Project Summary
Bor=ovex                 :    Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt
BeneficlartLes           :    Smallholder farmers and the Egyptian Public
Authority for Drainage Projects (EPADP) of the
4                                      Ministry of Public Works and Water Resources
(MPW)
IodnEcredLt Amount       :    IBRD Loan  -- US$45 million equivalent
IDA Credit -- SDR 56.4 million
(US$75 million equivalent)
_zrms                    :    IBRD Loan  -- Standard variable interest rate
for a term of 20 years, including 5 years of
grace.
IDA Credit -- Standard IDA for a term of 35
years including 10 years of grace
inancina Plan                GOE                      US$130.0 million   44.8X
IBRD                    US$ 45.0 million   15.5X
IDA                     US$ 75.0 million   25.9X
Germany (KfW-Grant)     US$  3.0 million    1.11
Germany (KifW-Loan)     US$ 27.0 million    9.31
The Netherlands (NDGIC) USS 10.0 million    3.4X
Total                   US$290.0 million  100.01
Economic Rate of Return :    24 percent
Staff Amr=sal Report  :    Report No. 9792-EGT, dated October 29, 1991
NIM                            IBRD No. 23183, 23184
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used br recipaens only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclowi vv:-h,)c.t World Bank authorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION ANp DEVELOPMENT
AND THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TQ THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN/CREDIT TO THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT FOR THE
NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROJECT
1.    I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on
a proposed loan for US$45.0 million and a credit for SDR 56.4 million, the
equivalent of US$75 million, to the Arab Republic of Egypt to help finance the
National Drainage Project covering new and renewal subsurface drainage work for
720,000 feddan (302,000 ha) throughout the Nile Valley and Delta. The loan would
be at the Bank's standard variable interest rate, with a maturity of 20 years,
t        including 5 years of grace.  The credit would be on standard IDA terms with a
maturity of 35 years, including 10 years of grace. The Government of the Arab
Republil of Egypt (GOE) is seeking cofinancing from the Federal Republic of
Germany and the Netherlands. Part I of this report discusses Egypt's development
problems and prospects, the key priorities of the economic reform program at
the macro-economic and sector level, and the Bank Group's assistance strategy.
Part II of the report describes the proposed loan/credit.
PART I - COUNTRY POLICIES AND-BANK/IDA-ASSISTANCE STRTCY
A. THE ECONOMIC SETTINGI"
2.    Over the last four decades, and until very recently, Egypt has pursued a
public-sector-led and inward-looking development strategy stressing social
welfare objectives. This strategy generated large fiscal and current account
deficits financed (in part) with foreign debt accumulation. While rapid growth
was experienced in the late 1970s and early 1980s, the impetus behind this growth
was unsustainable.  Egypt became unable to service its debts, triggering a
substantial reduction in gross capital inflows and an accumulation of arrears,
and making apparent a heavy external debt overhang.
3.    Egypt has nearly 54 million inhabitants with an average per capita GNP
estimated at US$630 for FY89, calculated using the Atlas methodology, down from
US$730 during FY87-88. Per capita GNP is estimated to have dropped even further,
to below US$600, in FY90. Between the mid-1970s and the early 1980s, real GDP
A description and analysis is available in IBRD, Arah Renublic of Egypt
- Country Economic Memorandum: Economic Readiustment with Growth. Report No.
7447-EGT, February 2, 1990.
M"qtndldpmpr



- 2 -
grew at an average 9 percent annual rate and was accompanied by significant
social progress. The financing of this progress was made possible because of
large inflows of foreign exchange from foreign assistance and borrowing, oil-
related exports (due to improvements in both volume and terms of trade), workers'
remittances, tourism, Suez Canal revenues, and direct foreign investment.
4.    Egypt's population has benefitted from the comprehensive social welfare
system that was created after the 1952 revolution to provide minimally adequate
living standards for everyone.   While consumer subsidies have been reduced
considerably over the last five years, for the most part, the same system remains
in effect today, including rigid rent controls, some subsidized food
distribution, free education and health care, as well as provisions for a wide
range of other public services at low cost. These policies succeeded in raising
the living standards of the lowest income groups and in avoiding stressful
adjustments for those with access to controlled goods and services. At the same
time, however, these policies have contributed to the large budget deficits and
to the severe economic distortions and inafficiencies that now permeate the
economy.    Although  poverty  remains  a very  serious  problem,  indigence,
undernutrition and homelessness are not as widespread as in some other developing
countries with similar per capita income levels. Since 1960, life expectancy
at birth has increased from 41 to 61 years, reflecting, among other factors, the
dramatic decline in child death rates, from 34 to 11 per thousand, and the
increase in the average daily caloric intake, from 88 percent to nearly 130
percent of minimum requirements.
5.    Since the widespread nationalization of businesses in the late 1950s and
early 1960s, Egypt's economy has been dominated by public sector companies,
tightly and rigiely controlled by the different sector ministries on which they
depend. The economy is also characterized by massive resource misallocation,
stemming from a legacy of state intervention, ownership, monopolization, and
central planning. The price and incentive system is highly distorted, reflecting
a multitude of direct price, foreign exchange, and trade controls.
6.    Inadequate policy adjustments for dealing with these structural problems
have resulted in substantial macroeconomic  imbalances.   First,  with few
exceptions, the government budget showed an overall deficit (including
investments but excluding debt amortization) of over 20 percent of GDP every
vear from the mid-1970s up to, and including, FY88. Such consistently high
deficits were financed by the large inflows of foreign assistance, the
substantial surplus from the social security system, and domestic borrowing cum
financial repression and monetization. Second, foreign imbalances have been high
for many years. In the mid-1970s, the current account deficit of the balance
of payments averaged over 15 percent of GDP, with a level of imports nearly twice
that of exports. At that time, Egypt was aided by a combination of growing oil
exports and the sharp increase in oil prices, which pushed the deficit down to
around 5 percent of GDP during the late 1970s and early 1980s.  Despite measures
to reduce imports - which hampered growth, reduced employment and accentuated
economic distortions and uncertainties - the Government was not able to reduce
the current account deficit below 6 percent of GDP either in FY89 or FY90.
WAOV\nrp\dpmPe



- 3 -
7.   Reflecting these macroeconomic imbalances, Egypt's external debt grew
dramatically, reaching unsustainable levels. The country's external indebtedness
reached US$8.3 billion in 1976 (equal to 56 percent of GDP with a debt service
rat'.o of 15-20 percent), and grew to over US$20 billion by 1980 (or 90 percent
of GDP). However, since export earnings grew at about the same pace, the debt
service ratio did not worsen appreciably, and debt was not considered by either
creditors or Egyptian policy makers as a maior issue. This situation changed
radically in the mid-1980s when foreign exchange earnings began to stagnate, and
the foreign debt and debt service obligations continued to increase. By 1986,
total external debt reached 120 percent of GDP, with a debt service ratio of 31
percent. The situation clearly had become unmanageable. Consequently, access
to continued borrowing was sharply curtailed and arrears accumulated rapidly.
8.    While the May 1987 Paris Clulz debt rescheduling, which followed the
agreement on an IMF Standby, provided some temporary relief, it did not
fundamentally improve the situation. By FY90, total external debt had reached
close to US$50 billion, or 132 percept of GDP, with debt service obligations of
US$6 billion or nearly half of total foreign exchange earnings; less than half
of these obligations were actually paid during the year, while debt arrears
further increased to over US$11 billion. Public and publicly guaranteed medium-
and long-term debt (including military) accounted for the bulk of the outstanding
debt (US$40 billion'; short-term debt stood at US$7 billion, while private
nonguaranteed debt accounted for only US$1.1 billion. In 1990, in the context
of the Gulf crisis, the United States and a number of Arab countries cancelled
some US$13 billion of Egypt's debt.  In May 1991 the Paris Club afreed to a
significant debt reduction operation. These actions helped reduce Egypt's debt
burden considerably.
9.    The Gulf crisis has also had an adverse impact on the E3yptian economy,
with possible serious repercussions in the longer term. It is very difficult
to assess the precise impact of the crisis on Egypt. A plausible estimate for
1990 and 1991 together is about US$3.4 billion (the Government's estimates are
much higher), excluding the cost of refugee assistance. This figure reflects
the reductions in workers' remittances, in tourism receipts and in Suez Canal
fees, corresponding to over 35 percent of Egypt's exports of goods and nonfactor
services. The effect on the budget would be smaller because the most severe
impact takes place in the private sector (workers' remittances, tourism). The
crisis has emphasized the fragility of the economy and the need for structural
adjustment.   While there has been a significant increase in international
financial support to Egypt in the context of the crisis, the effects of such
support will only be temporary unless basic economic policy changes are made.
10.   The need for adjustment and structural reform is now all the more evident
to Egyptian policy makers because of (a) the growing scarcity of international
financing; (b) the ongoing reform and economic transformation of ths somewhat
similar economies of Eastern Europe; and (c) the high costs of the recent Gulf
crisis and the continued vulnerability of the Egyptian economy to adverse
external shocks.
k&t\"ndp\nd



- 4 -
B.  Ly"AMM OBJECTIVES. TgE ECONOMI0 REFORM AND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENTPROG
egonigic 3eform And Structural Adiustment Program
11.   The main instrument for l1'-ading the country towards its ultimate goal of
sustainable economic growth and improved living standards is the Government's
Economic Reform and Structural Adjustment program (ERSAP). This program, which
began in March 1990, focuses on three areas:  (i) stabilization, to restore
macroeconomic balance and reduce inflation; (ii) structural adjustment, to
stimulate medium and long term growth; and (iii) modification of current social
policies, to minimize the effect of economic reforms on the poor. The measures
encompassed in these areas form a comprehensive and ambitious reform program that
has to be pursied in toto, since no lasting prozress can be expected in any one
of these areas independent of the other tw-- She implementation of stabilization
policies and macroeconomic adjustments is being primarily supported by an IMF
Standby, which was approved by the Fund's Board on May 17,  1991.   The
Government's implementation of structural adjustment policies will be assisted
by a Bank Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL), approved by the Bank's Board on June
21, 1991; and the social safety net program will receive support under the Social
Fund Project financed by IDA (Credit approved on June 21, 1991) and otlher donors.
12.   The Government's comprehensive economic reform program consists of the
following components, which have diverse, but economically consistent, aims and
which are supported by the proposed SAL:
a.    Macroeconomic reform aims at curtailing inflation, reducing the
current account and budget deficits, restoring creditworthiness,
and bringing about high and sustainable long-term economic growth.
b.    Public enterprise reform has as its ultimate objective the increase
of economic efficiency through competition. To that end, it aims
at privatizing and restructuring public enterprises and at reforming
financial relationships between public enterprises, commercial and
investment banks, and the Government. Public enterprises are to be
subjected to the same rules and obligations as private enterprises;
the "umbilical cord" between the Government and public enterprises
is to be severed, and access to bank credit is to be strictly based
on the creditworthiness of the individual enterprises.  Greater
competitiveness would also be served through greater management
autonomy for public sector enterprises. The role of the Government
is to be limited to that exercised normally by a major shareholder
in a large private corporation; public enterprise managers would have
full financial, commercial and managerial autonomy, including the
authority to spin off nonviable activities, divest assets and
liquidate nonprofitable subdivisions. In addition, the privatization
of public enterprises will be encouraged.
&\Lgt\dip\nppmdae



- 5 -
c.    Domestic price liberalization is intended to increase economic
efficiency through promoting competition and removing government
imposed distortions in the pricing system.  As such, it aims at
decontrolling price setting in the agricultural and manufacturing
sectors, both public and private (most of the liberalization will
be at the beginning of the period); within three years, most prices
will be fully determined by market forces. In transport, energy and
power, prices will be gradually raised to international or long-
term marginal cost levels.
d.    Foreign trade liberalization also has as its ultimate objective the
increase in economic efficiency, to be achieved through the promotion
of import competition and export rivalry and through the removal of
4                    government-imposed distortions in the incentive system.  To attain
this objective, trade reform initiated under the ERSAP aims at
phasing out most nontariff barriers to imports and exports within
two years, reducing high customs tariffs and dismantling restrictions
on exports.
e.    Private sector reform is intended to increase economic efficiency
through promoting competition and enabling greater market entry,
market exit,  and factor mobility.    Specifically,  it *.iims at
encouraging and facilitating private enterprise development through
abolishing investment and production controls (limiting government
intervention to the granting of specific investment incentives in
justifiable cases), dismantling government monopolies, and phasing
out private sector discrimination in the purchase of inputs from
public sector companies.
f.    The Social Fund will help to mirnimize the effect of further economic
reforms on the poor, in addition to facilitating the reintegration
of Egyptian workers returning from the Gulf states. It will also
help with the institutional arrangements for a program to facilitate
labor mobility.
Ptlicy Leforms in maJor Sectors
13.   Consistent with the structural reform strategies at the macroeconomic
level, new adjustment and development strategies and policy reforms are being
implemented in major sectors. Among these, the decontrol of Drices in the public
gsetor is essential for the creation of a market-based public sector system.
It is important not only to overcome deeply ingrained economic distortions and
inefficiencies, but also to generate additional government revenues and/or reduce
government subsidies to the public sector companies and economic authorities.
Over the last three years, the price control system applicable to public sector
business units has been eased considerably. In agriculture, many controls were
formally abolished; in addition, existing regulations have been applied less and
less rigorously; and energy and power prices have been raised closer to either
&4tn*p\ndW*t



border prices or long-term marginal cost levels. The ERSAP will accelerate this
ongoing process and eliminate most price controls in Egypt.
14.   Substantial progress has been made in adjusting aaricultUral sector
policies.   The dismantling of price, production and marketing controls is
particularly well advanced in this sector. Even though agriculture has been one
of the Lew important economic sectors with substantial private ownershij of the
means of productioni, economic activities in the sector were tightly controlled.
Farmers were told what to grow, were supplied by state monopolies with the
necessary inputs, and had to sell the bulk of their production to state
monopolies at fixed prices.   Important components of this system have been
discontinued over the 1986-91 period, and the last phases of this decontrol and
liberalization process will soon be completed.   Price deregulation is well
advanced and will be largely completed by 1992/93. The prevailing controls on
crop area, and the pricing and marketing of agricultural products, will be
eliminated. Liberalization has now been complete for most crops. In addition,
the Government has proceeded with a program to privatize its land holdings and
many of the activities that have been carried out by the state in the past. In
accordance with the Government's strategy to liberalize pricing and rely on the
market to determine prices, rice delivery quocas were completely abolished in
1991.   Subsidies have been reduced for livestock feed,  fertilizers,  and
pesticides and the remaining subsidies will be eliminated completely by FY92/93
for all inputs. The role of the private sector in the trading of these items
is being increased substantially, while the role of the public sector in such
activities will be reduced and eventually eliminated.  Reform in the cotton
subsector poses a high degree of institutional and political complexity, for
historical reasons as well as because of the economic interdependence of the
agricultural and industrial sectors. The Government is committed to a program
that makes the relevant border prices the main determinant for decision-making
in the cotton economy. Consequently, all administrative controls, including crop
area controls, will be removed, except to the minimum extent necessary on
technical grounds. In order to encourage cotton production during the adjustment
period, the Government's objective is to reach a procurement price equivalent
to 60 percent of the comparable international (or border) price in 1991/92 and
66 percent in 1992/93. Over the medium term, the Government intends to continue
its policy of increasing domestic prices to a level roughly equal to
international prices, through the relaxation of remaining controls.
15.   Considerable progress in liberalizing prices has also been made in the
manufacturing sector.   In principle, prices were only controlled for public
sector enterprises but were free for private enterprises, except occasionally
in the price setting by private companies. In a strictly legal sense, this rigid
system changed little up to the beginning of the adjustment process; -de fac,
however, the situation has improved considerably. Public enterprises/managers
were given more freedom in price setting, while many prices were formally raised.
As a result, the number of public sector enterprises that were required to sell
below cost declined sharply, and the overall financial situation of these
enterprises improved. For goods produced by industrial public sector companies,
the ERSAP calls for price liberalization that both takes into account the
Ak\qt\r*\1dpWP a



competitiveness of the domestic market atnd is compatible with the pace of import
liberalization.   Prices in sectors with significant domestic and/or import
competition have been freed. When measured in terms of their 1987/88 production
value, only about 26 percent of total industrial production now remains subject
to any form of administered pricing (as opposed to 53 percent at the beginning
of the program).   Even the industrial products that s-e subject to high
protection from imports have been freed from ex ante price contrcl; these will
only be subject to g  pos verification to guarantee that prices did not exceed
those of world equivalents. By July 1992, only a few noncompetitive products,
basic foodstuffs and/or products benefiting Erom implicit input subsidies will
still be subject to price controls. Their decontrol will be more gradual. For
the highly protected products, almost full price liberalization will be achieved
by the third year of the ERSAP, when most quantitative import restrictions will
have  disappeared.    For  products  receiving  high  input  subsidies,  price
liberalization will be completed de facto by no later than end-FY95, when the
subsidy on electricity, oil and gas will have been fully eliminated.   In
consequence, by no later that June 1995, the prices of virtually all industrial
goods will be liberalized, except for a limited shortlist of basic foodstuffs,
cigarettes (where pricing decisions reflect how much government revenue to
generate) and cotton yarn (where an implicit tax may still exist on cotton).
To reinforce price decontrol, public distribution monopolies (beginning with
cement and fertilizer) are being phased out.
16.   Ener   prices have been highly subsidized for at least the last 10-12
yeairs. While getrol   product prices averaged about 75 percent of world prices
in the mid-1970s, this proportion declined to under 20 percent by tSe early 1980s
as a result of the Government's decision not to raise iomestic prices in line
with the sharp increase in world prices in 1978/79. While energy prices were
raised quite massively in terms of the nominal Egyptian pound during the 1980s,
most of this increase was nullified by the gradual devaluation of the pound; by
1988, domestic energy prices still averaged only about 30 percent of world
prices. With the growth of domestic energy consumption--in part prompted by low
energy prices--the implicit subsidy continued to increase. For FY91, the total
implicit energy subsidy--for petroleum products, natural gas, and electricity-
-was 9.6 percent of GDP, almost half the public sector borrowing requirements.
The magnitude of this subsidy has induced widespread resource misallocation.
The Government now intends to adjust weighted average domestic prices of
petroleum products and natural gas to reflect their internationally traded
equivalents and to adjust electricity prices to cover 'Long-run marginal costs
by June 1995. This objective is being achieved by elim..nating the difference
between target prices and the prices existing at the beginning of the ERSAP in
1990 through six annual price increases for petroleum products, electricity and
natural gas. The first increase was successfully implemented by the Government
in May 1990. The weighted average of petroleum products prices was increased
again in May 1991 by 52 percent, thereby reaching 48 percent of international
equivalency. The Government intends to adjust nominal petroleum prices again,
by June 1992, to reach 67 percent of international prices. Petroleum products
weighted average prices, as a percentage of international equivalents, will be
increased an additional 11 percent by May of each successive year (1992.1995,
&Wt\SMr\fldp.



- 8 -
inclusive). In May 1991, g1ggtrigi&X rates were increased by 50 percent, which
brought electricity prices to 59 percent of long-run marginal costs. Adjustments
in petroleum product prices will focus on increasing .he prices for the most
heavily subsidized prodvcts by an amount greater than average, thus increasing
the price incentive to switch to the least-cost fuel. The weighted average price
will be increased by about 10 percentage points at least annually to move to 100
percent by June 1995. Looking at the energy sector as a whole, tlhe programmed
price increases will have the effect of reducing implicit energy subsidies from
9.6 percent of GDP in FY91 to an estimated 6.1 percent of GDP in FY92.
17.   TransRort tariffs in Egypt have been subsidized for railways and parastatal
intercity truck and bus companies.   Prior to December 1988, rail passenger
tariffs, with the exception of first class travel, had not been raised since
1967. Freight rail tariffs remained unchanged between the 1950s and 1979, except
for some minor adjustments. Since then, price adjustments have been sporadic
and insufficient to cover cost increases. The Egyptian National Railway has
been, and still is, running high deficits; its outstanding long-term debt, as
of June 30, 1990, was (and still is) estimated at US$1.1 billion equivalent.
In view of depressed incomes, maintenance and renewal outlays were badly
neglected, resulting in a reduction of the quality and reliability of the
service. Thus, in spite of extremely low tariffs, the railway could compete less
and less with road transport, particularly for freight traffic. At present, most
rail traffic consists of passengers. For their part, the parastatal intercity
bus and truck companies have also been incurring losses because of lags in
adjusting prices. Except for some minor adjustments, prices remained the same
between 1967 and 1988. The combined outstanding long-term debt of the bus and
truck companies amounts to US$96 million equivalent.   The Egyptian National
Railway intends to take all necessary measures, including th-A adjustment of its
passenger and freight tariffs, to improve its revenue coverage ratio by an
average of about five percentage points each fiscal year, as of FY90/91, until
the ratio reaches 100 percent in FY97/98. Its outstanding long-term debt will
be converted into equity and during FY91/92-FY97/98, the Government will annually
supplement the railway's core investment program through further equity
contributions. The first steps in implementing the new financial policy have
already been taken. In January 1991, rail passenger tariffs were increased by
15 to 40 percent and rail freight tariffs by 15 percent. Based on a financial
and tariff study, to be completed by December 1993, the Government and the
railways will consider reorienting the tariffs towards a cost-based structure.
As part of the Government's ERSAP, the prices of inter-city trucking and bus
services provided by parastatal companies are also being freed.
Social Safety Not
18.   While the implementation of the ERSAP will, in the longer term, stimulate
economic growth and employment creation, the realization of these positive
effects will likely be preceded by a period of economic retrenchment,
characterized by a decline in real incomes, rising unemployment, lower subsidies,
and rapidly contracting Government expenditures on social programs and public
services.   Concern regarding the negative impacts of the reform program,
M:\qt\nokompr



- 9 -
particularly on the lower income groups, has intensified as the effects of the
recent Gulf crisis have placed additional strains on Egypt's economy.   The
Government faces the prospects of providing for the economic and social
integration of some 380,000 Egyptian workers and family members estimated to have
returned from countries affected by the Gulf crisis. During the identification
of the SAL, IDA was asked to assist the Government in the preparation of a set
of programs t3ast would assist the low-income population groups most directly
cffected by the structural adjustment reforms.   The Social Fund Project,
supported by IDA as well as a large number of other donors, will encompass a
broad range of such programs emphasizing employment and income provision,
maintenance of essential public services, and socioecor.omic development actions
for the poor.   In addition, the strengthening of targeting, monitoring and
evaluation systems through studies and surveys under this project will lay the
basis for substantive improvements in Government subsidy and direct transfer
mechanisms,
Loverty Allevigtionp
19.   Going beyond creation of a social safety net related to the ERSAP, poverty
alleviation in general is a prime Government objective. Although the social
welfare policies that the Government pursued after 1052 helped raise the living
standards of the lower income groups in Egypt, poverty still remains a serious
problem. As noted above, with the current stabilization measures and the Gulf
crisis, tne position may deteriorate further. Recent figures indicate that,
despite the Government's efforts, poor households still account for 20-25 percent
of the Egyptian population, Upper Egypt and certain parts of the Delta Region
being the poorest areas of the country. The most vulnerable groups include:
Mi) women and children; (ii) rural farmers with little or no land; (iii) sural
and urban laborers with limited skills; and (iv) the extremely poor (about 10-
13 percent of the population) primarily comprising the elderly, the sick and the
disabled, who are heavily dependent an direct income transfers.
20. Given the heterogeneity of the poor in Egypt, the Government must
nec:isarily adopt a diversified approach targeted to appropriate poverty groups.
Thus, economic incentives will be used to assist the chronic poor already engaged
in economic activity; special health and education services will be offered to
provide for improved access to productive employment for those willing, but
unable, to get jobs.   Finally, a welfare approach will be needed for the
extremely poor who are incapable of gainful employment. Malnutrition, inadequate
access to safe water and sanitation and a lack of adequate shelter remain serious
problems, particuLarly for the poor. In the education sector, despite increased
enrollment at all levels, expansion has not kept pace with population growth.
Illiteracy remains high, particularly among females (62 percent, as against 38
percent among males). About one-fifth of all school-aged children do not go to
school. To deal with these problems in the health and education sectors, the
WA World Bank Country Study, Egypt. Alleviating Poverty during Structural
Adjustment, was published in July 1991.
Mkt\\ndpO\npMp



- 10 -
Government has been making efforts to eliminate inefficiencies, reallocate
available resources and improve the quality of management.
PoDuLAti   Pressure
21.   The poverty problem faced by Egypt is compounded by rapid population growth
of over 2 percent.   This translates into increased pressure on the economy:
pressure for jobs, pressure for social services, and pressure for an increase
in consumer subsidies. The Government has been putting more emphasis on family
planning activities. The rate of utilization of contraceptive methods grew from
34 percent in 1984 to almost 38 percent in 1988 according to the results of the
latest Demographic and Health Survey. However, the total fertility rate is still
4.5 percent and information and education programs on contraception issues remain
insufficient. Much progress remains to be made to improve the availability and
access to contraceptives before the economic burden of rapid population growth
can be seen to start decreasing.
Environment
22.   Environmental  protection  is  also  among  the  Government's  priority
objectives. There is an absolute need to better develop and manage very limited
natural resources--water, land, energy--in order to meet the needs of a rapidly
growing population. A development strategy based on a more efficient use of such
limited resources calls for the maximum possible expansion of the untapped
resource base, the conservation and optimal use of limited resources, and the
more efficient use and conservation of nonrenewable resources. Water quality
degradation and loss and degradation of agricultural land are serious threats
to the country's economic growth. These problems have been worsening for some
time, due to increased water pollution, the excessive use of agrochemicals, the
encroachment of urban areas, and inefficient irrigation practices. The pollution
of coastal waters is a serious constraint that will have an adverse impact on
the country's tourism and marine resources development potential. Air quality
degradation is provalent in major cities, with air pollution posing a serious
threat to Egypt's invaluable historic monuments. Many actions to address these
and other environmental problems have been initiated by the Government. However,
the magnitude and urgency of the problems call for global and coherent strategies
to halt serious environmental degradation.   New strategies will provide for
increasing the effectiveness of Egypt's several environmental institutions,
together with an improved legislative base, the introduction of environmental
monitoring systems, and environment-related research and training programs. A
national environmental plan is currently under preparation by the Government and
will be reviewed at an environmental issues workshop near the end of 1991. This
workshop will agree on a strategy and policy framework, as well as an action
program, for dealing with priority environmental problems.
MegInd\ndp\pm



C.    MEDIUM-TERM PROSQPCTS
23.   Over the coming years, Egypt will face a rather unfavorable and uncertain
external environment, as most major sources of foreign exchange, such as oil
exports, workers' remittances and Suez Canal fees, are likely to expand only very
slowly in real terms, if at all.  Moreover, some of those items (mc   notably
worker's remittances) can only grow from much reduced FY91 levels due to the Gulf
crisis. As shown below, even with a bold reform program speedily implemented,
and considerable international support (under exceptional circumstances), Egypt
is unlikely to be able to resume moderate economic growth in the near future.
24.   The Government's reform program is based on an outward-looking. grivate
sector-oriented growth strategy; it thus assumes that more productive private
investment will fill the retrenchment in public investment.   However,  the
response of the private sector will not only depend on correcting distortions
in the incentive system but also on the external viability of the program. Under
these and other assumptions regarding the international environment and the
foreign sector's performance, real GDP is projected to decline in the first two
years; it will slowly begin growing again to reach a steady rate of about 4
percent p.a. only in the second half of this decade. As a result, real per
capita consumption, after falling by about 13 percent in the early years of the
adjustment program, will recover very slowly, reaching pre-reform levels only
by the middle of the next decade. Given the May 1991 Paris Club agreement and
the generous debt relief for Egypt, this scenario assumes that the Government
over the medium-term will follow a prudent debt management strategy in order to
ensure smooth financing of its prospective current account deficits while
avoiding rapid debt accumulation.
25. As indicated above, two very distinct phases in real growth behavior are
predicted to follow the implementation of the reform program: (i) an initial,
short-lived recession, and (ii) a slow, but sustained, recovery in the outer
years. The initial fall in real GDP (-1.5 percent in FY91 and a somewhat sharper
decline in the following year) is associated with a deep aggregate demand
contraction (Table 1). The latter will be led by declines in real terms in
public investment and consumption, in line with the proposed fiscal adjustment.
Total investment will fall, due to a decline in both public and private
investment caused by tighter fiscal and monetary policies and an uncertain
business environment. (As a percentage of GDP, total investment is expected to
decline from about 23 percent in FY89/90 to 19 and 16 percent in FY90/91 and
FY91/92,  respectively.)   As for consumption,  the decline in GDP and the
resumption of debt service payments will considerably reduce real disposable
income and, hence, real per capita consumption (-4.8 percent p.a. in FY91/92).
On the other hand, the expected change in relative prices, associated with the
exchange rate adjustment and the correction of the anti-export bias in economic
policies, will entail an expenditure switching effect and bring about
improvements in the resource balance. However, because of delays in the supply
te\GInd\ndm"



- 12 -
response, this will not be enough to offset the downward shift in real aggregate
demand in the short term.
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF MACROECONOMIC PROJECTINS
EIY8      FY88       FY89      EY        FYB1 a/ FY92-95 b/
A. GOP
GOP Growth                                     2.5        4.0       2.4        1.3      -1.5          1.1
o/w Agriculture                              2.1        2.5       2.0        1.5       2.0          3.4
o/w Petroleum                                2.3       2.2       -2.8      -2.0       -1.5         -0.1
o/w Manufacturing                            2.3       4.3       -1.4      -2.5       -2.0          3.1
GOP Growth Per Capita                          0.0        1.3       0.1       -1.1      -3.7         -1.2
Cons Growth Per Capita                        14.2       -0.3       1.9       -1.4       2.5         -3.5
6ross Investment/GOP cl                       24.0       24.4      23.6       23.1      19.0         19.5
Domestic Savings/GDP c/                       11.5       10.0      10.2       10.3       6.2          8.5
Inflatioi,                                    19.6      27.9       19.1      20.0       20.0         14.5
B. Balance of Payments
Export Growth Rate                             6.4       10.8       0.0        7.7      -2.1          6.2
Import Growth Rate                           -15.5        4.7      -4.1        2.3       3.3          0.9
Current Account balance (USS bil.)            -1.8       -1.2      -2.7       -2.5      -1.6         -1.9
Current Account Sal/GDP d/                    -5.2       -4.0      -7.2       -6.7      -5.2         -6.4
Interest /6DP dV                               3.4        3.1       6.6        7.6       4.6          7.3
C. Government Account (% of GDP)
Overall Deficit                              -19.3    -24.5        18.3       18.4    -21.9          -6.4
Primary Surplus                              -15.2    -20.2    -13.6    -13.8    -12.6                6.5
Revenues dV                                   29.8       29.3      28.3       25.3      28.0         37.5
Current Expenditures 1                        29.3       29.0      28.7       28.0      32.4         35.0
Capital Expenditures i  f/                    19.9       24.8      17.9       15.7      19.1         10.4
Additional Rev./Exp. measures                  0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       1.5          1.8
1 Preliminary estimates
kL Projections
g/ Calculated in constant prices of 1989, and gross domestic saving is adjusted for
the terms of trade effect.
dV Assumes real exchange rate adjustment in FY91 and reflects the preliminary effects
of the May 1991 Paris Club agreement. FY87-88 are on cash basis, all other years
are on accrual basis.
e/ Includes interest payments
f/ Includes public enterprises and structural reform related expenditures
26.   In the outer years, the structural reforms undertaken at the early stages
of the program (the abolition of most investment and production licensing
requirements, trade and price liberalization, financial sector reforms,
privatization, the relaxation of labor market rules, etc.) are expected to start
having a positive effect on real GDP performance with output growing at a
significantly faster pace than before.   The economic sectors leading this
recovery will mainly be manufacturing and agriculture; on the other hand, a long-
term decline in the output from petroleum-related industries is forecast.
w\qt\r4p\ndpma



- 13 -
D.    BMAK G9UP AnSSISTAICE STIEGY
27.   As of September 30, 1991, the World Bank Group had approved 55 loans and
30 credits to Egypt. The commitment as of that date amounted to US$4.1 billion
net of cancellations, of which US$2.9 billion had been disbursed. Table 2 shows
the distribution of past Bank/IDA lending.
28.   During the 1970s and early 1980s, the strategy underlying World Bank Group
activities in Egypt aimed at rehabilitating damaged capacity, improving
maintenance practices, eliminating critical deficiencies and bottlenecks to
development, and helping set up and strengthen institutions. More recently,
Bank/IDA assistance strategy has been designed to help the Government develop
a comprehensive reform program, and to provide financial resources to support
such a program.   In consideration of the Government's commitment to, and
implementation of a comprehensive reform program, the Bank will significantly
increase its lending over current levels, consisting both of a series of
adjustment operations as well as investment lending. Bank strategy also aims
at helping to mobilize the donor community to provide financial backing, both
in terms of fast-disbursing support as well as project financing.
TA3-LE 2: SECTORAL DISTRIBTO  OF BAKIDA LENDING EX I91
hmWt
--     ~~~sector              (f4mliamtPecn
Power and Energy         2,056.4         50
Agriculture                824.9         20
Infrastructure            577.3          14
Human Resources            344.6          9
Structural Adjustment     300,0           7
TOTAL                    4,103.2        100
29.   The proposed adjustment loans by the Bank include support for policy
reforms initiated under the first SAL. Such lending operations focus on key
macroeconomic issues, institutional reform, and major sectoral policy issues.
Depending upon sequencing questions, the progress of reforms initiated under the
SAL, and the emergence of problems relating to the structural adjustment process,
the Bank will tailor its lending program, and individual lending operations, to
best foster the economic reform process in Egypt. Possible adjustment loans may
include follow-up SALs or SECALs focussed on such areas as public enterprise
reform, privatization and private sector development, trade policy and financial
sector reforms. These fast-disbursing adjustment loans will average about 40
percent of the Bank's total lending to Egypt in the next few years.
30.   In the investment lending areas, the Bank Group program will focus on
projects which: (i) increase exports and promote efficient import substitution;
&t%Ano\endpmPw



- 14 -
(ii) improve capacity utilization; (iii) resolve key bottlenecks to development;
and (iv) promote employment.   In general,  Bank investment projects will
concentrate, whenever possible, on rehabilitation, maintenance, cost recovery
and institution building. Important objectives in overall Bank lending will be:
to promote private sector participation; to reform the over-burdened and
inefficient public sector; to enhance Egypt's human resources, through lending
in health, education, water supply/sewerage and social programs; and to better
manage Egypt's scarce water and land resources while protecting the environment.
Inmlementation Problems
31.   Problems that have adversely affected project implementation in Egypt
include: (a) delays in loan signing and effectiveness which have led to late
starts for projects and, eventually, to excessively lengthy implementation
periods and numerous closing date extensions; (b) shortcomings on project
management and supervision, delays in bid evaluation and awarding of contracts,
and the reluctance of the Government to use loan funds for technical assistance;
(c) late and inadequate audits; and (d) inadequate counterpart funds. The above
issues have already been discussed with the authorities during a first Country
Implementation Review (CIR) which was organized in mid-1990. Because progress
has been slow we intend to continue discussing these issues during operational
missions as well as during successive CIRs.
Bank EconomLc and Sector Work (SSW)
32.   During the past five years, the Bank's ESW has concentrated on structural
issues, such as trade strategy and investment planning, public sector enterprise
reform, the public investment plan and the macroeconomic adjustment program, with
attention to key support sectors, such as technical education and transport.
Over the next two years, the proposed ESW will focus on the preparation of a
review of the public sector investment program under the adjustment scenario,
a financial sector review, and reviews to assist the Government's efforts to
enhance private sector development and studies of key sector areas as noted
below.
Sectoral Priorities
33.   In the agriLultural sector, the Bank development strategy emphasizes,
primarily, the improvement of the efficiency of the agricultural resource base
through improved/rehabilitated infrastructure and improved capacity utilization,
and, secondarily, an expansion of the agricultural area through reclamation.
This strategy recognizes that constrained water and land resources are the
greatest limitation to further agricultural developmernc in Egypt. Egypt exports
about 251 of the world's traded extra-long staple (ELS) cotton. The country
enjoys a comparative advantage in the production of this very high value
commodity. To assist in maintaining Egypt's comparative advantage, the Bank
Group is discusslng with the Government possible assistance to help rehabilitate
cotton processing and other marketing infrastructure. A study is planned to
review Egypt's agriculture strategy for the 1990s.
&tXqVdp\n*p1-



- 15 -
34.   Growth in Egypt's industrial sector halted between 1981 and 1989, with
ground lost in the export markets. Given that public sector enterprises still
account for a considerable part of value added in the sector, their improved
performance is essential for growth during 1991-93.  Measures are needed to
induce both domestic and international competition, by allowing private sector
entry in activities competing with existing (private and public) producers and
eliminating favorable treatment for public enterprises. The Bank's SAL will
address these and several other objectives.   A private sector regulatory
environment study is underway to recommend actions to create a more friendly
environment for the private sector in Egypt.
35.   In the transRnort  ector, the Bank's priorities are to increase capacity
utilization, improve operation and maintenance practices, promote appropriate
pricing, and strengthen the existing institutions.  Certain of the necessary
policy changes, such as the phasing out of subsidies inherent in rail and
intercity bus and truck tariffs, and the cross subsidization of intracity bus
tariffs to keep them within reach of the poorest segments of the population,
are being addressed through the proposed SAL and the Social Fund Project. In
updating its 1988 Transport Strategy, the Bank will focus on progress made with
the financial restructuring of land transport organizations and port capacity
utilization.
36.   In the touris sector, the Bank's emphasis will be on ensuring the timely
availability of required infrastructure to support tourism development, in
particular on the Red Sea Coast; on avoiding environmentally detrimental
investments; and on protecting Egypt's archeological heritage through adequate
on-site management. In the urban development sector, the primary objectives of
the Bank strategy will be:   (i) enhancing the effective administrative and
financial management of urban centers; and (ii) improving land-use patterns and
finding solutions to problems plaguing the housing sector, such as the limited
availability of formal finance, rent controls, and insufficient affordable
serviced land. To understand better the urban and financial management of the
cities, an urban sector study will be undertaken.
37. In the water supply and sewerage sector, the main Bank objectives will be:
(i) to improve cost recovery by introducing adequate tariff levels with a
progressive structure; (ii) to preserve existing assets by introducing better
maintenance and operating practices; (iii) to increase water supply and sewerage
coverage and quality (particularly for the urban poor); and (iv) to expand waste
water treatment to combat water pollution.   A Bank sector review will aim at
assessing current sector performance; identifying the main constraints preventing
more efficient, accelerated development; elaborating, with the Government, a
program  f sector reform; and defining a strategy for future Bank support for
the sector.
38.   In the social sectors, the Bank will promote an integrated human resources
and social development strategy to support the Government's efforts to have a
highly trained labor force to improve the productivity of the economy and to
w%Ano%\m*ndPm



- 16 -
sustain its long-term growth.  Such a development strategy may include, int
A1D&, policies (i) to deal with rapid population growth; (ii) to improve the
quality, efficiency and equity of health and education delivery systems in a
financially constrained environment; (iii) to increase the relevance of the
technical/vocational education and training system by promoting a closer
relationship between training institutions and employers and making the training
system more responsive and better adapted to the needs of the economy; (iv) to
alleviate Egypt's continuing poverty problem, including assistance in the
creation of a sustainable social safety net; (v) to give prominence to
environmental concerns that directly affect the health and safety of the
population; (vi) to promote resource mobilization and cost recovery; and (vii)
to integrate women more fully into the development process, notably by improving
their access to basic social services and participation in productive activities.
The Bank will undertake a human resources development study to contribute to the
Bank's understanding of these issues.
39.   Possible Bank/IDA lending operations over the next few years, in addition
to the proposed adjustment loans noted above, include projects in agriculture
(National Drainage, West Nubaria Agriculture Intensification, Agricultural
Modernization); energy/industry (Kureimat Power, Industrial Pollution/Energy
Conservation); infrastructure (Railways, Tourism); population/health/nutrition
(Primary Education, Health); and privatization support (Tourism, Technical
Assistance).
INF Program with EgNMt
40.   The Government, supported by a Fund Stand-by Arrangement, initiated an
adjustment program in 1986, when the drop in world oil prices reduced Egypt's
main export by more than 50 percent.   While some progress was made, the
adjustment measures were not enough to overcome the deeply ingrained imbalances
and distortions that characterize the Egyptian economy. As a consequence, no
further drawings against the Stand-by were made after the initial disbursements
in May 1987; the Stand-by expired end-November 1988. As described earlier in
this report, the Government, faced with mounting disequilibria, subsequently
decided to accelerate its economic reform program, and a new Stand-by was
approved by the Fund in May 1991.
IFC and MIG" Oferations
41. IES participation and lending commitments in Egypt, net of csncellations,
repayments, exchange adjustments, write-offs and sales, totalled US$56.6 million
as of September 30, 1991. Most IFC activities have been lending operations,
including the financing of projects for an agricultural complex, building
materials in Suez, and reinforcing bar at El-Dikheila.   Most recently, IFC
approved two projects, one for tourism investment and another for pulp paper and
paperboard manufacturing.   IFC has also provided technical assistance in the
design of incentives to private sector investments and in the development of the
capital market. So far, there have been no HIG guarantee agreements in Egypt.
FIAS prepared an analysis of the foreign direct investment climate in early 1991,
Mt\np\\ndpro-



- 17 -
and possibilities of further advisory or promotional activities are under
discussion.
The Bank Group ERposure
42.   The Bank Group's ability to maintain an expanded lending program for Egypt
will depend on continued L3lementation of the reform effort, which is needed
to ensure Egypt's creditworthiness, and which is summarized in Part B above.
Assuming a continuation of the reform effort, the proposed Bank program may
translate into commitments of about US$ 1.5 billion in Bank and IDA resources
over the FY92-94 period. The Bank's exposure would remain relatively low in
FY94; the Bank/IDA debt service wou:d be under 10 percent of total debt service
and about 2 percent of exports, and the Bank/IDA debt would be about 7 percent
of total debt.
Collaboration With Other Aid Agencies
43.   The Bank Group program is predicated on substantial support by the donor
community through exceptional and regular flows at highly concessional terms,
and through debt relief and/or debt rescheduling at favorable terms. So far,
substantial help of this kind has been forthcoming. In addition, a number of
donors are providing significant technical assistance in specific areas of the
reform program. It is important, however, that the flows of financial support
into Egypt be well coordinated and focussed on supporting the top priority
investments and programs. To this end, at the request of the Government, the
Bank organized a Consultative Group for Egypt which was held in Paris in July
1991. Efforts are also being made to increase cofinancing under Bank operations.
The Bank has been closely consulted in the preparation of the IMF Stand-by
Arrangement. Likewise, the Fund has been consulted during the preparation of
the Bank's SAL, particularly on all aspects concerning the macroeconomic
framework, including pricing policies and subsidy reductions. In more general
terms, Bank-Fund collaboration on Egypt has been very close (e.g., cross mission
participation and jointly held discussions with the Government).
Summary Assessment
44.   Egypt is going through a difficult transition period, during which the
country must continue to implement the vitally needed reforms. The Bank has
worked closely with the Government in this endeavour, and has also helped to
mobilize the international financing, mostly at highly concessional terms,
required to make the program viable. The Bank has also started to deepen its
involvement in the social sectors, with a view to helping the Government mitigate
the effects of the reform program on the poor and to bringing these groups more
fully into the development process. In FY91, Egypt received its first IDA credit
since 1981, SDR 105 million for the Social Pund Project.   The need for IDA
resources will continue to be important as Egypt implements its reform program
and as the lending program diversifies further into the social sectors.
MIe\Ip\nnred_



- 18 -
PART 1I - MIE PROJECT
45.   Bec          Agriculture occupies a dominant position in the Egyptian
economy, accounting for 16-17 percent of GDP, 35 percent of the labor force and
25 percent of merchandise export earnings. The land base for agricultural
production consists of 7 million feddan (2.9 million ha) of arable, irrigated
land. Irrigated farming in Egypt is supported by one of the world's largest
single river basin systems, extending 1,200 km from the High Aswan Dam to the
Mediterranean coast.
46.   Perennial irrigation, made possible by the construction of the High Aswan
Dam, coupled with the high usage of modern inputs and multiple cropping has made
the land highly productive. However, the intensified irrigation has led to a
rising groundwater table and increased waterlogging and salinity, which have
resulted in diminished yields. To regain productivity levels and growth, the
Government of Egypt has accorded high priority to reducing the high groundwater
and salinity problems through installing subsurface drainage systems. The
drainage system for removing excess water from cultivated lands consists of open
drains, pipe drains and pump stations. Since the late 1960s, the Government has
implemented a series of pipe drainage projects. The total area in which pipe
drains has been installed is about 3.4 million feddan (fed).
47.    rogect Objectives.  The overall objectives of the project are to: (a)
increase agricultural productivity by evacuating excess water and salts from
undrained areas, reversing the current land deterioration trend; and (b) improve
institutional planning and the implementation capacity of the drainage subsector.
48. Prolect Descliotiori2. The Government has developed a twelve-year national
drainage progrea  (estimated base cost US$524 million) under which subsurface
drainage would be completed in most remaining areas that now or in the near
future require drainage. The proposed project would finance an initial six-year
time slice of this national drainage program. The project would cover about
720,000 fed and would encompass the installation or replacement of subsurface
drains as well as the remodelling of existing open drains serving about 480,000
fed throughout the Nile Valley and Delta. Vertical drains would be installed as
a pilot effort on 5,000 fed. Technical assistance and training would be provided
to address contractor weaknesses and to assist in the strengthening of the
Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage Projects (EPADP). A coordinated monitoring
and evaluation program would be introduced. Special emphasis would be given to
adaptive research for drain installation in unstable soils, drainage in heavy
clay soils, vertical drainage and the use of PVC pipes for collectors. In order
to reduce fiscal constraints, an improved system for the recovery of O&M costs
related to subsurface drainage would be worked out and gradually implemented
through required regulatory changes. The project would initiate the proc
ess of addressing the deteriorating environmental situation created by the
discharge of untreated raw industrial and domestic waste into some open drains.
Me\nd*\tdp 'pa



- 19 -
49.  Project Imolementatio.  The project would be implemented by EPADP over
a period of seven years. The total cost of the project is estimated at US$290.0
million with a foreign exchange component of US$112.7 million (39 percent). A
breakdown of costs and the financing plan are shown in Schedule A. Amounts and
methods of procurement and disbursement and the disbursement schedule are shown
in Schedule B. A timetable of key project processing events and the status of
Bank Group operations in Egypt are given in Schedules C and D, respectively. Two
maps and Staff Appraisal Report No. 9792-EGT dated November  , 1991 are also
attached.
50.  The Government has taken the following actions to facilitate project
implementation: (a) the Ministry of Public Works and Water Resources (MWW) has
established a Project Coordination Committee with representatives of all involved
agencies and ministries (a condition of board presentation); (b) EPADP has
assigned the task of human resource development and management to the Director
of the Drainage Executive Management Project, who would report directly to the
Chairman of EPADP, until the establishment of a Human Resource Development and
Management Directorate; and (c) EPADP has taken first steps to activate the
Directorate for Management Information Systems to improve and streamline the use
of computers within the organization.
51.   Lessons Learned. The Bank's long involvement and substantial support to
the agricultural sector has provided certain guidelines for future projects:
(a) the most effective projects are simple and preferably involve on,y one
implementing ministry; (b) the project implementation period should take into
account factors that usually cause delays such as procurement problems, staff
shortages and inadequate budgetary allocations; (c) technical assistance should
be sought from bilateral grant sources as the Government is reluctant to use loan
funds for consultants; (d) the Government must be fully committed to the project;
and (e) the strengthening of the management capabilities of the agencies
responsible for project implementation must receive priority. More specifically,
much has been learned .'bout the problems of the drainage subsector during the
Bank's involvement in Egypt. EPADP has progressively implemented several
improvements in the design and construction of drainage works, but past
experience has highlighted the need for: (a) computerized designs, especially
for field drainage; (b) improved construction supervision and quality control;
(c) better criteria for the selection of renewal areas and improved techniques
for the renewal of old field drainage systems; (d) more effective impact
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) of drainage; and (e) improvements in the
Operation and Maintenance (O&M) of drainage systems. These lessons from completed
and ongoing drainage projects have been incorporated into the design of the
proposed project. The Bank's continued long-term involvement in assisting EPADP
implement these improvements would enhance the cost effectiveness and quality
of the drainage program. In addition, the longer-term perspective of the program
would enable the preparation of a phased program on environmental issues. The
Bank would be able to influence program implementation through biannual reviews
of the entire drainage program financed by the Bank and other donors.
*\etndpndpnwe



- 20 -
52.   Rationa. le for. Bank 1 yIn leent. Bank assistance strategy in Egypt accords
high priority to financing projects that improve efficiency or the capacity
utilization of existing facilities. Past Bank Group involvement has focused
directly on assisting the Government maintain and increase land and water
productivity.   Since 1970, the Bank has financed a series of five drainage
projects, four of which have been successfully completed, albeit with
implementation delays of three to four years.   The fifth project is under
successful implementation and, due to late effectiveness, is expected to be
completed with a delay of about one year. In addition, the Bank has financed
two Pumping Station Rehabilitation Projects (to lift irrigation and drainage
water) and a Channel Maintenance Project (to improve water flows).   Bank
participation in the drainage program has assisted in attracting resources from
other bilateral/multilateral donors (the United States, Canada. Germany, the
Netherlands and the African Development Bank/Fund). Continued support by the
Bank is needed in the current environment of budgetary constraint, not only to
catalyze donor resources but also to provide the technical advice actively sought
by EPADP, particularly in view of drain installation that is becoming
increasingly complex due to high water tables and unstable soils. A program
approach is proposed for future drainage activities to facilitate greater
flexibility in selecting priority areas, address broad environmental issues and
improve planning, resource allocation and implementation.
53.   Actions Agreed during Negotiations.  The following key assurances were
obtained from the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt during negotiations:
(a) EPADP would submit a report by March 31 each year for Bank/IDA review
covering the achievements and constraints of the previous year and a rolling
program for the following two years with budgetary requirements; (b) EPADP would
select the areas for the renewal of horizontal and vertical drainage to be
included in the biannual program on the basis of the required investigation and
criteria agreed to with the Bank; (c) the Research Institute for Groundwater
(RIGW) and EPADP would complete the investigations, design and tender documents
for the implementation of production wells by December 31, 1992 and, in
collaboration with the Irrigation Department, formulate and implement the
procedures for the participation of beneficiaries in the construction and
eventual operation of wells constructed after June 30, 1994; (d) the Ministry
of Public Works and Water Resources (MNPW) would employ practices such as
destroying or removing cleared weeds and silt to prevent bilharzia snails from
reinfecting the drains; (e) the Water Research Center (WRC), in cooperation with
the Ministry of Health (MOH), would prepare a short report on the prevalence of
bilharzia and the use of molluscicides for Bank review each year; (f) EPADP would
limit the installation of field drains to the inland side of coastal drains and
existing cultivated areas that lie more than 200 m away from the natural coastal
lakes, would submit for review, with the biannual program, a description of lands
included in the program that are located close to the coastal lakes and would
subject any proposals to drain areas between the main drains and the coast or
lake shore to a full environmental assessment prior to approval; (g) MPW would
ensure that where drainage water from the project is mixed with fresh water, the
water received by downstream users would meet designated use/water quality
criteria; (h) EPADP would prequalify contractors for participation in the field
M\"1kr*dp\n*_W



- 21 -
drainage works; equipment costs would be recovered and spare parts supplied under
an option to be agreed to with the Bank Group by June 30, 1992; (1) EPADP would
submit, by October 31, 1992, a phased action plan including recommendations for
regulatory changes to increase investment cost recovery and to achieve O&M cost
recovery within five years and would implement the agreed plan commencing July
1, 1993; changes requiring regulatory changes would be implemented after approval
expected to be no later than December 31, 1994; (j) the Ministry of Finance would
provide adequate funds for the operation and maintenance of the drainage system
consistent with maintenance needs; and (h) EPADP would confirm cofinancing
arrangements by December 31, 1992.
54.   BenefLis.  The proposed drainage works would reverse the present decline
in land productivity caused by inadequate drainage, resulting in a net yield
increase. The total area benefitting from the project is estimated to be 720,000
feddan. The number of families expected to benefit would be about 240,000.
55.   Risks.  The major risks are: (a) the limited implementation capacity of
domestic contractors, which could reduce the area installed; (b) inadequate
budgetary provisions and a possible shortage of counterpart funds; and (c) delays
in project implementation. These risks would be minimized by: (a) the required
prequalification of contractors; (b) the provision of technical assistance and
the training of contractors and EPADP staff; (c) an annual review of the work
program and budgetary provisions by the Bank Group before final government
approval of the budget, as well as the financing of local costs by various
donors; and (d) a long lead period for initiating necessary actions on
procurement and design work.
56.   Recommndation. I am satisfied that the proposed loan/credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank/Association and recommend that the
Executive Directors approve the proposed loan/credit.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
October 29, 1991
Minp\rdnp_



- 22 .
SCHEDULE A
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROJECT
ESTImATED COStS AND FlANCING PLAN
Prab4.t Cinmwimts pd Estinted Cost
LE million             US! Million
Ia,c  Forofn   T2tat  LEcAt  Foreian  Total
Subsurfce Draeaoe
Norizontal Drainage, New               300.7   190.1   490.8   91.1    57.6   148.7
Horizontal Drinage, Renewal             66.3    48.8   115.1   20.1    14.8    34.9
Vertical Drainage                        S.2    3.9        9.1     1.6     1.2    2.8
Subtotal                        372.2   242.8   615.0   112.8    73.6    186.4
amn Drains Re todelling                   65.5    41.7   107.2   19.9    12.6    32.5
Institutiopal Susoort
For EPADP imt. NSE                      11.2      9.8    21.0    3.4       3.0      6.4
For DRI and RIOW                         6.4      2.2     8.6     1.9      0.7      2.6
Environmental Support                    3.4    _.6        7.0    1.0      1.1    -2.1
Subtotal                          21.0     15.6    36.6    6.3       4.8    11.1
Total Baseline Costs            458.7   300.1    758.8   139.0    91.0   230.0
Physical Contingencies                    40.9    24.0    64.9   12.4        7.3     19.7
Price Contingencies                      369.7   223.9   593.6   25.8    14.5    40.3
TotaL Prolect Costs             869.3   548.0  1.417.3  177.2   112.8          0
Percent of
JqjaA   Foreign   Totat   Total Costs
(US Nfillifon).
GOE 1/               130.0      --       130.0       44.8
IBRD                  13.0      32.0      45.0       15.5
IDA                   21.7      53.3      75.0       25.9
KfW-Grant              0.8       2.2       3.0        1.1
KfV-Loan               7.0      20.0      27.0        9.3
NDGIC                  4.8    __5.2    A10.0          3.4
Total        177.3    112.7    290.0        100.0
Q  Of which USS 17.8 million will be taxes and duties.
M:\et\ndpXnlmp_



- 23 -
SCHEDULE B
Page 1 of 2
ARAB REPBIILIC OF EGYPT
NAIONAL DRAINOG PMROJEC
PROCUREMENT METHOD Aq0 DlsDURo
Procurement Method
------------US   million 31/--  - ----
Other W
ICB      LCB         Others h/   Cofinancier  Total
A.      EjW3Mflt  1Naterials                  73.0                    8.0        31.0        112.0
(66.0)                 1 7.0)                   (73.0)
B.      Civil Works                           78.0       16.0                    26.0        120.0
(38.7)     C 8.0)                               (46.7)
C.      Technical Assistange & Trainina        0.3                                5.2          5.5
(0.3)                                           (0.3)
D.     fiscelu anoAu                                                             52.5         52.5
Total                                151.3       16.0         8.0       114.7        290.0
(105.0)    ( 8.0)      C 7.0)                   (120.0)
f/ Figures in parenthesis rdtresent amots to be financed wnder the Bank Loan and IOA Credit.
as Direct purchase or LIB for equipment and materials.
sI lo be financed by other cofiranciers under separate arrangemnts and 60E.
Wke0ndp%nompr



- 24 -
SCHEDULE 8
Page 2 of 2
AFAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NIATIONAL DRAINAGE PRJECT
PROCUREMENT METHOD AND DISBllR3qEN$
Percent of Expenditure
Category                                     Amount imitlion US$)    to be Financed
IJRD    DA      Total
1.      C-vil Works                          17.4    31.1     48.5   50 percent of total
Installation of Horizontat                                   expenditure
Drainage, Open Drains
Remodelling and buildings
for Pipe Factories and
Maintenace Centers
2.      Equipment, Vehicles                  25.1    39.1     64.2   100 percent of foreign expenditures,
Spares and Materials                                         100 percent of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost),
80 percent of expenditures for
locally procured Iteem
3.      Technical Assistance                  --      0.3      0.3   100 percent of total
and Training                                                 expenditures
4.      Unallocated                           2.5     4.5      7.0
Total                               45.0    75.0    120.0
Estimted AInnt Di        i
Bank Growi Fiscal Year
IfL4  UM              Y2M  FY94 U          !   FY99  FY2000
................(lUS$ Million Equivalent)-------------
Bank/IDA                -    8.0   17.0  20.0  20.0  24.0  20.0  11.0
Percent of Total        -    6.6    14.2  16.7  16.6  20.0   16.7   9.2
Percent of Cunulatiwve        6.6   20.8  37.5  54.1  74.1  90.8  100.0
M:\egInpndpmp\



- 25 -
SCHEDULE C
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
ATIONAL DRAINAGE PROWECT
TINETABLE OF KEY PRCJECT PROCESSING EVENTS
(a)     Time Taken to Prepare:                        5 months (October 199I     - February 1991)
(b)     Prepared by:                                   FAO/CP and Government
(c)     Apprafsal Nision:                             June 1991
(d)     Negotiations:                                 Saptember 1991
(e)     Plannwed Date of Effectiveness:               June 1992
tf)     List of Relevant PCRs and PPARs:              PPAR on the Upper Egypt Drainage It Project (Loan 1285-
EGT; Credit637-EGT) and theNitDeltaeDrainage II Project
(Loans 1439 and 1440-EGT; Credit t19-EGt)
M*qtndpXndpmp



- 26 -
8chedulo D
Page 1 of 2
TIM STATUS OF DM   OW  OPIRATXONS IN MM
A.  StTMENT OF BANK LGABS AND IDA CRMDXtS
(As of Septemb0r 30, 1991)
Akrnmt in million US dollars
Loan/Credit     Approved         Bor.ower     Purpose                                   (less cancellations)
Number=          FY                                                               Bank       IDA      Undisbursed
83 Loans and Credits fully disbursed'                                            1;578.0      878.8
Cr 1158             81               ARE      Beheira Water Supply                   --         56 810 .
Cr 1162             81               ARE       Tochnical Assistance                  --          6.9           1.5
Ln 1886-1           84               ERA       Poear  II                             59.0       --             4.8
La 2178             82               ARE      Greater Cairo Urban Development        54.0       --             6 9
Lu 2183             83               ARE      St DikheiLa Pert                       56.2       -              0.7
Ln 2284             83               ARE      Vocational Training                    20.3       --             3.7
Ln 2270             83               ARE       Irrigation Pump. Stationa Rehab. I   41.5        --             7 4
LA 2458             84               ARE      Small and Had. Scale Ind.             170.0       -            116.7
La 2450             84               ARE      Export Industry                        96.3       --            77.2
Ln 2460             84               ARE      Conatruction Industry                  51.6       --            42.9
La 2561             85               ARE      Agricultural DeveLOprent It            80.0      --            21.4
Ln 2562             85               ARe      Drainage V                             63.0       --            34.4
La 2569             85               PSPA     Port Said Port                        20.0       --              0.1
LD 2594             85               ARE      Vocational Training (Electricity)      19.3      __             15.8
La 2732             86               AE       Channel Haintenanoe                    45.0      --             38.6
La 3071             80               ARE      Agricultural Storage                   40.0      --            40.0
La 3103             80               ZEA      Power IV                              165.0      --           183.9
La 3137             90               ARE      Engineering & Tech. Education          30.5      --            30.5
La 31984            90               AE        Irrig. Pump. Stations Rehab. II       31.0      --             31.0
Cr 2274             01               ARE      Social Fund Project                              140.0         142.83
la 33538            91               ARE      Structural AdJustment                 300.0                    300.0
La 33544            01               EGPC     Gas Investment                         84.0      _84.0
Totals                                                                           3,004.7      1,082.3      1,174.9
Of whicb has been repaid                                                            897 5        34.8
Total now outatanding                                                            2,107.2      1,047.5
Amout sold                                           7.5
Of which has been repaid                             7.5
Total now hold by Bank an  ID A                                                  2,21.2       1.04Z.5
O The Status of projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA financed
projects in execution, which in updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30
and October 31.
2U Ixcludes 3 cretits for engineering which were subsequently refinanced, a USS1 million PPF advance granted
Er the Greater Cairo Urban Developcent project, an ZEC Special Action Credit of US435.0 million equivalent
for the Shoubrab El Xheima Thermal Power Project, and 2 loas eand 2 credits which were approved and
subsequently eancelled.
I/Credit denominated in SMts. Amount shown in US$ equivalent at time of aegotiations for the IDA mount,
and U88 equivalent at September 30, 1001, for the undisburaed smount.
i/Not yet effective.
A/Net yet signed.



- 27 -
Pa8e 2 of 2
I.~  ~    gb STTIETOFZC  VES2WERTS
(As  O.VSepebr3, 1191P)
Fiscal
Yewr      ObUgor                   Type of Business                             Loan        Equity         Total
(U8$ Millien)---------
8S        A     1umium Sulpbate Co.   Chemicals & Petroahemicalo                   -          0.57           0.57
78. 82      Arab Ceramic Company    Coeramic Industry                               4.80       0.98            5.78                     -
78        11ile Clothing Company   Ready-Made Gament Industry                     0.43       0.32            0.75
78, 83      Delta Sugar Compay       Agricultural Production, mainly sugar         20.00        5o00          25.00
79. 83      Ismilia miar             Food and Food Proes*sing                      12.07       2.29           14.38
Poultry Company
85        Egpt  nvetment           Securities Firms                               1.50        0.12           1.82
Finance Corp.
80. 81, 83  Iamailia Fish Farming   Food and Food Processing                        3.96        1.05           5.01
80        Suez Cemet Compny        Building Materials                            30.00         -            30.00
84        El-Dikhoil               Iron and Steel                                95.20       11.79         108.99
82,89       Luxor Hotel              Tourism Project                                4.41        1.37           5.78
87        H leiba Oil Dev.         Chemicals and Petrochemicals                    -        28,70           28.70
i Exploration Proj.
a8        Bechtel ZEypt 8.A.E.    Real Estate and Business Services                -          0.10           0.10
88        Phoenix Resources Co.   Energy                                         20.00         -            20.00
G1        AL Bardi                 Pulp Paeor and Paperboard                      6.20         -             8.20
91        Tictoria United          Tourism                                        530         052            5 82
Total  roan Coaitments                                                            205.70       53.59         259.29
Less: Caneellations. terminations, repaymats, exchange
adjustmeuts, writeoffos and sales                                        180L27      2340          203jS8
Total ccasitaents now beld by TIC                                                  2541        3019 
Total lUndisb eturaed 8d                                                                          1
(ieluding participants portioLn)



4         r 
3,.                                                                3'1 
,Shebob 
Z                                                 EOeeK4 
/ - Z agh a                                        :,.,          -,. 
Boussify  Zamney                 c PS. 9~4o. 3   p.s   / Lowor No. I FOSIJ
Ps.)    \           W12/              js
Alexowldna                                                                                                                      Se Nor6   -. Se
P\@EHobj-wAk  5    '   '"N.e ,it                       C /       '   No.4.          '' K.-.                          a
Kafr~~~~-
09                                               0 _ Xo\Z.                                                                               -
Jf ate#                   Donmalhur0\                ,f   -t    Mo.n .
Maryut       Haes         Tmg 1  \tp                                                     \                                                        Kasob;                             _ 3-
r >   A.    \                            s O           X       \ N.  /                                                  .   1-         d                   < '
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT                            -                                                                            J    a
NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROJECT
LOWER EGYPT                                                                                                                                              0 -
I}                /                                              1    ----- -- .---- .             -
FtRST TIME SLICE OF PROGRAM (YEARS 1-6(                                           j ,
NEW AREAS
LF.h       RENEWAL AREAS                                                          / |. /                               /                                              ,    .
SECOND TIME StICE OF PROGRAM MYEARS 7-12)
LZs3..J   NEW AREAS                          ~                                      /        .
RENEWAL AREAS                                         '-- N                      ,            /
WEST NUBARIYA PROjECT AREA                                                                                                                                   A  /  AR
DRAINAGE BASIN BOUNDARIES                                                                   / \ 1-
MAIN IRRIGATION CANALS                                                      ) Delta Barroage                                                          I     ORDA4
MAIN DRAINS                                                                  o        a                                                                   \
-    BARRAGES         S                                                                       j#Itt                                                                  SAUDI
DRAINAGE PUMPINGSTATIONS                                                                                                                                       A A -  -     AA
*     NATIONAL CAPIITAL                                                                   ,                                                    ARAB REPUBLIC
O      TOWNS AND CITtES                            0           10          20 MnIS         !  CAIRO                   C                           OF EGYPT
RIVERS                                                                             I-.
,-30'                  OCCUPIED TERRITORIES                        0      10      20      30 KItOMMTERS                                                                                       D
3.0'                                                                                                           -_ 67 I'    -
,                  30v                                                                 3! F30                                                                  SU DAiN g              



4       a.                            .-   9M>err    i2                                                          t. r 1
r:o.e.,    I.ge   For detoit of tower Egypt                                    (
Abe (,                                                P        we -  Tl   23184
AL~~~KXAIU'l  tg pCID. El                                                                                                     ) 
D' AK  I-;I
Eye   l   Es4aT                                       \/a
T. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~h  [}e                        i. ew uflt*                                                                            ISR E
j~~~~~~~~
* 8EN SUHA,WA\|
QATTARA                                                                                                            SINAI 
DEPRESSION                                                                                                                                                    3v?
aFe:t El Fcshuf           X           \                              I   ~~SAUDI
KALUBIA                                      S-\,                                       /        ARABIA
Wa,t Scmcu,a  |( ,\  
~~~~~~DESERT F                                  ATR                                   \ 
8a           E' Oo.1  aAq
Id      ody f Q r?d.aaO\
ASWAN       ond Wod, AbbId, 
Kon, On,I,,.  Ee Onb                                    Ia ta
'AYOIIM  'liEl I b-Y~ ~~~~~~~~Ip~,i~ Kor~
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYAPT
NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROJECT
UPPER AND MIDDLE EGYPT To
HORIZONTAL DRAINAG E PROGRAM BEOTH TIME SLICES)
[   VERTICAL DRAINAGE FROGRAM (BOTH TIME SLICES)                                                                        Ta P04 S.DET
o CITIES AND TOWANS
rc NATIONAL CAPITAL
- PAJN ROADS
-.-.-RAILROADS
RIVERS
-  APPR?OXIMATEGOVERNORAIE ARBOUNDARIES
~j  :OCCPIED TERRITORIES                                                                                 o   2,0  4p I 0  rs0E
-26-                                                                                                                           26.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    2  0 6
MILIES
3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d E. .-.                                                             |                                  _
SUDAN~~A                      -dWdyAl,d
3?                                                                       1.)~A~~IIA



