Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2313 EGT
                    (National Drainage Project)
                              between
                      ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated January 27, 1992
                                           CREDIT NUMBER 2313 EGT
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated January 27, 1992, between ARAB REPUBLIC OF
EGYPT (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Borrower has also requested the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) to provide additional
Page  2
assistance towards the financing of the Project and by an agreement
of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank (the Loan
Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an
aggregate principal amount equivalent to forty-five million dollars
($45,000,000) (the Loan);
      (C)   the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this
Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures in respect of the
Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan provided
for in the Loan Agreement are made;
      (D)   to assist in the financing of the Project, the Borrower
intends to obtain from: (a) Kreditanstalt fµr Wiederaufbau (KfW) of
the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany a loan and a grant
(KfW Contribution) in the total amount of 50,000,000 deutsche mark,
under an agreement (the KfW Agreement) to be entered into between
the Borrower and KfW; and (b) the Netherlands Directorate General
for International Cooperation (NDGIC) of the Government of the
Kingdom of Netherlands a grant (the NDGIC Grant) in the amount of
20,000,000 guilders, under an agreement (the NDGIC Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and NDGIC; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                     ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date here-
with between the Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such
agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term includes
the "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements"
of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such agreement,
and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement;
      (b)   "Credit Special Account" means the account referred to
in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (c)   "Special Accounts" means the Credit Special Account and
the Loan Special Account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of the Loan
Agreement;
      (d)   "Ministry" means the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works
and Water Resources;
      (e)   "EPADP" means the Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage
Projects, operating under the Borrower's Presidential Decree No. 158
of the Year 1973, as amended;
      (f)   "DRI" means the Drainage Research Institute of the
Ministry;
      (g)   "WRC" means the Water Research Center of the Ministry;
      (h)   "RIGW" means the Research Institute for Ground Water of
the Ministry;
Page  3
      (i)   "Committee" means the Committee established within EPADP
to coordinate the carrying out of the Project; and
      (j)   "Implementing Agencies" means the agencies referred to
in paragraphs (d) through (i) of this Section.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to fifty-six million four hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 56,400,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a special deposit account (the Credit
Special Account) in the National Bank of Egypt on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into,
and payments out of, the Credit Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing
May 1, 2002 and ending November 1, 2026. Each installment to and
Page  4
including the installment payable on November 1, 2011 shall be one
and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of
such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due considera-
tion by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
      Section 2.09. The Borrower represents that it has designated
EPADP for the purpose of handling, on behalf of the Borrower, debt
service payments with respect to the Credit.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
EPADP (with the assistance of the other Implementing Agencies) with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
engineering, financial and administrative practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
                           ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of EPADP and of other
Page  5
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out
the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Credit Special Account for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Association;
          (ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than nine months after
                  the end of each such year, a certified copy of
                  the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                  such scope and in such detail as the Association
                  shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                  Association has received the audit for the fiscal
                  year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are dealt
                  with in the annual audit referred to in paragraph
                  (b) of this Section and that the report of such
                  audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall ensure that the budgetary
allocations for EPADP shall be sufficient to meet the operation and
maintenance costs of the drainage systems.
      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause EPADP:
      (a)   by September 30, 1992, to complete, on the basis of an
appropriate assessment of the components of the Borrower's drainage
investment costs, and to furnish to the Association for comment, a
study of measures to increase the rate of recovery of such costs
through charges to beneficiaries and the proposed schedule for
implementation of such measures; and
      (b)   to implement, taking into account the Association's
comments, the measures recommended under such study to enhance the
enforcement of existing regulations dealing with such charges by
September 30, 1993, and other measures recommended thereunder by
December 31, 1994.
       Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause the Ministry:
Page  6
      (a)   by March 31, 1992, to complete and furnish to the
Association, for its comments, a study of the financial aspects
related to the operation and maintenance of the irrigation and
drainage systems; and
      (b)   prepare on the basis of the finding and recommendations
of such study, by October 31, 1992, taking into account the
Association's comments thereon, a phased plan to be implemented over
a period of not more than five years, starting in July 1, 1993, for
the recovery of the costs of such operation and maintenance.
      Section 4.05. The Borrower shall ensure: (a) the adoption by
the Ministry of measures, such as the destruction or removal of
cleared weeds or silt, so as to prevent Bilharzia snails from
reinfecting the drains; and (b) the preparation, by WRC in col-
laboration with the Borrower's Ministry of Health, and the furnish-
ing to the Association, starting in June 1992, of an annual report
on the prevalence of the Bilharzia disease and on the use of
mulluscicides to destroy Bilharzia snails.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   The KfW Agreement or the NDGIC Agreement shall have
failed to become effective by December 31, 1992, or such later date
as the Association may agree; provided, however, that the provisions
of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for the Project
are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
      (b)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                  (A)   The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                        proceeds of the KfW Contribution or NDGIC
                        Grant shall have been suspended, cancelled
                        or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
                        to the terms of the KfW Agreement or the
                        NDGIC Agreement, or
                  (B)   any loan included in the KfW Contribution
                        shall have become due and payable prior to
                        the agreed maturity thereof.
           (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                  apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                  satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such
                  suspension, cancellation, termination or
                  prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                  Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                  such Agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
                  Project are available to the Borrower from other
                  sources on terms and conditions consistent with
                  the obligations of the Borrower under this
                  Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b)
(ii) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
Page  7
      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the effective-
ness of the Loan Agreement, have been fulfilled, subject only to the
effectiveness of this Agreement.
      Section 6.02. The date 120 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
      Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.03, 4.04 and 4.05 of this Agreement shall cease and terminate on
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
or on the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Borrower's Minister of State for Inter-
national Cooperation or the First Undersecretary for International
Finance of said Ministry is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
          Ministry of International Cooperation
          (International Finance Sector)
          8 Adly Street
          Cairo, Egypt
          Cable address:                        Telex:
                  MINISTRY OF INTERNATIONAL       927-23348
                    COOPERATION
                  Cairo
      For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                        Telex:
                  INDEVAS                         197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA),
                                                   64145 (WUI) or
                                                   82987 (FTCC)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt,
as of the day and year first above written.
                  ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
                  By /s/ Maurice Makramallah
                                         Authorized Representative
Page  8
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Caio K. Koch-Weser
                                           Regional Vice President
                                      Middle East and North Africa
                           SCHEDULE 1
         Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Credit and Loan to each Category
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in
each Category:
                     Amount            Amount
                     of the            of the
                      Loan             Credit           % of
                    Allocated         Allocated       Expendi-
                   (Expressed        (Expressed        tures
                    in Dollar          in SDR          to be
     Category      Equivalent)       Equivalent)      Financed
(1)  Works         17,400,000         23,400,000      50%
(2)  Equipment,    25,100,000         29,400,000      100% of
     vehicles,                                        foreign
     spare parts                                      expendi-
     and mate-                                        tures, 100%
     rials                                            of local
                                                      expendi-
                                                      tures (ex-
                                                      factory
                                                      cost) and
                                                      80% of local
                                                      expenditures
                                                      of items
                                                      procured
                                                      locally\0c
                    Amount            Amount
                     of the            of the
                      Loan             Credit           % of
                    Allocated         Allocated       Expendi-
                   (Expressed        (Expressed        tures
                    in Dollar          in SDR          to be
     Category      Equivalent)       Equivalent)      Financed
(3)  Experts'                            200,000      100%
     services and
     training
(4)  Unallocated    2,500,000          3,400,000
                    _________         __________
          TOTAL    45,000,000         56,400,000
                   ==========         ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
Page  9
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                           SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are: (a) to increase and maintain
productivity of agricultural land through implementation of the
first phase of the Borrower's Drainage Program for continous
rehabilitation and expansion of drainage facilities in the Delta and
Upper Egypt; (b) to enhance the effectiveness of EPADP and other
Implementing Agencies; and (c) to address the environmental
situation created by the discharge of untreated raw industrial and
domestic waste into open drains.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Drainage Works
1.   Subsurface drainage:
     (i)    installation of covered pipe drains in agricultural land
            not previously provided with subsurface drainage,
            totalling about 590,000 feddans;
    (ii)    renewal of covered pipe drains in an area of about
            130,000 feddans; and
   (iii)    vertical drainage through installation of 20 deep wells
            to drain an area of about 5,000 feddans.
2.   Surface drainage:
     Remodelling of about 1200 km of open drains, serving an area of
about 480,000 feddans.
Part B:     Technical Support, Environmental Protection
1.   Provision for EPADP of (a) operation equipment and vehicles;
(b) expert services to assist in the planning, design and implemen-
tation of drainage programs, implementation of a management
information system for construction planning, monitoring and
evaluation activities, and in the carrying out of studies of
technical aspects related to the areas for renewal of covered pipe
drains under Part A (1) (ii) of the Project, the design of a new
outlet drain to serve the area on the left bank of the El-Nasr Canal
(in West Nubariya) and of EPADP's computer requirements; and (c)
training for its staff.
2.   Provision for DRI and RIGW of (a) operation vehicle and
equipment; and (b) experts' services to assist in the conduct of
research activities.
3.   Provision for WRC of (a) pollution control devices and
vehicles, and equipment for testing and analyzing water quality; (b)
experts services to assist in the preparation and implementation of
an action plan for water quality assessment; and (c) training for
its staff.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.
                           SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Page  10
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part C hereof (i) goods, and  (ii) works
for field drainage under Part A (1) of the Project shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Egypt may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Items of equipment or spare parts which the Borrower and the
Association agree that are available from a sole source of supply or
are required to ensure compatibility with installed equipment, may
be procured on the basis of contracts to be negotiated with the
suppliers thereof on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.
2.   Items, or groups of items, estimated to cost not more than the
equivalent of $200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed the equivalent of $3,000,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers from at least two
different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.   Items estimated to cost not more than the equivalent of
$100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $2,500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of
at least three suppliers, in accordance with procedures satisfactory
to the Association.
4.   (a)    Civil works other than those referred to in Part A of
Section I of this Schedule, may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally in accor-
dance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
     (b)    All bidders for work to be carried out under Part A (1)
(i) and (ii) of the Project shall be prequalified in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
     (c)    In order to ensure proper execution of works under
drainage investments, the Borrower shall cause EPADP: (i) to
maintain a list of contractors prequalified for such work and to
update such list at intervals not exceeding two years, (ii) by June
30, 1992, to prepare and furnish to the Association, for its
concurrence, arrangements for the recovery from contractors of the
cost of machinery, whenever such machinery is provided to them by
EPADP, and for supplying them with spare parts for pipe lying
machines, and (iii) to adopt such arrangements with respect to
contracts to be awarded after December 31, 1992.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)    With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $750,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Credit
Page  11
Special Account or the Loan Special Account, such procedures shall
be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of
such contract.
     (b)    With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Credit Special Account or the
Loan Special Account such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract together with the
other information required to be furnished to the Association
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association
as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)    The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.   The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Contracting of Experts' Services
     In order to assist EPADP and other Implementing Agencies in the
carrying out of Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall cause
EPADP to contract the services of experts whose qualifications,
experience shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such experts,
whose employment shall be financed from the proceeds of the Credit
or the Loan, shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.
                           SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
A.   Project Implementation
1.   The Borrower shall cause EPADP to maintain, until the comple-
tion of the Project, the existence of the Committee with such staff
and other resources and under such operation procedures as shall be
required for the Committee to coordinate the carrying out of the
Project.
2.   The Borrower shall cause EPADP to select the areas for renewal
of covered pipe drains and for vertical drainage under Part A (ii)
and (iii) of the Project, respectively, in accordance with criteria
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
3.   The Borrower shall: (a) cause EPDAP, with the assistance of
DRI, to provide recommendations as to the drainage duty of
collectors based on (i) field investigations, to be completed by
June 30, 1993, on a sample of installed collector drains and of
those with reduced drainage duty, and (ii) research, to be completed
by June 30, 1994, on the implications of reducing such drainage duty
and of replacing the standard collector slope by a variable slope;
and (b) cause EPADP to adopt the above recommendations in the design
of drainage works to be carried out after December 31, 1994.
4.   The Borrower shall cause EPADP: (a) to prepare, by December 31,
1992, with the assistance of RIGW, the design and tender documents
for the construction of wells for vertical drainage; (b) to
formulate, in collaboration with the Irrigation Department and the
Mechanical and Electrical Department of the Ministry, by June 30,
1993, procedures for involving beneficiaries in the construction and
eventual operation of such wells; and (c) to implement such
Page  12
procedures with respect to wells to be constructed after June 30,
1994.
5.   The Borrower shall cause EPADP: (a) to limit the installation
of field drains to the inland side of coastal drains and to
locations in existing cultivated areas which shall be at least 200
meters away from the coast of natural lakes; (b) to furnish to the
Association, by June 30, 1993, a description of the locations
adjacent to the coastal lakes where drainage work would be executed
under the Borrower's drainage program; and (c) to ensure that a full
environmental assessment shall be undertaken in accordance with the
Borrower's regulations with respect to any proposal for drainage
works in areas between the main drains and the coast or lake shore,
prior to the approval thereof.
6.   The Borrower shall cause the Ministry, in cooperation with
other relevant authorities of the Borrower: (a) to take measures to
ensure, whenever drainage water produced under the Project is mixed
with fresh water, that the water received by downstream users shall
meet the quality criteria determined under the Borrower's regula-
tions; and (b) to prepare a report, by June 30, 1993, showing the
current quality of water at the existing and proposed water mixing
points and at all downstream water withdrawal points.
7.   The Borrower shall cause EPADP to carry out the studies
referred to in Part B (1) (b) of the Project under terms of
reference, including a time schedule, satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, and with the assistance of experts whose qualifications and
experience shall be satisfactory to the Association.
B.   Reports
     The Borrower shall cause EPADP: (a) to prepare and to furnish
to the Association, by March 31, in each year an annual report on
progress in the carrying out the Project, together with a work plan
for activities to be carried out under the Project during the
following two years and the estimated budgeting requirements
therefor; and (b) to undertake a mid-term review of the Project with
the Association on the basis of a detailed report on the status of
Project implementation to be prepared by EPADP and furnished to the
Association by June 30, 1996, or by such other date as the Borrower
and the Association may agree upon.
                           SCHEDULE 5
                         Special Accounts
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)    the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)    the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or
Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)    the term "Authorized Allocations" means an amount
equivalent to $1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Credit Special Account and an amount equivalent
to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited
into the Loan Special Account, all pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Accounts have been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Page  13
Authorized Allocations and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Accounts shall be made as follows:
     (a)    For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocations, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocations. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and deposit in the
Credit Special Account or the Loan Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)    (i)     For replenishment of the Special Accounts, the
                    Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                    requests for deposits into the Special Accounts
                    at such intervals as the Association shall
                    specify.
           (ii)     Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                    the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                    the documents and other evidence required
                    pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for
                    the payment or payments in respect of which
                    replenishment is requested. On the basis of
                    each such request, the Association shall, on
                    behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
                    Credit Account or the Loan Account and deposit
                    into the Credit Special Account or the Loan
                    Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                    shall have requested and as shall have been
                    shown by said documents and other evidence to
                    have been paid out of the Special Accounts for
                    eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account or the Loan Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Accounts, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Association shall not be required to make further deposits into
the Special Accounts:
     (a)    if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account or the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a)
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02
of the Loan Agreement; or
     (b)    once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or the
Loan allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocations.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account or the Loan Account
of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that
the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Accounts as of the date of such
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expendi-
tures.
Page  14
6.   (a)    If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Accounts: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Credit Special
Account or the Loan Special Account (or, if the Association shall so
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by
the Association into the Special Accounts shall be made until the
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund,
as the case may be.
     (b)    If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Accounts will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)    The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Credit Special Account or the Loan Special Account.
     (d)    Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account or the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this
Agreement, including the General Conditions, and, with respect to
refunds to be credited to the Loan Account, the General Conditions
referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement.
