Report No. 975a-SE
Appraisal of a                                                  FPY
Third Highway Project   FILE C
Senegal
March 4, 1976
Western Africa Projects Department
Highways Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    -    CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1.00           -    CFAF 225
CFAF 1 million   -    US$4,444.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                          US Equivalents
1 meter (m)                -    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       2   -    0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km )  -    0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)       -    2,204 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DOT      - Directorate of Transport
DPW      - Directorate of Public Works
DSP      - Directorate of Studies and Programming
CEREEQ   - Centre Experimental de Recherches et d'Etudes pour l'Equipement
FED      - Fonds Europeen de Developpement
LBTP     - Laboratoire du Batiment et des Travaux Publics
MOF      - Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs
MOP      - Ministry of Planning
MPWUT    - Ministry of Public Works, Urban Development, and Transport
ONCAD    - Office National de Cooperation et d'Assistance au Developpement
OMVS     - Organisation pour la Mise en Valeur du Fleuve Senegal
vpd      - vehicles per day
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SENEGAL
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY  ..        ..............................................                i - iii
1.    INTRODUCTION  ......................................                         1
2.    THE TRANSPORT SECTOR  ..............................                         2
A.    Economic Setting  ..............................                       2
B.    The Transport System  ..... .............                              2
C.    Transport Planning and Coordination  .........              .          5
3.    HIGHWAYS  ....................                                                7
A.    The Road Network  ......             .......................           7
B.    Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic  ...                        8
C.    The Road Transport  Industry  ..                ................       8
D.    Administration  ......          ..................... .               10
E.    Financing  ........           ............................            10
F.    Engineering and Construction  ................               .        11
'G.    Maintenance  .......           ...........................           13
H.    Sector Lending  ......            .........................           14
4.    THE PROJECT  .......................................                        15
A.    Description  ..................................                       15
B.    Cost Estimates  .............. .         .................            19
C.    Execution          ...................     .................          21
D.    Financing and Disbursements  ........ .. ........                     22
5.    ECONOMIC EVALUATION  ..............           ..     ...............        22
A.    General  ..........            ............................           22
B.    Pavement Strengthening  ..........           ..     ...........       23
C.    Extension of the Highway Maintenance Program                          24
6.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  . .25
This report has been prepared by Messrs. E. Fellinghauer (Engineer) and
P. Parker (Economist) following an appraisal mission in May 1975.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS - Continued
TABLES
1.   Estimated Traffic by Rail and Road in 1971
2.   Actual and Planned Capital Investments in Transport, 1965-77
3.   Rail, Port, and Air Traffic, 1963-74
4.   Development of the Highway Network, 1964-74
5.   Annual Vehicle Registrations, 1963-73
6.   Annual Road Vehicle Fuel Consumption, 1963-73
7.   The Privately-Owned Trucking Industry in Senegal, 1975
8.   Representative Road Transport Rates in 1974
9.   Personnel of the Directorate of Public Works in 1974/75
10.   Annual Highway Expenditures, 1970/71 - 1975/76
11.   Road User Taxes
12.   Equipment Needs for Maintenance Program and Soils Laboratory
13.   Project Cost Estimates
14.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
15.   Economic Evaluation of Strengthening Paved Roads
16.   Estimated Economic Vehicle Operating Costs on Paved Roads
ANNEXES
1.   Outline Terms of Reference for Experts to be attached to
Directorate of Studies and Programming
2.   Outline Terms of Reference for Expert to assist in promotion
of the Domestic Construction Industry
3.   Description of Paved Roads to be Strengthened
CIHART
Organization of the Ministry of Public Works, Urban Development,
and Transport (World Bank 15279)
IAP
Senegal - Third Highway Project (IBRD 11900)



SENEGAL
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        The transport system of Senegal consists essentially of about
13,300 km of roads, about 1,030 km of railway lines, one major and three
secondary seaports, an international airport and 13 airfields for domestic
services. The system is focused on Dakar, the capital city, principal sea
and airport, as well as the commercial and population center. Roads are the
principal mode used for domestic transport, carrying about three-quarters of
both interurban freight and passenger traffic, exclusive of phosphates.
ii.       The highway network is well developed compared to other West African
countries, providing links to most areas, although inadequate maintenance has
caused many roads to be in unsatisfactory condition. The railway is the
principal long-distance carrier for freight, primarily groundnuts and phos-
phates, the country's major exports. It is also the primary means of trans-
port for neighboring landlocked Mali, whose highway network is connected to
that of Senegal only by an inferior earth road. Foreign trade is centered
almost completely on the Port of Dakar. The international airport is one
of the busiest in West Africa, and an important stopover for flights between
Europe, South America, and Africa.
iii.      After about 13 years of stagnation and a decline in the early 1970s
following the Sahelian drought, the economy improved temporarily, partly as a
result of exceptionally high world prices for groundnuts and phosphates bet-
ween 1973 and 1975. In the last two years, crop production was excellent, but
terms of trade returned to pre-1973 levels due to declining phosphate and ground-
nut prices.   In order to promote development, the Government is undertaking a
program of economic diversification through increased public investment
which emphasizes developing objectives is the availability of a reliable and
efficient transport system. Investments in the sector are geared to meeting
these requirements. The current transport plan correctly emphasizes: (i) up-
grading of existing primary roads, construction of new roads to improve
access especially to tourist areas, and improvement and maintenance of
secondary and feeder roads in agricultural areas; (ii) improvements to the
airport and the port at Dakar; and (iii) continued modernization of the rail-
wqay and improved maintenance of its infrastructure and equipment.
iv.       Implementation of the above investments requires action to improve
the mechanism for overall transport planning and coordination, and to increase
the capacity and competitiveness of domestic civil works contractors. The
proposed project includes technical assistance to the Ministry of Public Works,
Urban Development, and Transport (MPWUT) to strengthen its recently created
Directorate of Studies and Programming (DSP) by providing key personnel and
equipment required to make the unit operational in the short run, and to train
Senegalese staff. The project will also finance advisory services to the
domestic construction industry, aimed at increasing its capacity for partici-
pation in major road works now dominated by foreign contractors.



- li -
v.        Previous Bank Group lending in the transport sector has totalled
US$35.7 million. Two highway loans have helped finance construction of
about 78 km of feeder roads, strengthening of about 34 km of paved roads,
equipment procurement, and technical assistance for highway maintenance; an
additional 420 km of feeder road construction and improvements are being
carried out under agricultural projects. Two railway operations have pro-
vided for track improvement works, procurement of equipment, and technical
assistance for operational improvements. Bank Loans have also helped finance
extensions to the port of Dakar and to the runway of the international airport.
vi.       The proposed project is directed towards preserving the existing
network of high-priority paved roads, continuing the improvement of highway
maintenance operations started under the Second Highway Project, and streng-
thening of MPWUT's institutions. It will be complemented by the planned
investments for improvement and maintenance of feeder roads under the proposed
Feeder Road Project being presented concurrently. The proposed Third High-
way Project consists of: (i) pavement strengthening of about 204 km of major
trunk roads; (ii) procurement of equipment for highway maintenance and for
the soils laboratory of the Research Center (CEREEQ); (iii) technical assist-
ance to MPWUT to set up the Directorate of Studies and Programming, and to
study, make recommendations, and provide advisory services for promotion of
the domestic construction industry; (iv) consulting services for preinvestment
studies for about 260 km of primary and secondary roads, and for improvement
of highway maintenance; and (v) scholarships for training DSP personnel.
Total project costs are estimated at US$20.5 million equivalent net of taxes,
including foreign costs of about US$15.0 million (73%) proposed for Bank
financing; taxes and duties are estimated at US$3.5 million equivalent, and
other local costs at about US$5.5 million equivalent.
vii.      MPWUT will be responsible for execution of the project, with cons-
truction supervision, technical assistance, and selected preinvestment studies
by consultants to be selected in agreement with, and under terms and condi-
tions acceptable to the Bank. The remaining preinvestment studies will be
carried out by DSP and DPW, using consultants and CEREEQ's soils laboratory
as subcontractors. An outline of the proposed scope of all consulting ser-
vices, and tentative time-tables including availability of local counterpart
staff as trainees have been discussed and agreed with the Government.
viii.     Construction contracts will be awarded following international com-
petitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. Prequalification
of contractors and preparation of specifications and bidding documents by
consultants have been completed. Works are expected to start in September
1976, and to take about 1-1/2 years to complete. Equipment and spare parts
for highway maintenance and for the soils laboratory will be procured on
the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group
guidelines, with due regard to the requirements for standardization. Items
costing under US$10,000 may be procured on the basis of quotations obtained
following local procedures acceptable to the Bank the total amount of such
purchases not to exceed US$100,000. Separate contracts will be prepared for



- iii -
each type of equipment and spare parts, or each group of similar types.
Specifications will be prepared by DPW and reviewed with the Bank. Suppliers
for the maintenance equipment will be required to provide adequate local
after-sales service. Details of equipment items to be procured have been
discussed and agreed with the Government.
ix.       Loan proceeds will be disbursed on the following basis:  (i) 58% of
total expenditures for construction contracts; (ii) 75% of total expenditures
for consulting services and technical assistance; (iii) 100% foreign expendi-
tures for equipment and spare parts, or 91% of total costs; and (iv) 100% of
foreign expenditures for scholarships.  The Government will provide all the
local costs of the project.
x.        The primary purpose of the proposed project, in line with the Gov-
ernment's ongoing program of economic diversification, is to protect past
investments by rehabilitating and maintaining the existing highway network.
This is expected to reduce the uneconomic use of scarce foreign exchange to
pay for the high cost of operating vehicles on poor roads. The economic
return from proposed investments in pavement strengthening, quantified on the
basis of vehicle operating cost savings, is estimated at 30%. The benefit/cost
ratio for the maintenance component, based on an opportunity cost of capital
estimated at 10%, is 1.6:1, corresponding to a rate of return of 28%. Benefits
from generated traffic, time savings, and accident reduction, have been omitted
from the calculation. The overall rate of return from the project is about
30%.
xi.       The proposed technical assistance to DSP will help in strengthen-
ing the machinery for transport planning. It will ensure, among other things,
the capability of MPWUT to formulate a national transport policy, to evaluate
investment proposals, to prepare a coordinated transport investment plan, and
to carry out a program of special studies of sector issues. The proposed
technical assistance to domestic contractors is seen as an important step in
helping to strengthen this industry, consistent with Government objectives,
and will eventually provide the country with additional domestic capacity for
executing civil works.
xii.      The proposed project is suitable for a Loan of US$15.0 million to
the Government of Senegal. An appropriate Loan term would be 20 years
including a 5-year grace period.






SENEGAL
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Senegal is following a policy of expanding the
base of the country's economic development, now largely dependent on export
of groundnuts and phosphates, through diversification and development of
agriculture, and promotion of industry and tourism. As part of this strategy,
the Government is placing considerable emphasis on the improvement of trans-
port facilities. The current Four-Year Plan (1974-77) for economic and
social development sets the following objectives for the road sector: (i)
maintenance and rehabilitation of the existing network; (ii) improvement of
transport facilities for agricultural products; (iii) improvement of access
to tourist areas; and (iv) connection of areas not yet served by roads.
The Bank Group is making an important contribution to this program through
two previous highway operations, three agricultural projects with road compo-
nents, and the proposed Feeder Roads and Third Highway Projects.
1.02      A First Highway Project (Loan 198-SE, US$2.1 million, 1970) con-
sisted of construction of about 78 km of feeder roads, purchase of maintenance
equipment for secondary and feeder roads, and consultants' studies for road
improvement and maintenance. The project was satisfactorily completed in
1972, and the Loan fully disbursed. The ongoing Second Highway Project
(Credit 366-SE, US$8 million, 1973) consists of pavement strengthening of
about 109 km of paved roads, a four-year program for improving road mainten-
ance, including reorganization of operations and equipment procurement, and
preinvestment studies for about 220 km of paved roads as well as review of
feeder road requirements. Implementation of the project started slowly. The
effects of high inflation currency realignments and reallocation of some funds
from pavement strengthening to higher priority road maintenance caused a
shortage of Credit funds. This allowed execution of only 34 km of pavement
strengthening and prevented procurement of all the maintenance equipment and
consulting services considered necessary to meet project objectives. The
preinvestment studies for pavement strengthening have been satisfactorily
completed, and serve as a basis for construction items included in the proposed
Third Highway Project. Bank Group involvement in the highway sector has also
included about 420 km of feeder road improvements carried out under three
agricultural projects (Credit 252-SE, US$3.7 million, FY71; Credit 254-SE,
US$1.35 million, FY71 and Credit 578-SE, US$2.0 million FY76).
1.03      The proposed Third Highway Project will continue the pavement streng-
thening and maintenance program started under the second project. It will
also provide technical assistance to strengthen transport planning within the
Ministry of Public Works, Urban Development, and Transport (MPWUT), and pro-
mote development of the domestic construction industry. This effort, together
with the feeder road improvement program under the proposed Feeder Roads
Project, is expected to provide a balanced improvement of the entire network
of primary, secondary, and feeder roads.



1.04      This appraisal report is based on studies carried out by consult-
ants BCEOM (France), and on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting
of Messrs. E. Fellinghauer (Engineer), P. Parker (Economist) and P. Ostenc
(Consultant), assisted by J. Brown (Loan Officer), which visited Senegal in
May 1975.
2. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   Economic Setting
2.01      Senegal is located primarily in the Sudano-Sahelian zone of Africa
and contains a population estimated at about 5.0 million in 1975 within a
land area of about 196,700 km . Per capita Gross National Product (GNP) was
estimated at about US$320 in 1975. Per capita GNP failed to grow during the
first decade after independence in 1962, due initially to the loss of Dakar's
political and economic influence as the capital of French West Africa. More-
over, the economy was under a severe strain by 1972/73, following the worst
series of droughts in the century, and a fall in the export prices for
groundnuts. Rainfall was satisfactory in 1974 and 1975, and world prices
for groundnuts and phosphate rock were at record high levels during these
years. However, recent declines in the phosphate and groundnut prices have
put a serious strain on the balance of payments.
2.02      The Government has taken several positive steps to accelerate
development, including increasing national investments from 11% of GDP in
the mid-sixties to 17% in the early seventies, and shifting the emphasis
of investment and development toward the rural sector. In addition, the
Government in 1974 sought to lessen the country's reliance on imported food-
stuffs, which absorb 15-20% of export earnings, by developing irrigation and
substantially reducing consumer subsidies on imported rice and cereals, while
at the same time increasing domestic producer prices for rice, millet, and
groundnuts in order to stimulate domestic production. Based in part on the
availability of sufficient foreign finance to meet future public investment
requirements, the Bank Group expects that GDP will increase at about 4.5%
through 1980.
B.   The Transport System
2.03      Senegal has several unique characteristics which shape its transport
system, including (i) the concentration of population and economic activity in
the Cap Vert Peninsula and in the groundnut basin, resulting in short travel
distances and a substantial flow of agricultural commodities from rural to
urban areas; (ii) the strategic location of Dakar as an international port
and airport, and the port's use as a point of entry for international traffic
to landlocked Mali and to Mauritania; and (iii) the partial division of the
country by Gambia (see Map).



- 3 -
2.04      The domestic transport system consists essentially of: (i) a
13,300 km road network (discussed in Chapter 3), which carries about three-
quarters of commercial inter-urban freight and passenger traffic, exclusive
of phosphates; and (ii) a 1,032 km railway which carries primarily phosphates
and international traffic to Mali (Table 1). The port of Dakar is the only
protected deep-water port in the Sahel, and in addition serves as a bunkering
point for north-south trade routes. Three secondary seaports handle a small
additional volume of traffic. Dakar airport also serves as a strategic stop-
over on routes from Europe to South America, and from New York to East and
West Africa.  Domestic air transport, river transport, and coastal shipping,
are not significant transport modes. Apart from the location of Gambia,
there are no major physical barriers to the development of transport within
Senegal.
2.05      Senegal's transport infrastructure was relatively well developed
at the time of independence in 1962. With additional investments since that
time, it2has become one of the most extensive in West2Africa with, for example,
12.8m/km  of paved roads compared with about 6.2m/km   in the Ivory Coast,
and similar density relationships for rail and aviation facilities. There
still remain, however, regional disparities in the provision of infrastructure,
with some enclaves such as Eastern Senegal having few facilities. At the same
time, the quality of some services, particularly railways, remains low. Trans-
port investments represented about 1.5% of GDP in the first years of independ-
ence but with the Second Plan, Government changed priorities to favor the more
directly productive sectors, and transport investments fell to 0.8% of GDP.
In the early 1970's investments in transport infrastructure averaged about
US$15 million annually, the recent revision of the Fourth Plan (FY1974-77)
increases this annual figure to an ambitious US$56 million, or 2.4% of fore-
cast GDP, due primarily to growing maintenance requirements and opening up of
remote regions.
2.06      Several major public investments presently under consideration have
significant implications for the transport sector. The proposed iron ore mine
at Faleme in Eastern Senegal near the Mali border, about 250 km from the exist-
ing rail line, has potential reserves of about 1.4 billion tons of high-grade
iron ore.- The Government is considering construction of a new rail line from
the mine to a major new port at Cayar which would handle iron ore, all phos-
phates, and oil imports from Iran (para. 2.12). The 1974 development plan
for the Organization for Development of the Senegal River Basin (Organisation
pour la Mise en Valeur du Fleuve Senegal, OMVS) proposes investments of around
US$3.5 billion equivalent over 40 years. This would include a multi-purpose
dam at MIanantali, tIali; a barrage in the river delta at Diama, Senegal; river
ports, dredging, and a river transport fleet; and major irrigation works. Other
developments affecting transport include the possible expansion of the phos-
phate mines near Taiba, and increased migration to Eastern Senegal.



-4-
Railways
2.07      The Government-owned Senegalese Railway System (Regie des Chemins
de Fer du Senegal) consists of 1,032 km of line, almost all single track.
The main line extends from Dakar to Kidira on the Mali Border, while branch
lines connect Dakar with St. Louis in the north, and serve Linguere, Touba,
and Kaolack in the groundnut basin, as well as the Taiba phosphate mine.   The
Government agreed under the Second Railway Project (Loan 835/Credit 314-SE,
US$9.6 million, 1972) to subsidize uneconomic branch lines which could not be
closed down for social or political reasons, and in FY 1975 provided CFAF
300 million (US$1.3 million) for this purpose. The proposed project includes
a feasibility study for upgrading the road parallel to the uneconomic branch
line from Louga to Linguere (para. 4.10).
2.08      Freight traffic has been growing about 4.2% p.a. during the last
ten years, reaching 386 million ton-km in 1974, while passenger traffic has
been declining about 2.3% p.a., reaching 224 million pass-km in the same year
(Table 3). Despite the growth of phosphate traffic and international traffic
to Mali, most of the system is lightly travelled.
2.09      Mineral traffic and international freight traffic to Mali are
generally captive to rail. Nonetheless, in 1974 about 20% (1.6 million tons)
of the phosphate traffic from Taiba to Dakar (111 km) went by road, primarily
because of the low availability (approximately 50%) of railway motive power.
Phosphate trucks were frequently overloaded, damaging the roads on which they
travelled. Truck-weighing equipment financed under the Second Highway Project
is currently being procured (para. 3.09), and enforcement of axle-load regula-
tions is expected to be strengthened.
2.10      The railway's operating and financial performance were unsatisfa--
tory until recently, primarily due to: (i) cumbersome and restrictive super-
sion and control by the Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs (MOF);
(ii) lack of competent and motivated staff; (iii) unsatisfactory technical
assistance; and (iv) delays in implementing tariff increases. However, the
railways' performance has improved over the last two years due to higher
tariffs approved by Government, increased financial autonomy from the Ministry
of Finance, reorganization of technical assistance, and a Government subsidy
for unprofitable branch lines. A reallocation of US$1.5 million in 1974 from
the Second Railway Project to purchase spare parts is expected to increase
locomotive availability and improve operating efficiency. The long-term future
of the Senegal Railways will depend on a continued improvement in operating
efficiency and the generation of new traffic to replace an expected loss of
phosphate traffic.
Ports and Waterways
2.11      Senegal's port system consists of major international facilities at
Dakar, supplemented by secondary ports at St. Louis, Kaolack, and Ziguinchor.
Cargo throughput at Dakar port has doubled in the last ten years, and now



- 5 -
totals about 6 million tons (Table 3). Major traffic consists of petroleum,
international traffic for Mali and Mauritania, and phosphates. The port's
financial performance has improved in recent years, due primarily to temporary
additional traffic generated by closure of the Suez canal, and the imple-
mentation of necessary tariff increasees.
2.12      The Government is considering development of a major port facility
north of Cayar, initially to handle imports of Iranian oil and exports of
phosphates from a new mine at Tobene, and possibly the eventual export of iron
ore from Faleme. However, further studies are required to determine whether
or not it would be less expensive to ship the phosphates and petroleum through
Dakar, following operational and track improvements to the railway. Additional
port capacity may be required to handle phosphates and Faleme iron ore, but
probably not before the 1980's.
2.13      River navigation is possible during most of the year on the Senegal,
Saloum, and Casamance Rivers, but traffic volumes are modest and declining
due to the substitution of road transport. Possible improvements currently
being studied by OMVS include increasing the use of river transport on the
Senegal River, but this is still a long-term prospect of uncertain economic
justification.
Aviation
2.14      Aviation activity centers on the Dakar airport, which is a major
international transit point. Dakar airport is efficiently managed by the
international Aviation Safety Agency for Africa and Madagascar, and is equip-
ped with a 2,550 m runway recently lengthened under a project partly financed
by Loan 867-SE (US$3.0 million, 1972). Total passenger movements through Dakar
reached 560,000 in 1974 (Table 3), due primarily to the growth of internation-
al transit and tourist traffic. Air cargo shipments are not yet significant,
although international markets for the export of shellfish and fresh vegetables
are developing. Domestic air traffic is insignificant, although Air Senegal
provides scheduled services to 13 out of 18 regional airports and airfields.
C.   Transport Planning and Coordination
2.15      The responsibility for transport planning and coordination is shared
among several Ministries and organizations, including the Ministry of Planning
(MOP), MPWUT, and MOF. MOP has overall responsibility for preparation of the
four-year development Plans. MPWUT executes Government policy in the trans-
port sector, and also includes three major departments concerned with inter-
city transport:  Public Works (DPW); Transport (DOT); and the newly created
Directorate of Studies and Programming (DSP) (paras. 2.17-2.18). DPW is
responsible for administration of the national highway system. DOT is res-
ponsible for the regulation, control, and development of the various trans-
port modes. MOF also exercises substantial influence on transport by specify-
ing overall amounts to be invested in each mode, determining the structure
and amount of taxes on transport, and until recently, maintaining strict finan-
cial supervision of the railway and port. A number of Interministerial Com-
mittees address particular problem areas in the sector. However, the output
of the transport planning process continues to be less than fully satisfactory.



- 6 -
2.16      The Government has specified commendable sector objectives in the
update of the current Fourth Quadrennial, Plan including minimizing the total
cost of transport, and making the fullest use of existing infrastructure
investments. Investment planning in the sector is carried out in principle
on the basis of (i) requests by the operating agencies for project financing,
supported by feasibility studies; and (ii) selection by Interministerial
Committees and MOP, on the basis of criteria established by MOP and the
financial envelope specified by MOF. The availability of foreign financing
also influences which projects are finally chosen. Selection of the best
projects is sometimes difficult, however, since all projects are not equally
well prepared. This is primarily due to a lack of basic transport planning
data, as well as a shortage of trained personnel to execute the necessary
preinvestment studies. As noted previously (para. 2.06), the Government is
currently considering several investments which have significant implications
for transport planning.
2.17      The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) provided a team of
experts who helped prepare the 1974-77 Plan. MPWUT is also taking positive
steps to strengthen its investment planning through the creation of DSP.
MPWUT was reorganized in July 1975, and one of the major aspects of that re-
organization included combining the three study bureaus formerly under DPW,
MOT, and Urban Planning, into DSP, a new department reporting directly to
the Minister. DSP will be subdivided into four divisions: (i) General Pro-
gramming; (ii) Transport Studies and Infrastructure; (iii) Urban Planning,
Architecture, and Land Use; and (iv) Administration. Its principal functions
will be the execution of economic and technical studies within the competence
of MPWUT, including transport sector surveys and determination of investment
priorities. DSP is expected among other things, to increase the coordination
of activities between DPW and DOT, and to make better use of the expertise of
available technical staff.
2.18      The Government has appointed a director for DSP, identified its
staffing requirements, and defined its areas of responsibility. It has been
agreed that DSP will assist the Minister of MPWUT in formulating and elabo-
rating transport policy, and will undertake, and supervise or coordinate as
necessary, technical and economic studies in the transport sector. In parti-
cular, DSP will be responsible for the planning and evaluation of all pro-
posed investments, including coordinating studies undertaken by other organi-
zations involved in transport, with a view to establishing an integrated
transport planning policy. The proposed project provides for the services of
four experts (a senior transport planner, two transport economist, and a road
planning engineer), each for a period of three years.  The experts' principal
tasks will include providing assistance in: (i) preparation of transport
investment projects to be executed under the Fourth Quadrennial Plan, including
advising Government on their policy implications; (ii) preparation of an inte-
grated development plan for the sector, including preparing and coordinating
MPWUT's input to the Fifth Quadrennial Plan; (iii) execution of a number of
specific studies in the transport sector; and (iv) training of local staff to
enable DSP to perform its functions without outside assistance upon termina-
tion of the above expert services (Annex 1).



- 7 -
2.19      A major outstanding transport coordination issue is defining
the appropriate future role for Railways, and ensuring a proper allocation
of traffic between road and rail. A number of aspects bearing on this issue
will be investigated by DSP, which will develop recommendations for consider-
ation by Government. In addition, technical assistance is to be provided
under the Second Railway Project to address problem areas which are internal
to railways. The Bank has discussed with the Government the need for
following up and implementing recommendations of a Bank-financed consultant
study on transport coordination (Study of the Coordination and Planning of
Inland Transport, Berenschot-Bosboom (Netherlands), September 1975), and
outstanding issues are included in DSP's terms of reference.
3. HIGHWAYS
A.   The Road Network
3.01      Senegal's road network totals about 13,300 km, largely concentrated
in the western regions (see Map). Road links with the east are limited to
a few low-standard connections, two of which run parallel to other transport
modes - the Senegal River and the Dakar-Bamako (Mali) railway. About one-
fifth of the network (2,600 km) consists of paved roads, and a further 3,300
km are all-weather gravel roads; the remainder of the system consists of
partly improved earth roads and ill-defined tracks (para. 3.02 and Table 4).
Of the total network, about 9,100 km are classified roads, i.e. their mainte-
nance and improvement is financed by the national budget. These roads are
subdivided into four categories (national, regional, departmental, and urban);
the remainder of the network is under the jurisdiction of local authorities,
whose limited financial means permit only spot improvements or minor mainte-
nance works.
3.02      Almost all the paved roads have two traffic lanes and were con-
structed to 6 m pavement width, which for some sections has been reduced by
traffic to between 5.0 and 5.5 m due to inadequate maintenance. About 50 km
of roads near Dakar, which carry especially heavy traffic volumes, have three
traffic lanes with a 9 m pavement width. Many of the paved primary roads
were built before independence; most of them are now more than 15 years old
and generally underdesigned for present traffic loadings. As highway mainte-
nance was inadequate before the start of the ongoing maintenance program, a
large proportion of the paved network is now in unsatisfactory condition,
marked by uneven surfaces, potholes, pavement cracks, ravelled edges, and
washed away shoulders. A similar situation exists in the secondary and feeder
road system, where transport on some roads is possible only during part of the
year depending on the weather conditions. This fact, combined with the in-
adequate road mileage in some regions, hampers development of rural areas.
3.03      The Government has started a program of pavement strengthening
of the most deteriorated main roads, as well as construction of feeder roads,
and it is also currently implementing a four-year program to improve road



- 8-
maintenance. The Bank Group has already played an active role in these efforts,
and will continue its assistance under the proposed Third Highway and Feeder
Roads Projects. Further contributions to the country's road program are made
by several foreign agencies, particularly FED and the African Development
Bank (ADB), as well as bilateral assistance from various Governments.
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic
3.04      The composition and growth of the vehicle fleet is shown in Table 5,
and annual road vehicle fuel consumption in Table 6. The fleet increased at
a compound growth rate 6.1% p.a. over 1963-68, then declined about 5.0% p.a.
over 1968-1973,partly as a result of reduced economic activities during the
drought period, and partly because larger trucks are replacing smaller ones.
Of the 73,000 vehicles registered in 1973, about 64% were light vehicles and
34% trucks and buses; about 60% of the fleet is used predominantly in the Cap
Vert Province. It is difficult to estimate accurately the number and compo-
sition of vehicles in the country, since statistics are known to overstate the
vehicle population as the removal of vehicles from the fleet is not always
recorded. Improvement in collecting road vehicle statistics will be one of
the tasks of the DSP.
3.05      Collection of traffic data is done by DPIJ.  Consultants Louis Berger
(US) in their 1971 road improvement and maintenance study were the first to
carry out country-wide traffic counts. Annual collection of traffic data has
been executed since 1974 on all classified roads under the four-year road
maintenance program as a basis for programming maintenance operations. Traffic
volumes are highest in the Cap Vert Province, especially in and around Dakar,
reaching an annual average of 6,000 to 10,000 vehicles per day (vpd). Traffic
decreases rapidly with distance from Dakar, averaging about 2,000 vpd on the
major road link to the east between Dakar and the city of Kaolack about 150 km
away. Traffic on the remainder of the paved road network ranges from about
50 vpd to about 1,000 vpd. Consultants have investigated future traffic
development during the preinvestment study carried out under the Second High-
way Project, and have forecast a growth rate of between 4% and 6% p.a. for
the immediate future (para. 5.04).
C.   The Road Transport Industry
3.06      The road transport industry comprises three major segments:  (i)
a modern private sector, generally with significant foreign ownership parti-
cipation; (ii) a traditional private sector of owner-drivers and small firms;
and (iii) vehicles owned by public and semi-public agencies such as the
Office National de Cooperation et d'Assistance au Developpement (ONCAD),
(Table 7). The modern sector is made up of a few large firms, generally
with new vehicles, which have their own maintenance and repair facilities,
and which carry the products of trading companies and modern businesses
(petroleum, logs, refrigerated products, etc.) at economical rates. The
traditional sector is made up of owner-drivers or small firms carrying prima-
rily groundnuts, foodstuffs, cattle, and small loads, generally in small,



- 9 -
older trucks and at low rates. Most of the income in this sector is earned
from the seasonal transport of groundnuts; off season, competition is severe
for the decreased volume of traffic. Tariffs charged by the traditional sector
appear to be uneconomic (Table 8), but are sustained by frequently over-
loading vehicles, neglecting maintenance and insurance, deferring vehicle
replacement, and frequently underpaying drivers' wages. This in turn accen-
tuates the difference between the modern and the traditional sectors, and
prevents small firms from gaining access to the more lucrative modern markets.
The industry is thus dualistic, with excess capacity in the traditional sector
(outside of the groundnut season), and at the same time there is a lack of
high quality transport, leading some trading companies to build up their own
fleets. In order to develop a program for assisting the domestic trucking
industry, DSP, with subcontracting as required, will further investigate this
issue (para. 4.07 and Annex 1).
3.07      The regulation of the road transport industry is generally satis-
factory, and is the responsibility of DOT which was created in part for this
purpose in 1963. The application of regulations does not appear to have had
any inhibiting impact on development of the industry, as evidenced by the
rapid growth of the vehicle fleet (Table 5). Vehicle licenses are quickly granted
by the Minister of MPWUT upon recommendation by DOT. In 1971, the Govern-
ment limited entry into the trucking industry to Senegalese nationals, a measure
which had the positive effect of strengthening local control of the profession.
3.08      Road transport tariffs are partly regulated and partly free; repres-
entative tariffs are shown in Table 8. Groundnut tariffs are set by ONCAD,
and vary widely according to the type of road travelled. This system appears
to adequately reflect relative differences in vehicle operating costs, travel
times, and the need to use small vehicles on poor roads. Official tariffs
tend to be respected by the traditional sector of the trucking industry only
when hauling for public and semi-public agencies. Inter-urban bus and taxi
fares are regulated, typically ranging in 1975 from CFAF 4 -18/pass-km depend-
ing on road condition. The road tariff system does not appear to have inhibited
development of the industry, and will be considered further in the above men-
tioned industry study (para. 3.06). Rail tariffs are set by Interministerial
Decree, and in some instances where there is road competition, appear to be
set lower than marginal cost. Accounting improvements are currently being
under the Second Railway Project to develop required cost data on which to
base tariff changes.
3.09      Regulations limiting vehicle weights and dimensions are satisfactory,
and specify the maximum single axle-load as 10 tons. However, the regulations
are not enforced, and a 1974 survey by consultants BCEOM showed that 3-20%
of all trucks checked were overloaded. This was particularly prevalent among
phosphate trucks travelling from Taiba to Dakar, and for sugar transport between
Richard Toll and Dakar, resulting in considerable damage to these roads.
Enforcement of axle-load egulations is considered essential in order to jus-
tify the investments in pavement strengthening under the Second and the pro-
posed Third Highway Projects. Funds were provided under the second project
to purchase weighing scales, and the Government is now in the process of
procuring and installing this equipment.



- 10 -
D.   Administration
3.10      MPWUT, through its Public Works Department (DPW), is responsible
for the administration of classified roads; local authorities are in charge
of the remainder of the network. Following MPWUT's reorganization, DPW com-
prises five divisions, one for road maintenance with a subdivision for main
roads and feeder roads, one each for new works for roads and buildings, and
a central equipment division; a central office handles administrative affairs
(Organization Chart). Construction and maintenance works done by DPW are
executed through its seven regional subdivisions, each headed by a Resident
Engineer.
3.11      There has been a shortage of experienced staff at the upper and
middle levels of DPW.  The Director and most of the Regional Engineers, tech-
nicians, foremen, and operators are Senegalese nationals, but DPlW's head office
functions are carried out primarily by 14 French engineers provided under the
French technical assistance program (Table 9).  Middle- and lower-level per-
sonnel required for the reorganization of highway maintenance operations are
secured primarily through transfer within the various subdivisions, and train-
ing of existing DPW staff. Four fellowships for DPW engineers, to be provided
under the proposed project, will alleviate the staffing situation at the upper
levels. MPWUT will also require additional personnel for the feeder roads
section created to implement the proposed Feeder Roads Project, and to fill
key positions in DSP. The Government has had difficulty in hiring qualified
personnel for engineering positions, primarily due to the relatively low scale
of Government salaries compared with those offered by private industry. Efforts
have been made to relieve the staffing situation by raising the salaries of
Government employees in 1974, but little progress has been achieved so far in
recruiting qualified local personnel.
3.12      The Government has long realized that its staffing needs can be
met only through extensive efforts in technical education. Several training
programs are now being implemented at two technical colleges (St. Louis and
Dakar), a technical university at Dakar, and a polytechnic school at Thies.
Together they will provide about 60 engineers and technical personnel annually
from 1976 onwards. In addition, training of middle-level staff required for
maintenance operations will be provided at the Center for Permanent Technical
Training as part of the four-year maintenance program financed under the Second
Highway Project. Therefore, prospects are good that MPWUT can in the near
future fill its positions with qualified local personnel, and that positions
now held by foreigners can progressively be taken over by Senegalese staff over
the coming years.
E. Financing
3.13       Highway expenditures, exclusive of foreign financing, increased
from about CFAF 2.5 billion (US$11.1 million) in FY 1971 to CFAF 3.0 billion
US$13 million) in FY 1975, an average of 3.8% p.a. (Table 10). About one-
third of the amount was used for new construction, with the remainder allocated



- il -
to maintenance and general administration. An additional CFAF 2.0 billion
(US$8.9 million) annually in new construction was financed by foreign
borrowing during FY 1970-75, with the Bank Group, FED, and ADB, the principal
sources. A Road fund, financed by an earmarked portion of fuel taxes was
established in 1953 for the financing of investments in new roads; the major
part of new road construction however is financed by external sources.
Maintenance works and administrative expenditures are financed from the
general budget.
3.14      Road-user taxes totalled about CFAF 7.8 billion (US$35 million) in
FY 1972, and account for about 10% of Government revenues, or about 14% of the
general budget. This amounts to about three times the highway budget, or al-
most double the total amount spent on roads, including the average amount of
foreign financing during the 1970-74 period. Government income from road-user
taxes consists primarily of fuel taxes (58%) and vehicle entry taxes (36%),
the remainder being taxes for vehicle registration and annual taxes (Table 11).
About 11% of total road tax revenues, consisting of 19% in fuel taxes (CFAF 7
per liter for gasoline and CFAF 5 per liter for diesel oil), are earmarked for
the Road Fund; the rest goes into the general budget.
3.15      Road-user taxes account for a significant proportion of vehicle
operating costs: for example, about 26% in the case of automobiles, 36%
for light trucks, and 30% for heavy trucks. Consultants Berenschot-Bosboom
commented that the 1972 tax structure did not always charge users in pro-
portion to their cost responsibility for the road network. In particular,
import duties favored the use of large trucks which pay only about one-quarter
of the entry taxes paid by small trucks, thus benefiting primarily the large
trucking companies. The Government has recently reported to the Bank that
the tax structure has been revised to make the rates for small and large
trucks more equitable, thereby resolving the most urgent taxation issue. As
a result, the number of small trucks being imported into Senegal has recently
increased.
F.   Engineering and Construction
3.16      Engineering studies for road construction works are carried out
either by consultants, mainly foreign, or by DPW's Bureau of Studies with
the assistance of a subdivision of CEREEQ (Centre Experimental de Recherches
et d'Etudes pour l'Equipement), soils laboratory (Laboratoire du Batiment et
des Travaux Publics, LBTP) and local consultants as subcontractors for the geo-
logical and engineering surveys (para. 3.19). The few domestic consulting
firms have as yet little experience in major civil works, and only one has
so far carried out major road design and economic studies. In 1974, a 60%
Government-owned engineering bureau (Societe Nationale des Etudes de
Developpement, SONED) was created for the purpose of executing studies relating
to the country's economic and social development; this company however is
only now in the process mf recruiting staff, and has not yet participated in
any major works. Project supervision for road construction is generally
carried out by foreign consultants, with LBTP executing the required soils
investigations. The remaining works are supervised by the regional sub-
divisions of DPW, assisted by LBTP (para. 3.19).



- 12 -
3.17      Contracts for highway projects are normally awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding. DPW's Bureau of Studies is charged with calling bids and
evaluating them. Approval and signature of contracts are the responsibility
of the National Tender Board, and either the Minister of Finance or the Prime
Minister, the latter if the contract amount exceeds US$250,000. This involve-
ment of various Government agencies, together with the time-consuming pro-
cessing procedures, usually requires about six months to one year for the
award of major contracts. This procedure has resulted in considerable cost
increases for the pavement strengthening works under the Second Highway Pro-
ject. In order to avoid similar delays under the proposed project, the Govern-
ment has started bidding procedures in mid- 1975, with bid opening expected
during the second quarter of 1976 (para. 4.15). The issue of improving Gov-
ernment procedures in contract awards, and expediting payment of contractors'
invoices, will be addressed by the technical assistance expert to be recruited
under the proposed project to study the domestic construction industry (para.
3.21 and Annex 2).
3.18      Senegal follows French design practices.  Pavement width is general-
ly 6 m with a platform width of 8-9 m. Earth and gravel roads are about 7-9 m
wide. Feeder roads are constructed 4-7 m wide, depending on traffic loads
and following recommendations by consultants employed for the various studies.
A uniform set of local design standards has not yet been established. DSP
will make the necessary investigations in this matter, and develop appropriate
standards to fit local conditions.
3.19      LBTP is charged with executing the required soils investigations
for road planning and construction supervision. LBTP has been staffed with
French engineers, under the sponsorship of the French Centre d'Experimentation
du Batiment et des Travaux Publics. In April 1975 the Government created
CEREEQ, a new research center, which incorporates LBTP (para 3.16), and which
will also be responsible for technological research and utilization of cons-
truction material. This institution is not yet fully equipped, and the pro-
posed project includes a provision for the procurement of required soil-testing
equipment (para. 4.06).
The Construction Industry
3.20      Public capital investment in transport infrastructure is expected
to total about CFAF 50 billion (US$255 million) during the period FY 1974-77.
The volume has increased at about 4.2% p.a. over 1960-1972. Capital expendi-
tures for road construction constitute about 50% of total transport infra-
structure investments, and has increased from CFAF 4.4 billion (US$20 million)
from FY 1965-69, to an expected CFAF 28 billion (US$125 million) during 1974-77
(Table 2). At present about 16 civil works contractors are engaged in major
road construction and/or overlaying of bituminous surfaces. Of these, two
companies are Senegalese-controlled and three are joint ventures of foreign
and Senegalese companies, with the foreign companies the major shareholder.
The two Senegalese-controlled companies are currently engaged in major civil
works, including the Bank-financed extension of the runway at Dakar Airport,
and the pavement strengthening program under the Second Highway Project.



- 13 -
Minor works are carried out by about 110 small and medium-sized domestic
firms The latter group is classified by Government into two categories,
according to which about 80 contractors are entitled to respond to bids of
up to CFAF 15 million, and about 30 may participate in contracts up to
CFAF 55 million. These firms are engaged primarily in the housing sector,
but also participate in water supply and drainage projects, as well as con-
struction of city streets.
3.21      Until two or three years ago, major civil works were executed
entirely by foreign contractors. Since then domestic companies have been
able to participate in this sector, and their share during the last two years
has been about 25% of the total volume. Major difficulties which have so far
hampered the development of domestic companies include: (i) lack of capital
and non-availability of long-term credit for equipment procurement; (ii)
difficulties in obtaining contracts, since the scope of many road projects
far exceeds the capacity of most domestic contractors; (iii) lack of qualified
staff experienced in modern management and construction techniques; and (iv)
time-consuming contract payment procedures by Government departments. The
Government is now showing an interest in promoting the domestic construction
industry, and has encouraged local contractors to merge and thereby increase
their capacity. Assistance is being provided in management techniques and
organization through the Government-subsidized Societe Nationale d'Etude et
de Promotion Industrielle (SONEPI), which grants limited financial assistance
for loan guarantees and equity investments. This type of assistance is how-
ever only available for the building sector and not yet for civil engineering
works. In addition, the Bank has started a DFC operation (Credit 987-SE,
US$3.0 million, FY74), which is making long-term loans available to the local
industry through the Societe Financiere Senegalaise pour le Developpement
Industriel et Touristique (SOFISEDIT), whose services are available to
domestic civil engineering contractors. Considering the above, conditions
are now favorable for strengthening the domestic construction industry.
Despite these encouraging signs, however, a major effort will still be
required to overcome the noted deficiencies of this industry. In order to
initiate action required for improving the situation, it will first be
necessary to determine in detail the particular needs of civil works con-
tractors, and secondly, to define appropriate actions and assistance required
to increase their capacity and thereby their participation in major works.
The proposed project provides technical assistance to help in this effort
(para. 4.07 and Annex 2).
G.   Maintenance
3.22      The 1971 Berger study of highway administration and maintenance
carried out under the First Highway Project stressed the need to reorganize
operations by creating within MPWUT a division for road maintenance and a
central equipment division. This would allow centralized planning of mainte-
nance operations and introduction of efficient maintenance techniques. The
study also recommended rehabilitation and expansion of DPW's equipment fleet
and training of personnel. These recommendations are being implemented under
the Second Highway Project, with technical assistance provided by consultants.



- 14 -
3.23      Execution of the above program started at the beginning of 1974.
During the first years of its implementation, the program was adversely af-
fected by slow progress in execution, rapid inflation, currency realignments
of the CFAF against the US dollar, and a higher rate of deterioration of
existing equipment than anticipated in the 1971 Berger study which formed
the basis for appraisal of the second project. This combination of factors
resulted in a shortage of about US$1.0 million in the Credit funds available
for equipment procurement. However, additional funds have been earmarked by
Government for maintenance, and significant improvements in organizing and
executing maintenance operations, equipment, and vehicle utilization have
led to an increase in efficiency. Completion of the reorganization of
maintenance operations and adequate training of DPW personnel will require
an additional 96 man-months of consulting services (including 48 man-months
of locally employed mechanics). In order to meet the objectives of the
maintenance program as originally established, the proposed project provides
financing for the required equipment and additional consulting services
(paras. 4.04 - 4.05).
3.24      Government appropriations for maintenance operating costs have
increased steadily from CFAF 710 million ($3.2 million equivalent) in 1971
to CFAE 1,025 million ($4.6 million equivalent) in 1975/76. Despite more
effective use of funds, this increase has not been sufficient to fully offset
the effect of inflation which has increased the cost of maintenance by about
50% over the same period. This matter has been reviewed with the Government
and agreement reached that CFAF 1.60 billion (7.1 million equivalent) would
be an appropriate amount for MPWUT to request under the FY 77 budget for
maintenance operations including periodic maintenance executed by contractors,
but excluding personnel. A further CFAF 250 million has been requested for
equipment renewal. Allocations for subsequent years will be adjusted to take
into account cost variations, and will reflect changes in the maintenance re-
quirements of an expanding highway network, including the cost of any addi-
tional capacity to ensure its efficient maintenance.
H.   Sector Lending
3.25      Senegal's institutions responsible for transport planning and project
execution still need strengthening to become fully effective. The Government
is committed to move in this direction and the current reorganization of MPWUT
is a major step in this effort. Bank-Group financed technical assistance under
the previous and the proposed highway projects is expected to play an important
part in helping the country reach the level of technical and administrative
efficiency required for sector lending. In particular, training through tech-
nical assistance and scholarships provided under Bank projects will help meet
the need for qualified personnel in Government services. Assistance to the
civil works industry will strengthen the country's capacity to carry out
projects in that field. The feasibility of sector lending will be explored
in detail during the preparation of the next highway lending operation, tenta-
tively scheduled for FY79.



- 15 -
4. THE PROJECT
A.   Description
4.01      The proposed project consists of:
(a) pavement strengthening of 204 km of primary roads;
(b) procurement of equipment for highway maintenance
for CEREEQ's soils laboratory, and for DSP;
(c) technical assistance to MPWUT for (i) advisory services
for promotion of the domestic construction industry;
(ii) transport planning within DSP including scholar-
ships for training of DSP personnel;
(d) consulting services for: (i) construction supervision
under item (a) above; (ii) preinvestment studies for
improvement of the Louga-Dahra road (80 km), and for
pavement strengthening of about 180 km primary roads
or other road improvements to be defined; and (iii) road
maintenance started under the Second Highway Project.
Strengthening of Paved Roads
4.02           The proposed project will provide for pavement strengthening of
75 km of roads dropped from the Second Highway Project, and for similar
works on an additional 129 km as proposed by consultants BCEOM under that
project. This item forms part of a long-term pavement strengthening program
Identified by the 1971 Berger study. Under this second phase of the rehabi-
litation program, the following nine road sections will be strengthened:
M'Bour-Thiadiaye               20.0 km /1
Thiadiaye-Fatick               34.9 km /1
N'Gath-Birkelane               20.3 km /1
Ross Bethio-Rosso              36.0 km
Rosso-Dagana                   33.5 km
M'Bayakh-Sao                   24.5 km
Cayar-Keur Moussa               8.6 km
Gapakh-Nioro Du Rip            16.0 km
N'Doffane-Gapakh               10.0 km
Total                    203.8 km
/1   Sections dropped from the Second Highway Project.



- 16 -
4.03      These roads were built about 15-25 years ago, and now carry traffic
volumes ranging between 200 and 950 vpd. Maintenance expenditures are high,
and these operations cannot arrest further deterioration. The works proposed
consist of: (i) either "heavy" improvement, comprising construction of a
new base course with a double surface treatment, or "light" improvement of
a 3 to 5 cm bituminous overlay on existing pavement; (ii) regravelling of
shoulders; (iii) improvement of drainage structures; and (iv) widening road-
way to 9 m and pavement to 6 m on sections now below these standards. Road
design is based on a maximum permissible axle-load of 10 tons.  It is expected
that resurfacing will be required after 7-8 years. A detailed description
of each of the roads and of the improvement proposed is given in Annex 3.
Extension of the Highway Maintenance Program
4.04      The proposed project component will provide for continuation of
improvement of road maintenance started under the First and Second Highway
Projects, through provision of consulting services for reorganization of
maintenance operations, and procurement of maintenance equipment (para. 3.23).
On the basis of discussions held at project appraisal with DPW and with
consultants implementing the program, it has been agreed that about US$1.0
million for equipment procurement and about 96 man-months of consulting
services, will be required. This project item will be complemented by works
under the proposed Feeder Roads Project which will include a three-year pro-
gram of improvement and maintenance of selected feeder roads. Details of
equipment to be purchased have been agreed with the Government (Table 12).
4.05      The consultants' team which is now helping DPW implement the
four-year maintenance program consists of nine experts who took up their
assignment starting end-1973. Until now, they have been primarily occupied
with (i) preparing staffing proposals for the new maintenance organization;
(ii) organizing traffic counts and outlining the annual maintenance program;
(iii) carrying out an inventory of existing equipment and procurement of new
items; (iv) introduction of a cost accounting system; and (v) training of
local personnel in modern maintenance techniques. Considering the tasks still
to be performed, especially with regard to the training of Senegalese person-
nel, the number of man-months financed under the Second Highway Project will
not be sufficient. This is due primarily to a higher than expected workload,
and also partly to slow progress on the program during the first year of
project implementation. Additional consulting services will therefore be
required for the project manager, one highway engineer and four mechanics
(two locally employed) for a total of 96 man-months.  This will continue
services of the project manager, the highway engineer and the two mechanics
already in the field by 12 months each, and partly complement the present
team by two local mechanics for 24 man-months each. The experts will be
expected to assist in: (i) planning and organizing the annual maintenance
program; (ii) supervising and training maintenance brigades in the field;
(iii) training DPW personnel in cost accounting procedures; and (iv) organiz-
ing and supervising equipment repair at the Central Equipment Division and
local workshops, and training local personnel in all these activities. Details
of the scope of consultant services have been agreed with Government.



- 17 -
Equipment for Soils Laboratory
4.06      The Research center (CEREEQ) through its soils laboratory (LBTP) is
carrying out research on utilization of construction material in addition
to executing soils investigations for road planning and construction super-
vision. The proposed project will provide for procurement of laboratory
equipment to help CEREEQ in this task. Details of items to be purchased have
been agreed with the Government (Table 12).
Technical Assistance to the Domestic Construction Industry
4.07      The proposed project will provide for technical assistance to streng-
then the capacity and competitiveness of domestic civil works contractors,
so as to increase their participation in major road works now dominated by
foreign contractors. This project component will be executed in two steps.
Under a first phase, the services of one expert will be provided for a period
of 4-6 months to evaluate the present capacity, organization, financial situa-
tion, and technical and managerial competence of domestic contractors. The
expert will also investigate Government procedures for contract award, pay-
ments, and all other relevant regulations.  Based on his findings, the expert
will outline needs in the construction sector and actions required for im-
provements.  When the details for financial assistance to the industry are
established, follow-up action by a DFC operation or by other means can then
be initiated.  The second phase could consist of experts' services for 1 to 2
man-years to help Government implement recommendations made under phase one.
This could include advisory services and training courses for domestic con-
tractors' personnel in contracting procedures, cost estimation, accounting and
cost control, and work organization, according to needs established under
phase one.   Execution of this project component in two steps will guarantee
close monitoring of the assistance provided, and will allow the Government
and the Bank to review the recommendations proposed under the first phase,
before starting implementation under the second phase. An outline of terms
of reference for the expert to be selected (Annex 2), the method of recruit-
ment, and a tentative timetable for the required services have been agreed
with the Government.
Technical Assistance to MPWUT's Directorate of Studies and
Programming
4.08      The proposed project provides for technical assistance to the
recently established DSP, in order to improve transport planning and coordina-
tion. Technical assistance consists of (i) the services of four experts for
three years, including a senior transport planner, a senior transport economist,
a highway planning engineer, and a transport economist (preferably with
experience in railway problems); (ii) the purchase of equipment for DSP; and
(iii) scholarships and training for DSP staff.



- 18 -
4.09      An outline of the experts' terms of reference, and the responsibi-
lities of DSP for transport planning and coordination, were discussed and
agreed with the Government. It was also agreed that within four weeks of
the arrival in the field of the senior transport planner and senior transport
economist, and annually thereafter during the execution of the Project,
MPWUT, in consultation with the Bank Group, will review the progress of
work to date, and will establish an annual work program for DSP specifying
the particular responsibilities to be undertaken by the technical assistance
experts. One of their major responsibilities will be to train local staff
so that DSP can function effectively without outside assistance by the com-
pletion of their assignment. It was also agreed that the Government, with
the assistance of the Bank Group, will attempt to recruit suitably qualified
experts on an individual basis; however, if their employment cannot be
reasonably ensured within three months of the date of effectiveness of the
proposed Loan, the Government will attempt to obtain the services of a
consulting firm to supply a team of experts. The Government agreed to
employ counterparts for the experts, and to nominate candidates for the
above scholarships, within three months of the date of signature of the
Loan Agreement.
Preinvestment Studies
4.10      The project also provides for a feasibility study of the Louga-
Dahra road (80 km), to be followed by detailed engineering if road improve-
ment is found economically justified. This road is at present a sand track
which runs parallel to the Louga-Dahra-Linguere railway branch line and is
now only passable for trucks and four-wheel-drive vehicles. Traffic in the
corridor presently consists of about 3,400 tons/year, plus some additional
unrecorded traffic on the rail line, as well as about 10,000-15,000 tons of
groundnuts on the Louga-Coki section. A study carried out by DOT found that
operation of the rail branch line was uneconomic. The Government is currently
providing a subsidy to the railways to compensate for this unprofitable
service, in accordance with a covenant under the Second Railway Project. The
Government has indicated that it is committed to providing transport service
in this corridor, and the proposed road feasibility study will therefore
consider the optimum design for road access to the area.
4.11      In July 1975, consultants BCEOM completed preinvestment studies
for about 228 km of pavement strengthening of primary roads as part of the
Second Highway Project. About 130 km of these roads are planned for im-
provement under the proposed Third Highway Project; the remaining 98 km
will justify improvement only after 1977. The project therefore provides for
updating the studies for these 98 km, plus an additional 80 km of new pave-
ment strengthening or for studying other road improvements to be defined.
It has been agreed that preinvestment studies will be executed by DSP and
DPW with subcontracting to consultants as required. The project provides
sufficient funds to finance works subcontracted to consultants.



- 19 -
B.   Cost Estimates
4.12      The total cost of the project including contingencies is tentatively
estimated at US$20.5 million net of taxes, of which about US$15.0 million in
foreign costs; taxes and duties are estimated at US$3.5 million equivalent,
and other local costs at US$5.5 million equivalent. Details of cost estimates
are given in Table 13 and summarized on the following page:



- 20 -
----(CFAF millions)---    ----(US$ '000)--------  Foreign
Local    Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign   Total  ComPonent
A. Pavement Strengthening
(a)  Civil Works (204km)  1,413      1,950   3,363      6,280  8,670   14,950       58
(b) Construction super-
vision                 48       146      194       215    645       860      75
Subtotal A          1,461     2,096   3,557      6,495  9,315   15,810
B. Preinvestment Studies and
Technical Assistance
(a) Studies for:
-Louga-Dahra road         20        61       81        90    270       360       75
-Pavement strength-
ening                    20        59       79        87    263       350       75
(b) Advisory service for
highway maintenance      28         85     113       125    375       500       75
(c) Technical Assistance to:
-Directorate of
Studies (DSP)            63       188      251       279    836    1,115        75
-Domestic Construction
Industry                  7        2C       27         30     90      120       75
Subtotal B            138       413      551       611  1,834    2,445
C. Equipment Procurement
(a)  Highway Maintenance      20       205      225         90    910    1,000       91
(b)  Soils Laboratory          2         20      22          9     91      100       91
(c) Directorate of
Studies                   3         28      31         12    125      137       91
Subtotal C             25       253      278       111  1,126    1,237
D.  Fellowships                   -          34       34        -      150      150     100
E,. Contingencies
(a) Physical (5% on
Item A(a)                70         98     168        314    433       747
(b)  Price Variations        326        484     810     1,450  2,150    3,600
Subtotal D            396       582      978     1,764  2,583    4,347
TOTAL A - E         2,020     3,378   5,398      8,981 1S,008   23,989        63
(rounded)                                    (9,000)X15,000)(24,000)



- 21 -
4.13      Cost estimates for civil works are based on bids received by
contractor Compagnie Senegalaise d'Entreprises (CSE) in April 1974 following
international competitive bidding for the 75 km of road sections dropped from
the Second Highway Project as stipulated in CSE's contract (paras. 4.02 and
4.15). For the remaining 129 km, costs are based on consultants' estimates
following engineering studies carried out in 1974/75 and updated for the
latter to reflect prices at January 1976. Cost estimates for about 500 man-
months of consulting services and technical assistance (including 48 man-
months of local services) are based on current unit prices applied in Senegal
and other West African countries ranging from $4,000 to $8,000 per man-month,
including all overheads. Physical contingencies for construction works are
estimated at 5% of basic construction costs, considering that quantities for
the type of works proposed can be predicted more accurately than for new
construction. Price contingencies have been calculated to take account of
the following inflation rates: (i) for the construction items, 25.6% from
March 1, 1974 to December 31, 1974, in line with data obtained in the country,
and 16% in 1975, 14% in 1976, and 12% in 1977-78; and (ii) for the other
project items, 12% in 1975, 10% in 1976, and 8% in 1977-79.
C.   Execution
4.14      MPWUT will be responsible for execution of the project, with con-
struction supervision, technical assistance, and preinvestment studies by
consultants to be selected in agreement with, and under terms and cond4tions
acceptable to the Bank. Outlines of the scope of all services have been
discussed and agreed with the Government.
Construction Works
4.15      Contractor CSE, the lowest bidder, has agreed to execute pavement
strengthening of the 75 km of roads dropped from the Second Highway Project,
on the basis of prices and conditions of its original bid received in April
1974, adjusted to take account of price increases as stipulated in CSE's
contract of December 30, 1974. International bids will be called for the
additional 129 km of the pavement strengthening program in accordance with
Bank Group guidelines. Prequalification of contractors and preparation of
specifications and bidding documents by consultants are now underway. Bidding
documents will be prepared for a single contract package divided into three
lots to allow participation of domestic contractors. Bidders will be allowed
to tender for a single lot, or for any combination of lots.  Construction
works are expected to start in September 1976, and to take about 1-1/2 years
to complete. The above arrangement, as well as a time schedule for con-
struction have been discussed and agreed with the Government.
Equipment Procurement
4.16      Equipment and spare parts for highway maintenance and for the soils
laboratory will be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding
in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. Items costing under US$10,000 may



- 22 -
be procured on the basis of quotations obtained following local procedures
acceptable to the Bank; the total amount of such purchases not to exceed
US$100,000. Separate contracts will be prepared for each type of equipment
and spare parts, or each group of similar types. Specifications will be
prepared by DPW and reviewed with the Bank. Suppliers for maintenance equip-
ment and spare parts will be required to provide adequate local after-sales
service. The above arrangements have been discussed and agreed with the
Government.
D.   Financing and Disbursements
4.17      The proposed Loan of US$15.0 million will finance the entire foreign
exchange cost of the project, representing about 63% of total project costs,
or about 73% of the total cost net of taxes. The Government will provide all
the local costs of the project.
4.18      Loan proceeds will be disbursed on the following basis:
(a) 58% of total expenditures for construction contracts;
(b) 75% of total expenditures for consulting services and
technical assistance;
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures for equipment and spare parts
or 91% of total costs; and
(d) 100% of foreign expenditures for scholarships for training
of local personnel.
Table 14 shows the estimated schedule of disbursements from the Loan Account.
Any funds remaining on completion of the project will be made available for
execution of additional items related to the objectives of the proposed
project following agreement between the Government and the Bank.
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01      The Government has embarked on a program of economic diversific-
ation through increased public investment, which emphasizes developing the
rural areas and the agricultural sector. The success of this effort will
depend in large part on extracting production and resources from every region,
for which a reliable and efficient transport system is required. The primary
purpose of the proposed project, in line with this objective, is to protect
past investments by rehabilitating and maintaining the existing highway net-
work. This is expected to reduce the uneconomic use of scarce foreign ex-
change to pay for the high cost of operating vehicles on poor roads. Tech-
nical assistance to domestic contractors is seen as an important step in



- 23 -
helping strengthen this industry, consistent with Government objectives, and
will eventually provide the country with additional domestic capacity for
executing civil works. The proposed technical assistance to DSP will provide
a needed continuation in strengthening transport planning.   It will help
ensure, among other things, the capability of MPWUT to evaluate investment
proposals, and to prepare a coordinated transport investment plan.
5.02      The economic return from proposed investments in pavement streng-
thening, quantified on the basis of vehicle operating cost savings, is esti-
mated at 30%; the benefit/cost ratio for the maintenance component, based on
an opportunity cost of capital estimated at 10%, is 1.6:1, corresponding to
a rate of return of 28%. The overall return for the project is about 30%.
Benefits from generated traffic, time savings, and accident reduction, have
been omitted from the calculation.
B.   Pavement Strengthening
5.03      The roads proposed for pavement strengthening generally serve zones
with high agricultural activity and population density, and form part of major
interregional transport routes. Important commodities carried include ground-
nuts, sugar and other agricultural products, and phosphates. Brief qualitative
economic data for each of the routes are shown in Table 15.
5.04      Traffic on the project roads is estimated to range from 200 to 950
vpd based on 7-day direct counts and 30-day mechanical counts carried out by
consultants BCEOM in January/February 1974. Traffic growth rates were fore-
cast on the basis of recent trends in traffic and economic indicators, and
the anticipated growth of GNP. The consumption of motor fuel has been grow-
ing at about 6% p.a. over the period 1968-73 (Table 6), while available
statistics on vehicle registrations and other indicators suggest slightly
lower growth rates. GDP grew an estimated 1.7% p.a. during 1967-73, but is
forecast by the Bank Group to accelerate to around 4.5% p.a. during the
remainder of the 1970s.  Traffic growth rates of 4.7%-6% p.a., forecast by
consultants BCEOM, were therefore adopted as reasonably conservative for
purposes of this analysis.
5.05      The vehicle operating costs used in the analysis are based on esti-
mates by consultants BCEOM. Vehicle operating costs on good running surfaces
vary between CFAF 21-147/km (15-105 d/m) depending on the size of the vehicle,
while operating costs on deteriorated bitumen surfaces range up to 105-145%
higher, consistent with other recent studies in West Africa (Table 16).
5.06      The economic justification for the pavement strengthening program
rests on the rapidly deteriorating condition of the roads as pavement struc-
tures approach the end of their respective service lives. The riding surface
of many sections of these roads is presently in poor condition, and cannot
economically be improved by intensified maintenance. Pavement structures
are expected to worsen to a "ruined" condition within a few years unless re-
habilitation is carried out. Such a situation would lead to very high vehicle
operating and maintenance costs for traffic still using the roads.



- 24 -
5.07      Consultants BCEOM investigated in detail two levels of pavement
strengthening, recommending "heavy" or "light" reinforcement on the basis of
anticipated traffic loadings, the present condition of the road and local
availability of materials (para. 4.03). The recommended level of rehabilita-
tion was then evaluated against the "without" alternative, consisting of
continuing a high level of recurrent and periodic maintenance on the existing
pavement without reconstruction. Anticipated vehicle operating cost savings,
and capital and recurrent expenditures, were discounted over the life of the
pavement strengthening, conservatively taken as 15 years.
5.08      The economic return from the nine sections proposed for inclusion
in the project are estimated to range from 22% to 42%, with first year
returns ranging from 10% to 29%, as shown in Table 15. The economic return
on individual links of the nine sections were generally in the same range,
with some minor exceptions, which were however retained in the project to
provide continuity to the works. The overall economic return from the pro-
posed pavement strengthening is about 30%.
Sensitivity Analysis
5.09      The various components of the economic evaluation have not been
forecast with equal reliability. The greatest risks are that: (a) vehicle
operating cost savings, traffic growth, or pavement life have been over-
estimated; or (b) the impact of inflation and/or project delays will be
greater on project costs than on project benefits. However, it is noted
that if project benefits decrease 25%, the lowest economic return on a road
section is 19%; if project costs increase 25%, the lowest return is 18%;
if traffic grows only 4% per year, the lowest return is 21%; and if the
strengthened pavement lasts only 10 years, the lowest return is 16% (Table
15). The rates of return are therefore sufficiently high, based solely on
vehicle operating cost savings, to absorb any combination of reasonably
probable adverse circumstances.
C.   Extension of the Highway Maintenance Program
5.10      The net of tax cost of the maintenance program financed under the
Second Highway Project has increased from about US$3.9 million including
contingencies (US$3.3 million in foreign costs) at the time of appraisal,
to about US$6.3 million (US$5.4 million in foreign costs) at present, due
primarily to inflation and the need to purchase additional equipment. The
maintenance program was re-evaluated to consider changes since appraisal,
which include (i) the above cost increase; (ii) the estimated 45% increase
in vehicle operating costs; and (iii) the approximately one-year delay in
project execution (para. 4.05). Traffic estimates from the original
project appraisal were adapted; costs and benefits were calculated for eight
years, the estimated average life of maintenance equipment. The combined
effects of these changes have tended to offset each other. The re-calculated
benefit/cost ratio is 1.6:1 with a 10% discount rate, corresponding to an
economic return of 28%, compared with an economic return of 31% at the time
of appraisal. The maintenance program therefore remains justified as appraised
in the Second Highway Project.



- 25 -
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations on the proposed Loan, the following items were
discussed and agreed with the Government:
(i) the role of DSP as the focal point for transport Investment
planning, and details of terms of reference and staffing
arrangements for the Directorate (paras. 2.17-2.18, 4.08-4.09,
and Annex 1);
(ii)  the annual budget over the project period FY 76/77 - FY 79/80
will include adequate allocations for road maintenance operations
and equipment renewal (para. 3.24);
(iii) consultants for construction supervision, technical assistance,
and preinvestment studies, will be selected in agreement with
and on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank; outlines
of the scope of all services have been discussed and agreed
(para. 4.14);
(iv) arrangements for the award of contracts for the pavement
strengthening program, and for procurement of equipment and
spare parts, will be on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines (paras. 4.15-4.16);
and
(v) the Government will provide all the local costs of the project
(para. 4.17).
6.02      The proposed project is suitable for a Loan of US$15 million to the
Government of Senegal for a period of 20 years, including 5 years of grace.
March 4, 1976.






Table 1
SENEGAL
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Traffic by Rail and Road in 1971
Rail         Road
Freight (millions of ton kilometers)
Domestic   -  Phosphate                   126           -
-  Other                       60           165
International - to/from Mali              136           -
- to/from Mauritania        -             75
Total                                     332           240
Commercial Passenger Traffic (millions of       247           7501'
passenger-kilometers)
1/
Does not include private automobile passenger traffic.
Source:; Directorate of Transport
July 1975.



1:'\.TVf' AT
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Actual and Planned Capital Investments in Transport, 1965-77
(CFAF billions)
1974 - 77
Initial     Readjusted       Financing
1965 - 69                 1969 - 1973          Plan           Plan          Acquired
Mode           Planned    Actual      Planned       Actual       (7/73)         (5/75)         at 5/75
Roads             7.8       4.4          9.9        n.a.           8.9           28.1            19.0
1/
Road Transport-   n.a.     n.a.          2.1        n.a.           1.6            2.0             0.4
Rail              4.3       2.8          3.4        4.2            4.4            6.3             3.5
Ports & Rivers    2.6       1.6          1.7        n.a.           4.2            8.6             3.2
Aviation          0.7       0.2          1.4        n.a.           2.5            5.9             1.3
Total          15.4       9.0         18.5        14.1 est.     21.6           50.9            27.4
1/
Includes transport studies
Note: Planned investments are as of the date the plan is published.
Source: Ministry of Planning
m
July 1975.



Table 3
SENEGAL
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Rail, Port, and Air Traffic, 1963-74
RAIL                 DAKAR PORT                   DAKAR AIRPORT
Ton -      Passenger-                              PassengeA             e
Year   Kilometers   Kilometers  a.2ports    Exports         Movements-        Air ?reJght2/
llions)          (thousands of  tons)       (thousands)    (thousands of tons)
1963     134-93/      295.0        2,085       1,015         330.7             4.1
1964     257.0        302.9        2,243       1,397         246.6             4.7
1965     276.8        291.5       2,248        1,477         114.9             4.7
1966     303.7        289.7       2,200        1,753         257.5             4.7
1967     335.5        295.2        2,691       1,451         268.4             4.5
1968     288.9        277.3        2,725       1,707         263.1             5.1
1969     332.5        291.4       2,574        1,559         271.7             5.7
1970     323.5        279.8       2,453        1,671         322.7             5.9
1971     322.2        247.0       2,553        1,858         344.0             6.4
1972     333.7        241.4       2,626        2,389         382.2             6.9
1973     362.6        227.1        3,043       2,385         483.0            10.8
1974     386.0        224.0         n.a.        n.a.         560.0             n.a.
Annual Compound
Growth Rate (%)
1963-68   16.4       -1.5          5.5          10.9         -3.6              6 1
1968-73    4.7       -3.4           2.3          6.9          7.0             16.
1/ Include arriving, departing, and transit passengers.
2/ Arriving plus departing.
_/ Mali frontier closed.
Source: Directorate of Transport
October 1975.



Table 4
SENEGAL
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Development of the Highway Network 1964-1974
(km)
1/
1964       1968        1972        1974
1. Trunk road network
Paved roads                         1,658      2,035       2,256       2,586
Engineered gravel roads               409         642        645         456
Other all-weather gravel roads    1,526        1,840       1,640       2,794
Subtotal              3,593       4,517      4,541       5,836
2. Feeder road network
Partly improved earth roads         4,926       4,474      4,480       3,285
Other earth roads and tracks
(mostly unclassified)              n.a         n_a         n.a        4,150
TOTAL                8,519       8,991      9,021      13,271
1/ Breakdown according to the new classification approved in June 1974:
Law NO 74-20 dated June 24, 1974 and Presidential Decree NO 74-718 dated
July 19, 1974.
Source: Directorate of Public Works
July 1975



.i.aDie -
SENEGAL
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Annual Vehicle Registrations, 1963-73 l/
(Units)
Passenger              Trucks and    Truck/        Special
Year       Cars       Buses       Pickups     Tractors       Vehicles      Total
1963     24,973       2,257      14,421          353          604          42,608
1964     26,802       2,376      15,107          364          637          45,286
1965     28,142       2,395      15,647          378          635          47,197
1966     29,789       2,393      16,084          412          653          49,331
1967     33,068       2,441      17,126          463           695         53,793
1968     35,965       3,337     16,910           501          684          57,397
1969     38,235       3,407      17,481          532          688          60,343
1970     40,380       3,4d5      13,078          563          691          63,197
1971     42,169       3,724      18,728          568           715         65,904
1972     44,444       4,oal      19,453          675          754          69,407
1973     47,177       4,222      20,202          767           775         73,143
Annual Compound
Growth Rate (%j
1963-68    7.6          8.1        3.2           7.3           2.5          6.1
1968-73    5.6          4.8        3.6           8.9           2.5          5.0
1/ Does not include motorcycles, or trailers and semi-trailers.
Note: Statistics are believed to overstate the size of the fleet, since the
removal of vehicles from the vehicle fleet are not always recorded.
Source: Directorate of Transport
February 1976.



Table 6
SENEGAL
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Annual Road Vehicle Fuel Consumption
(7thousands of cubic meters)
Year               Gasoline         Diesel Fuel            Total
1963                 83.8               11.3               95.1
1964                 82.5              10.6                93.1
1965                 83.1              10.6                93.7
1966                 83.2               10.6               93.8
1967                 83.3               14.5               97.8
1968                 87.9              14.6               102.5
1969                 90.4              15.0               105.4
1970                 93.0              15.7               108.7
1971                 99.5               19.6              119.1
1972                105.8              22.0               127.8
1973                109.8              28.5               138.3
Annual Compound
Growth Rate (%)
1963-68               1.0                5.3                1.5
1968-73               4.5               14.3                6.2
Source: Directorate of Transport
July 1975.



SENEGAL
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
The Privately Owned Truckinn Industa in Sene al, 1975
Region          Nur,mber of  Number of  Aggregate               Number of Firms by Number of Vehicles
Firms      Vehicles   c it            >50 l26T -    =16   25             1I - lb   b-LU   J-b    I-e
Cap Vert          23         182        2,068           -           1          1             5        3      4       9
Casamance         52    1G    0         1,093           -          -           1             2        4              49
Diourbel          24         354        4, 068          21/                    2             3        9      3       4
Fleuve             2          15          189           .          -           -             -        2
Oriental          12          92          595           -          -           2             2        4      2       3
Sin6 Saloum       90         565        4,857           1           4          3             3       14     24       38
Thies             34         147        1,505           -          -           1             1        6      9       16
'Total
benegal         247        1,515       15,175           3          6          10            19       42     48      119
1 Including one cooperative of small transporters (55 vehicles)
2/  Consisting of one cooperative of small transporters (46 vehicles)
Source: ONCAD



Table 8
SENEGAL
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Representative Road Transport Rates in 1974
(CPAF/tkm)
Paved  ------Unpaved Road-----
Road   Improved  Ordinary  Bad   Overland
Groundnutsl/
Primary (to collecting centers)    17         22        28      50        60
Secondary (to oil mill or port)-/  12         17         --     --        --
Petroleum
Gasoil, Fuel                         18       22         29      45       __
Petrol (hl)                         1.75     2.10       2.80   4.40       --
General Cargo
Modern Truckers                       9       12         --      --       __
Small Operators                     3-5        7         __     __        __
1/ Tariffs regulated by ONCAD.
2/ The corresponding rail tariff averaged 8.5 CFAF/tkm at FY1973.
Source:  Offical Rates and mission enquiries.
October 1975.



Table 9
SENEGAL
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Personnel of the Directorate of Public Works in 1974/75
Employed at
Subdivisions
or other
DPW     External
On Duty             Dakar   Services
Engineers                             221/               14         8
Highway technicians                   61                 24        37
Draftsmen                             73                 21        52
Foremen                               41                  -        41
Mechanics and Helpers                824                  -       824
Drivers and Operators                401                  3       398
Gang Leaders                          73                  -        73
Clerks, secretaries                  253                  8       245
Total                1,748                  70    1,678
1/ Including 14 engineers provided by French bilateral aid.
Source: Directorate of Public Works
July 1975.



SENEG-AL,
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Annual Highway Expenditures 1! 1970/71-1975/76
CFAF million
----------- ~Personnel --------------
Operating Costs
Operating Costs      for Subdivisions                     General Administration
Year    for Maintenance 2/  andCentral Workshop  Maintenance    and Overhead 3/              Construction 4/ Total
1970/71       710                  166                 559               610                     450          2,482
1971/72       726                  165                 553               602                     450          2,515
1972/73       686                  156                 573               565                     549          2,518
1973/74       776                  134                 402               414                     730          2,462
1974/75       891                  121                 496               503                   1,000          3,002
1975/76     1,025                  129                 n.a. 5/           n.a. 5/               1,320          n.a.
1/ Excluding urban roads and external financing
2/ Including maintenance works undertaken by contract
3/ For DPW, including building and new construction
4/ Financed from Road Fund
5/ Not separately available
6/ Including procurement of equipment
Source: DPW and BCEOM report.
March 1976.



SENEGAL
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road User Taxes at 1972
Major Taxes    Predominant
Tax Group            Percentage of Total    Included         Tax Base                           Comment
(FY 72)
Entry Taxes                   35.6            Import Duty    c.i.f value       The sum of the taxes generally range from
Customs Duty   of imported       51 to 71% of c.i.f. value; except most
Statistical Tax   vehicle        heavy trucks which until recently were
Purchase Tax                     taxed at about 16% of c.i.f. value
Turnover Tax                     (para.3.15).
vehicle
Registration Fees              1.6            Registration   horsepower        Tax generally paid only once.
Change of                        Horsepower not well correlated with vehicle
Residence                      value or use.  Does not provide sufficient
Loan Tax                         statistical information on size and
composition of vehicle fleet.
vehicle
Annual Tax                     2.8            Annual Tax     horsepower        Receipts allocated to local government;tax
collections may be about 50% of potential
revenues.
Fuel Tax                      58.1            Specific Tax   liter             About 19% of these receipts are allocated
Refinery Tax                     to the road fund.
Entry Tax
Vehicle Licenses               1.9            Vehicle        vehicle capacity Tax regressive relative to vehicle
Licenses     plus lump sum.   capacity; transport on own account partly
exempt.
100.0
Note:  Includes taxes which, through their rates or application, are specific to road users.
Source:  Berenschot-Bosboom and mission estimates.                                                                          F-
October 1975



Table 12
SENEGAL
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Equipment needs for Maintenance Program and Soils Laboratory
Costs (CFAF million)
A)  Maintenance                                     Unit        Total c.i.f.
Equipment type                  Number          Price       Cost (Dakar)
Bulldozer 180/200 CV              3             25.0          75.0
Grader 120/140 CV                 5             12.0          60.0
Dump Trucks, 6m3                  5              6.0          30.0
Service Cars                     10              1.2          12.0
Service trucks                   10              3.3          33.0
Total Cost                          210.0
Initial stock of spare parts         15.0
225.0
B) Soils Laboratory
Equipment for:
Triaxial Test                     1              6.0           6.0
Seismic Soil Test                 1              3.0           3.0
Standard Penetration Test         1              2.0           2.0
Compressive Strength Test         1              3.0           3.0
Los Angeles Test                  1              1.0           1.0
Auscultator                       1              2.4            2.4
Density Meter                     1              1.0           1.0
Storage Facilities for
Soil Samples                  1              3.0           3.0
21.4
Source: MPWUT and consultants' report.
February 1976.



Table 13
SENEGAL
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
---- CFAF million ----    ------us$   00ooo      -    Foreign
I.  CAPITAL COSTS                             Local   Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total   Component
A.  Pavement Strengthening
(a) Civil Works
M'Bour-Thiadiaye       (20km  )         94       130      224      419      578      9971/
Thiadiaye-Fateck       (34.9km)        228       316      544    1,016   1,404   2,4201/
N'Gath-Birkelane       (20.3km)        111       152      263      492      678   1,1701/
Ross Bethio-Rosso    (36.0km)          287       395     682    1,273   1,757   3,0302/
Rosso-Dagana           (33.5km)        245       339      584    1,091   1,506   2,5972/
M'Bayakh-Sao           (24.5km)        206       284      490      916   1,264   2,1802/
Cayar Keur Mussa       ( 8.6km)         68        95      163       304     420      7242/
Gapakh-Nioro Du Rip  (16.0km)          110       151      261      487      673   1,1602/
N'Doffane-Gapakh       (10.Okm)         64        88      152      282      390      6722/
(203.8km)    1,413    1,950    3,363   6,280   8,670  14,950              58
(b)  Construction Supervision           48       146      194      215      645      860         75
Subtotal A                 1,461    2,096    3,557   6,495   9,315  15,810
B. Preinvestment Studies and
Technical Assistance
(a)  Preinvestment Study for:
(i)  Louga-Dhara road;            20        61        81       90     270      360         75
(ii) Pavement strengthening       20        59        79       87     263      350         75
(b)  Advisory service for
Highway Maintenance               28        85       113      125      375     500         75
(c)  Technical Assistance to:
(i)  Directorate of Studiec       63       188       251      279     836   1,115          75
(ii) Domestic Constructior
IndustrY                       7       20       27        30       90     120          75
Subtotal B                138      413      551       611   1,834   2.445
C.  Equipment Procurement
(a)  Highway Maintenance                20       205     225        90      910   1,000          91
(b)  Soils Laboratory                    2        20      22         9       91      IOn         91
(c)  Directorate of Studies             3        28       31        12      125     137         91
Subtotal C                 25       253      278       111   1126   1,237
D.  Fellowships                            --        34       34        --      150      150       100
, Contingencies
(a)  Physical (5% on Item A (a))       70        98      168       314      433     747
(b)  Price Variations                 i26       484    89n    1,45n   2,150   3,600
Subtotal D                396      582      978    1,764   2,583   4,347
GRAND TOTAL            2L020    3.378    5,398   8
(Rounded)                                     (9,.000) (15.000)(24,000)
CFAF (Million)
II.  RECURRENT COSTS                            1976177       1977/78        lQ7817Q      197Q/Rn
Equipment renewal                            250           345            395          455
Operating Costs                              900         1,240         1,425        1,640
Periodic Maintenance by Contractora          7nO           805           925        1 ,n F
1/  Costs as stipulated in CSE's contract, based on April 1974 prices (opening of bids).
2/ Consultants estimate, updated to January 1976 prices.
Source: DPW, consultants' and mission estimates,
and contractor offer (see para. 4.14).
February 1976



Table 14
SENEGAL
THIRD HIGHWAY PPOJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                                      Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter Ending                                    at end of Quarter
(US '000)
1975/76
June 30, 1976
1976/77
September 30, 1976                                          2,000
December 31, 1976                                           4,000
March 31, 1977                                              6,000
June 30, 1977                                               8,000
1977/78
September 30, 1977                                         10,000
December 31, 1977                                          12,000
March 31, 1978                                             14,000
June 30, 1978                                              14,200
1978/79
September 30, 1978                                         14,500
December 31, 1979                                          14,600
March 31, 1979                                             14,700
June 30, 1979                                              14,800
1979/80
September 30, 1979                                         14,900
December 31, 1979                                          15,000
Source: Consultants and mission estimates.
March 1976.



SENEGAL
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation of StrengtheninR Paved Roads
M'bour -    Thiadiaye       N'gath -  Ross Bethio        Russo -    M'Bayakh          Kayar -    Gapakh -         N'Doffane
Parameter                                    Units      Thiadiave   - Fatick    Birkelane        - Rosso         Dagana    - Noto Sao    Keur Mossa   Nioro Du Rip   - Gapakh
Length of Subproject                                    km           20.0         34.9          20.3         36.0            33.5         24.5          8.6            16.0             10.0
Traffic
1974 - trucks                                      AADT        160          160             90           70             70           40            40             60                60
- other                                      AADT         790          790           440          270            290           160          320             370              370
- total                                      AADT        950           950           530          340            360           200          360            430               430
1987 - total                                       MDT        1770         1770            960          730            770          430           770            830               830
growth rate                                        % p.a.        4.9          4.9            4.7          6.0            6.0           6.0          6.0            5.2               5.2
Pavement Condition (by section)                                      poor/       poor/        poor/         poor/           poor/                     poor/          poor/
At 1974                                             --         average    average        average       average        average       average      average       average            average
Ruined Condition expected in:                      year        1975-78    1975-78        1975-77       1975-78        1975-78       1975-79      1975-77       1975-79            1977-79
1/
Construction Cost
Financial                                     CFAF Millions    289           702           340          678             580          487          162            259               151
Economic                                      CFAF Millions    234           569           275          549            470           394          131            210               122
Maintenance Cost
1974 actual                                  CFAF Millions      n.a.        n.a.           n.a.           7.7            4.1           6.1          0.9            2.8               2.8
With Project - 1980                           CFAF Millions    21.3          21.3          14.7          16.8             6.7         10.9          4.1             4.9              4.9
2/
Annual VOC Savingss
1977                                         CFAF/vkm           5.9           5.9          10.2          7.4           13.9          22.0         18.6           13.2               6.6
1987                                         CFAF/vkm           19.1         18.5          30.0         23.0           44.6          50.4         50.6           40.9              20.4
First Year Return                                 Percent            29           12            17           12              14           13           20            20                 10
Economic Return
Best Estimate                                 Percent           4_           32             30           26             31            24           33            35                 22
Costs Increase 25%                            Percent           36           26             25           22             26            19           26            29                 19
Benefits Decrease 257                         Percent           34           23             24           21             25           19            27            28                 18
Traffic Grows 4% p.a.                         Percent           41           30             28           23             28            22           29            33                21
Project Life 10 years                         Percent           40           *29            24           20             26           20            30            32                16
-- - - - -- --- -- -- - - - - - -- - -- - -- --- -- - _-- -- --- - - -- - - - -- - - -- - - _--- -- - - -- -- -- - ---- - -- - - -   -- _ __- -- - _ ___- - - __ _ _- - -
Economic Role                                                       Primary east-west travel corridor   Primary road link between  Intraregiosal trade;                 Primary road link to
in Senegal; interreei-nal and          Senegal River Valley and   collection of produce            Casamance; inter-
international trade; link with         St. Louis/Dakar; sugar        and fish for Dakar            regional trade; prodoce
Casamance (M'bour-FEtick); ground-  transport; produce               marketing area;phosphate    collection.
nut and produce collection.            collection.                   transport; access to
proposed port at Kayar.
l/Includes project supervision and physical contingencies.
2/Based on vehicle operating costs in Table 16.
Note:  Costs at 3/31/75 price level; project life 15 years. For purposes of evaluation rehabilitation was assumed to take place in 1976, with improved road opened in 1977.
Source:  BCEOM and Mission
November 1975                                                                                                                                                                                       1



THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Economic Vehicle Operating Costs on Paved Roads
(CFAF/fm net of tax at April 1975 prices)
Medium Bus           Light Truck       Heavy Truck
Light Vehicle       (Mercedes 4o6-D,   (Berliet L-62,    (Berliet GLR-8,           Articulated Truck
Road Condition          (Peugeot I04)            25 seats)            8 tons)           11 tons)              (20 tons)
Excellent/Good              21.1                49.                   68.3               95.9                  146.7
Average                    26.4                 56.4                  78.5              110.2                  168.9
Poor                        37.8                 72.6                 99.8              139.9                  214.2
Ruined                      49.7               119.6                 142.0              199.4                  305.1
Source:   BCEC and Mission estimates.
ztober    1975
H
oa



ANNEX 1
Page 1
SENEGAL
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for Experts to be Attached
to the Directorate of Studies and Programming (DSP)
1.        MPWUT, in consultation with the Bank Group will establish an annual
work program for DSP within four weeks of the arrival in the field of the
senior planner and senior transport economist (and each year thereafter) which
will specify the particular responsibilities to be undertaken by the techni-
cal assistance experts. DSP's work program will be initially concentrated
in three areas:
(a) Preparation of projects to be executed under the Fourth
Quadrennial Plan, including advising MPWUT on all transport
investments proposed during this planning period, and their
implications for transport policy in Senegal.
(b) Determining transport.demand during the period 1976-82,
and preparing an integrated development plan for the
transport sector, including preparing and coordinating
MPWUT's input to the Fifth Quadrennial Plan.
(c) The preparation or supervision of other special studies
for the transport sector inlcuding:
(i) The preparation of an annual road investment plan,
including recommendations for the program for
improving and maintaining feeder roads. DSP will
study and make recommendations on the optimum
level of expenditure on highway investments, within
the framework of plan preparation and in the light
of the forecasts of traffic demand and modal dis-
tribution and after taking account of the need to
assure full provision for annual maintenance
requirements and equipment renewal consistent with
the total resources available for transport investment;
(ii) A study on the transport of agricultural products;
(iii) An investigation of ways to assist the development
of the road transport industry;



ANNEX 1
Page 2
(iv)  Advice to MPWUT on improving the system of
transport statistics;
(v) Updating road vehicle operating costs;
(vi) Recommending a national code of uniform road
design standards;
(vii)  Defining measures for assuring the long term
financial viability of Senegalese Railways;
(viii)  Evaluating the impact of feeder road improve-
ments to be financed under the proposed Feeder
Roads Project.
2.        The experts will be employed in regularly established posts with-
in MPWUT. In addition to their technical functions, they will be expected
to train Senegalese staff, in particular their immediate counterparts, in
order to permit DSP to exercise its functions without the assistance of
outside experts by the completion of their three year assignment.



ANNEX 2
SENEGAL
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for an Expert to Assist in
Promotion of the Domestic Construction Industry
PHASE ONE:
Under Phase One, expected to require 4-5 man-months, the expert
will, in close coordination with DPW:
(i) investigate present laws and Government procedures relevant
to the public works sector, particularly with regard to
prequalification of constractors, bidding, and award of
contracts; payment procedures of contractors' invoices;
present and future supply and demand of civil engineering
works;
(ii) investigate the development and present status of the
construction industry with regard to contractors' financial
situation, availability of capital and credit, inventory
of equipment and staff, subcontracting activity presently
available technical assistance and any other data required
to evaluate the industry;
(iii) prepare a report on a proposed strategy, and a detailed
action program required to promote the domestic construction
industry in the civil works sector in particular to
training and financial requirements of domestic contractors;
(iv) propose Terms of Reference for an expert required for
technical assistance under Phase Two, if the need for such
services is established under Phase One.
PHASE TWO:
Terms of Reference for expert required to assist in implementation
of above action program, which could consist of an advisory service for 1
to 2 man-years as established under Phase One, will be agreed between the
Bank and the Government following completion of Phase One.



SENECAL                                         Annex 3
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Description of Paved roads to be strengthened
Age      Average        Average                                       Economic
Section       Length       Traffic       of        Existing      Existing      Proposed Improvement            First Year
Volume        Pave-    Pavement       Road                                          Rate of
ment     Width          Width                                         Return
(km)        (vpd)         (year)    (m)            (id)                                           (S)
' Bour-
Thiadiaye         20          950           23         6                        (i) leveling with bitu-             29
minous gravel plus Scm
carpet of aspthalt concrete,
at some sections execution of
a 15cm or 25cm cement stabi-
lized base course plus double
surface treatment;
(ii) improvement of drainage
facilities; (iii) regravelling
of shoulders.
Thiadiaye-
Fateck            34.9        950           22         6                        (i) leveling with bitu-             12
winous gravel plus 5cm
carpet of asphalt concrete,
at some sections execution of
a 20cm cement stabilized base
course plus double surface
treatment; (ii) improvement of
drainage facilities; (iii) re-
gravelling of shoulders.
U'CGtch-
Birkelane         20.3        530           11         6                        (1) leveling with bitu-             17
minous gravel plus 5cm
carpet of asphalt concrete,
at some sections execution of
a 15 cm cement stabilized base
course plus double surface
treatment; (ii) improvement of
drainage facilities; (iii) re-
gravelling of shoulders.
lose Bethio
Rosso             36.0        340           12          5.0-5.50  7.0-8.50    (i) increasing road width             12
to 9X; (ii) execution of a
15cm or 25cm cement stabilized
base course plus double surface
treatment; (iii) improvement of
drainage facilities; (iv) regra-
velling of shoulders.
lasso-
DagSS             33.5        360           11         5.0-5.50  7.5-8.50    (i) increasing road width              14
to 9X; (ii) execution of a
15cm or 25cm cement' stabilized
base course plus double surface
treatment; (iii) improvement of
drainage facilities; (iv) regra-
velling of shoulders.
K'lajack-
Sao               24.5        200           13             5.0    7.0-9.0       (i) increasing road width           13
to 9m; (ii) execution of a
12cm or 18cm cement stabilized
bane course plus double surface
treatment; (iii) improvement of
drainage facilities; (iv) regra-
welling of shoulders.
Kayar-Keur
Musssa             8.6        360           24             6.0    8.0-8.5       (1) increasing road width           20                                         a
to 9m; (ii) execution of a
20cm cement stabilized base
course plus double surface treat-
ment; (iii) improvement of
drainage facilities; (iv) regra-
velling of shoulders.
Gapack-Nioro
Dnu  ip           16.0        430           23             6.0    9.0-9.5       (i) increasing road width           20
to 9m; (ii) execution of a
25cm cement stabilized base
course plus double surface treat-
ment; (iii) improve,ent of
drainage facilities; (iv) regra-
velling of shoulders.
N'Dofffane-
Capack            10.0        430                          6.0    9.0-10.0    (i) increasing road width              10
to 9m; (ii) execution of a
20cm cement stabilized base
course plus doutble surface treat-
sent; (iiI) irprovement of
drainage fac ilctes; (iv) regra-
welling of shoulders.



SENEGAL
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS,
URBAN DEVELOPMENT AND TRANSPORT
MINISTER OF PUBLIC WORKS
URBAN DEVELOPMENT AND                            CABINET
TRANSPORT
GENERAL ;;
RSECRETE R O
ADMINISTRATION                    DIRECTOR OF                   STU                       DIRECTOR OF
P ERSONNEL AND               URBAN DEVELOPMENT                  PRGAMING                  TRANSPORT               PARKS AND
4~~~~~~~~~~ETA                                                           BUEA OF  E           TRANSPORT AND|                                                  ;
PLANNING            INFRASTRUCTURE        FARCHITECUE                 AMNSRTO
::                                              ~~~~~~~~~~        ~       ~~DIRECTOR OFr
sa.m.......Iu.mIhIISIhI   BUILDING DIVISION                    PUBLIC WORKS                      C RAL EUIPMENT
DEPUTY IRECTOR
NEW WOR KS ~ ~~~~~~~~~RADMAINTENANCE                                                MAIN ROADS
DIVISION                   SUBDIVISION 
]                                    Ll  ~~~~~~~~~~FEEDER ROADS   "f
DIVISNSUBDIVISION
CAP VERT              FLEUVE                  THIES               DIOURBEL              SINE SALOUM            CASAMANCE             EAST SENEGAL
DAKAR               ST LOUIS                                                            KAOLACK               ZIGUINCHOR            TAMBACOUNDA
Subdivisions          Subdivisions:          Subdhvision:           Subdiv,s,ons:         Subdovis-ons            Subd,v,s,ons:        Subdivisions
Dakor  St. Lna~~~~~~~~s     Thies ~~~~Diourbel  -Sb,ilo-Sb~~,n:                                                      Sbi,nn
Dakar                St. Lou s               Thies                  L,nguueree            Kaolack                Ziguinchor            Tambacounda
Rufisque              Natam                                         L                     Fatick                  Bignona              Bakel
Richard Toll                                                        Roungonul              Kolda                 Kedougou
I   _      I      [         +                  m              [         m                   S                       S                     3I  I 
Dakar          ~~~~SI. Louis            Thties               Dorhe                   Kaloc                 ZiaorTa hced
Dakar       ~~RegionalI Workshop    ReinlWrso               e a       shpGa
Garage               Richard Toll        ReinlWrso              eIonlWRkShoaaeGrg                                                    einlWro
GarageThs
Iothr IsetoCentral InspectionSotenIsetnI
,I d 1,.   1,279.1






7                          _          |               _                            g               ; r- >   - -                           -~7 
SENEGAL6                                                                                 M    A    U    R   I   T   A    N wI   A                                                 Spts Suir J                   tei           Lby.
S E N  E G A  L               fX             t rO~~~ N-olo<iOl                                                                                                         -   fl
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT                                               \
MAIN ROAD NETWORK                                                                                                                                                                                         |
_PAVED ROADS TO BE STRENOTHENED UNDER PRO9 CT                             RP-,cbo   o                                                                                                USI'GAL by M-
-   -PREINVESTMENTSTUDIESUNDERPROJECT                                                                                                                                            O ,R6--               ,      ' IL
-----ROADS STRENGTHENED UNDER CREDIT366                     5bGuin                                                                                                                                   -- G        (i
PAVED ROADS                             [iG                                                                                                                                                                     Ne -, 11
PAVED ROADS UNDER CONSTRUCTION                                                                 ,                                                                                               R WbR
GRAVEL ROADS
-EABT ROAE55                                                                                                                                                                    A/Jo eo                     DoaaeE           A- 
t-+--H--I RAILROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                       o m_oX./-  
hlYEhSIv// Telp    +   igsa                                  AzOr9                      \ -            - Ourossogu  ,'
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES     /    0                      ki\ _.                                                                                                                                          j.r 
D.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
AAboro-s-Mi/ ik                 D- M.aV ~t\                                                                                                oerwy  I                / setibaby 
/=Mboro IA=rane\Darou                      BAou1tY                                                                                                                               I
N'D-lb~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
D.- ~ ~      ~        ~        ~       ~        -  
MIRkyB5dI  IRyr     ouoo  n      ABobo-GokoBR        Nd,ndy       ODarOu Bogo                      'Ba6r
OAfKARv OfI5       n     bNoro 0N        'dd /00e/ oDorgol CloVeor6                                                                                                                \                                   ofl
0                                                                 B.f.]~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBd' 
N'D ~ ~   ~         ~          ~         ~        ~         ~        ',reoob e    i,/hday  / Doho     _ i Druc\                                           dI rb
A  t L ANtIC                                                                                              L  Ftck>>twlgmHdrDt--9oeI/fi+L
8,k~~~               K.f.1~                                 dOl dSry                                         oog
-14-           O C E A Nr   S4 3    >                                      z u  g 9'                                                            t t   r                 /                          3 Noo
U'I 20  3D   4    US  AS  C7   Mnoo IN n                                   UK
t  tO 20 30 40 5O r 7iO eo 90  l   ,;    C7 g_   _ X > _   rinn                                                                                                edougpu  . ~~~~~~~~0  So-,          ni W 
G                                                 BydS GIe
OB-t~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~i'
-u'--                                                                                ug-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V31 
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I0



