CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1222 SE
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Third Highway Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated March 31, 19T6


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 31, 1976, between REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RE-
CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said Gen-
eral Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the
Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the con-
text otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MPWUT" means the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works,
Urban Development and Transport (Ministere des Travaux Publics, de
l'Urbanisme et des Transports), organized pursuant to the Borrower's
Decree No. 75-829 of July 23, 1975;
(b) "DPW" means "Directorate of Public Works (Direction des
Travaux Publics)", a directorate operating within MPWUT;
(c) "DSP" means "Directorate of Studies and Programming
(Direction des Etudes et de la Programmation)", a directorate op-
erating within MPWUT pursuant to the Borrower's Arrete Ministgriel
No. 454 of January 16, 1976.


﻿-3-
(d) "Second Highway Project" means the Project provided for
and described in the Development Credit Agreement (Second Highwaky
Project), dated April 9, 1973, between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, as amended; and
(e) "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower.


﻿14
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifteen million
dollars ($15,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
goods, works and services (other than consultants' services) for
the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall
be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1980 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per


﻿*                            -5-
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-
annually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
e


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project through
its MPWUT with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate financial, administrative and engineering practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, ser-
vices and other resources required for the purpose. Part D of the
Project shall be carried out in liaison with the Ministry of Indus-
trial Development and Environment.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in the
supervision of the works under Part A of the Project, and in the
carrying out of Parts B.1, D, E and F of the Project, the Borrower
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall assign local counterparts to aforesaid
consultants required in the carrying out of Parts B.1 and E of the
Project, in such number and with such qualifications and experience
as shall be required.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.


﻿-7-
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, all goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be used
exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract
documents and construction and procurement schedules for the Proj-
ect, and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto,
in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all
such action as shall be necessary to acquire, as and when needed
all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required
for carrying out the Project.


﻿ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making loans
to, or with the'guarantee of, its members not to seek, in normal
circumstances, special security from the member concerned but to
ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over its
loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member.
To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public assets (as
hereinafter defined), as security for any external debt, which will
or might result in a priority for the benefit of the creditor of
such external debt in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall other-
wise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and
ratably secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on,
the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or permitting the creation
of such lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided,
however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason such
provis-on cannot be made with respect to any lien created on assets
of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, the Bor-
rower shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any lien
created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as
security for payment of the purchase price of such property; and


﻿(ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking transac-
tions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or operat-
ing for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such subdi-
vision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or ex-
change stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause its road network and
its road maintenance equipment to be adequately maintained.
Section 4.04. Without any limitation upon the generality of
the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
allocate out of its annual budgets sufficient funds to provide for
the current maintenance of its highway network and the necessary
renewal of its highway maintenance equipment.
S


﻿- 10 -
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower shall entrust DSP with general
responsibility for the programming, the coordination and the eco-
nomic and technical evaluation of proposed investments in the
transport sector;
(b) The Borrower shall cause DSP to carry out its activities
in accordance with a work program acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall ensure that the traffic rules
and regulations relating to vehicle dimensions, weights and speeds
are appropriate to the geometric and structural standards of its
highway system and shall take all necessary action to implement and
enforce such traffic rules and regulations.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall: (i) maintain a road inventory;
(ii) collect in accordance with appropriate statistical methods and
procedures such technical, economic and financial information as
shall be reasonably required for proper planning of maintenance,
improvements, and extensions of its highway system; and (iii) fur-
nish to the Assoc-Iation such information in respect thereof as the
Association shall reasonably request.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date July 29, 1976 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Ministre charge des Finances of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances et des Affaires Economiques
Rue Charles Laine
Dakar
S9n4gal
Cable address:
MINIVINANCES
Dakar
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 13 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the city of Dakar,
Republic of Senegal, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
by /s/ Babacar Ba
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works               8,650,000          58%
under Part A
of the Project
(2) Equipment and             1,100,000          100% of foreign
spare parts                                 expenditures or
under Parts B.2,                            91%
C and E.3 of the
Project
(3) Consultants'              2,500,000          75%
services under
Parts A, B.1, D,
E.1 and F of the
Project
(4) Scholarships under          150,000          100% of foreign
Part E.2 of the                             expenditures
Project
(5) Unallocated               2,600,000
TOTAL     15,000,000


﻿1  15-
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other than
the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the territory
of any country other than the Borrower; provided, however, that if
the currency of the Borrower is also that of another country from
the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be
"foreign expenditures".
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance
with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall be
disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importa-
tion, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if
the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases or increases,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item as required to
be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1 above,
if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Loan
then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance the
agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the Bank


﻿-16 -
may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category,
to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds
of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category and which
in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures,
and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated short-
fall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procure-
ment of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Bank
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right,
power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's rea-
sonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following:
Part A:   Pavement strengthening of about 204 km of primary roads
as listed in Exhibit I to this Schedule, as such Exhibit
may be amended from time to time by agreement between the
Borrower and the Bank.
Part B:   The improvement of highway maintenance by:
1.   The reorganization of DPW's highway maintenance and
equipment repair operations and the training of
DPW's personnel.
2.   The procurement and utilization of equipment for
DPW's road maintenance.
Part C:   Assistance to the Centre exp4rimental de recherches et
d'Studes pour l'kuipement (CEREEQ) by the procurement
of equipment.
Part D:   Assistance to the domestic civil works industry by
evaluating said industry's capacity and organization
and determining the steps required for its strengthening,
including the extent of the training to be provided to
domestic civil works contractors, and the carrying out
of said training to the extent required.


﻿-18-
Part E:   Assistance to DSP within the scope of its responsibilities
in view of transport planning and coordination, namely
by:
1.   The provision of expert's services;
2.   The provision of scholarships;
3.   The procurement of equipment.
Part F:   Preinvestment studies concerning:
1.   the improvement of the Lougha-Dahra road (about
80 km).
2.   the pavement strengthening of about 180 km of
primary roads to be selected in agreement with
the Bank, or such other operations as may be
agreed with the Bank.
T            e                *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1979.


﻿-19-
EXHIBIT I TO SCHEDULE 2
Primary Roads Included
in Part A of the Project
Sections of Primary Roads               Approximate Length (km)
M'Bour-Thiadiaye                                  20.0 km
Thiadiaye-Fatick                                  34.9 km
N' Gath-Birkelane                                 20.3 km
Ross Bethio-Rosso                                 36.0 km
Rosso-Dagana                                      33.5 km
M'Bayakh-Sao                                      24.5 km
Kayar-Keur Moussa                                  8.6 km
Gapakh-Nioro Du Rip                               16.O km
N'Doffane-Gapakh                                  10.0 km
TOTAL                             203.8 km


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
August 1, 1981                                     255,000
February 1, 1982                                   265,000
August 1, 1982                                     280,000
February 1, 1983                                   290,000
August 1, 1983                                      305,000
February 1, 1984                                    315,000
August 1, 1984                                      330,000
February 1, 1985                                    345,000
August 1, 1985                                      360,000
February 1, 1986                                    375,000
August, 1, 1986                                     390,000
February 1, 1987                                   405,000
August 1, 1987                                      425,000
February 1, 1988                                    440,000
August 1, 1988                                      460,000
February 1, 1989                                    48o,ooo
August 1, 1989                                      500,000
February 1, 1990                                   520,000
August 1, 1990                                      545,000
February 1, 1991                                    565,000
August 1, 1991                                      590,000
February 1, 1992                                   615,000
August 1, 1992                                     640,000
February 1, 1993                                   670,000
August 1, 1993                                     695,000
February 1, 1994                                   725,000
August 1, 1994                                      755,000
February 1, 1995                                   790,000
August 1, 1995                                      820,000
February 1, 1996                                   850,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿-21-
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                          1-1/4%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                          2-1/2%
More than six years but
not more than eleven
years before maturity                    4-1/2%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                    6-3/4%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years before maturity                    7-1/2%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                          8-1/2%


﻿- 22 -
ST'CREDULE 4
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   Except as provided in paragraph 2 hereunder, goods, works and
services shall be procured under contracts to be awarded in accor-
dance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.   (a) Bidders for the works included in Part A of the Project
shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of
the Guidelines.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions included in the foregoing
paragraphs of this Schedule the Bank will accept, pursuant to the
provisions of subparagraph (d) of paragraph 4.2 of the Guidelines,
that contracts for the procurement of civil works required for
pavement strengthening of the M'Bour-Thiadiaye, Thiadiaye-Fatech
and N'Gath-Birkelane roads under Part A of the Project may be placed
with a contractor who carried out or is carrying out similar works
under the Second Highway Project under international competitive
bidding, provided:
(i)       that the terms and conditions of negotiated con-
tracts are acceptable to the Bank, and in particular
that the prices (1) take into account the previous


﻿1                                      - 23-
contract with said contractor for similar works,
and (2) compare reasonably with prices which are
obtained for similar works after competitive
bidding; and
(ii) that any draft contract and any other document
relevant thereto which the Bank shall request
will be submitted to the Bank for review and
approval prior to making any award of contract
or issuing any letter of intent.
(c) Identical or similar goods shall be grouped whenever
practicable for the purpose of bidding and procurement.
(d) Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A hereof, the Bor-
rower may procure goods estimated to cost less than $10,000 equiv-
alent per unit on the basis of quotations obtained in accordance
with local procedures acceptable to the Bank, to the extent that
the aggregate amount of items so procured and financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall not exceed $100,000 equivalent.
(e) Suppliers of road maintenance equipment shall be required
to provide adequate after-sales service and supply of spare parts
in Dakar.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, (ii) customs


﻿24 -I
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically-supplied gods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other ex-
penditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their
use or installation shall be included.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before quali-
fication is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure to
be followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure
as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified
bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications and of
the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification
shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for its comments
before the applicants are notified, and the Borrower shall make
such additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said
list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent
of $10,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the


﻿-25-
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on th,e award is made, inform the
Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its
review, a detailed report, on the evaluation and comparison of the
bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended
award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such deter-
mination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and approval and prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution
and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first application


﻿- 26-                                    S
for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other infor-
mation as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.


