             Document of
         The World Bank




                                     Report No: 27139-TUN

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
  (CPL-38400 SCL-3840A SCPM-3840S)

               ON A

               LOAN

 IN THE AMOUNT OF 51.5US$ MILLION

              TO THE

        REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA

                FOR

     THE RURAL ROADS PROJECT




          December 22, 2003

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective November 15, 2003)

                              Currency Unit = Tunisian Dinar (TD)
                                      TD 1 = US$ US$0.72
                                     US$ 1 = TD 1.39

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1    December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
DGPC   Direction Générale des Ponts et Chaussées
       General Directorate of Bridges and Roads
DR(EH) Direction Régionale (de I'Equipement et de l'Habitat)
       Regional Directorate (of Equipment and Housing)
ERR    Economic Rate of Return
GTI    Groupe de travail interministériel
       Interministerial working group
GDP    Gross Domestic Product
HDM    Highway Design and Maintenance Model
IA     Implementing Agency
ICB    International Competitive Bidding
ICR    Implementation Completion Report
IT     Information Technology
LCB    Local Competitive Bidding
MEH    Ministcre de I'Equipement et de 1'Habitat
       Ministry of Equipment and Housing
OP     Operational Policy
QAG    Quality Assurance Group
RC     Regional Council
TD     Tunisian Dinar



                            Vice President:    Christiaan J. Poortman
                          Country Director     Theodore O. Ahlers
                           Sector Manager      Hédi Larbi
        Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Michel A.Loir

                                 REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
                                RURAL ROADS PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 10
8. Lessons Learned                                                               12
9. Partner Comments                                                              13
10. Additional Information                                                       14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            26
Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report (in French)                                27

Project ID: P005749                                                  Project Name: TUNISIA - RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Team Leader: Elisabetta Capannelli                                   TL Unit: MNSIF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 23, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: TUNISIA - RURAL ROADS PROJECT                            L/C/TF Number: CPL-38400; SCL-3840A;
                                                                                                     SCPM-3840S
   Country/Department: TUNISIA                                                            Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (96%); Central government administration
                            (4%)
                  Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P); Decentralization (P); Other
                            accountability/anti-corruption (S); Other financial and private sector
                            development (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 21-08-89                                       Effective: 05-02-95                  05-02-95
     Appraisal: 03-10-94                                           MTR: 23-05-98                    23-05-98
      Approval: 31-01-95                                        Closing: 31-12-2002                 30-06-2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOV'T OF TUNISIA/Ministry of Equipment and Housing/Regional Directorat of
                                           Equipmewnt and Housing
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Kemal Dervis
Country Director:               Theodore O. Ahlers                             Daniel Ritchie
Sector Manager:                 Emmanuel Forestier                             Amir Al-Khafaji
Team Leader at ICR:             Michel Loir                                    Jaffar bentchikou
ICR Primary Author:             Elisabetta Capannelli


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The transport sector share of GDP in Tunisia is close to 4% and a very large share of domestic transport
is through the road system. Roads capture 85% of total freight traffic and 95% of passenger transport
needs, excluding urban transport. The road sector is crucial for economic development and trade in the
country. At the time of project identification, the Bank had already been involved for several years in the
transport sector in Tunisia, in all modes of transport, but predominantly in highways projects. The Bank
had supported the development of the rural road network through three projects, aiming at improving
farming conditions by providing access to markets and supplies. During the project preparation, the
policy dialogue in the sector focused on public sector management, including decentralization of
responsibilities, budgetary reforms, private sector development and improvement of road standards. The
General Directorate of Bridges and Roads (Direction Générale des Ponts et Chaussées ­ DGPC), under
the Ministry of Equipment and Housing (Ministère de l'Equipement et de l'Habitat - MEH) was the
implementing agency of the project. The road works were to be implemented through the Regional
Directorates of Equipment and Housing (Direction Régionale de L'Equipement et de l'Habitat ­ DREH),
which are deconcentrated branches of the Ministry (MEH).

Project Objectives

According to the original formulation in the Project Summary, the objectives of the Rural Road Project
were: "public sector restructuring, budgetary reforms, private sector development, the development of
improved road standards, the reduction of disparities between urban and rural areas, the reduction of
rural to urban migration, and improving the delivery of social services to poorer population. These
objectives were to be realized through: improving maintenance of rural roads, particularly those
unpaved, decentralizing road management responsibilities to local governments, without developing new
entities, establishing a link between budgets and road classification, strengthening budgetary discipline,
transparency and accountability, targeting specific road maintenance tasks for execution by contract to
improve efficiency and to create new development opportunities for the private sector, and, finally,
minimizing life-cycle costs by making optimum use of gravel road techniques."

The way the objectives were formulated in the Project documents was rather dense and unclear. Long
term development goals and project components was mixed up. However, the main goal of the project
was clearly that of improving living conditions of the population in rural areas by constructing and
improving rural roads and providing access to market. Both the Bank and the Borrower's team did
demonstrate during implementation to recognize this as being the main objective of the project. There
was also an opportunity during the mid-term review to change the formulation of the development
objectives.

3.2 Revised Objective:

After the mid-term review, the project scope was modified and the Loan Agreement amended. While the
development objectives of the project were unchanged, they were reformulated as follows: (a) reduce
income disparities between urban and rural areas, by improving access to markets and creating
conditions favorable to increased investments in farming, and by improving the delivery of social
services to the rural poor; (b) decentralize management of local and rural roads to ensure adequate
funding of their maintenance needs, while at the same time strengthening budgetary discipline,
transparency and accountability in the entire road sector; (c) promote private sector participation in road
works in general and, on a pilot basis, in maintenance of unpaved rural roads; and (d) adapt construction
and maintenance standards for rural roads toward minimizing life-cycle costs. This seems a better
description of what the project is aiming to achieve, though an even simpler formulation would probably
have been even better, as the above list still partly mixes goals with ways to achieve them. For example,
the decentralization of road management was not an objective per se, but more a mean to achieve the
goal of better and sustainable delivery of services to improve living conditions in rural areas.




                                                     - 2 -

Evaluation of Objectives

The project objectives were clearly relevant in the Tunisian context and consistent with both the CAS and
the Government priorities. The objectives were not over-ambitious and focused on a priority sector for
the rural population in the country. While they were badly formulated in the project document, they
appeared clear and were correctly pursued during implementation. This is also the opinion of the
Implementing Agency.

3.3 Original Components:

The project consisted of three components. These are: (A) the preparation and implementation of an
institutional reform program (3% of total project costs or $2.4 million); (B) the periodic rehabilitation of
approximately 300 km of gravel roads through pilot programs to be carried out in ten Governatorates
(9% of total project costs or $6.4 million); and (C) the upgrading of about 715 km of priority rural roads to
adequate standards (88% of total project costs or $65.1 million).

3.4 Revised Components:

The Project and loan agreement were revised twice. A first revision was implemented on 10 July 1998, to
take into consideration major savings in the project costs under Component C (Upgrading of Rural
Roads). A new component for an amount of $34.6 Million (Component D) was identified and added
during the mid-term review. This component aimed at strengthening selected classified paved roads (340
km of main roads) that were rehabilitated in previous Bank-financed projects.

The Loan was amended a second time, on 8 May 2002, to expand the scope of Component A and allow
the utilization of some of the project funds to train personnel, improve management and to strengthen
the organization and informatization system of MEH. The loan was extended by six months to allow the
completion of component A.

This second change brought the overall situation of the project at closing to the following scope and
amounts:


  Project Cost by Component                                                           Variations from
             (in Million)               At appraisal      At project completion          appraisal

                                        DT        US $        DT         US $          %              %

A. Institutional reforms             2,731        2,787      2,818       2,171         3             -22

B. Pilot Period Rehabilitation       7,404        7,555      9,626       7,043        30             -7


C. Upgrading of Rural Roads         76,813        78,38      36,901     36,841        -52            -53


D. Strengthening of Classified
Roads                                   --          --       33,28      27,909


TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                 86,948        88,723     82,625     73,964         -5            -17




3.5 Quality at Entry:

The project predates QAG, hence there was no quality at entry assessment at the time of Board
approval. The ICR overall rates the quality at entry unsatisfactory on the following grounds. The project
had some positive features that should be recognized. The project was consistent with the Bank CAS
objectives. The Borrower spelled out its priorities for reform and institutional development objectives for



                                                     - 3 -

the road sector in a Sector Strategy Letter that was developed during the project preparation and
submitted to the Bank by the Minister of Housing and Equipment. The physical components of the
project were technically well prepared. The preparation team could benefit from preparatory work
undertaken under the previous project (TUN - VI Road Project), as well as from economic and market
analyses carried out by local consultants. The Tunisian team was knowledgeable and adequately staffed.
Safeguards policies were adequately addressed and were adhered to during project design.

The project had few components and the bulk of the project (Component C) was well developed. The
Project introduced some new and important features, among others the insistence towards greater
private sector involvement and the need to classify rural roads and attribute responsibility for their
maintenance to a relevant agency (increased ownership would then translate into regular maintenance
along with higher, and more stable, budgets).

Nevertheless, in retrospect, there were some weaknesses in the project preparation in terms of design
and risk assessment and mitigation measures. These weaknesses were carried through during project
implementation and were difficult to resolve. In particular:

-         The project tried to promote a process of decentralization by advocating that responsibility for
maintenance of rural roads be shifted from MEH to the Regional Councils (under the Ministry of Interior).
The Regional Councils (RCs) were at their infancy in terms of definition of their roles, revenues,
management and staffing capacity. Considering that Tunisia was (and still is) a very centralized country,
and that the main counterpart of the project (MEH) was interested in physical infrastructure and
implementation of measures related to maintenance of roads and not on the empowerment of the
Regional Councils, the decentralization strategy was unlikely to succeed. The decentralization decision is
politically charged and the Government was reluctant to commit to it. This objective was not fundamental
in the project design (the real issue being one of attribution of responsibilities for, and budget to, the rural
roads) and could have been dropped, as long as the MEH was (and still is) willing to take the task of
maintaining rural roads.

-         The risk of implementation of the decentralization component was not adequately assessed.
More Interministerial and inter-departmental consultation at the time of preparation and greater
involvement of the Ministry of Agriculture and of Planning in project preparation, may have helped
properly assess the likelihood of the success of this component.

-         Right after project implementation, it became apparent that there was inadequate commitment to
institutional reforms, despite the fact that this had been included in the Letter of Sector Strategy and it
took later considerable time for the implementation team to build up such consensus. This was a more
serious risk than recognized at the time of appraisal and the IA did not fully subscribe, or at least not right
away, to some of the agreed reforms.

-         Disagreement between the Bank and the Implementing Agency (IA) on graveling versus paving
of roads (Pilot component B), was apparently not fully resolved during the project preparation. This
component encountered delays during implementation and some resistance from the IA resulting, among
other things, in an Unsatisfactory rating of the project for one year (during two supervision missions just
before the mid-term review). One could question whether this pilot component was fundamental in the
project design to the extent that there was apparently no buy in by the borrower. The commitment of the
IA to modify its practice of paving rural roads rather than regraveling them, did not substantially improve
during implementation. This caused delays in the implementation of the pilot component and it appears
that this maintenance method will not be mainstreamed.

-         The length of the project (which followed the standard norms for Tunisia at the time) was also not
consistent with the Government's expectation, i.e. that the project could be implemented over four years.
Large part of the project was indeed completed much faster than the eight years foreseen in the project
design.




                                                     - 4 -

-        The training component was also insufficiently designed during project preparation and no
budget clearly earmarked to it. The definition of this component, later required the modification of the
Loan Agreement. The lack of preparedness of this component may have caused the delays accumulated
in the launch of the training programs.

Despite the above, the project was, for its largest components, well prepared, the design gives the
impression that dialogue with the Borrower on component B and on decentralization may have been
insufficient or not genuine from the Government's side, and that the Bank team did not fully evaluate the
risks, or was too optimistic about, the implementation of these components. The ICR hence rates the
quality at entry of the project as unsatisfactory.



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Overall the ICR rates the project satisfactory. The objectives of the project have been largely achieved.
In particular, studies undertake towards the end of the project implementation demonstrate that the
rehabilitation and construction of the roads resulted in additional investment in agricultural production
and improved outputs. The estimated economic benefits from the construction of the rural roads were
fully realized. Socio-economic improvements are also apparent in the targeted communities by the end
of the project.

Physical components were delivered ahead of time, and implemented under excellent conditions in
terms of costs, quality and timing. While there have been delays in the implementation of the institutional
action plan, this allowed modification and expansion of the institutional components, which were at end
well implemented.

With respect to the development objective of Improving access within rural areas and to surrounding
areas; the project has financed the rehabilitation of 665 km of rural roads versus the 715 km at
appraisal), the balance (48 km) having been rehabilitated under other programs. This was achieved at a
much lower cost than appraised: $50,000/km, as compared to $87,700/km estimated during preparation.
Important savings were achieved, because of high competition among contractors and the devaluation of
Tunisian Dinar.

With respect to the development objective of ensuring adequate funding of rural road maintenance, by
implementing an institutional development plan, including restructuring of the management of the road
sector, decentralization of functions, and improved participation by the private sector, the following
outcome has been obtained:

The expected decentralization of rural road management did not materialize as foreseen at the time of
appraisal, but the underlying issue, namely, that `no authority was responsible to maintain these roads',
has been addressed. Engineered rural roads (some 11,000 km) were assigned to the Ministry of
Equipment by a Cabinet decision dated December 7, 2001. Rural roads built within irrigation areas and in
forests make exception and they were assigned to the Ministry of Agriculture. A detailed classification is
in progress to determine the length of roads to be managed by each of the two Ministries. Hence, while
the expected transfer in the management and maintenance of rural roads to the RCs was not achieved,
the attribution of responsibilities for the roads was resolved within the prevailing institutional settings in
the country and sector. Additionally, the lengthy debate between the Borrower and the Bank on
decentralization was helpful to raise awareness of the rural road maintenance problem and to facilitate
adequate budget appropriations in recent years. The real problem that the project wanted to address was
that there was no agency responsible for the maintenance of the rural roads. This issue was resolved in a
pragmatic way during project implementation and led to tangible achievements.

Another achievement of the project is that the move to privatization is real and the private sector now
effectively contributes to maintenance of the road system. MEH contracted out periodic maintenance to



                                                    - 5 -

the private sector in full starting in the year 2000, even though the project had foreseen this would
happen in a gradual way. The experience has been successful and the market has reached its
equilibrium after a few initial problems, due to the inexperience of selected contractors and to some
imperfections in the bidding documents. These shortcomings have since been corrected. Few provinces
do not have private sector contractors (Kasserine for instance), but they mobilize contractors from
neighboring provinces without difficulties. The public works operated by force account is not being
renewed except in very selective and limited ways. It should be noted that the privatization of these
works brought up a new generation of contractors and the fear expressed by the Government at the time
of appraisal, that there would be nobody to take over from the administration using force-account, was
therefore proven unfounded.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Overall the project exceeded its intended physical objectives. In particular, the following was achieved:

Component A ­ Institutional Reforms (representing 3% of the total cost and project completion). This
component financed a series of studies to facilitate the implementation of the institutional reform
program. These are: (i) a study on road classification, budget and maintenance needs; (i) a study on rural
roads standards, (ii) a study on rural performance indicators; (iii) a study on economic viability of the
improved rural roads, and (iv) a training program and a program for informatization of the MEH (added
later). This component is rated Satisfactory. Implementation started late but was well carried out, indeed
better than what foresees at appraisal, particularly for the training aspects.

The study on budget and maintenance was a starting point for the development of the action plan for
institutional reforms and to provide guidance to an Interministerial working group (GTI - Group de travail
interministeriel) to evaluate the decentralization and financing options for rural road maintenance. The
study was completed in 1996, and fully funded under the government budget. The results of the study
are now being used to prepare budgetary allocations between the various classes of roads and for road
maintenance.

The final report on the study on technical norms for contracting and maintenance of rural roads was
issued in January 2003 and has since been disseminated to MEH's regional directorates. Of good quality,
the report is expected to standardize policies and practices across the country and optimize the rural
road standards based on traffic, climate, and terrain.

The study to define appropriate road standards was launched in 1998 and was completed with minor
delays. The study consisted in the preparation of a manual for standards to be used in the design of new
or rehabilitated rural roads and agricultural tracks. The manual was published in May 2000 and the
recommendations under the study are being implemented.

The study to quantify the increase in agricultural production and qualify the socio-economic changes that
may have occurred following the rehabilitation of given sections of rural roads, was undertaken in
phases. The study results show that there is a positive correlation between investment in rural roads and
additional investment in agricultural production. The MEH plans to use the results of the study to obtain
increased funding from the Ministry of Finance for upgrading unpaved rural roads where economically
justifiable.

While the appraisal report had not specified where funds earmarked for training would be applied, the
DGPC was able to develop a training plan and a program for informatization of MEH, and secure Bank
approval of its financing (through a an amendment of the loan agreement). The training program was
properly implemented in 2001-03. It was the first comprehensive package of such nature to benefit
DGPC and covered training to personnel previously directly involved with public works to reconvert them
to supervision tasks (the development of procedures for supervision, training to supervise private
contractors, etc.). Three groups were targeted: senior managers, middle managers, and engineers and
supervisors. The program achieved some economies, which allowed to expand the number of
beneficiaries from the two latter groups. The development of a computerized information network linking



                                                    - 6 -

regional directorates (DRs) to the DGPC was also added and included the acquisition of equipment to
link regional and central offices. This progressed well and was completed in 2003 (its completion
required to extend the project by 6 months). The system will allow the DRs to have a local network and
to communicate with DGPC using the Centre National Informatique (the only allowed channels in Tunisia
at present).

In summary, while the institutional component started with delays and the Government did not seem too
committed to it during the initial phases of project implementation, all was completed rather successfully
at the end.

Component B ­ Pilot Periodic Rehabilitation (representing 9.5% of the total cost and project completion).
The design of this pilot component was based on the use of low cost unpaved road standards for low
volume rural roads (less than 300 vehicles per day) and it aimed at introducing periodic regraveling to
rehabilitate 340 km of unpaved rural roads, while contributing to develop the local construction industry
for the works. This component is rated unsatisfactory. As indicated above, it was not well conceived and
should probably never have been included in the project. The component was not fully accepted by the
Government counterparts, and while it was well carried out, this technique will not be mainstreamed.

The pilot program accumulated two years delay and was finally launched in 1999. The pilot was
ultimately implemented satisfactorily (300 km were finally paved) with the exception of the contracts won
by the firm Cometra (now bankrupt), that leaves some of the works unfinished. These works will be
re-tendered, and carried out by using local funds, as it was too late for the project to finance them.

Site visits have shown this demonstration project to be successful. However, it should be said that,
despite this pilot was included in the Loan agreement, DGPC and MEH did not seem to fully subscribe to
this technical strategy, and continued to systematically pave the unpaved roads constructed under
previous foreign-financed projects, with local funds (at about twice the cost of regraveling). The Borrower
also did not need to test the involvement of the private sector in the regraveling of the rural roads
through this component (privatization being another indirect intent of the project through the inclusion of
this component), as by the time the IA finally launched the pilot, its strategy of private sector involvement
was broader and acquired. The roads targeted also have substantial and growing traffic, which justify the
approach of the Borrower in paving them. Hence, while the pilot component was finally executed as
planned, though with delays, and relevant manuals produced and disseminated, we still rate this
component as unsatisfactory as it did not seem to serve the purpose of mainstreaming lower cost
technologies.

Component C ­ Upgrading Rural Roads (representing 50% of the total cost and project completion).
The largest component of the project, upgrading of 710 km of rural roads, was swiftly and cost effectively
executed and this component is rated highly satisfactory. By the end of the project 665 km of roads were
paved. The component has been carried out satisfactorily and ahead of schedule. The appraisal report
had foreseen that construction works would be completed in 1998, but all works were completed by end
of 1997. Agriculture investments exceeded the appraisal forecasts. Traffic soared after road construction
showing that the investment generated a demand well beyond the farm-to-market transport demand.
About 25% of the roads were immediately paved, while almost all the rest of the project roads have been
paved within 2-3 years of their construction (between 1998 and 2001). This was well justified by the
traffic level (more than 300 vehicles/day), although not in line with what was recommended at appraisal.
The cost of this component was substantially lower than that estimated at appraisal (about $35.5 million
or 47% of the appraisal figure), due to quick implementation, an unexpectedly high competition at the
time the works were launched among local construction industry that lead to very low bids, and to the
depreciation of the Tunisian Dinar.

Component D - Strengthening of high-traffic classified paved road (representing 37.5% of the total cost
and project completion). This component was added in view of important savings that occurred in other
components and included the heavy maintenance of 340 km of national and provincial roads. These
roads had been part of a previous Bank project (VI Highway Project) and all road selected had an
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) above 15% (based on traffic analysis undertaken in 1997, by using the



                                                    - 7 -

HDM III model). While this component is not very consistent with the logic of the project, it nevertheless
allowed to address a chronic deficiency of funds for the appropriate maintenance of the highway network.
All works under this component were completed in a very satisfactory manner by the end of 1999. The
addition of this component, strongly requested by the Borrower, also allowed the Bank to re-launch its
dialogue on the institutional reform program which was stagnating till then. For these reasons, the
component is rated highly satisfactory.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

At the time of appraisal, the project was economically justified by evaluating its largest component
(accounting for 87% of total project investment), i.e. Component C. The economic justification of the
road improvement component was based on the quantification of gains in agricultural value added.
Project benefits were expected to arise from savings in road transport costs, improved access to remote
rural areas, higher farm gate prices for agricultural produce (with a consequent reduction of rural poverty)
and better access to social services. At project completion an economic re-evaluation was completed on
the 69 rural roads which were built, spread over the national territory for a total amount of about 670 km.
The methodology employed was the same as that used in the evaluation study of 1993.

At appraisal the road improvement component was found to generate a weighted average ERR of 40%,
with ERR of individual road components ranging from 19.6% to 138.9%. At the end of the project, the
analysis reports an average ERR of 32.3%. The ERRs are ranging from 12.6% to 58.7%. For
comparative purpose the average ERR at the time of the original analysis (i.e. 1993) has been
recalculated for the 69 roads improved and this yielded a very similar ERR (36.3%) than that of
appraisal. The evaluation study also indicates that the costs of the project have been kept low (68% of
the appraisal estimate) and the rural investments that occurred outside of the project, have been much
more important than those forecast (at time 2 or 3 times bigger). Considering substantially lower costs
during implementation, the ERRs seem to be lower than expected at the end of the project. This can be
explained by the fact that the rural investments have been calculated only after the completion of the
roads (i.e. between 1996 and 2000) and that rural yields take considerably more time to provide results
(between 3 to 8 years depending on the type of production). The full benefits of the investments hence
start becoming apparent only after around the 8th year since the road construction, while the period
taken into account in the economic analysis is of 10 years. Lower than expected ERRs are hence due to
an underestimation of benefits. Although economic return rates are below those estimated at appraisal,
all ERRs are above the threshold of 12% and remain generally similar to those calculated at appraisal.

While no economic analysis has been carried out at the end of the project on Component D, it should be
said that traffic improved substantially on the improved roads, while cost of maintenance was reduced,
hence leading to believe that adequate (probably high) economic rates of returns occurred.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not Applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The Project's institutional development impact was substantial, and was promoted through the
implementation of an Institutional Component (described above), representing 3% of the project costs,
as well as by policy dialogue during the project design and implementation. This dialogue focused on
promoting decentralization of functions, restructuring of budgets, and inclusion of the private sector. The
institutional component per se was modest, but overall the project had important reform features.
Several results were attained, in particular:

-        The project succeeded in raising awareness of the need to address the issue of road
management and financing.




                                                     - 8 -

-        The classification of roads was achieved, and their attribution to MEH and the Ministry of
Agriculture will help with ownership of these roads as assets of the government and will help appropriate
budgets.

-        The shift toward road maintenance works by contract will help alleviate the financial impact of
the maintenance works on budgetary resources and keep costs reasonable, due to competition. This
also helped create a new generation of private sector contractors.

-        Strengthening of MEH and training of its staff will help in monitoring of works and supervision,
and will ensure that better road standards are implemented.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The only unforeseen (and uncontrollable) element was the devaluation of the Tunisian dinars to the US
dollar, which, among others, brought about important project savings and required a revision of the
project scope.

As far as the IA is concerned, one could mention that, the objective to decentralize rural roads
responsibility to the RCs, was too complex a task for the IA. The process of decentralization takes time
to implement in general, and especially in the MNA region and Tunisia, where decentralization is still
limited in scope and depth. It may have hence been unrealistic to expect that responsibility for
management and financing of rural roads could be rapidly transferred to local authorities, also in
consideration of their poor institutional and staffing capability to manage such responsibilities.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The Government could have helped define responsibility for rural roads between the Ministry of
Agriculture and MEH earlier in the life of the project. Also there was insufficient commitment to reform in
the early years of the project and insufficient senior level attention was given to the project and to the
agreements reached at the time of preparation.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Delays in implementing the institutional component of the project could have been contained and this
would have also reduced tension with the Bank's supervision team. The IA also did not establish a
central coordinating office, fully in charge of the project. Studies, for example, were assigned to too
many departments of DGPC and limited supervision of this work was allowed by the vis-a vis of the Bank
team. Faster execution could have been obtained if the supervision of these studies had been
centralized or if senior management in the IA would have provided the necessary advice to staff and
senior level commitment to this component.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The total project costs were estimated at US$88.7 million and the proposed Loan amount was $51.5
million, with the remaining $37.2 million to be contributed by the Borrower. At completion, the total cost
of the project was $73.9 million and the loan $46.1 million. The relative importance of the various
components changed because of substantial savings that occurred in Component C. The average cost of
the various physical component under Component C changed substantially from the appraisal estimate
from $87,700/km to $50,000/km. One extension of six month was given beyond the project closing date
of December 31, 2002, to allow for the completion of the training and purchase of IT equipment to
sustain the process of deconcetration of functions to the regional directorates of MEH, under Component
A.



                                                      - 9 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Sustainability of the project is considered likely. All project components have been completed and the
project objectives met. The main project components have been executed on time or ahead of time.
Budgets for maintenance have been increased and responsibility for maintenance of rural road identified
and appropriated. The classification of the rural road network also ensured this attribution of
responsibility. A thriving private sector industry for maintenance has been created and has taken over in
full the construction and maintenance of rural roads. Works are no longer executed under force account,
apart from few exception. Ministry and Implementing Agency staff have also been trained and
empowered and the computerization of the monitoring network will further help in the necessary
supervision functions.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

Not applicable.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Performance of the Bank during preparation is overall rated unsatisfactory. The Bank team is credited
with having identified a very relevant project, having well structured the `hardware' components of the
project, and having kept the design of the project focused and relatively simple. The team followed
Bank's procedures and safeguards, kept the project consisted with CAS objectives and government
priorities. The focus on private sector involvement, classification and budget appropriation, which were
key elements of the project dialogue, were also important quality elements of the project preparation.

Deficiencies exist and overall resulted in a less than satisfactory design and quality at entry of the
project. In particular:

-        the development objectives were formulated in a confused way. The scope of work was mixed
with goals;

-        the institutional component did not include funds for equipment and did not develop in sufficient
detail the training component (both were defined and later added);

-        the team underestimated the lack of commitment from the Borrower towards the pilot component
for re-graveling, or was too insistent in promoting this technique with the Borrower. This appeared
appropriate on paper, but the IA was unwilling to text different methods;

-        the decentralization objective was too ambitious to be achieved through a road project. The
objectives was at minimum premature and did not have sufficient government support;
-        the risks were inadequately assessed and developed in the appraisal documents.




                                                     - 10 -

7.2 Supervision:

Performance of the Bank during supervision is overall rated satisfactory. The reasons for the positive
rating are that: (i) missions were regularly fielded, properly staffed and reports were well prepared; (ii) the
Bank missions were generally proactive and issues were identified early and discussed with the IA. For
example, the project was rated unsatisfactory for one year which, while creating some strain in the
relationship with the client, also prompted them to revise their course of action on the `software'
component of the project; and (iii) the mid-term review mission was effective and restructured the
project.

A new component was added during the mid-term review, aiming at strengthening selected classified
paved roads that were rehabilitated in previous Bank-financed projects to ensure their sustainable use.
This component was strongly requested by the IA and it was highly useful and relevant in the context of
the Tunisia rural road system. The fact that the Bank agreed to include it, also helped re-launch the
dialogue with the Borrower on the institutional development and the pilot components, which were then
stagnating. Nevertheless, it must be said that this component had little to do with the internal logic of the
rural road project, and hence, by including it, the Bank team did not seem to follow on of the
requirements of Bank's OP13.25, i.e. that the activities to be financed would be consistent with the
original development objectives of the project. While from one side one could say that the formulation of
the development objectives was so broad as to also include Component D, it appears that this
component deviated from the project spirit. The ICR is however evaluating the component itself and not
judging the Banks' team adherence to the Bank's rule. Indeed, the decision to include this component
was cleared by all relevant units (legal, procurement, management) and it hence was judged as being
consistent with the Bank's OP. The ICR suggest though that the Bank's team should have at least added
a new development objective to be associated to this new component. This appears as the major
weakness to report on the Bank's implementation, but by itself does not call for a downgrading of the
satisfactory rating for the Bank's work during supervision.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

The Bank's performance is overall rated satisfactory. On balance the positive outcome of the project,
rapid implementation of the physical components, that represented the bulk of the project, and progress
on reforms and institutional impact are a testimony of the project's relevance and the good work of the
Bank's teams.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Borrower's performance during project preparation is considered satisfactory. A competent team was
assigned to prepare the project, technical work carried out in a complete manner, an interdepartmental
committee formed, a development policy letter prepared, and an economic analysis of the main project
component carried out.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The Borrower's performance during project implementation is satisfactory. Some weaknesses should
nevertheless recognized. In particular, the Government took time to start implementing institutional
actions. In particular, the Interministerial Working Group was supposed to submit its own institutional
action plan to the Bank in March 1996, but the completion of this plan accumulated two years of delay
and almost two more years were necessary to then implement these actions. However, the reforms
(investment, privatization, etc.) can now be considered fully internalized.

The satisfactory rating is justified on the ground that the Government eventually took several actions



                                                     - 11 -

related to appropriation, classification and funding of rural roads. It also provided funds for the
complimentary investments in rural areas, which ensured that the economic benefits of the project would
materialize.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The performance of the implementing agency is satisfactory. The project's physical components were
swiftly implemented. The works have been of good quality, contracts have been awarded following
adequate rules and standards and properly supervised. Institutional reforms and the pilot component,
also have eventually been implemented, though with delays. The studies were overall of good quality
and useful. The training component was particularly well developed and comprehensive. The IA also
realized savings that allowed to train a larger number of people that originally anticipated.

Some weaknesses exist and include: the slow start on the implementation of the institutional action plan
by the part of the IA, created tensions with the Bank's counterpart team, which insisted the project
calendar be followed on its entirety, and not only for its `hardware' components. Indeed, by reviewing the
project's report in early years, one has the impression that the IA was not committed to implement what it
had subscribed to (particularly for Component A and B of the project). Some deficiencies in reporting and
in the book keeping of the project accounts from the IA also occurred, but were identified and corrected
and did not compromise the good implementation of the project. There were several missing quarterly
reports, especially towards the end of the project, as the IA considered the project completed, even
though some activities were still under implementation (for the smaller components A and B). These
weaknesses did not compromise the overall good quality of implementation.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Based on the above, the Borrower's performance is rated satisfactory. Government and implementing
agency actions, though taken at a slower pace than agreed upon, were fundamental in achieving the
project objectives.



8. Lessons Learned

Development Objectives. The formulation of consistent and clearly written project objectives is important.
Task teams should make an effort to use, if not the tool itself, the logic imposed by the project framework
matrix. Also there should be sufficient flexibility for the task team and management to modify and add
project development objectives during implementation.

Focus on priority objectives and relevant components. The Project focused on priority objectives that
were clearly valued by the client. The project's simplicity paid off. This allowed the Bank and IA to focus
on few, relevant components and reform areas and ensure those could be systematically pursued. In a
way, it is suggested that the project would have benefited from even simpler design and fewer
objectives, clearly stated and directly pursued. For example, the classification and attribution of road to
relevant ministries did not need to be pursued by trying to shift responsibilities for the rural roads directly
to the Regional Councils; the privatization of the road construction industry did not need to be pursued
through the pilot component of the regraveling, etc.

Client Consultation and Assessment of Risks. The Bank would have benefited from more carefully
listening to the client on the issue of paving versus graveling of roads. Clearly this component had no
real buy from the IA. The IA did end up carrying out this component successfully and drew useful lessons
from it, but the pilot is unlikely to be scaled up and mainstreamed. The risk of inadequate commitment
towards this technique and its mainstreaming was brushed aside during the preparation or at least
insufficiently mitigated.




                                                     - 12 -

On the issue of the length of the project, the Bank demonstrated to be rather inflexible and was proven
wrong by the client which implemented the bulk of the project within the four years it had anticipated. The
Bank insisted to follow predominant country's standards, but would have benefited from a more flexible
approach. At the same time, however, it should be recalled that the project had to be extended by six
months to allow the definition and implementation of the institutional development component. While
relatively modest, this component was implemented with considerable delay. Some of this delays may
have been caused by its inadequate preparation at appraisal, bur more important was the fact that the
client gave much more importance to the hardware, rather than the software, components. This seems to
reconfirm the difficulties the Bank encounters with certain clients or implementing agencies in promoting
training, capacity building, and institutional reforms in projects, unless they are packaged in substantial
investments in physical infrastructure. The opposite risk being that, once such component are included,
they end up being inadequately pursued and followed up by the clients during implementation. The
design of the project and its implementation mechanisms could include ways to ensure that Bank's
mission continue to have access to senior level officials also during implementation and that there is
active engagement to reforms and institutional components by senior level officials in the lead Ministry.
Another lessons to be learned is that very high quality of preparation of the institutional and training
component of projects is required at appraisal no matter their size overall, as implementation of reforms
yields potentially very large benefits.

Decentralization. The objective of deconcentrating the function to the RCs was doomed from the start, for
the reasons explained above. The lesson to be drawn from this is that complex public sector
management issues, such as decentralization, take time and highest senior level commitment to be
carried out and cannot be pursued through a project focused on physical construction and improvements,
and within a Ministry that has really no stake in this, and would not draw benefits from, such reforms,
possibly the opposite. Decentralization and empowerment of local authorities remain an important
objective in Tunisia that should be pursued through public reform projects, specific and well targeted
projects and implemented by the agencies that can draw benefits and have incentives in pursuing such
reforms, with high level government commitment and with a long time frame and implementation period
(or through a serious of operations).

Involvement of the private sector. The project did well to insist on the involvement of the private sector
for rural road works. This component made a big impact and it has permanently changed the way works
are undertaken in rural roads in the country. The success of this component should serve as example
also to other transport sub-sector and provide a best case scenario where the reluctance of the IA to
reduce public sector involvement initially was later overcome by the positive effects of the private sector
involvement. Increased competition provided large benefits to the consumers, in terms of reduction of
costs and improved quality.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

The following is a summary and translation of the comments received from the Implementation Agency
(MEH).

The Borrower indicates that the project was well prepared by all partners involved. The objectives and
components were well chosen. The project scope was modified to take into account changed conditions
during implementation and, overall, the objectives of the project were achieved. The good level of
interaction between the Bank and the Borrower permitted to overcome difficulties which arose during
implementation of the project, and has allowed the project to be concluded in favorable conditions.

In terms of lessons learned, the following are pointed out by the IA:

Project management: a unit responsible for the project's management during its entire duration should be
established. This could have avoided irregularities (i.e. poor project files maintenance, early



                                                    - 13 -

reimbursements, etc) which occurred during the project. The staffing of the decentralized authorities (i.e.
the Regional Council) should be strengthened, notably by reinforcing the training of technical staff.

Technical studies: the Ministry should have created a unit responsible for centralizing the reception and
verification of all technical studies instead of entrusting their realization to several research departments.
Studies on alternative construction and maintenance techniques should be prepared, in order to
decrease road development costs.

Loan: The Borrower should avoid changing the currency of the loan during implementation to avoid
disrupting the project accounts. The Bank should be more flexible to accommodate new project
components.


(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.


10. Additional Information

Not applicable.




                                                     - 14 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Table 1.1 Outcome / Impact Indicators

              Indicator/Matrix                  Projected in last PSR1                Actual/Latest Estimate
Public sector reforms: Prepare an                 Action plan completed                        Achieved
institutional action plan to decentralize
rural roads management to Regional
Councils

Budgetary reforms: Prepare a study to link            Study completed                          Achieved
rural roads maintenance needs and
budgetary allocations with road
classification and usage

Private sector development: Move             100% of periodic maintenance are           Exceeded expectations
gradually toward periodic road              undertaken by contracting out to the         (The target was 50%)
maintenance by contract                                private sector

Rural roads standards reforms: Develop                Study completed                     Achieved with delay
improved rural roads construction and
maintenance standards




Table 1.2 Output Indicators

              Indicator/Matrix                  Projected in last PSR1                Actual/Latest Estimate
Institutional Development: Reclassify the       Reclassification completed                     Achieved
rural road network
Institutional Development : Establish                   Completed                              Achieved
appropriate links between budgets, road
standards and resources, and road
ownership and classification categories
Institutional Development: Identify private                                        All maintenance is carried out by
sector contribution in road maintenance                                                      private sector
Institutional Development: Define optimal       First two phases completed            Manual of standards being
rural roads standards                                                                        disseminated
Pilot Periodic Rehabilitation: Regravel 300             Completed                             Completed
km of rural roads in 10 governorates                                                (with some delay on the original
                                                                                               schedule)
Rural Roads Upgrading: Upgrade 715 km               665 Km completed                    Achieved ahead of time
of selected rural roads                                                             (the balance of 50 Km financed
                                                                                          through local funds)
Pavement Strengthening of Main Roads                340 Km completed                           Achieved
(New Component): Strengthen 340 km of
high traffic paved classified roads
Public Sector Reforms (New Activity):            Study and related training                    Achieved
Carry out a study to review the             completed, and equipment installed
organization of the Ministry of Public
Works and purchase communication and
computer equipment
Training Program (New Activity): training   6,550 days of training of good quality             Achieved
provided to sector and regional directors,                provided
engineers and technicians


1 End of project




                                                     - 15 -

Table 1.3 Roads Indicators covering the network of agricultural tracks

              Indicators                  Unit 1994   1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001

PAVED ROADS                                Km  3,400  3,598 3,776 3,976 4,284 4,495 4,732 5,120

State-controlled periodic rehabilitation   Km  149.1  163.6 166.8 226.2 164   210     0     0

Periodic rehabilitation by subcontracting  Km    0     6.9  12.3   2.1  33.2   35   1,172 1000

Rehabilitation on budgetary resources      Km  198.2  177.8 142.8 200.3 211.1 237   208   180

Roads constructed (7th Rural Roads         Km    0      0   57.5  107.5   0     0     0     0
Project)
UNPAVED ROADS                              Km  2,100  1,902 1,724 1,903 2,009 1,798 1,561 1,173

State-controlled regraveling               Km  166.2  255.6 173.6 130.2 186   115   130    90

Regraveling by subcontracting              Km    0      0     0     0     0     0   230   160

Roads constructed (7th Rural Roads         Km    0      0   192.8 306.3   0     0     0     0
Project)




                                                - 16 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Table 2.1 Project Cost by Component (in Million)


                                               Appraisal costs

             Components                  Without           Including      Final costs       Variations (%)
                                     Contingencies       Contingencies

                                     D.T.     U.S. $     D.T.   U.S. $    D.T.   U.S. $  Costs (DT) Costs (US $)

A. Institutional reforms             2,326     2,373    2,731    2,787   2,818   2,171     3.2         - 22.1

B. Pilot Period Rehabilitation       6,271     6,399    7,404    7,555   9,626   7,043      30         - 6.7

C. Upgrading of Rural Roads         63,850    65,153   76,813   78,380   36,901  36,841    - 52         - 53

D. Strengthening of Classified         --        --       --       --    33,280  27,909      --          --
   Roads

       TOTAL BASE COSTS             72,447    73,925

Physical Contingencies               6,965     7,107

Price Contingencies                  7,537     7,691

    TOTAL PROJECT COSTS             86,948    88,723   86,948   88,723   82,625  73,964    - 7,3       -16,6




Table 2.2 Loan Financing by Component (in Million)


                                   Appraisal Estimate             Actual Loan Disbursed         % of
         Components                        (US$)                          (US$)               Appraisal
                                                                                              Estimate
                                TUNISIA     BANK     TOTAL     TUNISIA    BANK      TOTAL

A. Institutional reforms         0,474      2,313     2,787     0,629     1,542     2,171       - 22,1

B. Pilot Period Rehabilitation   3,022      4,533     7,555     2,937     4.106     7.043       - 6,8

C. Upgrading of Rural Roads     33,736     44,644     78,380    15,336    21.505    36.841       - 53

D. Strengthening of Classified
Roads                              --         --        --      8,933     18.976    27.909        --

             TOTAL              37,232     51,491     88,723    27,835    46,129    73,964      - 16,6




                                                   - 17 -

Table 2.3 Loan Disbursement (in US$ Million)


    FY        1995     1996    1997     1998     1999     2000    2001    2002     2003  Total

Estimated at   0        2,7     8,0      11,1     10,6     8,6     5,6     3,4      1,5   51,5
 Appraisal

   Actual       0      10,5     9,7       1,0     15,3     6,6     0,6     0,7      1,7   46,1

    %          --     288,5    21,3     -91,0     44,3    -23,3   -8,3    -79,4     13,3  -10,5

of Appraisal



Table 2.4 Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (US$ million)

                                   Procurement Method1
  Expenditure
    Category                                    Consulting                   Total Cost
                     ICB           LCB          Services2       N.B.F.

1. Works

  Component B                      6,843                        0,200 (*)       7,043
                                  (4,106)                                      (4,106)
                    35,841
  Component C                                                   1,000 (*)      36,841
                   (21,505)                                                   (21,505)

  Component D                     27,109                        0,800 (*)      27,909
                                  (18,976)                                    (18,976)
                     0,824
2. Goods                                                                        0,824
                    (0,684)                                                    (0,684)
                                                    1,034
3. Services                                                      0,313          1,347
                                                   (0,858)                     (0,858)

    TOTAL           36,665        33,952            1,034        2,313         73,964
                   (22,189)       (23,082)         (0,858)                    (46,129)




                                             - 18 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

At the time of appraisal, the project was economically justified by evaluating only its largest component,
accounting for 87% of total project investment, i.e. the road improvement component. A series of
non-quantifiable benefits were also described in the Appraisal Report. The economic justification of the
road improvement component was based on the quantification of gains in agricultural value added.
Project benefits were expected to arise from savings in road transport costs, improved access to remote
rural areas, higher farm gate prices for agricultural produce (with a consequent reduction of rural poverty)
and better access to social services.

The methodological approach was based on the advantages realized by reduction in vehicle operating
costs and especially on the benefits to rural production due to the road improvement in each influence
zone. These benefits arise because the reduction in transport costs provide incentives to farmers to
increase production and improve farming methods. To estimate project benefits, studies were carried out
defining the basic agricultural potential in each of these areas and tailoring investment mix that would
exploit it. The approach mainly takes into account the benefits resulting from the savings realized on the
operating costs of the vehicles, and most of all, on the rural benefits resulting from the development of
each road. On the one hand, these improvements spread growth in rural areas, and on the other hand,
the reduction in transport costs provided incentives to increase production.

Certain hypothesis were made in this simplified approach: (i) the residual values of the road investments
are marginal; (ii) the production structures are not differentiated according to the size of the influence
zone; (iii) there is no difference between the production price in the farms and the sale price outside of
the influence zone; and (iv) the local market prices remain the same with or without the project.

The economic analysis is based on a comparison of the costs and benefits of each road between the
reference situation and the project. The evaluation criterion is the Economic rate of return (ERR) of the
project for each road. In accordance with the initial study, the assessment period was set to 10 years, in
order to facilitate the comparison of results.

Two types of investments were realized: (i) Investments linked to rural activities in each influence zone
of the project, to evaluate agricultural performances in different influence zones of the tracks. These are
the inventory of investments made during the early years of utilization of the rural roads; and (ii)
Investments linked to roads upgrading: these only concern basic improvements of the tracks according to
the level set in the project. They do not include rehabilitation works realized at a later stage. The residual
value of road investments at the end of the assessment period was identical to the reserved value of the
evaluation report, 5%.

At appraisal, the road improvement component was found to generate a weighted average ERR of 40%,
with ERR of individual road component ranging from 19.6 to 138.9%. At project completion a new
economic evaluation was completed on the 69 rural roads built, spread over the national territory, for a
total amount of about 670 km.

At appraisal the road improvement component was found to generate a weighted average ERR of 40%,
with ERR of individual road components ranging from 19.6% to 138.9%. At the end of the project, the
analysis reports an average ERR of 32.3%. The ERRs are ranging from 12.6% to 58.7%. For
comparative purpose the average ERR at the time of the original analysis (i.e. 1993) has been
recalculated for the 69 roads improved and this yielded a very similar EIRR (36.3%) than that of
appraisal. The evaluation study also indicates that the costs of the project have been kept low (68% of
the appraisal estimate) and the rural investments that occurred outside of the project, have been much
more important than those forecast (at time 2 or 3 times bigger). Considering substantially lower costs
during implementation, the ERRs seem to be lower than expected at the end of the project. This can be
explained by the fact that the rural investments have been calculated only after the completion of the
roads (i.e. between 1996 and 2000) and that rural yields take considerably more time to provide results
(between 3 to 8 years depending on the type of production). The full benefits of the investments hence
start becoming apparent only after around the 8th year since the road construction, while the period



                                                    - 19 -

taken into account in the economic analysis is of 10 years. Lower than expected ERRs are hence due to
an underestimation of benefits. Although economic return rates are below those estimated at appraisal,
all ERRs are above the threshold of 12% and remain generally similar to those calculated at appraisal.

While no economic analysis has been carried out at the end of the project on Component D, it should be
said that traffic improved substantially on the improved roads, while cost of maintenance was reduced,
hence leading to believe that adequate (probably high) economic rates of returns occurred.

The following table shows economic results for all the upgraded roads. The results of the evaluation of
1993 are also included for comparison purposes.


 Governorate    Track           Track            Initial Project level ERR 1993 Project Final ERR 2003 Traffic
                  N°                             level                             level
TUNIS            1008      B.Jazzar-B.NJMA        101        F5         41,7%       F44        32,3%    700
                 1009          MIAOU              111        F3         38,4%       F4         27,4%    335
                 1010        CITE LAHBIB          12         F44        20,3%       F44        18,53%   355
                 1013       COOPERATIVE           12         F5         27,1%       F4         13,4%    420
ARIANA           2203  B.CHEKIR ­B-BOUREGBA       11         F3         28,5%       F3         19,2%    250
                 2208       GP7-RIVE 511          12         F3         50,0%       F3         16,9%    270
                 2209   DJEDAIDA ­ S.TABBASSI     12         F44        67,8%       F44        43,3%    586
                 2210   MANOUBA ­ S.ALI HATAB     11         F44        90,8%       F3         33,2%    220
                 2211   ELBATEN ­ HATERMINE       11         F44        90,4%       F3         36,0%    235
                 2205   B.JAZZAR ­ MORNAGUIA      111        F3         20,1%       F3         49,9%    288
                 2212     FPR,A- EM GARRAT        12         F3         30,7%       F3         52,5%    280
                 2213  MORNAGUIA ­ AL ATTAR       11         F3         34,4%       F3         16,2%    305
BEN AROUS        2304  ZAOUIA ­ OUED MELIANE      10         F44        74,8%       F3         13,5%    282
                 2306     D.FRADJ HASBINE         11         F44        53,1%       F4         14,9%    215
NABEUL           323         HAOUARIA             111        F44        25 ,6%      F44        23,5%   1029
                 327    DAR JOUNDI DABOUZA        102        F44        46,0%       F3         39,5%    735
                  336    BOUARGOUB ­MASRI         111        F44        30,0%       F3         18,0%    528
                  340    BASBASSIA ­ Z.JEDIDI     102        F44        50,2%       F3         43,1%   1916
                  322         TABBENE             10         F44        66,8%       F44        30,6%    870
                  324          BAYADA             101        F44        25,3%       F3         39,8%    944
                  328    SOMAA ­ DHAROUFA         101        F3         26,5%       F3         58,7%    468
                  329   GROMBALIA ­ NIANOU        101        F3         44,4%       F3         23,0%    605
                 333         HANNOUS              111        F44        21,6%       F3         21,7%    219
ZAGHOAN          1110    BOUCHA ­FRESKINE         111        F3         32,7%       F3         39,5%    264
                 1112     SABBALA HAMRAA          111        F3         18,2%       F3         12,6%    300
BIZERTE          912     MENZEL SID 6 BATIA       111        F3         31,5%       F3         46,7%    206
                 914      S.BECHIR ­RVE 356       10         F3         25,9%       F3         14,0%    249
                  915      ALIA ­RAS JEBEL        10         F44        34,7%       F4         50,7%   1031
                 917    AIN KSIBA ­RAS EL AIN     10         F44        43,5%       F44        41,9%    551
BEJA             1206         S.AHMED             102        F3         33,2%       F3         45,1%    421
                 1207   TAHROUNI ­ AMDOUN         102        F4         40,3%       F44        34,6%    614
                 1208   MATRIA-TEBOURSOUK         101        F3         34,5%       F3         16,5%    395
JENDOUBA         1305    CHEMTOU-EL GALAA         101        F3         25,8%       F3         48,4%    379
                 1309        TOUAHRIA             101        F3         49,5%       F44        54,4%    869
                 1310      ZGALBIA-HAMMAM                    F3         27,1%       F3         41,3%    305
                              OUECHTA
                 1311       ABDEL JABBAR          111        F3         27,5%       F3         26,7%    423
                 1314     TRAHNIA ­ KHIAITA       101        F3         52,4%       F3         54,0%    271
                 1319         DAMOUS              111        F3         40,3%       F3         27,0%    261
KEF              113          ZANFOUR             11         F3         27,1%       F3         14,0%    278
                 117       MC 173-MELLALA         11         F3         53,2%       F44        22,2%    350
                 121       KEF-MAHASSEN           111        F3         23,0%       F3         24,2%    355
SILIANA          208    KESRA ­BOUABDALLAH        11         F3         33,1%       F3         21,2%    281
                 255      JAMA ­BOUROUIS          111        F3         23,4%       F44        15,6%   1872
SOUSSE           1406  ENFIDA-FRADA-S.GRIMIT      111        F44        20 ,0%      F4         27,5%    849
                 1407          FRADA              111        F44        22,1%       F4         27,4%    198
                 1408  S.HENI-OUELD KHCHINE       111        F44        17,6%       F3         19,5%    287




                                                   - 20 -

MONASTIR   1501  MC82-KSIBET MEDIOUNI    11        F3   23,3%     F3    17,5%  235
           1557  CHERAHIL-S.BANNOUR      11       F44    19,9%    F4    23,8%  1362
MAHDIA     1605 ZGONDIA-KRERCHA-HKAI     11        F3    20,2%    F3    28,3%  401
                          MA
           1606 BOUMERDES-ABABSA-MA      102      F44    24,3%   F44    27,0%  626
                         ATA
           1654  EL HAJEB-KSOUR ESSEF    102      F44    25,1%    F3    19,7%  490
           1657 S.ALOUENE-BARADAA-MC     111       F3    37,1%    F3    33,2%  246
                          82
SFAX       1752  BEDERNA-BLECTTECH       11       F44   30,0%    F44    54,4%  373
           1708   ROUADHI-TENIOUUR       11       F44    34,0%    F4    49,7%  836
KAIROUAN    411      SBIKHA-SISSEB       11        F3    54,9%    F3    34,5%  1400
            414  MATAO-AIN MASTOUR       111      F44    20,5%   F44    43,2%  1226
            413    BOUHEJLA ­JHINA       11       F44    73,7%    F3   35,3%   806
KASSERINE   509    MAJEL BEL ABBES       11        F3    20,5%    F3    16,6%  213
                       NADHOUR
            513     SBEITLA ­ZAZIA       111       F3    30,3%    F3    37,5%  1279
S.BOUZID    614       GAMMOUDIA          11        F3    64,1%    F3   48,1%   596
            616 REGUEB ­BIR ALI KHALIFA  11        F3    26,7%   F44    26,5%  1197
GABES       814     MARETH ­LAFAM        111      F44    47,6%   F44    43,1%  1245
MEDENINE   1806 BENI KHEDECHE-DEMMER     11        F3    35,0%    F3    43,6%  1558
           1810     AJIM-EL GANTRA       12        F3    33,4%   F44    31,6%  1144
TATAOUINE  1901    KSAR HDADA-OUED       11        F3    21,7%   F44    22,2%  714
                        ELKHIL
GAFSA       713  S.BOUBAKER-MOULARES     111       F3    15,4%   F44    18,0%  386
TOZEUR     2102    CHEMSA-EL HAMMA       11       F44    39,4%    F4    51,6%  266
KEBILI     2003  MENCHIA-JAZIRA BEIDA    11        F3    32,0%    F3    35,9%  1300
           2004    FEJ ERRIH ­RABTA      13       F44    53,7%    F3    59,8%  687




                                          - 21 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              11/01/1992                1    TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              10/03/1994                4    PRINCIPAL ECONOMIST
                                             (1); TRANSPORT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             COUNSEL (1) PROJECT
                                             ASSISTANT (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ASSISTANT
                                             (1)

 Supervision
              10/25/1995                3    PROCUREMENT                      S              HS
                                             SPECIALIST (1); SR.
                                             HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                             SR ECONOMIST (1)
              12/02/1996                2    SR HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);         S               S
                                             SR. ECONOMIST (1)
              06/09/1997                2    PL HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);         U               U
                                             SR TRANSP ECONOMIST (1)
              10/14/1997                2    HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);            U               U
                                             TRANSPORT ECONOMIST (1)
              05/23/1998                5    PRINCIPAL ECONOMIST (1);         S               S
                                             TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); DISBURSEMENT
                                             OFFICER (1); COUNSEL (1);
                                             SECTOR DIRECTOR (1)
              03/19/1999                2    PRINCIPAL ECONOMIST (1);         S               S
                                             TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1)
              11/26/1999                2    TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);        S               S
                                             PRINCIPAL ECONOMIST (1)
              06/23/2000                1    SR TRANSPORT SPECIALIST          S               S
                                             (1); PRINCIPAL ECONOMIST
                                             (1)
              02/02/2001                1    SR TRANSPORT SPECIALIST          S               S
              10/27/2001                1    SR TRANSPORT SPECIALIST          S               S

 ICR
              02/01/2003                2     SR TRANSPORT                    S               S
                                              ECONOMIST (1),
                                              ECONOMIST PROGRAM
                                              MANAGER (1)




                                              - 22 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                                195
  Supervision                                                          288
  ICR
  Total                                                                483




                                            - 23 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

 1. Staff Appraisal Report, Republic of Tunisia, Rural Roads Project. World Bank Report No.
    13792-TUN. January 3, 1995
 2. Loan Agreement
 3. Restructuring of the Project - Amendment of Loan Agreement - June 12, 1998
 4. Project Supervision Reports
 5. Back-to-Office Reports
 6. Periodic Progress Reports
 7. Programme de Formation 2000-2002
 8. Rapport Provisoire de Réalisation de Programme - Janvier 2003
 9. Rapport d'Etude de Rentabilité Economique. Rapport et Annexes. Août 2003
10. Rapport d'Achèvement. Projet des Pistes Rurales. République Tunisienne. Ministère de l'Equipement,
    de l'Habitat et de l'Aménagement du Territoire. Octobre 2003.




                                                 - 26 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report

The following is the summary (in French) of the Completion Report received from the Borrower.



Rapport d'Achèvement - Projet des Pistes Rurales
République Tunisienne. Ministère de l'Equipement, de l'Habitat et de l'Aménagement du
Territoire. Octobre 2003




1. DONNEES SUR LE PROJET

                PRET 3840-S : 23,3 M.$

                PRET 3840-A : 25,3 M.


        PRESENTATION DU PRET AU CONSEIL : 31/01/1995


        DATE DE SIGNATURE DU PRET : 14/02/1995


        DATE D'ENTREE EN VIGUEUR : 02/05/1995


        DATE DU 1er AMENDEMENT DE L'ACCORD DE PRET : 10/07/1998


        DATE DU 2ème AMENDEMENT DE L'ACCORD DE PRET : 08/05/2002


        DATE DE CLOTURE DU PRET : 30/06/2003


        REMBOURSEMENT A PARTIR DU 01/05/2000 AU 01/11/2011


        COMPOSANTES DU PROJET :


                       PARTIE A : DEVELOPPEMENT INSTITUTIONNEL


                       PARTIE B : ENTRETIEN PERIODIQUE PILOTE


                       PARTIE C : AMENAGEMENT DE ROUTES RURALES


                       PARTIE D : RENFORCEMENT DE ROUTES DU RESEAU CLASSE




                                                 - 27 -

2. PRINCIPAUX INDICATEURS DE PERFORMANCE

Le suivi du projet consiste essentiellement en une évaluation et analyse annuelle des Indicateurs de
Perfectionnement pour chacune des 71 zones d'influence du projet :

Ø        Indicateurs Routiers et
Ø        Indicateurs Agricoles.

Ces Indicateurs ont été choisis de telle sorte qu'ils reflètent l'avancement du projet et permettent de
contrôler l'état d'avancement des investissements agricoles publics et privés, estimés à 52 millions de
dinars, qui ont servi de base pour la justification économique de la composante d'aménagement des
712,5 Km de pistes rurales.

Les indicateurs de performance devraient être ciblés sur le progrès des investissements critiques devant
générer des avantages agricoles additionnels, à savoir :

         (i) les investissements routiers ;
         (ii) les investissements agricoles financés ou appuyés par le gouvernement,
         (iii) les niveaux de trafic et leur composition.

Les indicateurs routiers, mesurés en nombre de kilomètres aménagés ou entretenus, détermineront
l'achèvement ponctuel des composantes aménagement et entretien du projet. Le suivi des
investissements publics devrait refléter l'augmentation de la production agricole.

La collecte des données sur les indicateurs routiers et le comptage de trafic est à la charge du Ministère
de l'Equipement et de l'Habitat et se fait sur une base régulière, au moins annuelle, durant les périodes
les plus significatives en tenant compte des spécificités de la production agricole dans les zones
d'influences des routes du projet.

Quant aux Indicateurs Agricoles, le schéma institutionnel du VIIème PROJET ROUTIER prévoit la collecte
de ces données par les responsables locaux du Ministère de l'Agriculture et l'accord de prêt conclu avec
la Banque Mondiale stipule à l'annexe 5 section D que les valeurs de base doivent être fournies à la
Banque avant le 30 Juin 1995 (date qui précède le démarrage des travaux d'aménagement des 71 pistes
agricoles).

Du fait que les valeurs de référence des indicateurs n'ont pas été fournies par le Ministère de
l'Agriculture jusqu'à cette date faute de disponibilité de moyens humains et matériels il a été décidé en
commun accord entre le Ministère de l'Equipement et de l'Habitat, le Ministère de l'Agriculture et la
Banque de confier cette étude à un consultant spécialisé en la matière. Par conséquent, une convention
d'étude a été conclue en juin 1996 avec le consultant Amor Jaziri.

La collecte des données relatives aux indicateurs agricoles a donc été confiée au consultant Amor Jaziri.
L'étude s'est déroulée en trois phases :

         Phase 1 : d'une durée de 2 mois qui a débuté au cours du mois d'avril 1996, c'est à dire
                       lorsque les travaux d'aménagement des pistes (composante C) étaient en cours.
         Phase 2 : d'une durée de 1,5 mois qui doit qui a eu lieu avant la date de l'examen à Mi -
                       parcours du 7ème Projet et Routier.
         Phase 3 :       d'une durée de 1,5 mois qui doit s'est achevée avant le 30 juin 2003 et dont les
                       résultats ont servi pour l'établissement du présent rapport d'achèvement du projet.

Par ailleurs, il a été convenu de confier au Bureau d'études SCET- Tunisie qui a réalisé l'analyse
économique des pistes de la composante C au moment de l'évaluation du projet, une étude
d'actualisation des T.R.E.

La méthode d'analyse économique adoptée a été basée sur une comparaison des coûts et des
avantages liés à chaque route entre la situation de référence qui régnait avant 1993 et la situation du



                                                      - 28 -

projet après la construction des routes.

Les coûts à prendre en compte concernent les investissements routiers, les coûts récurrents résultant
des travaux d'entretien, aux investissements agricoles et aux coûts de production agricole. Quant aux
avantages à prendre en compte découlent des gains générés par la dimunition des coûts d'exploitation
des véhicules et des gains provenant des productions agricoles additionnelles.


En conclusion, l'étude doit permettre de dégager la rentabilité économique de chaque route en
s'appuyant sur les deux indicateurs suivants : le Taux de Rentabilité Interne Economique et le bénéfice
net actualisé (au taux de 12%).


RESULTATS

   A- INDICATEURS ROUTIERS SUR L'ENSEMBLE DU RESEAU DES PISTES AGRICOLES

 INDICATEURS                             UNITE    1994     1995   1996  1997  1998   1999   2000    2001
                                                                  1



 ROUTES REVETUES                           Km      3.400   3.598  3.776 3.976  4.284  4.495  4.732  5.120

 REVETEMENT PERIODIQUE EN                  Km      149,1   163,6  166,8 226,2   164   210      0      0
 REGIE

 REVETEMENT PERIODIQUE A                   Km         0     6,9    12,3  2,1    33,2   35    1172   1000
 L'ENTREPRISE

 REVETEMENT SUR BUDGET                     Km      198,2   177,8  142,8 200,3  211,1  237    208     180
 (Titre II)

 PISTES CONSTRUITES                        Km         0      0     57,5 107,5    0      0      0      0
 (7ème PROJET R.)

 ROUTES NON REVETUES                       Km      2.100   1902   1724  1903   2009   1798   1561   1173

 RECHARGEMENT EN REGIE                     Km      166,2   255,6  173,6 130,2   186   115    130      90

 RECHARGEMENT A L'ENTREPRISE               Km         0      0      0     0      0      0    230     160

 PISTES CONSTRUITES                        Km         0      0    192,8 306,3    0      0      0      0

 (7ème PROJET R.)


Par ailleurs, l'analyse du trafic recensé sur chacune des sections des 69 pistes aménagées montre que
les trafics ont évolué depuis l'évaluation du projet jusqu'à son achèvement.


B- INDICATEURS AGRICOLES

 L'évaluation du programme d'aménagement des pistes rurales permet de conclure que :
Les investissements routiers ont été contenus à un niveau acceptable de 54 755 DT/km (base 1996),
contre un coût estimatif de 80 900 DT/km (base 1993) dans l'étude initiale d'évaluation.
Par contre, les investissements agricoles ont été beaucoup plus importants ( 2 à 3 fois le niveau
escompté en 1993) entraînant du même coup des avantages agricoles conséquents.

Les taux de rentabilité interne sont acceptables (> 12% ) et restent en général proches de ceux calculés
dans l'étude initiale.




                                                    - 29 -

3. EVALUATION DES OBJECTIFS DE DEVELOPPEMENT, CONCEPTION DU PROJET ET
QUALITE


3.1 OBJECTIFS D'ORIGINE

Les objectifs essentiels du projet se résument comme suit :

Ø       L'amélioration de la gestion du secteur routier et de l'entretien des pistes rurales ;
Ø       La décentralisation de la gestion du secteur routier et l'accroissement de la participation du
secteur privé à l'entretien des routes ;
Ø       L'amélioration des normes routières et la minimisation des coûts tout au long du cycle de vie des
routes ;
Ø       Le ralentissement de l'exode rural et la réduction des disparités entre villes et campagnes pour
répondre aux besoins des franges les plus défavorisées de la population.


3.2 OBJECTIFS REVISES

Suite à l'amendement du prêt à deux reprises (Le premier : en juillet 1998 suite à l'évaluation à
mi-parcours du projet ; Le deuxième : en mai 2002 ) trois nouveaux objectifs ont été définis :

Ø       Réduire les retards accumulés dans le renforcement des routes réhabilitées dans le cadre du
6ème Projet Routier (prêt 2896-TUN)
Ø       Améliorer la gestion du personnel et sa formation
Ø       Renforcer l'organisation et l'informatisation du M.E.H.A.T.

3.3 COMPOSANTES D'ORIGINE

Le projet comprend trois composantes :

COMPOSANTE A : La préparation et la mise en oeuvre d'un programme de réformes
institutionnelles.

Le programme de réformes institutionnelles a pour objectif la mise en place d'une nouvelle politique de
gestion du réseau et de renforcement de l'entretien routier et la résorption des faiblesses institutionnelles
de ce sous-secteur.

Afin d'atteindre ces objectifs, il a été constitué au sein du Ministère de l'Equipement et de l'Habitat un
Groupe de travail interdépartemental (G.T.I.) par décision N°78-D3 du 23/11/94 chargé de définir un plan
d'action pour la mise en oeuvre de ces réformes et par la suite d'assurer leur mise en place.


Ces réformes concernent:

        A-La restructuration du secteur public qui vise :

             A1-à rendre les Conseils de Région responsables de la gestion du réseau rural ce qui
             nécessite un reclassement routier avec transfert aux Conseils de la responsabilité juridique,
             des ressources budgétaires et du pouvoir de décision sur les normes routières à employer.

             A2-à prévenir la création de nouveaux organismes locaux de gestion du réseau routier en
             utilisant au maximum les compétences des Directions Régionales de l'Equipement et de
             l'Habitat.

        B-Réformes budgétaires qui visent :

             B1-le renforcement des dépenses d'entretien afin d'arriver à un meilleur équilibre Dépenses
             d'entretien /Investissements routiers ;



                                                    - 30 -

             B2-l'établissement d'un lien entre les budgets, les standards et ressources budgétaires, d'une
             part, et la classification routière, d'autre part ;

             B3-l'amélioration du cadre budgétaire et réglementaire, le renforcement de la discipline,
             transparence et responsabilité budgétaire afin de séparer clairement les dépenses
             d'investissement et d'entretien, et de promouvoir des économies sur la durée de vie des
             routes ;

         C-La promotion du secteur privé qui vise à créer de nouvelles opportunités de développement
pour un secteur privé dynamique par :

             C1-l'orientation progressive vers la formule d'entretien à l'entreprise pour les tâches
             périodiques ainsi que la majorité des tâches d'entretien courant afin de séparer les fonctions
             de supervision et de contrôle de la qualité des fonctions d'exécution et d'améliorer le
             rendement des fonds alloués en réduisant les coûts et améliorant la qualité et la productivité.

             C2-la limitation de la régie aux travaux qui sont difficiles à programmer à l'avance ou à
             mesurer, qui sont trop dispersés ou n'attirent pas d'offres compétitives.

             C3-le recyclage d'un noyau de fonctionnaires aux fonctions de programmation, contrôle de
             qualité et supervision des travaux à l'entreprise ;

             C4-la privatisation du parc matériel et l'incitation du personnel pour quitter la fonction
             publique et démarrer des petites entreprises.

         D-La refonte des normes routières de construction et d'entretien pour les pistes agricoles qui
vise, sur la base des normes adoptées pour les routes du projet à optimiser l'utilisation des techniques de
routes en graveleux et à réduire les coûts sur la durée de vie des routes.

Dans ce cadre plusieurs études ont été élaborées :

þ        Etude du Patrimoine, Budgets et Entretien Routiers a été conclue avec un Bureau d'Etudes
et financée uniquement sur le Budget, en vue de définir les grandes lignes de réformes souhaitables
dans les domaines institutionnel, budgétaire et organisationnel de l'entretien routier.
L'étude s'est déroulée en trois phases :

1)       Une première phase consacrée à l'analyse de la situation actuelle en termes de classement et
affectation du réseau routier, de moyens humains et matériels affectés à l'entretien routier, de budgets
routiers, de cadre légal et réglementaire fixant les procédures de gestion du patrimoine routier, etc...

2)       Une deuxième phase consacrée à l'étude de la stratégie optimale de gestion du patrimoine
routier en ouvrant une concertation élargie à tous les opérateurs concernés. Il s 'agit particulièrement
d'étudier l'opportunité de privatiser tout ou partie de l'entretien.


3)       Une troisième phase consacrée à la synthèse des propositions avancées dans les phases
précédentes et à l'élaboration d'un plan-programme des actions à mener et des mesures
d'accompagnement nécessaires à l'aboutissement de la réforme proposée.

þ        Etude sur les normes routières : cette étude a été lancée en avril 1998 et a été achevée avec
un léger retard. Elle consiste en l'élaboration d'un manuel de procédures à l'usage des concepteurs des
routes rurales.
þ        Etude sur les indicateurs de performance agricole :
     Voir chapitre 2 relatif aux principaux indicateurs de performance.




                                                       - 31 -

þ        Etude de rentabilité économique du programme d'aménagement des 69 routes rurales :
     Voir chapitre 2 relatif aux principaux indicateurs de performance.

þ        Programme de formation des cadres :
     Au cours de l'évaluation du projet, le programme relatif à cette composante n'était pas assez
     détaillé. La D.G.P.C a mis au point un programme détaillé en très bonne cohérence avec les
     objectifs du projet en matière de renforcement de la gestion de l'entretien routier. Ce programme a
     reçu la non objection de la Banque et a été exécuté au cours des années 2001-2003.


Le plan d'action élaboré dans le cadre de l'Etude du Patrimoine Routier prévoit la préparation d'un
programme de formation et de recyclage d'un noyau de fonctionnaires du Ministère de l'Equipement et
de l'Habitat aux fonctions de programmation, contrôle de qualité et supervision des travaux routiers à
l'entreprise.


Les objectifs recherchés à travers ce programme sont :


     1-   La formation du personnel qui sera chargé du contrôle des tâches d'entretien réalisées à
l'entreprise;

     2- La reconversion du personnel restant, dès l'application de la réforme, afin de l'adapter aux
         nouvelles tâches de contrôle et de surveillance;

     3- L'élaboration des procédures d'entretien à l'entreprise ;

Ce programme de formation intéresse différentes catégories de personnel et porte sur les principaux
thèmes suivants:

            a- Maîtrise du management des services pour les cadres de maîtrise ;

            b- La sécurité routière ;

            c- Aide à la préparation des budgets annuels régie/entreprises ;

            d- Aide à la préparation des programmes annuels d'entretien ;

            e- Maîtrise des nouvelles techniques de l'ingénieur ;

            f- L'environnement routier ;

            g- Renforcement des capacités administratives de gestion des contrats de travaux routiers à
            l'entreprise ;

            h- Recyclage des agents de contrôle des travaux: topographie, contrôle, essais de
            laboratoire....

Dans ce cadre, trois marchés ont été conclus avec deux Bureaux spécialisés en la matière.

þ        Programme d'informatisation du Ministère :

     Cette sous-composante concerne la mise en place d'équipements informatiques (réseaux, câblage
     et serveurs) dans les différents services régionaux et centraux des ponts et chaussées ainsi que la
     mise au point d'une application de gestion de marchés publics. Cette rubrique a nécessité
     l'amendement de l'accord de prêt afin d'inclure une nouvelle catégorie de « fourniture de biens ».

COMPOSANTE B : Programme pilote d'entretien périodique des routes non revêtues :

Afin d'alimenter le G.T.I. en données et informations et de marquer un premier pas dans la direction de
l'élimination des travaux en régie, un projet pilote de réhabilitation périodique à l'entreprise a été



                                                     - 32 -

programmé. Les travaux portent essentiellement sur le rechargement en matériaux graveleux de 33
pistes situées dans 12 gouvernorats pour un linéaire de 300 Km environ de pistes non revêtues choisies
parmi les routes agricoles aménagées essentiellement dans le cadre du IIIème et Vème Projet Routier et
actuellement entretenues sur l'article 60-12.

Les pistes retenues ont un trafic journalier moyen situé entre 100 et 300 vpj et un taux de rentabilité
économique minimum de 15 %. En effet, une étude économique élaboré par un consultant spécialisé sur
un échantillon de 3 pistes ayant les trafics les plus bas (100 et 150 vpj ) dégage des taux de rentabilité
variant de 15,5 à 20,6 justifiant la réalisation de leur réhabilitation. Par ailleurs, l'analyse de sensibilité
relative au TRI global de chaque piste montre que celui-ci reste acceptable (supérieur à 12%) même
pour le cas le plus pessimiste correspondant à une augmentation du coût d'investissement de 20%
attestant de la rentabilité du projet de leur réhabilitation.

COMPOSANTE C: Amélioration des pistes rurales :

Cette composante comprend l'aménagement d'environ 712,6 Km de routes agricoles sélectionnées
parmi 1549 Km de pistes économiquement rentables. Les niveaux d'aménagement ont été établis afin
d'optimiser les avantages agricoles tout en restant rentables et en tenant compte des prévisions de
trafic:

Ø bitumage d'environ 25% des routes du projet, dont le trafic journalier moyen dépasse 300 véhicules ;
Ø aménagement de 65% des routes sur la base de normes minimales (chaussée de 6 m de largeur...)
et sans bitumage ;
Ø aménagement du reste avec une plate-forme de 9 m en anticipant un bitumage ultérieur.

Les niveaux d'aménagement retenus pour ce projet sont détaillés comme suit :

                                          NIVEAU F3              NIVEAU F4                 NIVEAU F44

 LARGEUR PLATE FORME                          6 m            9 m = 5m + 2 * 2 m         9 m = 5m + 2 * 2 m

 CORPS DE CHAUSSEE

 COUCHE DE FONDATION                       20 à 35cm         15 à 25cm en graves        15 à 25cm en graves
                                                                  naturelles                 naturelles
 COUCHE DE BASE                            en graves         15 à 20cm en graves        15 à 20cm en graves
                                           naturelles           sélectionnées               concassées
 COUCHE DE ROULEMENT                          ****                   ****             Revêtement superficiel
                                                                                             bicouche


A/ CONSISTANCE DES TRAVAUX

Les travaux comprennent pour chacune des pistes et d'une façon non limitative: dégagement des
emprises, terrassements, chaussées et accotements, drainage et travaux d'équipement et de
signalisation.

B/ PROCEDURE DE PASSATION DES MARCHES

Les 712,6 Km de pistes ont été réparties en deux tranches : la première de 16 lots totalise environ 392,4
Km répartis sur 50 pistes localisées dans 12 gouvernorats ; alors que la deuxième tranche concerne 14
lots totalisant 320,2 Km répartis sur 22 pistes localisées dans 11 gouvernorats de la République
Tunisienne.


La procédure prévue par l'accord de prêt avec la Banque Mondiale pour le choix des entreprises est
l'appel d'offres international précédé par une présélection : vingt (20) entreprises ont été retenues (6
étrangères et 14 Tunisiennes).



                                                      - 33 -

Les 16 marchés relatifs à la première tranche ont été approuvé au cours du mois de novembre 1995;
alors que les travaux ont démarré en décembre 1995. Les 14 marchés relatifs à la deuxième tranche ont
été approuvés en janvier 1996. Quant à la date de commencement des travaux, elle a été fixée pour le
1er février 1996.

3.4 COMPOSANTES REVISEES


COMPOSANTE D :

Renforcement en béton bitumineux d'environ 340 km de routes du réseau classé qui ont fait d'une part
l'objet d'un projet de réhabilitation dans le cadre du Sixième Projet Routier et qui présentent un taux de
rentabilité économique supérieur à 15%, sur la base de comptages effectués en 1997. Une analyse de
sensibilité montre que les taux de rendement économique (TRE) sont d'au moins 14% lorsque les coûts
de construction sont augmentés de 20%. Cette composante a été réalisée en totalité et dans les délais
prescrits par la conclusion de 14 marchés, suite à des appels d'offres nationaux. Cette composante a
nécessité l'amendement de l'accord de prêt le 10 juillet 1998.

INFORMATISATION DE LA D.G.P.C :

Cette composante concerne la mise en place d'équipements informatiques ( réseaux, câblage et
serveurs) dans les différents services régionaux et centraux des ponts et chaussées ainsi que la mise au
point d'une application de gestion de marchés publics (suivi technique et financier des projets routiers).
Cette rubrique a nécessité un deuxième amendement de l'accord de prêt (08 mai 2002) afin d'inclure
une nouvelle catégorie de « fourniture de biens »

Trois marchés ont été confiés à trois fournisseurs au cours du mois de janvier 2003. Cette composante
permettra de doter chaque direction régionale de 10 postes de travail reliés à un serveur.

Par ailleurs, l'accord de prêt prévoit dans son annexe 5, section E : un examen à Mi-Parcours du projet.
En effet, il est prévu que l'Emprunteur prépare et remette à la Banque, au plus tard le 31 Juillet 1998,un
rapport indiquant notamment :

(i) les progrès accomplis par le M.E.H dans l'exécution du projet durant la période précédant l'examen à
Mi-Parcours, en insistant particulièrement sur la partie A du projet et sur les résultats obtenus, mesurés
d'après les Indicateurs d'Impact, les objectifs convenus et le calendrier d'exécution prévu ;

(ii) les progrès réalisés au titre du plan d'action institutionnel ;

(iii) les modifications proposées en ce qui concerne les Indicateurs d'Impact ;

(iv) les engagements et les prévisions des décaissements à venir au titre d'activités entrant dans le
cadre du projet;

(v) les investissements publics en cours et prévus touchant l'agriculture dans les zones concernées ;

(vi) le mode de passation des marchés de travaux et de services de consultant pour toutes les
composantes du projet.

Cet examen à mi-parcours a été réalisé en commun entre la Banque et l'Emprunteur lors d'une mission
qui s'est déroulée à Tunis du 21 avril au 6 mai 1998 et sanctionné par un aide-mémoire. Cet examen a
permis d'évaluer la demande de l'Emprunteur d'amender l'Accord de prêt, de manière à y inclure le
financement du renforcement de routes revêtues à grande circulation, sans augmentation du montant
initial du prêt.

3.5 QUALITE DE PREPARATION DU PROJET

A l'origine, le projet a été bien préparé par les différents intervenants de la Banque et de l'Emprunteur
notamment en ce qui concerne les objectifs ainsi que les composantes permettant leur réalisation. Quant


                                                      - 34 -

aux prévisions budgétaires, elles étaient largement surestimées notamment pour la composante C qui a
été réalisée dans des conditions économiques très particulières pour les entreprises qui ont présenté des
prix très étudiés (tendances à la baisse) sans oublier la dévaluation du dinar tunisien par rapport aux
deux monnaies utilisées par le prêt ( l'U.S $ et l'Euro)


4. REALISATION DES OBJECTIFS ET RESULTATS

4.1 RESULTATS, REALISATION DES OBJECTIFS

Il est important de préciser que les orientations du projet modifiées selon les résultats obtenus en cours
de réalisation et qu'en général, tous les objectifs prévus par le projet sont atteints.

4.2 RESULTATS PAR COMPOSANTE

COMPOSANTE A :

Les décisions essentielles du plan d'action institutionnel concernent l'affectation des pistes et la
privatisation du revêtement superficiel.

Ø        4.2.1 Plan d'action :

Le Groupe de Travail Interministériel (G.T.I.) devait soumettre à la Banque son plan d'action
institutionnel pour examen et approbation le 31 mars 1996. La version définitive (voir annexe ) n'a été
soumise à la Banque qu'en avril 1998. Ce retard peut s'expliquer par le fait que ce plan devait être
discuté d'abord par un Conseil Interministériel (CIM) puis validé et approuvé par un Conseil Ministériel
Restreint (CMR) Ce plan d'action a défini un programme d'investissement (pour la privatisation de
l'entretien routier) qui a été préparé et arrêté durant l'année 1999 et exécuté à compter de l'année 2000.

Quant à la Direction du matériel elle continue à assurer son rôle de « Service Public » mais se voit son
matériel s'user et passer à la réforme sans avoir de crédits de renouvellement de matériel.

Ø        4.2.2 Affectation des pistes agricoles :

Le Groupe de Travail Interministériel avait proposé d'affecter le réseau des pistes agricoles aux Conseils
Régionaux, qui auraient la responsabilité de l'entretien et de la programmation des travaux. La faiblesse
des Conseils Régionaux quant à leur capacité technique explique la décision du Conseil Ministériel tenu
le 07 décembre 2001 de confier la responsabilité de toutes les pistes rurales au Ministère de
l'Equipement, de l'Habitat et de l'Aménagement du Territoire ; le Ministère de l'Agriculture, de
l'Environnement et des Ressources Hydrauliques s'étant vu confier la responsabilité des pistes agricoles
(pistes desservant les périmètres irrigués et les pistes forestières). La D.G.P.C envisage la création
d'une Direction des pistes rurales pour mettre en oeuvre cette décision. Quant à l'inventaire des pistes, il
est en cours d'établissement par les Services Régionaux des Ponts et Chaussées.

Ø        4.2.3 Entretien des routes à l'entreprise

Il a été décidé de confier les travaux de revêtement superficiel en monocouche à l'entreprise à partir de
l'année 2000. La D.G.P.C a continué cette procédure en réalisant annuellement plus de 1000 km. Il est
important de préciser que certaines Directions Régionales ont confié d'autres tâches d'entretien (emplois
partiels, signalisation horizontale, réfection des bornes kilométriques, rechargement des accotements...)
à des entreprises locales et selon les moyens financiers et matériels disponibles.

Ce programme s'avère un succès, aussi bien pour ce qui concerne la maîtrise des coûts qu'encourage
une forte compétition, qu'en raison de la décision du M.E.H.A.T de ne plus faire l'acquisition de matériels
et d'engins pour de tels travaux.




                                                     - 35 -

Ø         4.2.4 Etude sur les normes routières :

L'étude a été menée dans de bonnes conditions et a permis notamment :
·         d'homogénéiser les différents niveaux d'aménagement des pistes ;
·         de mettre à la disposition des concepteurs un manuel technique d'aménagement des pistes
rurales et agricoles.

Ø         4.2.5 Formation des cadres :

Ce composante a été réalisée avec un grand succès puisque le programme a touché différent personnel
de la DGPC, des services régionaux des ponts et chaussées et des services techniques des
Gouvernorats et des Communes.

Par ailleurs, les questionnaires remplis par les participants au terme des cours et les enquêtes post
évaluation indiquent que ce programme est réalisé dans de très bonnes conditions, avec de réels
impacts sur la qualification des bénéficiaires. En plus, le programme a été élargi, grâce à des économies
réalisées sur certains postes comme le montre le tableau suivant :

                                       LOT A                LOT B              LOT C               TOTAL

  Population concernée               Directeurs et        Ingénieurs       Cadres et agents           - -
                                    sous-directeurs                          d'exécution
  -Nbre de jours de
  formation hommes                       720                 2000               3830                 6550
  prévus
  -Nbre de jours de
  formation hommes                       648                 2850               4780                 8278
  réalisés

  Crédits alloués                       58 384              833 465           304 470             1 196 319
  Crédits consommés                     26 704              903 817           210 815             1 141 336



COMPOSANTE B :

Sur les 300 km programmés, seuls 282 km ont été réalisés avec succès. Le reste des travaux ( soit 18
km à Béja) sera achevé sur d'autres programmes du M.E.H.A.T. En effet, trois lots (L4 ­ L5 ­ L6) parmi
les dix huit qui ont été confiés à des entreprises ont connu des problèmes à cause de la défaillance de
l'Entreprise Cometra. Un deuxième appel d'offres a permis de confier les travaux relatifs au lot L4 (à
Bizerte) à une autre entreprise qui les a achevés dans de bonnes conditions. Les deux autres lots (à
Béja) n'ont pu être entamés avant la clôture du prêt.           Ces travaux seront réalisés sur d'autres
programmes du M.E.H.A.T.

Cette composante a permis de réaliser l'un des objectifs essentiel du projet : l'accroissement de la
participation du secteur privé à l'entretien des routes.


COMPOSANTE C :

Cette composante a été réalisée depuis la fin de l'année 1997 dans de bonnes conditions et avec
succès. Seuls 665 km de pistes sur 713 km prévus ont été aménagées en deux tranches comprenant 30
lots, le reste (48 km) a été réalisé sur d'autres programmes.

Il y a lieu de rappeler que la concurrence a fait en sorte que les prix proposés par les entreprises étaient
bien étudiés, ce qui a engendré un reliquat important sur le montant du prêt.



                                                    - 36 -

L'analyse des offres retenues a fait ressortir que les prix offerts par les entreprises sont nettement
inférieurs à ceux de l'évaluation du Projet (année 1994).Ce qui a permis de dégager un reliquat de
l'ordre de 29,6 Millions D.T sur les crédits alloués à cette composante. Le tableau suivant permet de
comparer le coût de base moyen au km, à l'évaluation et après appel d'offres.

                 COUT MOYEN D'AMENAGEMENT AU Km ( en milliers de D.T)

                                  LARGEUR 6 m          LARGEUR 9 m          REVETUE        MOYENNE

                                         F 3                F 4                F 44

 A L'EVALUATION                          71,0               84,0              136,2             88,7

 A L'APPEL D'OFFRES                      42,8               69,5               77,7             54,7



COMPOSANTE D :

Les travaux relatifs à cette composante ont été réalisés dans les délais (à la fin de 1999) et dans de très
bonnes conditions. Cette composante a permis de rattraper le retard pour la réalisation des travaux de
renforcement de chacune des sections de routes afin de stopper les dégradations des chaussées sous
les trafics importants qu'elles subissent.


INFORMATISATION DE LA D.G.P.C :

Tout le matériel informatique prévu a été installé dans les délais y compris la formation des utilisateurs.
Ces réseaux régionaux seront reliés entre eux et au M.E.H.A.T dans un futur très proche. Par ailleurs,
certaines applications ont déjà été installées allant de la gestion des projets à la conception technique
des routes, en passant par le développement de bases de données et la délimitation du domaine public.
Lors de la mission de supervision des experts de la Banque en janvier 2003, il a été convenu d'acquérir
120 micros. Cependant, les procédures administratives n'ont pas permis de réaliser ces achats avant la
clôture du prêt.

IMPACT DU PROJET SUR L'ENVIRONNEMENT

Comme les travaux du projet concernent essentiellement l'aménagement et à la réhabilitation périodique
des pistes rurales, il y'a eu peu de risques de dégradation de l'environnement dans les zones du projet,
de réinstallation de personnes ou de destruction d'habitats écologiques. Ces travaux ont eu, en fait, des
effets positifs sur l'environnement. En effet, ils assurent un drainage adéquat et améliorent la stabilité
des sols. D'ailleurs, certaines pistes aménagées par des matériaux tufeux ont été immédiatement
revêtues pour éviter que les poussières altèrent les arbres fruitiers. Ces travaux contribuent également à
améliorer la sécurité des véhicules et des piétons grâce à l'aménagement des routes et accotements.
Des enquêtes ont montré que les travaux du projet n'ont engendré aucune réinstallation de la population
locale ou aucun déplacement de matériaux archéologiques. Conformément aux directives établies, le
projet est classé dans la catégorie B.

Par ailleurs, il est important de préciser que les travaux d'aménagement des routes rurales n'ont pas
touché les terres limitrophes aux pistes lors de leur ouverture, au contraire certaines personnes ont
empiété sur l'emprise des routes par la construction de haies et de tabias qui ont été dégagées sans
indemnisation de leur propriétaire. C'est pour cette raison que les crédits alloués à l'expropriation d'un
montant de 2,1 millions de dinars n'ont pas été consommés. Citons le seul cas dans le gouvernorat de
Monastir où un cultivateur a planté trois oliviers dans l'emprise de la piste 1501 et qui ont été arrachés
lors des travaux d'ouverture. Le cultivateur a été indemnisé par les autorités régionales d'un montant de
1000 dinars.

Quant aux travaux de renforcement, ils ont été effectués sur des routes existantes du réseau classé,
sans qu'il soit nécessaire d'en élargir les emprises. On note aussi qu'ils n'ont pas nécessité l'ouverture de
nouvelles carrières. Enfin, il est à souligner que les entreprises ont dû négocier avec les services



                                                    - 37 -

régionaux des ponts et chaussées ou bien les communes de l'emplacement des centrales d'enrobés et
du dégagement des matériaux polluants.

5. PRINCIPAUX FACTEURS AFFECTANT LA MISE EN OEUVRE ET LES RESULTATS

5.1 COUT ET FINANCEMENT

Les estimations initiales du coût du projet se résument comme suit :


                                                COUT PREVU


        COMPOSANTES                Non compris les      Y compris les   COUT FINAL         Variations (%)
                                       imprévus            imprévus


                                     D.T.     U.S. $     D.T.   U.S. $  D.T.   U.S. $    Coûts     Coûts (US
                                                                                          (DT)         $)
 A. Réformes Institutionnelles      2.326      2.373    2.731   2.787   2.818   2.171      3.2      - 22.1
 B. Réhabilitation Périodique       6.271      6.399    7.404   7.555   9.626   7.043     30.0       - 6.7
 C. Amélioration des routes
 rurales                           63.850     65.153 76.813     78.380 36.901  36.841    - 52.0     - 53.0

 D. Renforcement des routes
 classées                             --         --       --      --   33.280  27.909       --         --

 TOTAL COUTS DE BASE               72.447     73.925
 Imprévus physiques                 6.965      7.107
 Imprévus sur les prix              7.537      7.691

 TOTAL COUTS DU PROJET             86.948     88.723 86.948     88.723 82.625  73.964     - 7.3      -16.6



Coûts en millions

Alors que le financement du projet est résumé dans le tableau suivant :

                                FINANCEMENT en millions de D.T


                                                  A l'évaluation              A l'achèvement        Variations
              Composantes                                                                               ( % )

                                        Gouvernement Banque      Total Gouvernement Banque    Total

 A. Réformes Institutionnelles              0.474       2.313   2.787     0.629     1.542    2.171     - 22.1
 B. Réhabilitation Périodique               3.022       4.533   7.555     2.937     4.106    7.043     - 6.8
 C. Amélioration des routes rurales        33.736      44.644   78.380    15.336    21.505   36.841    - 53.0
 D. Renforcement des routes
 classées                                     --          --      --      8.933     18.976   27.909       --

                TOTAL                      37.232      51.491   88.723    27.835    46.129   73.964    - 16.6


Quant aux montants et méthodes de passation des marchés sont résumés dans le tableau de la page
suivante.




                                                    - 38 -

                                          Méthodes de passation des Marchés

          Catégories            Appel           Appel                                           Coût Total
                              d'offres         d'offres      Services de         N.F.B.
                            international      national      consultants

       1. Travaux

             a- partie B                        6.843                           0.200 (*)          7.043
                                                (4.106)                                           (4.106)

             b- partie C       35.841                                           1.000 (*)         36.841
                              (21.505)                                                           (21.505)

             c- partie D                        27.109                          0.800 (*)         27.909
                                               (18.976)                                          (18.976)

       2. Biens                 0.824                                                              0.824
                               (0.684)                                                            (0.684)

       3. Services                                               1.034            0.313            1.347
                                                                (0.858)                           (0.858)

             Total             36.665           33.952           1.034            2.313           73.964
                              (22.189)         (23. 082)        (0.858)                          (46.129)


   Note : les montants entre parenthèses sont financés par la Banque
   (*) non financés par la Banque


Situation financière: l'évaluation à mi-parcours du projet a permis de constater un reliquat sur le montant
du prêt qui provient essentiellement de :

Ø        à l'évaluation, le coût de la composante C (Amélioration des pistes rurales) représente 88.3 %
du coût total du projet. A l'attribution des marchés, on a constaté que le coût a diminué d'environ 42,7%
par rapport à l'estimation de 1994. Cela s'explique par le fait que les appels d'offres ont été lancés
pendant une période (95-96) de ralentissement de l'activité économique nationale qui a incité les
entreprises à présenter des soumissions très étudiées.

Ø        Entre la date de signature du prêt en 1995 et avril 1997, le dinar tunisien a subit une dévaluation
par rapport au dollar des états unis.

Amendement du prêt : ce reliquat a permis au Gouvernement tunisien de présenter à la Banque une
requête de restructuration du prêt pour :

1.       affecter le reliquat du prêt au financement d'une nouvelle composante ayant pour objet le
renforcement en béton bitumineux d'environ 340 km de routes du réseau classé qui ont fait d'une part
l'objet d'un projet de réhabilitation dans le cadre du Sixième Projet Routier et qui présentent un taux de
rentabilité économique supérieure à 15%. Le taux de participation de la Banque à cette composante est
relevé à hauteur de 70%.

2.       relever le montant autorisé du compte spécial de 2,3 millions à 3,5 millions de dollars pour
diminuer les fréquences de ré-alimentation du compte et éviter le recours au paiement direct.

Dans ce sens un amendement à l'accord de prêt a été signé en juillet 1998 qui modifie le montant du
prêt comme suit :




                                                      - 39 -

                             MONTANT DU PRET en millions de U.S $

 CATEGORIE                                           MONTANT AFFECTE              % DES DEPENSES
 1.Travaux de génie civil
 a-       Partie B et C                                       25.7                         60 %
 b-       Partie D                                            23.8                         70 %
 2. Services de Consultants et Formation                       2.0                         83 %
 3. Non affecté                                                 -
 TOTAL                                                        51.5

Après cette étape du projet, plusieurs nouveaux marchés relatifs aux composantes A, B et D du projet
ont été conclu. Par ailleurs, le Gouvernement tunisien a demandé à la Banque de convertir la monnaie
du prêt en Euro ce qui a eu pour conséquence de définir deux sous-prêt :

Ø         le sous-prêt 3840S, d'un montant équivalent à U.S $ 23,3 millions;
Ø         le sous-prêt 3840A, d'un montant de 25,3 millions d'Euros (équivalent à U.S $ 28,2 millions).

D'autre part, en avril 2002, une demande d'annulation d'une fraction du prêt 3840A d'un montant de
2,493,799.91 Euros a été réalisée.

Il y a lieu de noter que le changement de la monnaie du prêt du dollar des états unies en euro qui a eu
lieu au cours du projet a perturbé le suivi des opérations financières du projet d'autant plus que le
compte spécial ouvert à la Banque Centrale a continué d'être libellé en dollar des états unies.

Afin d'achever toutes les composantes du projet et de consommer la totalité du prêt, il a été convenu
avec la Banque de proroger la date de clôture du prêt du 31 décembre 2002 au 30 juin 2003. Dans ce
sens un deuxième amendement à l'accord de prêt a été signé en mai 2002 qui a permis d'introduire une
nouvelle composante « Fourniture » et de modifier le montant du prêt comme suit :

           CATEGORIE                   MONTANT AFFECTE            MONTANT AFFECTE en                 % DES
                                             en U.S $                       Euros                  DEPENSES
 1.Travaux de génie civil
       - Partie B et C                    21,269,858,50                     5,000,000                 60 %
       - Partie D                          1,959,390.79                   19,000,000                  70 %
 2. Services de Consultants et              33,176.04                       200,000                   83 %
 Formation
 3. Non affecté                                  --                       134,590.49

 4. Conversion                              - 1,761.65                      66,527.05

 5. Fourniture                                 --                         900,000                  80 ou 100%

              TOTAL                     23,264,186.98                    25,301,117.54




AUDIT DES COMPTES DU PROJET

Les rapports d'audit relatifs aux comptes du projet ont été élaborés pour chaque année de 1995 à 2002
par des experts de l'Inspection Générale des Finances mais n'ont pu être envoyés à la Banque dans les
délais fixés par l'accord du prêt. Dans l'ensemble, il y a lieu de préciser que la gestion du projet était
transparente à part quelques anomalies qui ont été rectifiées à temps. Citons à titre d'exemples : le
remboursement de l'avance, la préparation des règlements définitifs, la tenue des dossiers du projet...




                                                   - 40 -

6. PERFORMANCE DE LA BANQUE ET DE L'EMPRUNTEUR

6.1 LE PRET

Le projet a été assez bien préparé et a connu des changements en cours de route dus essentiellement
aux reliquats constatés sur le montant du prêt. Par conséquent le montant du prêt a été suffisant pour
réaliser aussi bien les objectifs initiaux que les objectifs révisés.

6.2 SUPERVISION

La supervision du projet notamment par les consultants de la Banque a été très fructueuse et périodique,
et a par conséquent permis de suivre de pré, d'analyser le projet, de tirer les conclusions et de prendre
les dispositions adéquates.

6.3 PERFORMANCE GENERALE DE LA BANQUE

Il y a lieu de noter la célérité de la Banque avec laquelle :

Ø         les non objections sont fournies,
Ø         les transferts de fonds sont effectués,
Ø         les réponses fournies aux demandes d'information de la D.G.P.C sur la situation des paiements
et des décaissements.

6.4 PERFORMANCE GENERALE DE L'EMPRUNTEUR

Le 7ème Projet Routier a été généralement exécuté dans des conditions satisfaisantes. Les rapports
d'audit ont bien montré que les opérations financières ont été effectuées dans la transparence et ceci
malgré le grand nombre d'opérations effectuées journalièrement.

Quant aux rapports entre les experts de la Banque et les responsables tunisiens, ils ont été excellents.
Les échanges de vues étaient fructueux pour le projet et ont permis de mener à bien les diverses
composantes et de surmonter les difficultés rencontrés et d'achever le projet dans les meilleures
conditions.


7. LECONS TIREES

AU NIVEAU DU PRET :

          1) Concernant la monnaie du prêt, éviter son changement en cours de route pour ne pas
perturber la comptabilité du projet.

          2) Au cours de la réalisation d'un projet, avoir plus de souplesse dans le cas d'un ajout de
nouvelles composantes.

AU NIVEAU DES ETUDES :

          1) Concernant les études techniques relatives à des projets importants, le Ministère devrait
penser à les confier à plusieurs Bureaux d'Etudes tout en assurant la coordination entre eux. En effet, la
consultation des Dossiers d'Appels d'Offres du présent projet donne l'impression qu'ils ont été élaborés «
en série ».

          2) La constitution d'une commission ou d'une unité chargée du suivi, de la vérification et de la
réception des études techniques afin d'éviter les anomalies constatées au niveau du VIIème Projet
Routier ainsi que les projets antérieurs.

          3) Approfondir les études sur les techniques alternatives tel que la stabilisation des sols afin de



                                                     - 41 -

diminuer les coûts d'aménagement des routes. En outre, la qualité des pistes non revêtues est très
sensible à la qualité des matériaux de la couche de roulement. Le matériau idéal est le tuf, car d'une
granulométrie fine et possédant une cohésion naturelle.

AU NIVEAU DE LA GESTION DES PROJETS :

        1) constitution d'une structure organisationnelle de suivi et de gestion du projet durant toutes les
étapes de sa réalisation depuis l'identification et l'évaluation jusqu'à l'achèvement.

        2) renforcer la formation et le recyclage du personnel technique (surveillants de chantier,
topographes et ingénieurs) en traitant des cas pratiques.

        3) renforcer les Services Régionaux par le personnel adéquat (notamment les surveillants de
chantiers et topographes) en leur assurant les moyens logistiques nécessaires.




                                                      - 42 -

- 43 -

