Document of
The World Bank
Report No.  13792-TON
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
JANUARY 3, 1995
Private Sector Development, Finance & Infrastructure Division
Maghreb and Iran Department
Middle East & North Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of December 1994)
$1= D 1.03
FiSCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
CTN                         Compagnie Tunisienne de Navigation
National Shipping Company
DGPC                        Direction Generale des Ponts et Chaussees
General Directorate of Bridges and Roads
DREH                        Direction Regionale de I'Equipement et de l'Habitat
Regional Directorate of Equipment and Housing
ERR                         Economic Rate of Return
GDP                         Gross Domestic Product
HDM                         Highway Demand Model
ICB                         International Competitive Bidding
IWG                         Interministerial Working Group
LCB                         Local Competitive Bidding
MEH                         Ministere de I'Equipement et de 1'Habitat
Ministry of Equipment and Housing
MOT                         Ministry of Transport
NPV                         Net Present Value
OPNT                        Office des Ports Nationaux Tunisiens
PDR                         Programme de Developpement Regional
PDRI                        Programme de Developpement Rural Integre
RC                          Regional Council
SNCFT                       Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer Tunisiens
National Railway Company
STAM                        Societe Tunisienne d'Acconage et de Manutention
STIA                        Societe Tunisienne d 'Industrie Automobile
This report was prepared on the basis of an appraisal mission in November 1994 led by Jaffar
Bentchikou (Sr. Highway Engineer) and comprising Michel Loir (Sr. Transport Economist), Claudia
Sadoff (Economist), Yasser Henda (Project Assistant), Claudia Pardifias (Legal Counsel) and Nicola
Renison (Operations Assistant) and with the assistance of Michelle Detwiler, Brigitte Grant and Mireille
Pagutalan. Peer reviewer was Antonio Cittati (Sr. Highway Engineer). The processing of the project
was supervised by Amir Al-Khafaji, Chief, Private Sector Development, Finance and Infrastructure
Division (MNlPI) and Daniel Ritchie, Director, Maghreb and Iran Department.



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
7A[I1LE OF CONTrF-NT
Page
Table of Contents    .1........................                                      ....     .....       ....     .        .  i
Loan and  Project Summary    ................  ..  ..  ...  ..  ...  ..  ..  .                                              .   iv
I. The Transport Sector and The Tunisian Economy ....                                                    .                    1
A. Country  Background   .1.............  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  .                                      .    1
B. Past Economic Performance and Medium-term Prospects ....                                              ...... 2
C. Main Characteristics of The Transport Sector   .................  3
D. Past and Projected  Transport Investments  ....................  4
E. Transport Sector Issues   ...............................  6
F. Bank Assistance Strategy    .............................    11
G. Bank Transport Lending  Strategy   .........  .                               .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    12
II. Rural Roads and Agriculture Development .........  .                                       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    15
A. The Rural Roads within the Road Network  .......  .                                     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    15
B. Transport Services in Rural Areas .........  .                                .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    16
C. Rural Road  Administration   ...........  .                               ..  .  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  ..   .    17
D. Maintenance  Organization    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .18
E. Funding  of Rural Roads  ..............  ..  ..  ..  ..  ...  ..  .                                        .    18
F. Organization of Agricultural Development   ........  .                                    .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    20
G. Bank Experience of Previous Rural Road Projects   .......  .                                        .  .  .   .    21
III. The Project .               ......................................... 23
A. Background, Objectives and  Description    ...................   23
B. Institutional Reforms  ................................   24
Concept and Content  .............................   24
Cost and Financing   ..............................   28
Implementation ................................. 28
C. Pilot Periodic Rehabilitation   ...........................   28
Concept and  Content  .............................   28
Cost and  Financing   ..............................   29
Implementation ................................. 29
D. Upgrading  Rural Roads  ..............................   30
Concept and Content  .............................   30
Cost and  Financing   ..............................  31
Implementation  .................................  31
E. Costs and  Financing    ................................   33



Costs   .........................                             .....      .....      ...           .   33
Financing    ..................  ...  ....  ...  ....  ...                                         .  33
F. Procurement   ....................  ....  ....  ....  ....                                                .  34
Works ....................................... 34
Consulting  Services   ..............................  35
General .....  .   .................................   35
G. Disbursement.. .    ......  36
H. Workshops, Implementation, Reporting  and Auditing   ..... .                                   .  .  .  .   .  37
I. Environmental Impact .............  ..  ..  ..  ..  ...  ..  ..  ..  .                                    .   38
IV. Economic Justification   ............  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..                                   .  40
V. Agreements and Recommendation   .........  .                                .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .     .  43
A. Agreements &  Understandings Confirmed at Negotiations   .....  .                                    .   .  43
B. Conditions of Board Presentation   ........  .                          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  43
C. Other Covenants  ............  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..                                  .  44
D. Recommendation   ...........  ..  ..  ..  ..  .                            ..  ..  ..  ..  .   ..  ..     .  44
A  3.1: Institutional Study, Outline TORs  ........  .                           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  45
A. Concept, Objectives and Methodology  .......  .                              .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  45
Concept and Content   .........  .                      ..  .  .  ..  .  .  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  .     .  45
Objectives  .............  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ...  ..  ..  ..  ..  .                             .  45
Methodology   ...........  ..  ..  ..  ..  .                       ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  .    ..     .  46
B. Road Classification and Budgets  ........  .                          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  46
C. Road Maintenance    ...........  ..  ..  .                          ..  ..  ..  ..  .   ..  ..  ..  .     .  47
A  3.2: Sector Strategy  Letter   ...........  ..  ..  .                         ..  ..  ..  .   ..  ..  ..  ..  .      .  49
A  3.3: Road Standards Study, Outline TORs   .......  .                               .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  52
Objectives  .............  ...  ..  ..  ...  ..  ..  ...  ..  ...                                  .  52
Methodology    ............  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  .                          ..     .  52
A  3.4: Agricultural Indicators  ...........  ..  ..  .                          ..  ..  ..  .   ..  ..  ..  ..  .      .  54
A  3.5: Project Costs, Financing and Disbursement Schedule  ......  .                                  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  55
A  3.6: Procurement Arrangements  .........  ..  .                             .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .     .  64
A  3.7: Project Implementation  Schedule   ........  .                           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  65
A  4.1: Economic Evaluation Details  .........  ..  .                            .  .  ..  .  .  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  .     .  66
A. Socio-Economic Framework of Project Roads  ......  .                                  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  66
B. Methodology  of the Economic Evaluation  ......  .                             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  86
C. Results of the Economic Evaluation  .......  .                          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  87



MAP: IBRD 26534
Tahles and Figures
Project Cost  . ...........................................  v
Financing Plan   .        ..........................................  v
Estimated Disbursements ..................................... v
Table 1.1: Transport Public Investments  ........................... 4
Table 2.1: Classified Road Network  .............................  15
Table 2.2: Evolution of Road Budgets ............................  19
Table 3.1: Pilot Periodic Rehabilitation, Indicators ....................  29
Table 3.2: Upgrading Rural Roads, Per km  Average Base Cost ....                            ........ 31
Table 3.3: Upgrading Rural Roads, Indicators .......................  31
Table 3.4: Project Cost Summary ...............................  33
Table 3.5: Project Financing  ..................................  34
Table 3.6: Procurement Arrangements   ........................... 34
Table 3.7: Allocation and Disbursement of the Loan ...................  36
Table 3.8: Disbursement Profiles ...............................  36
Table 4.1.1: Economic Evaluation Summary   .......................  87






REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Borrower    Republic of Tunisia.
Amount       $51.5 million.
Terms        Seventeen years, including a five-year grace period, at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate.
Objectives   The project objectives are public sector restructuring, budgetary reforms,
private sector development, the development of improved road standards, the
reduction of disparities between urban and rural areas, the reduction of rural
to urban migration, and improving the delivery of social services to poorer
population. These objectives will be realized through improving maintenance
of rural roads, particularly unpaved ones; decentralizing road management
responsibilities to local governments, without developing new entities;
establishing a link between budgets and road classification; strengthening
budgetary discipline, transparency and accountability; targeting specific road
maintenance tasks for execution by contract to improve efficiency and to create
new development opportunities for a dynamic private sector; and finally
minimizing life-cycle costs by making optimum use of gravel road techniques.
Project      (a)   the preparation and initial implementation of an institutional reform
Description         program (3% of cost);
(b)   the periodic rehabilitation of approximately 300 km of gravel roads in
a pilot program to be carried out by contract in ten Governorates (9%
of cost); and
(c)   the upgrading of about 715 km of priority rural roads to appropriate
standards (88% of cost).
Project      The main benefits will involve savings in road transport costs; improved
Benefits     access to remote rural areas, which will translate into lower consumer prices,
higher farm gate prices for agricultural produce and reduction in rural poverty;
and better access to social services such as schools and hospitals. The
provision of agricultural extension services will also be facilitated, with a
complementary impact on agricultural production. Implementation of the in-
stitutional reform program will clarify classification and ownership of local
access roads as assets of local government, and a shift toward road
maintenance works by contract should alleviate the financial impact of
maintenance works on budgetary resources.



Loan and Project Sunuwry
Project       Risks include both under-funding of parallel public agricultural investments
Risks         and inadequate institutional reforms. The project mitigates the first risk
through a declared commitment from the Govermnent guaranteeing a steady
follow-up on agricultural infrastructure investments and extension work in the
project roads' zones of influence. The second risk is mitigated through a Letter
of Sector Strategy, the signature of which is a condition of Board presentation.
Project Cost                                     Local    Foreign       Total
_ ($ million) _
A. Institutional Reforms            0.6        1.8        2.4
B. Pilot Periodic Rehabilita-       2.5        3.9        6.4
tion
C. Upgrading Rural Roads          27.3        37.8       65.1
Total Base Cost      30.4       43.5        73.9
Physical Contingencies              2.8        4.3        7.1
Price Contingencies                 4.3        3.4        7.7
Total Project Costa     37.5       51.2       88.7
a/ Local costs ($37.5 million equivalent) include $17.7 million
equivalent in taxes and duties, to be financed by Government.
(Here and throughout the report, some totals do not
add up due to rounding).
Financing                                        Local   Foreign        Total
Plan                                                    ($ million)
IBRD                                1.0       50.5       51.5
Government                         36.5        0.7       37.2
Total      37.5        51.2       88.7
Estimated      FY        FY95 FY96  FY97  FY98  FY99  FY00  FY01  FY02  FY03
Disbursements                                 ($ miulion)
Annual      0.0  2.7   8.0  11.1  10.6  8.6  5.6  3.4   1.5
Cumulative   0.0  2.7  10.7  21.8  32.4  41.0  46.6  50.0  51.5
Economic Rate   ERR per subproject ranges from 20% to over 100%. ERR is about
of Return     40% for the overall project.
Map           IBRD 26534



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
P0 WTHE RANS!FR7 SEC7   AND THETUN$0A  [ECONOMY
A. COUNTRY BACKGROUND
1.1    Independent since 1956, Tunisia is the smallest country in Maghreb, covering
163,600 square kilometers with a population of 8.4 million inhabitants in 1992. A third
of the population is concentrated in some 7% of the national territory in the Northwest
region, where 40% of total nationwide employment is generated. Urban development has
been especially fast there, with close to 2 million living in the Greater Tunis area and the
rural population of less than 20%. The Northeast enjoys relatively good rainfalls which
allows it to sustain adequate agriculture in addition to industrial activities. The Center-
East, with Sousse and Sfax as the main cities, ranks second in Tunisia by economic
importance, with about 20% of the population living on less than 9% of the area.
Agriculture and export oriented industries are the major contributors to production.
Mountain barriers have inhibited economic integration in the North-West region where
a scattered population lives primarily on agriculture. The arid climate prevailing in most
other parts of the country has produced extensive deserts. The south, however, is rich
in mineral resources like phosphate rock and hydrocarbons on which a few industrial
poles are set up. With a population of 120,000 inhabitants, Gabes is the most important
city. The coast attracts significant tourism, in particular the isle of Jerba.
1.2    Agricultural development and reduction of the food deficit are at the core of the
government's economic policy. Overall, close to 50% of the population lives in rural
areas where poverty remains widespread, due to a succession of drought years (especially
1988 and 1989) and road infrastructure deficiencies. Limited water resources constitute
a major constraint to the pursuit of economic growth which boosts water demand for an
increasing variety of uses. The some 2% annual growth of the population adds to
pressures on renewable water resources, three-quarters of which are already used.
Developing agricultural production must go together with better utilization of existing
land resources and improved water management. There is ample scope for raising
productivity in the case of many arable plots now isolated because their access roads
were not maintained and deteriorated over time. Restoring rural roads will create strong
incentives for private farmers to renovate or develop irrigation systems that will allow
land to regain its fertility and to shift to higher-value crops. On the whole, transportation
is a powerful factor for economic integration. Its development will reduce the important
income disparities existing between the various regions' and, in the case at hand, it will
be a powerful lever to reduce poverty in the country2.
1/ In 1994, a famnily residing in Tunis would consume on average twice that which would be consumed by the
same family in the central-western, northwestern, or Southern parts of the country.
2/ There is a ratio of 1:2 between the consumption of rural families and urban ones.



2                                                                  Chapter I
1.3    The Government's administrative organization is being decentralized. The
country is subdivided into 23 Governorates headed each by a governor who, as the
government representative, has direct authority over local branches of central ministries.
There are several administrative tiers between the governorate and the municipality
which is the base unit. The Regional Council, headed by the governor, is given a key
role in the preparation and execution of the regional plan, with the support of
consultative assemblies or rural councils. Law 89-11 of February 4, 1989 has defined
the responsibilities of governors, but its implementation remains hampered by lack of
local human and financial resources. At present, the vole of the decentralized
administration remains limited and there are frequent overlaps of responsibility
detrimental to the development of coherent strategies. The government has fully
acknowledged this issue and studies will be commissioned to obtain optimal solutions.
B. PAST ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE AND MEDIUM-TERM PROSPECTS
1.4    Tunisia is a resilient lower-middle income country which was able to harness its
core resources to reach a GNP per capita of $1,730 in 1992, one of the highest in the
sub-region. The balance of payments crisis of 1986 that resulted from high public
investments and a decline in oil export earnings as a result of depletion of reserves and
falling world prices, led to implementation of a structural adjustment program supported
by the Bank through a series of adjustment loans and the IMF through a Stand-by and
an Extended Arrangement. Its main objectives were to orient the economy outward and
place increased reliance on the private sector. The program, which included a reform of
the tax system, liberalization of trade and prices, and privatization of a number of
activities was successfully concluded. Despite catastrophic droughts in 1988 and 1989,
GDP managed to achieve some gains instead of falling as in the past under such
circumstances. Non-oil exports grew at close to 15% per year in volume in 1987-89,
compared to 5.4% in 1980-86. The current account deficit fell from about 8% to about
1 % of GDP over that period. The budget deficit was also reduced to 3.5 % of GDP.
Renewed dynamism was instilled in the economy by straightening of macroeconomic
policies, allowing Tunisia to make the most of favorable circumstances like the boom in
Europe, its principal export market, and a large and unexpected flow of tourists from
neighboring countries.
1.5    Over the past five years, the country has achieved reasonable growth with low
inflation. From 1989 to 1993, GDP growth rates averaged about 5% per year with
fluctuations largely depending on rainfalls, only adequate every two years. The onset of
the Gulf crisis in August 1990 caused a drastic reduction of tourism which fell in 1991
by 30% from its level twelve months earlier, and prompted precautionary stockpiling
that caused the current account deficit to rise above 5 % of GDP that year. The recovery
came strong in 1992, owing to good crops and an influx of tourists. GDP growth
reached 8%. Further tightening of monetary policy brought the current account and the
budget deficit down to 4 and 2.4% of the GDP respectively in 1993. Inflation which had
run at 7% per year was gradually reduced to 4.5% in 1993. Additional support from the
Bank, through an adjustment loan (Loan 3424-Tun) approved in December 1991, and



The Transport Sector and the Tunisian Economy                                 3
from the IMF which prolonged its Extended Arrangement by one year, helped the
Government to get over the Gulf crisis.
1.6    Prospects of sustaining a GDP growth rate of 5% until the end of the decade will
rely on increasing investment efficiency; the incremental capital output ratio should be
brought back to 4.5 or about its level in the mid-seventies. A shift toward private
investments, and greater incentives to savings through increasing the cost of capital
relative to wages, would contribute to that result. The current account deficit is expected
to further decline to less than 4% by 1995, and the debt service ratio should fall to
16.4% of exports in the late nineties. Its restored good credit standing will allow Tunisia
to resume borrowing on international markets in the coming years.
C. MAIN CHARACTERISTICS OF THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
1.7    The state road network comprises close to 18,000 km, of which two thirds are
paved. Its tripartite classification (by decreasing order of importance: Grand parcours
or National, Moyenne communication or Regional, and Route Vicinale d'Etat or local)
was established by Law 86-17 of March 1986. The 6,000 km long national basic network
comprises the core roads sustaining communications between main economic centers. In
addition, there is a sizeable albeit poorly recorded3 network of small municipal roads and
tracks of interest to agriculture and forestry. Paved road density greatly varies. It goes
from  10 m/km2 in the Kebili and Tataouine Governorates to close to 1,000 mAcm
around Tunis, with a national average of 70 m/km2. The paved road network is in good
condition over 70% of its length. Official estimates of the vehicle fleet give a total of
nearly 500,000 units in 1992 that likely include a number a scrapped vehicles. The latest
Bank estimate gave a total of 290,000 vehicles in 1989. With an annual registration rate
of 30,000 vehicles in the last 5 years, and assuming the number of rebuilt vehicles is half
that of the newly registered ones, the car fleet can be expected to reach around 370,0C0
by 1994. Road traffic developed at a fast pace of 11 % per year between 1977 and 1982,
its elasticity to GDP being above 1.5. In the following 5 years, road traffic continued
to grow but much more slowly, at an annual rate of 4% per year roughly equivalent to
that of GDP. Fast growth was recorded between 1987 and 1992, mainly in truck
transportation following liberalizing measures. The economic importance of roads for
domestic transport is paramount: railways cover less than 5 % of urban and interurban
passenger transport needs, and around 15% of total freight traffic. Similarly, the role of
shipping is essential to foreign trade as only 5 % of exports and imports use other modes.
Overall, the transport sector's share of GDP should be close to 4%. Chapter 2 provides
more details on roads.
31 Generally, the number given is 60,000 km of track. The accuracy of this data is difficult to verify today.



4                                                                           Chapter I
D. PAST AND PROJECTED TRANSPORT INVESTMENTS
1.8    Fixed investments overall have been marginally declining from 30% of GDP
before 1986 to 28% in 1993. The transport sector increased its share of the total from
less than 11% under the Sixth Plan (1982-86) to 13% under the Seventh Plan (1987-91).
In the investment strategy of Tunisia, the priority given to transport seems to have gained
strength from one Plan to the next. Within transport, the emphasis is increasingly placed
on highways and road transport, which absorbed 52 % of investment resources under the
Seventh Plan compared to 37% under the previous Plan. Investment details are shown
in Table 1.1: Transport Public Investments.
Table 1.1: Transport Public Investments
(current D million)
Sub sectors            VIh Plan (1982-86)  VI!' Plan (1987-91)    VIIi Plan (1992-96)
(actual)             (actual)             (planned)
Highways:
- infrastructure                  244                   469                   1030
- transport                        102                  274                    495
total                             346                  743                   1525
Railways:
- SNCFT                           205                   182                    188
- SMLT                            125                  18                      126
total                             330                  320                    314
Maritime:
- ports                            115                  50                     112
- shipping                         46                   14                      8
total                             161                  54                     301
Air transport:
- airports                          15                  83                      97
- airlines                         l70                 166                     543
total                             85                  249                     640
Grand Total                      922                  1366                   2780
1.9    The Bank's Sixth Highway project (Loan 2896-Tun, Highway Maintenance and
Rehabilitation Project) and construction of the Hammamet-M'Saken motorway were the
main single items under the Seventh Plan. New construction and upgrading accounted
for about half of road funding. The rapid development of special programs for
construction of rural roads falling outside the purview of the Ministry of Equipment was
a distinct feature of that period. The road transport market was liberalized in 1988,
which triggered rapid growth of investments mostly for restructuring national and
regional enterprises for passenger and freight transport. Among other modes, air
transport nearly doubled its share of total investment to some 18% under the Seventh
Plan. A third of airport investments went for new construction in Tabarka. Renewal of



The Transport Sector and the Tunisian Economy                              5
the Tunis Air fleet and the development of Tuninter boosted airlines investments from
D 70 million to D 166 million from the Sixth Plan to the Seventh Plan. Ports and
shipping investments were marking a pause. Fishing ports, the construction of Zarzis (a
primarily oil port), and a quay in Gabes account for most of Government funding. Other
investments by the Office des Ports Nationaux Tunisiens (OPNT) and other port
operators for modernization, equipment, and rehabilitation fell to half their level under
the Sixth Plan. Investments in cargo handling equipment were small, due to financial
constraints experienced by the Societe Tunisienne d'Acconage et de Manutention
(STAM). Very limited investments were made for modernization of maritime transport,
despite obvious needs. Railway investments fell sharply, from 36% under the Sixth Plan
to less than 24% under the Seventh Plan. The rolling stock is where expenses were
curtailed most and the construction of new lines was suspended. By contrast, rail track
modernization and renewal investments doubled between the Sixth and Seventh Plan.
1.10   The Eighth Plan (1992-1996) is under implementation. It provides for D 2.8
billion of transport investments. The proportion of investments channeled to roads is
practically unchanged, at 55 % of total. Construction of motorways (Hammamet-Sfax and
Tunis-Bizerte) constitutes one-fifth of investments in the sub-sector. The public funds
allocated should amount to D 150 million, compared to D 50 million under the Sixth
Plan. Other motorway investments are provided, but these resources will be raised on
the financial market by the concessionaire4 created in 1992. Nearly D 200 million are
allocated to urban network development, mainly in the Greater Tunis area. About D 150
million ought to be spent for construction and development of rural roads under various
programs. The budget for road rehabilitation and maintenance is close to D 300 million.
Other investments are earmarked for the construction and improvement of roads and
bridges. Investments by public transport operators should be equivalent in real terms to
their amounts under the Seventh Plan.
1.11   Investment by airlines and shipping companies are expected to increase four-fold
to D 700 million, compared to D 170 million under the Seventh Plan. The objective is
to modernize the fleet to strengthen the public companies' competitive capacity and
expand market shares. New local companies entering the market will contribute to a rise
in investment. The national airline, Tunis Air, carries the brunt of the air transport
program through continued implementation of its fleet renewal program. For shipping,
purchases of Roll on-Roll off, container ships, and one car ferry by the Compagnie
Tunisienne de Navigation (CTN) are expected to be accompanied by development of
privately owned maritime companies, which entered the market after 1992. Port
investments doubled their nominal value though with very little increase in their share
(4%). They mainly focus on construction of new Roll on-Roll off terminals in Gabes and
Bizerte, dredging in some ports, acquisition of tugboats, equipment for the container
terminal at Rades, and extension of oil facilities at Bizerte. As for railways, investments
included in the Contract Plan between the Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer
Tunisiens (SNCFT) and the Government come to a total of D 188 million, of which D
41 The Societ Nationale des Autoroutes



6                                                                     Chapter 1
68 million (36%) is for rolling stock. As far as rail infrastructure is concerned, the
network development expenses correspond to operations launched under the Sixth Plan
and are limited to doubling 40 kilometers of the Borj Cedria-Kalaa Kebira line, the
Sousse Mahdia junction, and the modernization of the suburban lines south of Tunis.
This confirms a definite shift of priority in favor of maintenance, which for the Eighth
Plan, accounts for a little less than 60% of railway infrastructure investments.
E. TRANSPORT SECTOR ISSUES
1.12   Investment planning. Institutional strengthening occurred at this level after the
Cellule de Planification et de Coordination des Transports, established under the Fourth
Highway Project at the Ministry of Transport in 1984, failed in its mission to develop
effective investment appraisal tools, and was discarded. The Direction Generale de la
Planification et des Etudes under this same ministry was reorganized in 1992 to take
charge of the sector's management and planning. It is composed of fifteen higher level
staff who may still lack practical experience of complex transport economic studies, and
extensive knowledge of the various systems used throughout the world which could
inspire the important reforms currently underway in Tunisia. Decentralization, while
multiplying decision-making centers, worsens the coordination problem that already
existed between ministries in charge of developing transport related projects. Aware that
a lack of analytical skills still persists, Direction Generale de la Planification et des
Etudes is about to launch strategic studies toward preparing the Ninth Plan. They include
a Transport Master Plan with a focus on rail and road coordination, master plan studies
for urban transport in Sfax and Tunis, and a shipping restructuring study. This vast
program addresses real problems, and will try to bring about renewed dynamism to
transport planning following the strengthening and streamlining phase under the Eighth
Plan. One of the main objectives is greater transport fluidity within multimodal systems.
An added factor to the problems at hand is the need for a better balance between
economic efficiency and poverty reduction, especially in relation to urban transport. The
Bank could make a useful contribution to improved strategic thinking on the transport
sector.
1.13   Cost recovery remains insufficient for a number of transport companies operating
on markets which are still regulated. SNCFT is a case in point. Its deficit reached D 15
million in 1993 for sales of D 75 million, whereas the contract-plan signed with the State
in 1992 anticipates a progressive return to financial sustainability, after the State had
settled liabilities of up to D 220 million. A major cause for this deficit is the freeze
imposed on phosphate transport tariffs since 1983. Recent studies have shown that the
tariffs covered only 70% of the cost, but the difficult situation facing the phosphate
industry, currently being restructured, discouraged initiatives to raise tariffs to this day.
Compensation SNCFT could rightly claim has not been awarded. Road passenger
transport is in a similar situation. The Societe Nationale de Transport Rural et
Interurbain, an inter-regional public transport company has high labor costs and a tight
financial situation, preventing it from renewing its bus fleet in a timely manner. The
twelve public regional transport companies, which manage intra- and inter-regional



The Transport Sector and the Tunisian Economy                                      7
urban services, are also experiencing a difficult situation in connection with the low level
of state controlled tariffs, the lack of compensation for social transport services, and, for
seven of them not governed by a contract-plan, the burden of accumulated debts. Poor
management and labor redundancy are often major factors. In 1993, the Caisse de
Compensation (adjustment funds) disbursed a total of D 42 million to regional
companies, of which D 18 million were earmarked for urban and suburban transport in
Tunis. Regarding road infrastructure, a 1988 Bank study5 showed that proceeds from
road user taxation generally covered capital, recurrent road costs, plus congestion costs
(the largest component) despite the implicit subsidies on diesel oil that existed at the
time. This conclusion must have gained strength by now. The 1994 prices per liter range
from $0.52 for premium gasoline to $0.30 for diesel oil, compared to c.i.f. prices in the
$0.15-0.13 range on the world market. This implies substantial effective fuel taxation
levels in all cases. However, there were indications at the time that certain categories of
vehicles might be undercharged, such as small and heavy trucks, and that some changes
may have to be made. Furthermore, the government finances both roads and rail
infrastructure but, whereas road user fees generally cover more than twice the estimated
recoverable costs, the railway tariffs used by both SNCFT and SMLT (Societe du Metro
Liger de Tunis) do not cover construction, nor major rail maintenance, whereas fair
competition would require fiscal neutrality between the two modes. Port and airport
infrastrcture had also been financed by Governmert until 1993, when it was transferred
it respectively to OPAT and OPNT.
1.14   Import processing, which make up nearly two thirds of international trade of
general goods6 in Tunisien Ports, is hampered by lengthy procedures with real costs that
go beyond what is shown on invoices. Cargo handling in the Tunis port complex, which
deals with nearly half of general goods shipped, is the monopoly of the state-owned
STAM. The tariff schedule for cargo handling is controlled by the state who sets a
national ceiling. It has been noted that the tariffs used in Tunis are higher than in the
other ports where STAM is in competition with other companies. On the whole, port
productivity is weak in comparison with international standards. The penetration rate of
new port and shipping technologies remains relatively low7, and is probably inferior to
what it would have been on a deregulated market. Tariff control, with a freeze since
1985, has been a burden on companies, which resulted in low equipment investments.
Tunis' captive and lucrative market allowed STAM to endure inefficiency and high
costs, in particular concerning port manpower which is characterized by restrictive labor
practices and redundancy. Liberalization of port cargo handling is under consideration.
5/ World Bank Discussion Papers: "Road Transport Taxation in Developing Countries. The Design of User
Charges and Taxes for Tunisia". No.26
6/ This category represents a traffic share much higher in value than in volume, and often consumes most of
the port services and space. Here, the stakes of port efficiency are high.
7/ Containerization in 1993 reached only 76,000 EVP for all Tunisien ports.
S/ STAM began investing in 1992. The private sector makes few investments.



8                                                                           Chapter I
Some abnormalities also exist in shipping and shipping insurance, although their impact
in 1994 may be rather limited. The Compagnie Nationale des Transports Maritimes has
long enjoyed the privilege of sole representative of the national flag, which meant that
it was to be given a 48 hours notice by shippers wishing to use other shipping company
services9. CTN, however, endured various constraints related to its public status, like
when measures to support the balance of payments deferred its ongoing fleet
modernization program to the Eighth Plan. Its obligation to maintain loss-making lines
to the West African coast constitutes another anomaly, hardly lessened by rebates on port
tariffs granted by OPNT under a contract terminated in 19931'. Compulsory national
insurance schemes constitute another source of excess costs in CIF (Cost, Insurance and
Freight) imports"1. Customs verifications can be very disruptive and expensive, and slow
down the flow of port activities, especially on imported goods. The benefits from early
development of computer-based clearance systems are nullified by the continued practice
of systematic inspection of all goods declared. Significant gains in terms of international
competitiveness would likely be derived from the removal of such transport barriers. The
creation of a single checkpoint in Rades in 1992 is a step in the right direction.
1.15    Efforts to liberalize and privatize the transport sector must be pursued. Recurrent
road maintenance is still largely done by force account, based on the dubious argument
that private contractors would not be able, or willing, to take over works from the
administration; whereas the reality is more of a narrow market crowded out by the latter.
Road transport was liberalized in 1989, and the private sector rose to the occasion by
rapidly expanding its market share'2 and contributing to higher productivity and lower
costs. Privatization of most regional companies began in 1994, and five of them will be
sold before the end of the year."3 Measures related to STM which before 1988 was
responsible for 70% of trucking, owing to its monopoly, will come at a later stage. For
urban and interurban passenger services, the private sector remains confined to taxis and
car-for-hire services requiring an authorization to operate. The private sector can have
access to the transport market in Tunis for minibus services, under state supervision. In
ports, OPNT still manages and provides some services such as consignment and towing,
which could well be the private sector's responsibility. In cargo handling, STAM is
competing with six private companies'4 in other ports than the Tunis complex. The
conditions don't seem to be quite right for greater dynamism by private port operators.
For shipping, two private companies have been established in 1992, another followed
to take over some of the Gabes-Chimie Transport Fleet, a public company in liquidation,
9/ According to the MOT, this right would no longer be given.
IO/ A proposal to stop shipping services to Africa's west coast is being studied.
11/ Most imports though are Cost & Freight, thus avoiding c.i.f. double insurance system.
12/ In 1993, the private sector operated at a capacity of nearly 15,000 tons, or 30% of the total.
131 Four will be sold on the stock-exchange, the fifth was sold through competitive bidding.
14/ STTAT, Socam, Couronne, Stumar, K. Dammak, Samaara



The Transport Sector and the Tunisian Economy                                      9
while a fourth one is about to start"5. The private sector has so far been confined to
tramping services and is in a somewhat stagnant state. Regular lines, which in 1993
represented nearly half of CTN's turnover, will probably be open to private shipowners
as early as 1995. Shipping is widely open to international competition except for the
Southern-France lines under the Code de Conduite des Conferences Manitimes, which
should disappear with the pursuit of European market integration. CTN's market share
represents no more than one quarter of regular lines'6 and the private sector's expansion
could strengthen Tunisian shipowners' market share. At this time, SNCFT is the sole rail
transport operator. In air transport, the national airline Tunis Air has coexisted since
1992 with Air Liberte (a charter), Tuninter (a mixed venture for domestic transport with
Tunis Air owning 40% of the capital) and Tunisavia (helicopter and taxi-plane services).
Airports are fully managed by OPAT, including cargo handling services. Across the
transport sector, projects are being studied to pursue privatization efforts. A formula,
opening the public companies to private capital transit through their listing on the stock
exchange market and issuance of new stocks, to be followed later by a more thorough
privatization, seems to be in favor with the Tunisian authorities.
1.16   Road budgets remain generally insufficient and their structure does not allow for
the transparency required for programming and expenditure follow-up. Normalized
maintenance requirements exceed by 50%  what is physically achievable under actual
budget constraints. One of the biggest gaps relates to periodic maintenance of road
shoulders. When road budgets are strained, as is the case in Tunisia, it is all the more
important to set sound priorities and define the core network that should be maintained
at all costs'7. Traffic expansion heightens maintenance problems because it implies more
frequent and major repairs: budget constraints compel the road administration to
increasingly neglect the secondary road network and to depart from the main network's
optimal maintenance policy (about 6,000 km) by using extensive resealing to defer heavy
and costly maintenance. Even more important is to avoid expanding the network without
making sure that recurrent costs will be affordable and fully funded. Although there is
no evidence that the road investment structure is basically unbalanced, it seems advisable
to slow down some road construction and improvement programs in order to better
endow the investment budget for network strengthening and rehabilitation. It can also
be noted that programs' diversity and the multiple sources of financing'8 run the risk of
diminishing programs' coherence and making it difficult to control that funds are
adequateley allocated and spent. As for routine and periodic maintenance budgets,
loopholes in the institutional setup leave the non classified roads in a difficult budget
situation. Tunisia's road classification dates back to March 1986, and is being revised.
15] The companies are respectively TSTC, CMN, CMN Tanker, and Petronav.
16! It covers only 15% with the ships it owns.
11/ A computerized network management system is being installed and, within 2 years, will facilitate needed
prioritization.
18/ This is the case for rural roads (PDRI, PDR, National Solidarity Fund program, "26 26", etc.)



10                                                                        ChapterI
Responsibilities between the Ministry of Infrastructure and local governments are not
always well defined. When provinces and municipalities are responsible for road
management, the allocated budget does not match their needs. A poor balance is also
maintained between investment and maintenance. Programs like the PDRI finance
construction of rural roads but no arrangement is made for their future maintenance,
which tends to favor paving over cheaper standards because maintenance constraints are
deferred to a much later date. The importance of road maintenance works by force
account, and analytical accounting'9 gaps also contribute to reducing budget discipline
and transparency.
1.17   Road safety is low by international standards and the government should be
mobilized more forcefuilly against this social scourge20. Action is needed in many areas,
from vehicle controls to drivers' education, through improved road infrastructure and
signalling, and better enforcement of road traffic regulations by the police. These actions
need efficient coordination as they involve many entities. Truck overloading is another
issue that has adverse impacts on road deterioration and road safety. Improving by a
factor of 10 the highway safety ratios seems both necessary and achievable in the long
term.
1.18    Vehicle assembling and imports are entrusted to several companies with the most
important being the Societe Tunisienne d'Industrie Automobile (STIA), a parastatal.
Since 1994, STIA no longer holds the monopoly for the direct import of vehicles used
for international transport, and which are largely exonerated of customs duties and taxes
by the new Code des Investissements. For domestic transport vehicles, imports rest on
quotas shared by STIA and private importers. STIA has a major market share,
representing two-thirds of total. The present system is constraining to the effect that
foreign supplies must respect a minimal 15% "integration rate" of the sales price.2'
F. BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
1.19   Since 1962, IDA and the Bank lent a total of $3.2 billion to Tunisia. The
implementation experience is satisfactory, and the overall rating of the portfolio is one
of the highest among Bank borrowers. Bank projects were instrumental in the important
policy changes and institution building that have taken place in Tunisia. Past Bank
lending emphasized support for long-term investments in infrastructure and social
sectors, shifting more recently to agriculture and industrial development together with
adjustment operations. As of March 31, 1994, transport and urban infrastructure
represented about a fourth of the Bank Group's outstanding commitments. Designed to
19/ A new network and analytical accounting management system developed under the VI' project is being
installed. It should significantly improve the efficiency of maintenance work programming and facilitate cost
controls. It will be operational in 1996.
2Q/ In 1993, 10,000 accidents were recorded with 1,273 dead and 12,549 wounded.
21/ Meaning that some components must be produced locally (i.e. windows or bus seats)



The Transport Sector and the Tunisian Economy                                11
help the government complete the ongoing adjustment program, the Bank's assistance
strategy emphasizes five principles: (a) the private sector should be given opportunities
to play the leading role in an outward looking economy; (b) the public sector and
administration should evolve toward less intervention and control, and become more
supportive of the private sector; (c) the financial viability of the social protection system
has to be enhanced; (d) better management of natural resources, particularly of scarce
water resources, must be supported; and (e) the integration of Tunisia in the "global"
market is essential to sustainable growth.
1.20   The pace of privatization needs to be sped up. The policy environment and the
regulatory framework still hamper initiatives by more dynamic investors. Infrastructure
bottlenecks, transport included, should be removed to facilitate not only commercial
activities but tourism as well. An operation in support of private sector development is
planned to meet these objectives. Indirect support will also be given under investment
projects like the one proposed. Future lending will further address pending issues in the
financial sector like, among other things, the poor management of lending risks by
banks, and their inadequate coverage of customer needs in rural areas.
1.21   The ongoing liberalization creates a compelling need for the public administration
to undergo profound changes and acquire new skills. One of two Institutional Develop-
ment Fund grants focuses on trade facilitation through streamlining of customs and port
procedures. Other preparatory steps are taken toward launching a public administration
modernization project aimed at providing a strong private sector oriented framework for
administrative reforms. Decentralization is the second major change that should be
supported, with special reference to management of the Government financial resources.
Local authorities still lack expertise in investment planning and programming, and a
second municipal development project is envisaged to enhance local capabilities in
resource management and service delivery. The proposed project fits well in the Bank's
strategy by promoting transfer of rural road management responsibilities to local
governments.
1.22   Poverty alleviation is another priority even though the estimated incidence of
absolute poverty of about 7% is lower than in most developing country. Pockets of
poverty remain, like in the Northwest and in central Tunisia. Rural areas are the most
affected, but the elimination of redundant workers in public enterprises will also create
risks of urban poverty. The Bank and the goveinment undertook a number of studies to
shape out a broad reform of the social security system which will be supported by a
social sector project. The emphasis is also on education, which should be more
responsive to the needs of the productive sector and facilitate employment. An
employment and training project is designed to achieve this objective. By improving
traffic conditions in rural areas, and promoting standards that require more regular
maintenance operations and, therefore, more permanent work, the proposed project
directly contributes to poverty alleviation where it is most needed.



12                                                                     Chapter I
1.23   In the long run, Tunisia's development will depend on how efficiently it protects
its natural resources and the environment. By year 2000, known potable water resources
will have been mobilized in full and demand growth will have to be met from higher
efficiency in water use, recycling, and ultimately desalination. The government
awareness of these issues is already acute, and the Bank intends to help sharpen it further
through studies. Its ongoing and proposed lending for forestry, agriculture, and water
sector development will support soil conservation efforts and water and land use
efficiency. The proposed project provides indirect support to agricultural development
which will find new opportunities in improved transportation. Arable lands that had been
progressively isolated and neglected will be returned to efficient production, by irrigation
for some. The proposed project, therefore, makes a direct contribution to better land and
water uses.
G. BANK TRANSPORT LENDING STRATEGY
1.24   Bank transport lending should focus on issues most constraining to economic and
social development, and on which the Government awareness has reached a stage where
decisive action on its part can be reasonably expected. Current constraints and transport
sector deficiencies relate largely to the port, marine transport and highway sub-sectors,
where there are substantial opportunities for improvements. Main shortcomings can be
summarized as follows:
(a)   containerization made few inroads in Tunisian foreign trade because ports do not
have adequate facilities;
(b)   port productivity is low by regional standards; costs are higher, mostly in Tunis'
ports where STAM's monopole seems to be partly responsible; the organization
of port operations allows for restrictive practices by unionized labor, and raises
employment well above needs; mixing conventional and containerized cargos in
Rades port also contributes to lowering productivy;
(c)    the national shipping line was slow to modernize its fleet; plans to acquire two
container carriers and two roro ships constitute a long awaited answer to the
Tunisian shippers' needs, showing the limitations of a company's strategy under
state policy regulations; the private sector's failure to show its expected
dynamism leads to questions regarding what handicaps could exist in an already
well liberalized framework;
(d)   customs procedures are cumbersome, with systematic inspection of all declared
goods; they contribute to the fact that shipments spend more time in Tunisian
ports than at sea;
(e)   the existing road classification contains gaps leaving most rural roads without
designated ownership; it aggravates funding issues, and often result in
maintenance neglect and premature deterioration;
(f)   road budget structures, whether for investments or operations, do not respond
adequately to the financial needs for road maintenance, are not conducive to
budget transparency, complicating the analysis by objectives and control on how



The Transport Sector and the Tunisian Economy                                   13
the allocated resources are spent; moreover, works by force account are not yet
strictly monitorable, which tend to weaken the budgetary discipline;
(g)   road maintenance is largely carried out by force account; not only is it associated
with lower productivity and quality standards, but it also limits development of
small private road contractors;
(h)    construction standards for rural roads22 are often higher than economically
warranted; this problem is partly linked to inadequacy in the road classification,
partly due to insufficient maintenance budgets and to the perception that paving
roads reduce maintenance requirements.
1.25   As for ports and shipping, enhancing international competitiveness of the
Tunisian economy would easily qualify as the paramount objective in future Bank
transport lending. It calls for liberalization of the shipping market, opening of cargo
handling to competition in the Tunis ports, promotion of a strong and competitive freight
forwarding profession2 in view of the role it should play for development of efficient
intermodal transport systems, and facilitation of international transport procedures.
Without cost-efficient shipping, and fast port transit, Tunisia will fail to develop, or even
maintain, its market share of world trade and lose opportunities to attract private capital
ventures in search of the good and relatively cheap labor it can provide. One should
acknowledge, however, that a consensus must be built first for major reforms in this area
to succeed. The vested interests of public monopolies and the traditional stonewalling of
customs must be overcome, which requires more than advocating changes. The case for
reforms in the specific context of Tunisia should be articulated on the basis of technical
studies detailing how to proceed, the likely benefits and costs to be derived, the way to
mitigate adverse impacts. This process is about to start in a concerted effort inside the
Bank for private sector promotion. A transport lending operation should be the natural
conclusion of that effort, and include such financing mechanism as ECOs (Extended
Cofinancing Operations) to facilitate private takeovers of port and shipping services.
1.26   For domestic land transport, the railway problems seem the least important to
tackle, not only because the Bank's review of the Eighth Plan showed a much
satisfactory adjustment in the level of public spending for railroads, now representing
less than 7%  of total public investments in transport compared to 13%  under the
previous plan, but also because a much higher priority is given to maintenance, which
the Bank has long recommended. Besides, the relative importance of railway traffic is
low. For road transport, pending pricing and public management issues are essentially
related to urban and, to a much lesser extent, interurban passenger transport. Reforms
in this area should be pursued, but at a slower pace that takes into account the need to
avoid conflicts between financial sustainablity and poverty alleviation.
22/ In particular, curvature and width of the platform.
23/ Regulations were established at the end of 1994 to give legal status to the freight forwarding profession.



14                                                                    Chapter!
1.27   Because of the large benefits at stakes and the potential for government to act
swiftly and decisively, the Bank lending strategy should now focus on public sector
management, including decentralization of responsibilities; budgetary reforms; private
sector development; and improving road standards. Decentralization of road respon-
sibilities came as an imperfect implementation of the 1989 decentralization Law in the
sub-sector, leaves grey areas as to ownership and funding responsibilities; the objective
is to improve the road classification by transferring some to the regional level. By
establishing a link between budgets and road classification, budgetary reforms will
strengthen budgetary discipline. Reducing road maintenance by force account will have
a significant impact on the cost and quality of road works, and will create new
development opportunities for a dynamic private sector. Improved road standards will
minimize life-cycle costs by making optimum use of gravel road techniques.



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
DD. IRURAL 1ROADS AND lAMCULTURIE DgEVEL6DPMEN'
A. THE RURAL ROADS WITHIN THE ROAD NETWORK
2.1    The road network is fairly developed in the north-eastern part of the country, but
tends to become more sketchy as it extends away from the coast and in southern
provinces. There are a few remote areas in the south-east, the center-west, the Haute
Mejerda, and the Bizerte's sahel. Even where the road network density is the highest,
missing links exist that both increase travel distances and leave rural areas in isolation.
The land tenure, characterized by a great majority of small farms (less than 20 hectares),
intensifies needs for common use feeder roads. The Government policy provides for
gradual completion of a well structured network, and has been supported by the Bank
through three rural roads projects. These projects are generally designed with a dual
purpose: one is to improve farming conditions with special reference to easier and
cheaper access to supplies and market outlets, the other to improve traffic condition
where the road network shows structural gaps. The current length and composition of
the road network are given in Table 2.1: Classified Road Network.
Table 2.1 Classified Road Network
(1994 - km)24
Standard          National    Provincial      Local  Classification        Total
(GP)        (MC)        (RRVE)   in progress
-paved               3,793       4,537        2,241        1,149     11,720 (66%)
-unpaved25             50          402         701           21       1,174 (7%)
- tracks              236        1,583        2,908         149       4,876 (27%)
Total              4,079        6,522       5,850        1,319    17,770 (100%)
(23%)       (37%)        (33%)         (7%)
2.2    About two-third of the 18,000 km-long network is paved, including 140 km of
motorways now in operation. Around 1,800 km of roads have been paved between 1986
and 1994, representing annual increments of 225 km. Over two-third of these increments
related to paving of rural roads many of which are not yet classified. The 1987 road
inventory showed that close to 72% of paved roads were in good condition at the time.
No precise data exists on condition of the unpaved network which is deemed to be in
generally bad given the paucity of financial resources allocated to their maintenance.
Many rural roads are impassable during rains. Not included in Table 1. 1 are about
60,000 km of summarily built tracks.
24/ The road classification is underway. Data shown in the table correspond to a preliminary selection carried
out by DGPC. Other roads may ultimately find their way into the classification.
25! Engineered gravel and improved earth roads.



16                                                                      Chapter 11
2.3    The inventory of unclassified rural roads and tracks is wrought with imprecision.
Roads outside urban areas and mostly carrying goods related to agriculture production
are estimated at about 20,000 km. A recent inventory of engineered rural roads gave a
total of 6,017 km which were built under the following program:
- World Bank:       2,241.5 km (Third and Fifth Projects)
- PDRI26:           1,297.5 km
- PDR27 and others:  2,478.0 km.
This included 3,382 km of paved roads (56%) and 2,635 km of unpaved roads (44%).
2.4    The characteristics of rural roads are diverse, from simple earth tracks with no
drainage that are rarely graded, or tracks across in rocky terrains which are not
maintained and often bumpy, to engineered unpaved road graded and periodically
regravelled, to paved roads. The construction standards applied by the General
Directorate of Bridges and Roads (DGPC) are evolutionary, starting from a simple 6 m-
wide and unpaved platform with drainage and surelevation to ensure year-round traffic
serviceability, to an intermediary stage similar in all to the first one except for the
platform which is 9 m-wide and on which a 5 m-wide gravel travelling surface is added.
The lowest paved road standard substitutes a bituminous overlay to the gravel one just
described, whereas the most advanced standard is comparable to that of national roads,
with an 11 m-wide platform and a 6 m-wide travelling surface. The latter paved standard
normally applies to road with traffic above 600 vehicle per day, and the former to roads
with traffic between 300 and 600 vehicles per day. Paving may sometimes be carried out
under conditions of lower traffic but in ruggy terrain, areas subjected to sand accumula-
tion, and agricultural regions producing crops that must be promptly evacuated, or which
can be damaged while transported on bad roads.
B. TRANSPORT SERVICES IN RURAL AREAS
2.5    Rural transport corresponds to services rendered along itineraries that are
predominantly unpaved. Most of these services are provided by medium to small size
vehicles on a for-hire basis. Decree 92-1904 dated October 26, 1992 which regulates
road freight transport makes exception for rural transport: the own-account as well as
for-hire transport of agricultural products is not subjected to authorization by the
Ministry of transport as long as the gross vehicle weight is 12 tons or lower. For-hire
transport of passengers on the contrary is subject to authorization by municipalities for
services rendered within their jurisdiction, by the Governor if more than one
municipality is served within a province, and by the Ministry of Transport in all other
cases. The authorization is given for fixed itineraries, and tariffs are controlled. The
Government tried to improve transport conditions in rural areas, with particular reference
to passenger safety, by setting technical standards for multipurpose vehicles and
promoting their construction and commercialization. This attempt failed as the price of
26/ Programme de Developpement Rural Integre under the Ministry of Planning.
221 Projet de Developpement Regional.



Rural Roads and Agriculture Development                                   17
the standard vehicle (D 35,000) was unaffordable to most. Passenger and freight still
move predominantly in old and unfit vehicles. The Ministry of Transport intends to take
steps to limit to five years the age of vehicles in operation for provision of for-hire
passenger services. Regulations are not strictly enforced.
C. RURAL ROAD ADMINISTRATION
2.6    DGPC, under the Ministry of Equipment and Housing (MEH), was created by
Decree No. 88-1413 dated July 22, 1988 to take on management of the State road
network. Main responsibilities relate to design and implementation of the national road
policy from construction to operations and maintenance. They only marginally touch
upon rural roads since DGPC is to promote development of components of the rural
network that could eventually be classified in the State road network. Better integration
of rural areas through good connections to the main road network is a priority objective
of the Eighth Plan, which DGPC has to pursue more actively. DGPC had already been
reorganized and decentralized in 1981. This management system somewhat lost in
cohesivenes, since the 23 provincial heads of public works services no more have DGPC
as their line manager, but report directly to the Regional Director of Equipment, himself
reporting to the Governor. Nonetheless, the overall situation remains under control. The
headquarters now comprise seven specialized branches for project programming and
supervision, studies, operations and maintenance, management of the equipment fleet,
laboratory studies, administration, and training. About 500 civil servants are based at
DGPC headquarters, and twice as much in the decentralized units. More than 3,000
laborers are hired to carry out force account works.
2.7    The status of rural roads shows diversity and loose ends in the means given for
empowerment. Some fall under the responsibility of municipalities and other ministries,
but most are managed by the Regional Council (RC), the governing assembly of
province under the tutelage of the Ministry of Interior. The RC is a legal and financially
autonomous entity established by Law 89-11 of February 4, 1989 and includes locally
elected representatives (members of Parliament, presidents of urban and rural councils).
The directors of local branches of the Government administration attend its meetings.
The RC has its own budget and raises tax revenues. Some of the Conseils Generaux have
developed road in-house technical expertise. Most of their resources come from the
central budget as RCs have delegated responsibility from the Government to manage
national programs within provinces. A March 1989 decision by the Government assigns
management of 5,500 km of rural roads to DGPC, generally the roads built at good
technical standards under Bank projects and other programs which are, or might be,
classified at a later stage. About 62% of these roads are paved.



18                                                                        Chapter 11
D. MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATION
2.8    Roads maintenance is contracted out for periodic renewal of asphalt concrete
overlays and heavy maintenance like rehabilitation and strengthening. Other operations
are executed by force account under the decentralized public works administration.
Management of the equipment fleet is one of the functions where substantial progress is
needed. The fleet includes around 1,300 items, nearly half of which have been purchased
in the eighties, and 25% is 15 year-old or more. The fleet's heterogeneity is a problem
for maintenance, and a third of it is out of service awaiting repairs. Productivity of the
fleet in operation is mediocre. Its organization is decentralized, and the equipment has
been distributed to the 23 provinces. Notwithstanding the prerogative that the Minister
of Equipment and Housing has to reallocate it as and when needed for greater efficiency,
the fleet tends to be permanently based and used exclusively by the province. Part of it
is apportioned to the Zones, a sub-territorial unit in the province, which further
aggravates operational rigidities. Two graders are available per province to carry out
routine maintenance of unpaved rural roads. There is one workshop per province, and
a central workshop managed by one of the DGPC directions which handles major repairs
and all purchases. The level of activity at the central workshop has plunged in late years,
a likely consequence of slow and mediocre services and of recent attempts to charge the
provinces for services rendered. Rental rates, charged for replacement equipment sent
to provinces pending repair of their own, or to users outside the DGPC organization, are
based on an old and inadequate tariff. Cost accounting for periodic and routine
maintenance is being upgraded for classified roads; the related pilot program, currently
limited to six governorates, will be gradually generalized to the whole country. The
development of a road data bank is also in progress, together with setting up of a
computerized system for optimization of road maintenance programming28. Rural roads
should be included in a next phiase of network management development. The real costs
of works by force-account are difficult to ascertain, and they are incomplete: only costs
directly related to operations are recorded, exclusive of depreciation and labor. That
gives a highly distorted picture of total costs, and falsely entertains the widespread belief
that force account works are much cheaper than works by contract.
E. FUNDING OF RURAL ROADS
2.9    Construction of rural roads in the eighties intensified as a result of the emphasis
placed by Government on rural development. The larger resources allocated to rural road
investments came from the central budget, and several agricultural development offices.
Extensive support was also received from the Donors community: from the Bank, under
the Third (First Rural Roads) and the Fifth Highway Projects which financed 2,200 km,
and from various Arab funds. The rapid development of special programs characterizes
28/ The new pavement management system, developed under the Sixth Highway Project, is based on the
COGES cost accounting system, a road aata Bank using the Visage software, and a computerized optimization
model called Evalue which is transposed from the system used in France.



Rural Roads and Agriculture Development                                    19
the recent period. About 1,300 km of paved rural roads have been built under the PDRI
initiated by the Ministry of Planning. Construction of rural roads also came under the
PDRs managed by the Ministry of Agriculture. Funding for paving of engineered rural
roads is also available under the Fonds National de Solidarite created in December 1992
to reduce social inequalities and help impoverished areas (zones d'ombre). Overall, rural
road investments increased from about D 100 million in the Seventh Plan to about D150
million in the Eighth Plan. The main program is for construction of 1,400 km of rural
roads, the responsibility of which is split equally between DGPC and the Commissariat
General de Developpement Regional (Regional Development General Commissionership)
under the Ministry of Planning. Implementation started in 1994, two years behind
schedule. The plan also provides for purchase of equipment for public works to a total
of D 7 million.
2.10   Since 1983, the DGPC budget includes a line item for maintenance of rural roads
(Article 60 - paragraph 12 of the Finance Law), which helped to streamline budgeting
of unclassified roads; the authority to commit related funds is delegated to the Directeur
Regional de l'Equipement. The Conseil Regional is consulted on the proposed allocation
of credits across the govemorate. Resources allocated to article 60-12 remained at a
largely symbolic level during the first five years, then soared from D 260,000 in 1988
to D 2,2 million in 1994, a 750% increase compared to 95% for the maintenance budget
for classified roads (D 15 million in 1994). The rural roads budget was raised to D 2.3
million in 1994. The Government decision in 1989 to concentrate resources on the 5,500
km-long priority rural has led to a much more effective use of budgets. However, the
equipment and crews are often called by local governments to carry out construction and
rehabilitation works outside the priority network for which they are not fully compensat-
ed; this amounts to a diversion of resources with potentially adverse consequences on
future sustainability of rural road maintenance. The 1994 budget includes D 839,000 for
routine and periodic maintenance of paved rural roads (3,400 km out of the 5,500 km),
up from D 50,000 in 1991. A risk exists that a growing portion of resources allocated
to rural roads be used for coverage of growing periodic maintenance needs of only those
that have been paved and start to deteriorate. Notwithstanding progress achieved to date,
rural road maintenance remains largely underfunded. Regravelling should normally be
done every five years on average; instead, the 1994 budget provides for regravelling of
only 220 km which, given the total length of 2,100 km, gives an average periodicity of
about ten years for such works. Table 2.2: Evoluion of Road Budgets summarizes main
data on road budgets in Tunisia, showing the rural road maintenance budget to be about
13% of total spending for maintenance, and 1.7% of all road expenditures, including
investments. As for investments for construction and upgrading of rural roads, they
represented some 5% of total road investments over 1992-94.



20                                                                          Chapter II
Table 2.2: Evolution of Road Budgets
(D million)
Nature of expen-  1988       1989       1990       1991       1992       1993       1994
ditures                                                                            (budget)
Investments
-budget            28.0       38.8       38.5                  63.3        80.0       85.2
-off budget        1210        9-8       325                    SSA      49-A        1A
total             40.0       58.6       71.0       87.3       118.7      129.4      99.6
RecurrenL
- classified r.     7.7        8.8        10.2       11.5       13.1       14.0       15.0
- rural roads      0Q3         0-2        1L0        L5         L9         2_1         2.2
total              8.0       10.2        11.2      13.0        15.0       16.1       17.2
Grand Total         48.0       68.8       82.2       90.3      133.7      145.5      116.7
F. ORGANIZATION OF AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
2.11    Agriculture is an important sector in Tunisia and generates substantial foreign
exchange earnings. About 16% of fixed investments made during 1986-92 were in the
sector. Nearly half the population still lives in rural areas which sustain a third of jobs
nationwide with most related to farming. The private sector controls about 95% of
production. The Eighth Plan aims at increasing food self-sufficiency, and safeguarding
the land productive capacity currently threatened by depletion of water reserves and
over-exploitation. Greater efforts are being made to increase output from the rainfed
sector where an important potential for increased yields still exists. The timely provision
of farm inputs and extension services, and economical transport of products to markets
depend in part on the availability of all-weather access in agricultural areas. Four
components of the ongoing Plan have special relevance to the proposed project:
-      the cereal plan, targeting annual production of 25 million quintaux by year 2000;
-      the vegetable oil plan, designed to turnaround that sector and maintain annual
production at some 220,000 tons;
-      the livestock production plan, scheduling increases of meat and milk production
to cover respectively 90 and 80% of Tunisian consumption by year 2000;
-      the development plan for citrus fruits, aiming at renewal of orchards to raise
overall production to 300,000 tons in 1996, 50% above its average level in the
early nineties.
2.12   Total investments planned under the Eighth Plan for agriculture amount to D3.9
billion, more than twice the spending level under the previous plan. Financing is to come
from the Government budget for 53% of total. The local banking system is called to
contribute 27% of total, much more than in the past. The balance of 20% will be self-
financed by farmers. Agricultural investments foreseen under the proposed project are
an essential complement to road investments for generation of project economic benefits,
and represent a mere 2% of total agricultural investments included in the Eighth Plan.



Rural Roads and Agriculture Development                                 21
2.13   The institutional framework for programming and implementation of agriculture
development in conjunction with construction of rural roads is complex. The Ministry
of Agriculture has overall responsibility for agricultural planning and development. The
Commissariat Regional de Developpement Agricole (Agricultural Development General
Commissionership) established in each governorate is responsible for overseeing the
coordination of programs of semi-autonomous public agricultural agencies and the
decentralized administration of the Ministry of Agriculture. Commissariat Regional de
Developpement Agricole liaises with the local banking system under the auspices of a
Comite d'Octroi de Credit Agricole to ensure that credits needed by public and private
operators to implement the program will be forthcoming. Extension services are
provided by Agence de Vulgarisation et de Formation Agricole, a public agency under
the Ministry of Agriculture, through its local antennas, the Cellules Territoriale de
Vulgarisation at the Delegation level, and the Cellule de Rayonnement Agricole at the
Imada level, which is the smallest of administrative units in Tunisia. The Miniistry of
Planning and Regional Development plays an active part through the Commissariat
General de Developpement Regional which manages the PDRI program. Government
budget funds finance the grants allowing the banks to lend at lower-than-market rates.
Some are general purpose funds (FOSDA), others are specialized like PAAF for fruit-
tree planting, or PRAS for rehabilitation of plantations. Others are Governorate specific,
like the FIDA to finance the Sidi Bouzid and Kasserine areas, the PEF to develop oases
near Gafsa. The lines of credit under the PDR and PDRI are managed by the Banque
Nationale Agricole (National Agricultural Bank) network. Basic infrastructure is always
financed by the Government.
G. BANK EXPERIENCE OF PREVIOUS RURAL ROAD PROJECTS
2.14   The transport sector in Tunisia received ten loans totalling $294 million. Project
lending focussed on highways (six projects), ports (three projects) and railways (one
project). Highway projects experienced implementation delays attributable to
cumbersome administrative disbursement, and procurement procedures yet to be
alleviated. Disagreement between the National Tender Board (Commission Superieure
des Marches) and the Bank on bidding procedures, pre-selection and short-listing
especially, has not been fully resolved to date. Shortages of counterpart funds, prompted
by devaluation of the Tunisian Dinar, often delayed completion of highway projects. In
general, the overall performance has suffered from lack of Government ownership.
Staffing and training were a constant stumbling block and, as such, warrant careful
consideration in future lending. Rural Roads Projects comprised the Third Highway
(First Rural Roads) Project (Loan 1601-TUN) and the Fifth Highway Project (Loan
2108-TUN). In addition to the generic problems encountered by highway projects,
shortfalls of agricultural accompanying measures and investments have hindered full
achievement of planned development objectives.
2.15   The Third Highway Project (Loan 1601-TUN, $32.0 million) was approved in
July 1978 as a pilot exercise to assist Government in defining its rural development
policy and in setting up a scheme to bring about parallel agricultural investments to fund



22                                                                      Chapter II
purchases of inputs needed by farmers. It provided technical assistance to the Ministries
of Public Works and Agriculture. The project also upgraded rural roads standards (1,089
kms) and financed purchase of rural roads maintenance equipment. The project
completion report and the project performance audit report concluded that all
components aiming at improving the standards of living in rural areas, other than
agricultural investments, met their targets. Agricultural credit facilities under the project
were used to a limited extent only. That raised questions as to the soundness of the
methodology used at appraisal which justified rural roads investments by project-induced
benefits for agriculture. A comprehensive measurement of socio-economic benefits in
the influence areas would give a better account of project impacts.
2.16   The Fifth Highway Project (Loan 2108-TUN, $35.5 million) is a follow-up to the
Third highway project, with linkages to the Third agriculture project for credit to
farmers. It followed the same approach combining rural roads improvement works and
parallel agricultural investments in the road influence area. It was designed to raise the
level of service to a minimum all-weather standard for 1,186 kms of rural roads, to
improve the road maintenance organization, to fund purchase of equipment for five
vehicle inspection stations, and to increase agricultural production within the zone of
influence of the project roads. Unlike the Third project, it did not experience problems
relating to credits to agriculture. Some components, however, have not been achieved,
like spot improvements of feeder roads, or were delayed by administrative and
organizational changes, like the road safety component and other institutional develop-
ment. Road works were satisfactorily completed.
2.17   Bank strategy for feeder road construction in Tunisia, initiated by the then-
innovative Third Highway Project, is to combine road improvement with agricultural
investments. The experience acquired in Tunisia over more than ten years through two
specialized projects demonstrates that the contribution of rural roads to rural
development could be important, subject to essential prerequisites. The coordination
between agricultural investments and road improvement works is shown to be crucial,
albeit not easy to achieve given barriers that exist in the Tunisian public administration.
A quality coordination is no less important inside the Bank between the highway and
agriculture staff. Institutional issues relating to transfer of management responsibilities
closer to the population directly benefiting from rural roads projects, and definition of
priority criteria and technical service standards for rural roads, should also be addressed
in a thorough manner. Disbursement and procurement issues, including an improved
dialogue with the National Tender Board, should further be dealt with. The present
project fully accords with this Bank's strategy so defined.



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
000. THE PnodEcT
A. BACKGROUND, OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
3.1    A rural roads improvement and maintenance project was originally identified in
1989. Due to several changes in the lending program, the Bank has then proposed that
its scope be extended to other areas of the highway sub-sector, but the Government,
unwilling to risk delaying the intervention of the Bank in a priority subsector, has
preferred to keep the scope unchanged.
3.2    Rationale for Bank Involvement. The Bank will contribute to the project by
bringing a wealth of experience on improving road network management. Furthermore,
the Bank can be a powerful catalyst in the institutional reform process. From its outside
position, the Bank would be able to assist in overcoming the gridlock that so often
characterizes decentralization of management responsibilities and other institutional
reforms, in particular by exposing the rationale behind it.
3.3    Objectives. In line with the Bank's Development strategy for the 1990's in
Tunisia, the project objectives are public sector restructuring, budgetary reforms, private
sector development, the development of improved road standards, the reduction of
disparities between urban and rural areas, the reduction of rural to urban migration, and
improving the delivery of social services to poorer population. These objectives will be
realized through improving maintenance of rural roads, particularly unpaved ones;
decentralizing road management responsibilities to local governments, without
developing new entities; establishing a link between budgets and road classification;
strengthening budgetary discipline, transparency and accountability; targeting specific
road maintenance tasks for execution by contract to improve efficiency (reduce cost and
improve quality) and to create new development opportunities for a dynamic private
sector; and finally minimizing life-cycle costs by making optimum use of gravel road
techniques.
3.4    Description. The proposed project would include:
(a)   preparation and initial phase of implementation of an institutional reform
program;
(b)   the periodic rehabilitation of approximately 300 km of gravel roads in a pilot
program to be carried out by contract in ten Govemorates (9% of cost); and
(c)   the upgrading of about 715 km of priority rural roads to appropriate standards.



24                                                                   Chapter III
B. INSTITUTIONAL REFORMS
Concept and Content
3.5    Issues. It is not uncommon for the bulk of rural roads to receive little or no
maintenance between their initial upgrading and the time they reach such high roughness
levels that pressure from road users, through local officials and elected representatives,
results in unprogramed emergency maintenance, followed by another upgrading (often
paving). This economically inefficient life-cycle is due to several interrelated reasons,
the main ones are listed below.
3.6    Public sector restructuring. The legal ownership status of local rural roads is
often not explicitly defined. No more than 2,500 km of the approximately 10,000 km
of roads built under previous rural road development programs have been classified.
Responsibilities for maintenance of the remaining roads have not been explicitly
assigned. The Governnent decided in 1989 to allocate a budget (art 60-12 of the Finance
Law) to the Ministry of Equipment for maintaining about 5,500 km of unclassified roads
built to engineering standards (para 2.10). The remaining 2,000 km, as well as other
local rural roads, are implicitly included in assets of the Regional Councils (RC), which
have, however, no maintenance budget for them.
3.7    Budgetary reforms. The way funding is organized may not fully promote
budgetary discipline, accountability and transparency. The current budget classification
is disconnected from the new analytical accounting under pilot implementation. For force
account works, this makes it difficult to easily compare actual vs. planned expenditures
or to assess how much was actually spent on a particular road and what particular
maintenance tasks were actually carried out. Also the diversity of funding sources does
not favor separation of maintenance expenditures from investments. Special funds
transferred to the RCs are often earmarked for consumables, thus diverting force account
teams from maintenance to lesser priority construction tasks.
3.8    Private sector development. All road maintenance activities are currently carried
out by force account, using a rather large equipment fleet spread among the 23 DREHs.
There are documented cases where rigidities in the organization of force account works
have lead to few productive hours per work day (with hours spent daily shuttling workers
to and from the worksite). The quality of works is reduced because quality control
functions are carried out by the staff in charge of their execution. The capacity of the
equipment fleet is underused not only because of its physical scattering (complementary
pieces may have different bases and individual DREHs needs are often a fraction of the
capacity of the equipment they have), but also because equipment maintenance is
inefficiently carried out and generates long periods of equipment unavailability (Tunisia
is a good example of how constraining the logistics of maintaining a large and disparate
equipment fleet can be). This situation is anachronistic, as countries at Tunisia's develop-
ment level have long ago started a shift to maintenance works by contract. Furthermore,



The Project                                                                  25
the full potential of the domestic contracting industry is currently untapped in the road
subsector.
3.9    Rural road standards. The methodology used to economically justify rural roads
upgrading works looks at the benefits of a combination of both agricultural and road
investments in a given zone of influence. As the agricultural potential of these zones is
large, so are the benefits, and this has permitted the development of unnecessarily costly
construction standards. Furthermore, the construction standards reflect the bias Tunisia
has built over time against gravel roads. Gravel pavements are considered only as
stopgap measures while the road shifts rapidly from a local feeder function to a
connecting one. Thus gravel roads are overdesigned on purpose to facilitate a prompt
later paving29. It is clear that Tunisia, like numerous countries, has to develop under
strict budgetary constraints. Hence, choices have to be made at different levels and
stages to provide maximum benefits for the minimum life-cycle cost.
3.10   Preparation. The Government has setup, through a decision by MEH, an Inter-
ministerial Working Group (IWG) on road institutional issues. The group includes
representatives of the Ministries of Equipment and Housing, Planning and Regional
Development, Agriculture, Interior and Finance, and their regional services. At negotia-
tions, the Government agreed to update, through a decision by MEH, the signature of
which was a condition of Board presentation, the time frame and the setting-up of the
IWG, particularly to detail the objectives and include a representative from the Ministry
of Transport. The IWG will be assisted by consultants under Terns of Reference
developed with the Bank's assistance and financed by the investment budget of the
Ministry of Planning and Regional Development under a program for strategic studies
(Annex 3.1: Institutional Study, Outline TORs) .
3.11   Objectives. The Government confirmed at Negotiations that it will prepare and
carry out a program of institutional reforms aimed at setting up a new policy for network
management and maintenance improvements of the public road network and the
reduction of the current institutional weaknesses in the subsector. This program, spelled
out in Annex 3.2: Sector Strategy Letter, the signature of which was a condition of
Board presentation, consists of:
(a)    public sector reforms aimed at decentralizing rural roads management to RCs,
without developing new road management entities;
(b)   budgetary reforms aimed at establishing a link between budgets and road
classification,  strengthening  budgetary  discipline,  accountability  and
transparency, and improving the balance between maintenance and investment;
(c)    private sector development aimed at targeting specific road maintenance tasks for
execution by contract; and
291    This overdesign, by requiring costly quarry-processed materials, also has the unfortunate effect of
making the tenporary gravel pavement more difficult and costlier to maintain.



26                                                                   Chapter Ill
(d)   reforms on rural road standards aimed at minimizing life-cycle costs by making
optimum use of gravel road techniques.
3.12   Description. Preparation of the reforms will also be supported under the
proposed project by assisting the IWG with study trips and training. This project element
also includes a separate but related study to update the construction and maintenance
standards of rural roads (Annex 3.3: Road Standards Study, Outline TORs), in order
to refine and improve them, with the objective of minimizing life-cycle costs, the
principle being adopted for the Rural Roads Upgrading component.
3.13   The public sector restructuring will aim at:
(a)   empowering regional councils with responsibilities over local affairs, as they are
closer to rural areas and better aware of rural road user needs, for more respon-
sive management of the rural network; which means specifically, road
reclassification with transfer to regional councils of:
(i)   rural road ownership and decision on technical standards (upgrading
levels and investment vs. maintenance);
(ii)   budget resources; and
(b)   preventing the development of new bureaucratic entities at the local level by
using, to the fullest extent, the road management capabilities of the DREHs
under a contractual approach.
3.14   The first step in reviewing road classification & ownership will be a road
inventory and the establishment of technical classification standards and upgrad-
ing/downgrading criteria on the basis of road functions. Associated legal and regulatory
procedures will also be drafted.
3.15   The budgetary reforms will aim at:
(a)   strengthening maintenance expenditures for a better balance between maintenance
expenditures and road investment;
(b)   establishing a strong link between budgets, budgetary standards and budgetary
resources on one hand, and road classification levels on the other hand;
(c)   improving the regulatory and budgetary framework and strengthening budget
discipline, accountability and transparency, in order to:
(i)   prevent the diversion of resources away from their intended purpose with
stricter procedures for transferring budgetary resources from one road or
one type of works to new explicitly defined ones;
(ii)   clearly separate investment from maintenance expenditures;
(iii)  promote life-cycle cost savings and a better balance between investment
and maintenance expenditures;
(iv)   set up regular and systematic maintenance of gravel roads.



The Project                                                                   27
3.16   The first step in reviewing the budgetary framework will be an analysis of the
road budget structure along with simulations aimed at defining optimal maintenance
strategies. This will constitute the basis for budget allocations by type of work and by
eventual technical and financial criteria for road classification.
3.17   Private sector development will aim at creating new development opportunities
for a dynamic private sector by:
(a)    moving gradually albeit decisively toward road maintenance by contract for
periodic activities easily programmable, measurable and not requiring specific
skills from contractors, and most of routine maintenance, in order to:
(i)   streamline the organizational setup by separating supervision and quality
control functions from execution functions;
(ii)   promote management transparency and accountability for use of scarce
maintenance funds; and
(iii)  improve the efficiency of the allocated resources, i.e. reduce cost and
improve quality and productivity;
(b)   keeping force account capacities only for works which:
(i)    are difficult to program in advance;
(ii)   are difficult to measure;
(iii)  are too scattered;
(iv)   do not attract competitive bids;
(c)    establishing programs to:
(i)   retrain a core of civil servants for programming, quality control and
supervision functions of contracted out works;
(ii)   privatize a large part of the current equipment fleet;
(iii)  encourage staff to leave the civil service and start small scale enterprises.
3.18   The first step in reviewing force account vs. contracting will be an analytical
accounting exercise to compare actual costs of contract vs. force account maintenance
on a selected set of road works. This would serve as a major tool in prioritizing tasks
suitable for execution by the private sector. Accompanying measures related to state
managed equipment and to the equipment directorate's new status will be handled
carefully and different solutions ranging from strengthening existing construction
enterprises, to creating and promoting new entities will be proposed. An action plan will
be drawn up, which will include quality controls by road laboratories.
3.19   The review of construction and maintenance standards for rural roads will aim,
on the basis of the standards used for the Project roads, at making optimum use of gravel
road techniques and minimizing life-cycle costs.



28                                                                   Chapter Iii
Cost and Financing
3.20   The base cost of this component (studies and technical assistance) is $2.4 million.
The percentage of taxes is 17%. The Bank will finance 100% of costs excluding taxes,
or 83% of total costs including taxes.
Implementation
3.21   Organization. Consultants will report to DGPC but will work very closely with,
and support the work of the IWG. More specifically, their role is to:
(a)   bring external expertise and experience;
(b)   elaborate technical documents;
(c)   initiate meetings and promote debates.
3.22   Schedule. The study of the IWG, supported by consultants, will be launched in
early 1995. Signing the consulting services contract was a condition of Board
presentation. It was agreed at negotiations that an Institutional Action Plan, developed
from the results of the study and detailing the execution of institutional reforms, will be
prepared and submitted to the Bank no later than March 31, 1996. The plan, reviewed
on the basis of the Bank's comments, will be implemented immediately and completed
by the end of the year 2001.
C. PILOT PERIODIC REHABILITATION
Concept and Content
3.23   Issue. Due to institutional difficulties and rigidities in financing contract works
under the recurrent budget (Title One), inappropriate construction standards, insufficient
budgets and unclear legal ownership status, rural road maintenance in Tunisia is limited
to urgent interventions or heavy upgrading, with little or no annual and periodic mainte-
nance. This maintenance strategy has lead, unfortunately, to the neglect of a large part
of the rural roads network as the heavy upgrading rate is slow (440 km a year under the
XIII plan). On the basis of a 50,000 km network and a pavement life of 15 years for
paved roads and 7 years for unpaved roads, 3,300 to 6,000 km per year of pavement
needs to be constructed, strengthened or at least periodically maintained (a resurfacing
layer).
3.24   Preparation. The consultants on road institutional issues (para 3.10) will assist
the IWG in optimizing maintenance strategies and planning, and will develop and detail
the strategy of a shift to road maintenance by contract.
3.25   Description. Parallel to the work of the IWG, to provide it with input and early
feed-back, and as a first step in the direction of phasing out force account works, DGPC
has agreed to contract out a pilot periodic rehabilitation program. The program will



The Project                                                                          29
consist of periodic rehabilitation on approximately 300 km of gravel roads, to be selected
in ten representative governorates with differing levels of construction industry develop-
ment. The works will be mostly regravelling (renewal of the surfacing layer). It is
expected that the program will be extended, first nationwide, then to other types of
maintenance works.
Cost and Financing
3.26    The base cost of this element is $6.4 million, with a base cost of $21,200 per kmn,
of which 20% is duties and taxes, and 61% is foreign cost (direct and indirect cost). Unit
costs are estimated on the basis of similar tasks performed in various road construction
contracts in Tunisia.
Implementation
3.27    Organization and Selection Criteria. DGPC  will implement this element
through ten Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Equipment and Housing (DREHs).
The DREHs will finalize the designs, define the detailed contract elements and make
sure that the project items are executed within the defined project objectives. As is the
practice in DGPC, DREHs will be responsible for works, while quality and material
control will be subcontracted to the laboratory. The project sections will be selected by
DGPC among the rural roads currently maintained (art. 60-12). Assurances have been
obtained that the roads selected will have a minimum length of 5 km, carry a minimum
traffic of 130 adt and will yield a minimum economic rate of return of 15%.
3.28    Indicators
Table 3.1: Pilot Periodic Rehabilitation, Indicators
Target Value
Indicator                 Unit        1994       1995      1996       1997      1998
For the rural roads network:
................................................................................................... . .....................................................................................................................................................................
Paved roads               km         3,400      3,425     3,450      3,475    3,500
Periodic surfacing by     km           152        153        154        105        56
force account
%          4.5        4.5        4.5        3.0       1.6
Periodic surfacing by     km             0          0          0         50       100
contract
. ........                                                             ....      .................%  0  0  0  1.4  2.9
Unpaved roads             km         2,100      2,235      2,370     2,505    2,640
Regravelling by force     km            92        101        107        113       119
account



30                                                                     Chapter IU
Target Value
Indicator               Unit      1994      1995      1996      1997    1998
%         4.4        4.5      4.5       4.5      4.5
Regravelling by con-    km            0       80       100       120      140
tract
%           0       3.6       4.2       4.8      5.3
For an individual section of the periodic rehabilitation program:
Traffic per section    adt30      130       135       140       145      160
3.29   Schedule. The works program will be executed within three years with ap-
proximately 100 km of periodic rehabilitation works a year.
D. UPGRADING RURAL ROADS
Concept and Content
3.30   Preparation. This element was prepared by a consultant under the Sixth
Highway Sector Project. Approximately 4,000 km of rural roads were identified as a
priority at the regional level. As a first step, the consultant sorted out the sections which
could feasibly achieve the project goals, totalling 2,059 km. An economic analysis was
carried out on this set and showed that 149 sections, with a total length of 1,549 km,
were economically justified (ERR of 15 % or more), out of which the regional councils
selected 712.6 km on the basis of local criteria and the highest ERRs. Detailed
engineering is being finalized on the selected sections.
3.31   Objectives. They include improving access to rural areas, minimizing traffic
interruptions through road improvement works, defining actions to reduce disparities
between urban and rural areas and reduce rural to urban migration, and improving the
delivery of social services to the poorer population groups. Moreover, the optimum use
of unpaved roads would lead to a reduction of rural roads life-cycle construction and
maintenance costs.
3.32   Description. This element includes the upgrading of 712.6 km of selected farm-
to-market roads. Upgrading levels have been set to optimize agricultural advantages
while remaining cost-effective. The Bank's preappraisal showed that traffic on most
project roads will not evolve as rapidly as to technically justify the usual overdesign of
rural roads and thus the initial construction standard is closely linked to traffic forecasts.
About 25 % of project roads, with an expected average daily traffic above 300 vehicles,
3Q/ Average daily traffic (this traffic will be defined once the program sections are defined according to the
methodology adopted for the economic justification)



The Project                                                                                31
will be constructed to paved standard, while the bulk of the rest, 65%, will be
constructed to minimal unpaved standard (6 m wide formation with a 20 cm thick natural
gravel pavement) and only 10% will be constructed to an initial wider 9 m formation in
anticipation of a possible paving later (but with a cheaper 20 cm thick gravel pavement
more appropriate to a gravel road).
Cost and Financing
3.33    This element includes civil works and quality control (1.5%  of the cost of civil
works), for a base cost of $62.3 million including 20% of taxes and 61% of foreign
exchange. The Bank will not finance quality control carried out by the laboratory.
Table 3.2: Upgrading Rural Roads, Per km Average
Base Cost
('OOOs)
6 m-wide        9 m-wide           Paved         Average
$73.8           $92.8         $122.7            $87.7
Implementation
3.34    Organization. DGPC will implement the road works through the 23 DREHs of
MEH. DGPC will finalize the designs, define the detailed engineering elements and
make sure that the project items are executed within the defined project objectives. As
is the practice in DGPC, the DREHs will be responsible for works, while quality and
material control will be subcontracted to the laboratory.
3.35    Indicators.
Table 3.3: Upgrading Rural Roads, Indicators
Target value
Indicator               Unit            1994         1995      1996        1997      1998
.......................................... ..................................... ......................................... ..........................................................................
Length                   km            5,500        5,675     5,850       6,025    6,200
Upgrading                km                 0         178        356        534        713
completed
% ofthe              0           25        50          75       100
project
For an individual section of the Upgrading program:
................................ .....I....................................  ............. ..........  .... . . ..... . ...........   .... .   . . .........................................................................
Works com-                %                 0            0        75         100       100
pleted
Traffic                  adt             250          260        220        290        320



32                                                                       Chapter Ill
Target value
Indicator            Unit          1994       1995    1996       1997    1998
Trucks           50         50       50        60        70
(>2.5t)
3.36   Monitoring will consist of an annual compilation and review of performance
indicators. Table 3.3 presents road indicators, and Annex 3.4: Agricultural Indicators
presents the set of agricultural indicators. The indicators were chosen to reflect progress
of the project, with minimal collection costs. The ultimate benefits of the project should
ideally be measured in terms of agricultural value added. The measurement and
collection of agricultural value added statistics for the specific road influence areas,
however, would be difficult, costly, and time consuming. The 71 different road
influence areas do not correspond to administrative units for which economic statistics
are routinely collected, and they are spread over all of the country's 23 Governorates.
The most important public investments, road works and critical public investments in
agriculture, are expected to occur over the coming two years. But the timeframe for
implementation of directly productive private sector investments is less predictable. In
addition, the monitoring timeframe may be too short to capture agricultural production
increases directly, increases that would not materialize before the third year of the
project, whereas an indicator should provide information sufficiently in advance in the
project cycle.
3.37   Performance indicators will therefore focus on the progress of critical investments
assumed to generate incremental agricultural benefits; specifically i) road investmens,
ii) agricultural investments financed or assisted by the government, and iii) traffic levels
and basic composition. Road indicators, measured in kilometers improved or maintained,
will determine the timely completion of the project's road improvements and
maintenance components. Monitoring public sector investments will focus on agricultural
gains. Road traffic indicators will reflect the transport of increased agricultural product,
the expected shift to more efficient truck transport, the general increase in motorized
traffic that is associated with increased incomes, and traffic benefits.
3.38   The collection of road indicator data and traffic counts will be carried out by
MEH, on a regular basis, at least annually, during the most significant periods, that is,
taking into account the agricultural production specificities in the roads' zones of
influence.
3.39   The collection of agricultural investment indicator data will be carried out by the
Ministry of Agriculture. The indicators focus on public agricultural investments and
publicly assisted private investments not only because they represent the vast majority
of those investments assumed in the project's economic analysis of benefits, but also
mostly because they would trigger the response-type private agricultural investments.
This data will be collected biannually for each individual road influence zone by local
officials of the Ministry of Agriculture in charge of the influence zone. This type of



The Project                                                                                33
monitoring fits well with the duties of these officials and will be carried out without the
need for additional staff. A seminar financed by the Bank will be organized in Tunis to
familiarize and motivate the staff involved.
3.40    Schedule. The contractors' preselection was completed in November 1994. The
works program will be executed within three years starting in August 1995.
E. COSTS AND FINANCING
cost
3.41    Project cost estimates are summarized in Table 3.4: Project Cost Summary. The
base cost estimates are expressed in October 1994 prices. Adding 10%  for physical con-
Table 3.4: Project Cost Summary
($ million)
(D Mlli on)                (S Mllion)
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total
1. hsttutbonal Reforrrs                0.581    1.744    2.326    0.593    1.780    2.373
2. Riot Periodic Rehabilkation         2.464    3.806    6.271     2.515    3.884    6.399
3. LUpgrading Rural Fbads             26.793   37.058   63.850   27.340   37.814   65.153
Total BASELINE COSTS                     29.839   42.608   72.447   30.448   43.478   73.925
Physical Contingencies                 2.704    4.261     6.965    2.759    4.348    7.107
Rxice Contingencies                    4.220    3.317    7.537    4.306    3.385    7.691
Total PRJECT COSTS                      36.762   50.186   86.948   37.512   51.210   88.723
tingencies, 2.2%  for price contingencies for the foreign costs and 5.5 % to 5.7 % for local
costs, brings the total project cost to $88.7 million, 58% of which is foreign cost and
19.9% duties and taxes. (Annex 3.5: Project Costs, Financing and Disbursement
Schedule)
Financing
Table 3.5: Project Financing
($ million)
Republic of
Tunisia       The World Bank         Total
Amount    %       Amount    %       Amount    %
1. Instlutional Reforms                 0.464     17.0    2.267     83.0    2.731       3.1
2. ilot Periodic Rehabilitatbon         2.962     40.0    4.443     60.0    7.404       8.5
3. Upgrading Rural Roads               33.061     43.0   43.751     57.0   76.813      88.3
Total Disbursement                        36.487    42.0   50.461      58.0   86.948    100.0
3.42     As shown in Table 3.5: Project Financing, the Bank will finance 60%  of the
road works and pilot periodic rehabilitation elements, and 100% of the institutional
reforms component excluding taxes, that is, 83%. The Bank will finance about $1.0
millions of local cost, of which $0.3 million is for technical assistance and $0.7 million



34                                                                                 Chapter ILn
is compensation for the $0.7 million in foreign costs, (the foreign cost to the
Government in financing the quality control of works).
F. PROCUREMENT
Works
3.43    The amounts and methods of procurement are shown in Table 3.6: Procurement
Arrangements. The consulting services column refers to the short list procedure outlined
in the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981). The column N.B.F refers to bids not financed
by the Bank.
Table 3.6: Procurement Arrangements
($ million)
Procurement Method
International    Local
Competitive  Competitive Consulting
Bidding     Bidding    Services    N.EBF.    Total
A. Hardware
1. Upgrading Rural Roads                  74.407          -          -    111C      75.523
a.                                     (44.644)                                  (44.644)
2. Plot Periodic Rehabiitation                 -       7.555         -        -      7.555
a.                                                 (4.533)                        (4.533)
3. Land                                        -          -          -    2.857      2.857
a.
B. Software
1. Studies                                     -          -      0.295        -      0.295
a.                                                            (0.245)             (0.245)
2. Training                                    -          -      2.492        -      2.492
a.                                                            (2.068)             (2.068)
Total                                        74.407      7.555      2.787    3.973    88.723
(44.644)    (4.533)    (2.313)      -    (51.491)
Note: Figures in parenthesk are the respective amounts financed by World Bank
3.a4    Upgrading works will be procured by an International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines, Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits, May 1992. The 71 road sections will be grouped into 30 bid packages awarded
in two phases. Sections in an individual Governorate will be, in general, grouped into
one or two packages. The amounts of individual packages range from $0.8 million to
$3.5 million. All packages of each phase will be evaluated and awarded at the same
time, and contractors could offer rebates if awarded more than one lot. A prequalifica-
tion process was completed in November 1994. This process will evaluate contractors
on the basis of their ability to carry out the project works satisfactorily. It is based on
the satisfactory completion of works of similar size and nature, the contractor's
personnel and equipment, and financial situation. Twenty contractors, of which six are



The Project                                                               3S
foreign, will be admitted to bid for the two phases. DGPC prepared the prequalification
and the bidding documents, and will carry out bid opening and evaluation of bids. Once
the contracts awarded, DREH will be the responsible entity, which, as the Owner's
representative, will be the contractual authority to control, order, and certify works, and
authorize payments. DGPC will use the Bank's standard bidding document for medium
size works.
3.45   Periodic maintenance works will be scattered and dispersed in remote locations,
and so are difficult to package for ICB. Thus, they will be procured by Local Competi-
tive Bidding (LCB) in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank and be
executed by small contractors. Bids will be awarded in three annual phases. DGPC will
prepare the bidding documents, carry out the advertising, and carry out bid opening and
evaluation of bids. Once the lots awarded, DREH will again be the responsible entity
with the same authority as for the upgrading works (para. 3.44).
Consulting Services
3.46   Consulting services for road works quality control during construction will be
procured from the road laboratory because works are too small and too scattered to
attract foreign laboratories. These services will not be financed by the Bank. The training
of personnel, and the study on construction standards and rural roads maintenance will
be awarded to consulting finns selected according to a short list procedure in accordance
with Guidelines, Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency (August 1981).
General
3.47   The Bank should give its prior agreement on prequalification documents,
prequalification evaluation documents, bidding documents and bid evaluation documents
for works contracts procured by ICB above a threshold of $1.0 million, and for the first
contract of works procured by LCB. It will also provide a prior agreement on budgets,
short lists, selectior. pfocedures, invitation letters, and evaluation documents for
consultant services above a threshold of $100,000 for a consulting firm, and $50,000 for
an individual consultant.
3.48   Tunisian bidding procedures are generally found acceptable to the Bank. The
experience of previous operations has shown that some clarifications were needed to
prevent delays. During negotiations, the Government confirmed it will use the Bank's
Standard Bidding Documents and the dispositions of Annex 3.6: Procurement
Arrangements.



36                                                                  Chapter III
G. DISBURSEMENT
3.49   The Bank will disburse on    Table 3.7: Allocation & Disbursement of the
the basis of Table 3.7: Allocation                  Loan
and Disbursement of the Loan.                     ($ million)
The Loan is expected to become                             Loan  Dlsbursement
effective by March 1, 1995, and to                       Amount       %
be fully disbursed by the closing    1. Road Works           44.7         60
date of December 31, 2002. The       2. Consulants and Training  2.1      83
31 quarters disbursement profile is  3. Uniallocated          4.7          -
Total                     51.5
3 quarters shorter than the 1994    Loan amounts financed by World Bank
standard disbursement profile for
all sectors in Tunisia (Table 3.8:
Disbursement Profiles). The disbursement schedule is in Annex 3.5. Project completion
is expected by June 30, 2002.
3.50   Full documentation will be required for disbursements for consulting services of
consulting firms under contracts exceeding $100,000 and, in the case of individual
consultants, for contracts exceeding $50,000, and for works procured under contracts
exceeding $0.25 million. All other disbursements will be made against Statement of Ex-
penditures. Supporting documents will be made available to the Bank's supervision mis-
sions and to the auditor. These documents will be retained for one year after Bank
receipt of the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the loan
account or Special Account was made.
3.51   To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account will be opened and maintained in
US Dollars in the Central Bank and operated on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank. The Special Account will cover the Bank's share of eligible expenses in both local
and foreign currencies. The authorized allocation will be $2.3 million, i.e. the Bank's
share of the estimated four-month average of project expenditures. The borrower will
submit regular monthly replenishment applications promptly after receipt and reconcilia-
tion of monthly bank statements from the bank holding the account. During periods of
heavy expenditures, applications may be submitted at intervals of less than a month.
H. WORKSHOPS, IMPLEMENTATION, REPORTING AND AUDITING
3.52   A summary of the project implementation schedule is in Annex 3.7: Project
Implementation Schedule.
3.53   The project will include a kick-off workshop before project effectiveness but not
later than June 30, 1994. The workshop will gather participants from DGPC and DREHs
in order to finalize the baseline values for the impact indicators for agricultural
investments in the rural roads' zones of influence and other details of project
implementation.



The Project                                                              37
3.54   During Negotiations, the Government agreed that before October 31, 1998, a
mid-term review workshop will be held. Its mandate will include the following reviews:
(a)   the implementation progress, the implementation schedule and the evolution of
impact indicators;
(b)   the implementation progress under the Institutional Action Plan;
(c)   proposed revisions to the impact indicators;
(d)   the actual commitments and the schedule of prospective future commitments and
disbursements;
(e)   the actual procurement arrangements and the schedule of prospective future
procurement arrangements; and
0)   the actual and planned implementation of public agricultural investments in the
rural roads' zone of influence.
3.55   The Borrower will be the Republic of Tunisia. The implementing agency will be
DGPC.
3.56   DGPC will prepare quarterly progress reports. Each report will give project
indicators data, will indicate progress made, problems encountered, remedial steps
proposed and project activities scheduled for the next quarter. At the end, DGPC will
prepare the overall project completion report, which will be issued within six months
after the physical completion of the project works. This report will include in particular,
a detailed account of final project costs and disbursements, general characteristics of
project execution and benefits, the degree to which project objectives were achieved and
an assessment of how the Government and the Bank implemented their respective
obligations. Records and accounts for all project expenditures will be issued separately
by DGPC, these records will identify all project transactions on an on-going basis and
show their financing. All supporting documentation will be retained for audit and review
by the Bank. Quarterly accounts will be prepared in a format agreed upon with the Bank
and incorporated in the quarterly progress reports. These accounts will summarize actual
vs. planned expenditures per fiscal year and cumulative to date.
3.57   An independent auditor, agreed upon with the Bank, will audit the project
accounts each fiscal year. The audit will employ principles agreed upon with the Bank
and will cover the Special Account, the financial statements and the Statements of
Expenditures. The reports will be submitted to the Bank within six months after the end
of the fiscal year.
1. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
3.58   The project works are limited to rural roads upgrading and periodic rehabilitation.
It is therefore not expected to compromise the project area's environmental quality,
cause social displacement or destroy natural habitats. These works may in fact provide
net environmental benefits. Road improvements will ensure proper drainage and enhance
soil stability, as well as provide greater vehicular and pedestrian safety through improved



38                                                                 Chapter Ill
road and shoulder engineering. In addition, institutional reforms are expected to be
beneficial to the environment through the transfer of road ownership to local authorities,
who are generally more conscious of the environment.
3.59   Initial surveys suggest that there will be no displacement of archeological
materials. Furthermore, the Project will not cause resettlement of local population. In
some cases, 1 to 2 meter strips of agricultural land may be required along the roadsides
to allow for road widening and improvement. In these cases, the Government confirmed
during negotiations that both titled and untitled land users may apply for compensation
(consisting in either land of equivalent productive potential or cash compensation)
financed by the Tunisian Government. In instances where this loss of land would make
the remaining parcel nonviable, the Government can be requested to purchase the entire
land holding. Assurances have also been obtained that loss of immovable assets will be
compensated in accordance with Bank's policy.
3.60   To assure protection of the environment, a detailed questionnaire has been
prepared, it should be filled-out by DGPC for each road section to identify any potential
adverse environmental effect that could be produced by the proposed works. During
Negotiations, the Government confirmed it will prepare and submit the completed
questionnaires to the Bank's review and approval before works contracts are awarded.
Should their responses indicate the need to do so, more detailed studies will be carried
out and mitigating measures recommended. In addition, design specifications and
construction procedures will be screened for the selection, extraction, use and disposal
of materials, the slope stability and drainage design affects on soil erosion and water
runoff in the project area, and provisions for the discovery of archeological materials
during construction. In accordance with established guidelines, the project has been rated
B.



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
4.1    Scope. The project's economic benefits have been evaluated on the basis of the
road improvement component, which accounts for nearly 90% of total project
investments. Road sections for the pilot periodic maintenance component, equivalent to
about 8.5 % of total, have not yet been individually selected. However, the agreed
selection criteria (para 3.27) will ensure a minimum 15% return on investment. The
institutional development component, roughly 3 % of project costs, does not lend itself
to a quantitative analysis of economic justifications. Its impacts are important not only
to project sustainability, but to promotion of a viable road maintenance organization in
Tunisia through essential reforms in the way roads are managed and financed. These
impacts will pervade the entire road system, but at this stage, their benefits cannot be
easily quantified.
4.2    Benefits. The economic justification of the road improvement component is based
primarily on a quantification of gains in agricultural value added. The methodology,
developed by Bank research31, assumes a two-pronged development strategy to overcome
both transport and agricultural constraints to larger production in the road influence area.
It is premised on the assumption that transport and agricultural investments are
synergistic. To estimate project benefits, studies were carried out defining the basic
agricultural potential in each of these areas and tailoring the investment mix that would
exploit it. These investments range from rehabilitation of major irrigation systems, to
acquisition of farm equipment or cattle. Investments in basic infrastructure will be
financed by the Government, and other investments represent the anticipated market-
based response of the private sector to the enhanced incentives framework put in place.
Joint benefits from the road and agricultural investment package correspond to the value
added associated with the incremental production in agriculture. The methodology and
the detailed economic evaluation are further described in Annex 4.1: Economic
Evaluation Details. On this basis, the road improvement component was found to
generate a weighted average ERR of 40%.
4.3    Non-Quantified Benefits. The complex modelling used in the economic
calculation does not try to measure all transport benefits. The agriculture related traffic
was derived from a set of assumptions concerning agricultural input requirements, the
type of products sold to the market, and characteristics of vehicle operation. Non-
agricultural traffic was derived from mathematical functions taking into account the
population living in the road influence area. Traffic counts were made to verify the
accuracy of the model's predictions, which were generally found to be rather on the low
side. This is likely due to transit traffic not being captured, even though it exists on
many project roads. Furthermore, the model assumes no traffic creation. A significant
improvement of the road, however, could attract traffic currently diverted to longer
311 See:Staff Working Papers No.610 (Procedure 7 was followed in this case)



40                                                                    Chapter IV
itineraries, and, by raising the revenues of populations living in the road influence area,
should increase its mobility and rates of motorization. Transport benefits, therefore, have
not been fully estimated. In addition, the road improvement component will generate
non-quantifiable benefits in terms of improved access to extension services, schools, and
social care. Because part of the population targeted by investments under this component
is clearly among the poorest in Tunisia, the project will also have positive distributive
effects.
4.4    Risks. Risks appear to be moderate and controllable. They are found at two
levels. Road maintenance. Three-fourths of the project roads are at unpaved standards.
Without regular maintenance, these roads will deteriorate rapidly and the renewed
transport constraints could erase all benefits accruing to agriculture, bringing the overall
economy in the influence area back to its current status. This risk can be contained by
requesting Government, as an interim measure, to add the project roads to the 5,500 km
of engineered rural roads which DGPC is assigned to maintain with financing coming
from chapter 60-12. The current experience is that funding of rural road maintenance
under chapter 60-12 is adequate to ensure good routine maintenance, placing rural roads
in a favorable position relative to unpaved classified roads financed under chapter 60-11.
The periodic maintenance element of the proposed project will further contribute to close
maintenance gaps. To ensure that current maintenance practices do not jeopardize the
justification and sustainability of the project, a covenant requires the Government to
increase the funds under chapter 60-12 in proportion to the road length increase from
5,500 km to 6,200 km, namely from D 2.2 million in 1994 to D 2.45 million in 1998 in
constant dinars. Furthermore, periodic maintenance of the 715 km of project roads will
not be necessary before the year 2004. Reforms targeted by the institutional development
component will provide a framework for sustainable road maintenance, and a permanent
solution to pending regravelling issues. New road classification, ownership and
budgetary system reforms are at the core of the strategy for good maintenance of rural
and non rural roads. Finally, the pilot maintenance program will promote a more
efficient use of budget resources through contracting out maintenance work to the private
sector.
4.5    Agricultural Investments. As stated above, the methodology of the economic
evaluation assumes that investments in agriculture are a key ingredient in the generation
of road improvement benefits. The parallel agricultural investments have been estimated
to total D 52 million, or about two-thirds of road investments. Since these investments
are not financed under the project, there seems to be greater uncertainties as to when,
where, and to what extent they will materialize. Corresponding risks are, however,
mitigated by the following circumstances. First, the project may still be marginally
justified by traffic related benefits that are not fully accounted for in the evaluation.
Second, the incremental production assumed in the model is a conservative estimate of
impacts on agriculture brought about by improved roads, that is not only based on
agronomic expertise, but on the experience of actual development that has followed
construction of rural roads in nearby areas. Third, the selection of roads included in the
project was carried out regionally, as was the case for agricultural investments included



Economic Justification                                                        41
in the Eighth Plan. The keen awareness of complementarities between road and
agricultural investments at local administrative levels offers guarantees that such
opportunities will be fully exploited at implementation. Fourth, the Government is fully
committed to execute the critical agricultural investments included in the Eighth Plan,
some of which are already completed and others are in progress. Finally, a detailed
review of current conditions in the influence areas of project roads in the Governorates
of Nabeul, Ariana, Bizerte, and Sousse was carried out at Bank request in mid-1994
(roads surveyed extended over 164 km, or nearly a fourth of the total). It found that over
85 % of anticipated agricultural investments were by their nature private sector oriented.
They simply require an incentive framework, which, to a large extent, is already in
place. The strategy to further minimize risks that agricultural gains would not materialize
focuses on extension services in the project agricultural areas. During Negotiations, the
Government indicated that specific instructions will be given to the CRAs for targeting
the population of these areas for delivery of extension services. Monitoring systems will
be set up to follow the progress of project implementation, including levels of
agricultural investments. This information will be used at the mid-term review to assure
the realization of anticipated investments, or their equivalent. Thus, the remaining risk
that the potential benefits will not be exploited, is acceptable.



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
ADO(URIEEMENTS ANDO1EOE5UEU[W
A. AGREEMENTS & UNDERSTANDINGS CONFIRMED AT NEGOTIATIONS
5.1    To update, through a decision by MEH, the timeframe and the setting-up of the
IWG, particularly to detail the objectives and include a representative from the Ministry
of Transport (para 3.10).
5.2    To prepare and carry out a program of institutional reforms aimed at setting up
a new policy for network management and maintenance improvements of the public road
network and the reduction of the current institutional weaknesses in the subsector (para
3.11). This program, spelled out in a Sector Strategy Letter, consists of:
(a)   public sector reforms aimed at decentralizing rural roads management to RCs,
without developing new road management entities;
(b)   hudgetary reforms aimed at establishing a link between budgets and road
classification,  strengthening  budgetary  discipline,  accountability  and
transparency, and improving the balance between maintenance and investment;
(c)   private sector development aimed at targeting specific road maintenance tasks for
execution by contract; and
(d)   reformf on rural road standards aimed at minimizing life-cycle costs by making
optimum use of gravel road techniques.
5.3    To select road sections for the periodic rehabilitation element with a minimum
length of 5 km; carrying a minimum traffic of 130 adt; and yielding a minimum
economic rate of return of 15% (para 3.27).
5.4    To use the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents and to implement the project's
procurement arrangements (para 3.48).
5.5    To permnit both titled and untitled land users to apply for compensation (consisting
in either land of equivalent productive potential or cash compensation) financed by the
Tunisian Government. To compensate loss of immovable assets in accordance with
Bank's policy (para 3.59).
B. CONDITIONS OF BOARD PRESENTATION
5.6    The signature of a decision by MEH updating the timeframe and the setting-up
of the IWG, in order to detail the objectives and to include a representative from the
Ministry of Transport (para 3.10).
5.7    The signature of the Sector Strategy Letter (para 3.11).



Agreements and Recommendations                                          43
5.8    The signature of the consulting services contract for assistance to the IWG (para
3.22).
C. OTHER COVENANTS
5.9    An Institutional Action Plan detailing the execution of the institutional reforms
in the road subsector will be submitted to the Bank for its comments by March 31, 1996.
The plan, reviewed on the basis of the Bank's comments, will be implemented
immediately and completed by the end of the year 2001 (para 3.22).
5.10   To hold before October 31, 1998, a mid-term review workshop. Its mandate to
include the following reviews (para 3.54):
(a)   the implementation progress, the implementation schedule and the evolution of
impact indicators;
(b)   the implementation progress under the Institutional Action Plan;
(c)   proposed revisions to the impact indicators;
(d)   the actual commitments and the schedule of prospective future commitments and
disbursements;
(e)   the actual procurement arrangements and the schedule of prospective future
procurement arrangements; and
(f)   the actual and planned implementation of public agricultural investments in the
rural roads' zone of influence.
5.11   To implement the agreed formats for the progress reports and of the completion
report (para 3.56).
5.12   To prepare and submit the completed environmental impact questionnaires to the
Bank's review and approval before works contracts are awarded (para 3.60).
5.13   To increase the funds under chapter 60-12 in proportion to the road length
increase from 5,500 km to 6,200 km, namely from D 2.2 million in 1994 to D 2.45
million in 1998 in constant dinars (para 4.4).
D. RECOMMENDATION
5.14   With the above agreements, conditions and assurances, the project is suitable for
a $51.5 million Bank Loan to the Republic of Tunisia, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate, to be repaid over 17 years, including five of grace.



REPUBLIC OFTUNISIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
A 3.1 0 NSMUTMN00AL STUOV9 CUUtNF TORs
A. CONCEPT, OBJECTIVES AND METHODOLOGY
Concept and Content
1.    An institutional study was carried-out during the preparation of the Seventh
Highway Project to assess current road maintenance practices and needs. It showed that:
(a)   Rural roads maintenance is insufficient;
(b)   Only 25 % of rural roads constructed under previous projects have been
classified;
(c)   Budgetary procedures are often unclear and do not allow, in particular, a clear
budget allocation between the different categories of road works;
(d)   Maintenance works are often carried-out by force account, and quality and
productivity are suboptimal, state owned equipment is ill-used. However,
construction industry showed to have a large potential.
2.     The Government has setup, through a decision by MEH, an IWG on road
institutional issues to assess the current situation, propose improvements and discuss their
budgetary and organizational incidence, and set a timeframe for the implementation of
its recommendations.
3.     The IWG includes representatives of the Ministries of Equipment and Housing,
Planning and Regional Development, Agriculture, Interior, Finance, Transport. It will
be assisted by a group of consultants and Quarterly meetings will be held. The present
Terms of Reference (TOR) set the mandate of the Group and summarize the tasks of the
consultants.
Objectives
4.    In line with the primary goal which is mproving efficiency of road maintenance
and management, the guiding objectives of the study will be:
(a)   Analysis of the opportuneness of road network management reform, along with
the corresponding budgetary reform, of road equipment management reform and
of a larger use of maintenance by contract;
(b)   Setting-up an appropriate framework for the implementation of these reforms.



Terms of Reference                                                       45
Methodology
5.    In light of the analysis of current road management constraints, guiding principles
of reform will be established regarding the following areas:
(a)   Administrative, financial and technical responsibility in road management;
(b)   Road works financing procedures (investment and maintenance) under budget
constraints;
(c)   Strategy for execution of works, and particularly the optimal balance between
investment and maintenance.
6.     The implementation of the recommendations of the study as stated above requires
the highlighting of the following two elements:
(a)   A consultation method facilitating decision taking at different administration
levels in respect of the original framework and within the original timeframe;
(b)   Experts technical support to allow rationale decision taking by non technicians.
B. ROAD CLASSIFICATION AND BUDGETS
7.     The legal ownership status of rural roads is often unclear. No more than 2,500
km of the approximately 10,000 km of roads built under rural road development
programs have been classified. However, strategic choices have to be made regarding
construction vs. maintenance and, as a consequence, regarding budgetary allocations
and constraints.
8.     A conceivable solution would be a transfer of ownership of one part of roads to
the regional councils more responsive to local needs. The guiding principles to achieve
the above mentioned objectives should, therefore, be:
(a)   A strong link between road works and budgets;
(b)   A strengthening of budgetary discipline;
(c)   A classification taking into account the influence area of the road and the needs
of neighboring populations;
(d)   A non development of new entities at the local level. However, works execution
will be delegated, with an emphasis on the possibilities of a larger use of
contracting out;
(e)   A clear, complete and concise inventory of the road network based on the
construction standard and the socio-economic function of the road, before
proceeding to classification and budget allocation;
9.     Once a decision is reached, an action plan will be established, including;
(a)   Legal actions to be undertaken;
(b)   Technical classification criteria;



46                                                                      Annex 3.1
(c)    Annual classification plans;
(d)   Budget allocations;
(e)    Works planning;
C. ROAD MAINTENANCE
10.    Most of road maintenance activities are currently carried out by force account,
using a rather large equipment fleet spread among the 23 DREHs. The organization of
force account works has often led to few productive hours per work day. Besides, quality
is reduced because quality control functions are carried out by the staff who are in charge
of their execution.
11.    In order to use more efficiently the budget allocated for maintenance i.e improve
quality and quantity of the output, the output of the study should:
(a)    define the optimal share between force account and contracted out maintenance;
(b)   assure a greater management transparency;
(c)   streamline the organizational setup by separating supervision and quality control
functions from execution functions; and
(d)   provide a solution to state owned equipment fleet;
12.    A cost analysis exercise for works currently carried out by force account will be
the selection basis for works to be ideally contracted out. A particular attention will be
paid to the social aspects associated with the reduction of works carried out by force
account, and solutions will be provided for reconversion of the surplus of civil servants
ranging from creation of private construction enterprises to integration in existing
enterprises.
13.    In parallel, an inventory of road construction enterprises will be carried out. It
will highlight construction industry potential in the different Governorates of the country
and provide promotion plans, when possible, for enterprises in areas where the
construction industry is weak. The regulatory framework establishing the relationship
between the administration and these enterprises for future contracted out works will be
established.
14.    The status of the central laboratory in charge of control of works will be reviewed
and the new solution to be adopted should rely on the competencies of the laboratory's
staff. A consistent training program for both the new function of control and the bidding
process for contracting out maintenance works will be established.
15.    The reduction of works carried out by force account will inescapably raise the
issue of state owned equipment fleet. A thorough inventory of this fleet will be
undertaken and, on the basis of the works to be contracted out and the timeframe
associated with this operation, a strategy establishing the needs and the future status of



Terms of Reference                                                          47
the Equipment Directorate will be provided. The associated social aspects will be deeply
examined.
16.    An action plan specifying a timeframe for a gradual implementation of the recom-
mendations relating to the above will be provided and will include in particular the
launching of contracting out operations on a pilot basis.



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
AE 3.nSA SECTO1R Sn[A7mCy LET7ElS
The road sector has played a key role in the development of Tunisia's agriculture sector
in particular, and in the country's regional development in general, and thus shows a
greater determination by the Government to develop different sectors in an integrated
manner, as well as promote opportunities for privatization.
Agriculture is a strategic and priority sector key to the achievement of national
objectives, and it is also an important factor in the diffusion of regional development
given that its role is significant in every region of the country, especially those which are
lesser developed and for which it represents the central axis of the economy and the main
mechanism for increasing revenues and improving living conditions. Therefore, it
constitutes the basic link to preserving social solidarity and stability.
Coordinating improvements in the road sector with those in the agricultural sector
requires enhancing efforts to ensure the effective liaison between production and
commercial centers. Realization of these actions will take various identified priorities
into account through careful selection of projects with maximum returns in order to
expand economic activity and open up some of the more isolated regions.
A major investment effort has also been carried out in the road sector with the creation
of nearly 20,000 km of classified network, and construction of a 5,500 km dirt road
development network among the existing 50,000 km of rural roads and farm roads.
The classified network is divided into national roads (or Grands parcours, GP), regional
roads (or Moyenne Communication, MC) and local roads ( or Routes Vicinales d'Etat,
RVE). The non-classified rural roads network mostly comprises farm roads, which have
been improved.
Pursuing this effort requires making choices at various stages in roads development in
order to obtain the optimum solution at the least cost and maximize investments. To
achieve this, it is important that institutional mechanisms are put in place that are best
suited to users' wishes and which can be developed taking their needs into account so as
to better tap resources.
Within this framework, the Minister of Housing and Equipment represented in every
Governorate by a Regional Representative, has, as early as 1988 and to promote a
decentralized policy, empowered his governors, the Regional Counsel Presidents.
The priority given to saving and preserving the road stock translates into an increase in
the annual endowment of maintenance credits, from D 0.2 million in 1987 to D 2.2
million in 1994 for local road networks and from D 4.9 to 15.0 million during the same
period for the classified road network. Maintenance management, and management



Sector Strategy Letter                                                   49
related to most materials standards to carry out maintenance, is dependent upon
allocations made to the regions.
The Government, wishing to promote road infrastructure for Tunisia's social and
economic development requirements, will pursue the setting up of an efficient
management of the road stock.
To this aim, an Interdepartmental Working Group (IWG), designated by the Ministry of
Housing and Equipment, within which all concerned Departments are represented, has
been set up to prepare a program of institutional reforms with the objective of setting a
new policy for managing and strengthening State road maintenance, which will be based
upon:
farm road reclassification, of which a part could be managed directly by MHE
and another part entrusted, eventually, to the Regional Counsels through a
transfer of responsibility (without creating new agencies to manage the road
network), and by making use of DREH's expertise;
-     maintenance expenses rationalization in view of promoting a better balance
between these expenses and investments;
-     budget transparency and financial responsibility, in establishing a link between
budget and classification and type of road works while developing management
audits at the Ministry of Housing and Equipment level;
-     more demands made on the private sector to execute maintenance works, when
it is clear that using private firms is more competitive than force account;
-     and applying farm  road development standards, which will reduce costs
throughout the economic life of these roads.
The IWG will receive assistance from consultants, whose mandate has been firmed up
in full agreement with the Bank's representatives. These consultants will prepare a study
on road stocks, budget and maintenance.
This study, which will be financed by the Government within the framework of the
strategic studies program, will begin March 1995.
In the light of the results of this study, an action plan will be developed defining the
reforms to be made:
-     the objectives to be reached at each stage
-     the implementation schedule
-     by-laws regulating these reforms
-     the means to be mobilized for the implementation of these actions



50                                                                    Annex 3.2
This action plan will be submitted to the Government for approval during the first
semester of 1996 and will be executed once the IXt plan is approved, to be terminated
on the closing date of the plan.
Therefore, Tunisia gives special attention to road infrastructure development, with
particular attention to farm roads, with the objective of promoting agricultural
development and the integration of regions.
To this effect, the Tunisian Government relies on Bank assistance and cooperation to
bring this program to fruition.
Very sincerely,
The Minister of Housing and Equipment



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
A 3030 'ROA1  STANDARDS STUD)Y  (OUTLDE 7@)'
1.     The road network maintained by DGPC includes approximately 18,000 km of
classified roads, most of them paved, and about 5,500 km of rural roads. In addition,
there is an estimate of more than 60,000 km of rural roads that are not maintained. The
economic development of Tunisia, and particularly of its agriculture, requires some gaps
of its road network to be filled. Financing constraints constitute an incentive to revising
construction standards and maintenance strategies in order to improve transport quality
at least cost and within the shortest time limits. The current policy of DGPC regarding
rural roads is constrained by costly construction standards (unpaved roads are usually
designed as an interim measure to be followed sooner or later by full paving), and rural
roads built under previous integrated rural development programs demonstrate that more
flexible standards would be cost-effective. Regarding maintenance, budgetary constraints
and administrative inertia are such that conditions for an appropriate maintenance of
rural roads. The immediate consequence is that users associate this category of roads
with a poor service, and therefore put pressure on the administration for early paving.
This solution is costly, and illusory as the maintenance constraint is only deferred. In
fact, periodic maintenance of paved rural roads occurs 10 to 12 years after construction,
and requires sizeable budget that could be lacking. An ill-maintained paved road disag-
gregates, and therefore, the original investment is lost.
Objectives
2.     The study will define an analytical framework to facilitate optimization of
construction standards and rural roads maintenance. It will provide a grid of choices
based on most significant parameters.
Methodology
3.     The study includes three parts:
(a)    Establishment of a typology of rural roads. This typology will be as detailed as
necessary to include the different situations regarding climate, topography, soil
nature, economic function of the road and farming patterns, traffic level and the
pace of the annual growth (this list is not restrictive, the consultant will justify
the eventual content). This typology will serve to set the structure of the grid of
choices.
(b)    Valuation of significant parameters. Typical values of the parameters deemed
decisive for optimization, under conditions set regarding the above mentioned
typology, will be identified and measured. A particular attention will be paid to:
(i)    Vehicle operating costs, specifically calculated (surveys will help define
representative vehicles, their typical use in rural areas, operating and
maintenance costs; national average values should not be used);



52                                                                        Annex 3.3
(ii)   Road works cost, using, if necessary, adjusting factors to national
averages to take into account isolation particularities and the availability
of good quality quarry materials (particularly tuff); these costs will be
compared for existing and conceivable standards, and will be calculated
in relation to the terrain category of the typology (for example, cost
incurred in applying curvature standard for a road in a montainous terrain
where rock removal is required);
(iii)   Constraints of service standard (cost of interruption), of alternative
transport systems (either motorized or not) to users and side residents,
taking into account direct and indirect effects (for example, acquisition
cost related to the standard of a classified road necessitating a 20 meter-
wide right of way).
In all cases, values will be expressed excluding taxes and transfers, for the purpose of
economic analysis.
(c)    Optimization method. The latest version of the Bank's HDMIII model, which
integrates the road narrowness factor and its relation to speed and vehicle costs,
will be the main calculation tool. Possible construction and maintenance
strategies will be defined, and corresponding traffic thresholds will be measured
for each category of the typology. Attempts will be made to keep the number of
strategies within reasonable limitswill be kept reduced. On the one hand, current
construction standards will be taken into consideration and maintenance strategies
tested to draw the most efficient one. On the other, "lower" construction
standards will be suggested taking into account the terrain, and, as previously,
maintenance strategy will be optimized on the road's life-cycle. To define the
latter standards, distinct economic analysis calculations will be used, supported
by the expertise of value engineering specialists (or equivalent).
An important element of the optimization will be the testing of the impact of
traffic growth rates on solutions (in particular, the consultants will discuss the
rationale behind the implicit policy of overdesigning a new unpaved road based
on the understanding that it will be paved later on, and the financial impact on
the collectivity of such a policy).



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
A 3C.lAMRCULTUl3ALt 0NMCATORS$
t  . ............  ............................................................................................. ................................................... ................ . . ..- --- . ........  .................  ---    -   -     - --
Road No:                                       :Governorate-                                              ':Agency: 
-------------..-..... .  ---------------------------.......................  ........................... .............. .......  ..........-----------------..------------------------ .......  ................................... ...........---------------------------..--------------------...-.-.-
rInvestrrmnits or irrpoverrents                                         Baseline                                                        - Md-term                                              Final
Ouantitv    cod                        Financing*  Ouantitv    Cost                                Financing*  OuantiEv    Cost                                Financing*
HvdmuLkis
Hodncdmbas irrF
Livestock                                                                                                                                                                                                             =
Owe a_                                                                                                      _         _                                       _                              _        _         _
Fisheries
Aancultural equipnrnt
Arboriculture 
Fore try
Soi and water conservation
Awicultural extension services
Miscelaneous                                                                                                                                                .
.............:p*Sc . *VivR".                    s a.. . fW. ed                                                                                                        ------- I......... ............
*,,,,,,,,,,,,,a~~~~~~~~~~~. .. .. .. .   LLL,,s ,,.,,a.,.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,  ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,   ,,,,,,,,,,,,,  ,,,,.............   - - - -...............   ............   ....... ................  ............:..,    ... ............ ..:



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
A 3.60 P32R@w[ECT (Mang$ [R0bANaNalM GEIO[ [M)$aDURSIERF-w  scH[nuN v
Components Project Cost Summary
%        % Total
(DMlIIIon)                             (S MIIon)                   Foreign       Base
Local      Foreign        Total        Local       Foreign        Total    Exchange   Costs
1. Institutional Feforrms                              0 581         1.744        2.326        0.593        1.780        2.373            75           3
2. RlotPeriodic Rehabiitabon                           2.464         3.806        6.271        2.515        3.884        6.399            61           9
3. Upgrading Rural Roads                              26.793       37.058        63.850       27.340       37.814       65.153            58          88
Total BASELINE COSTS                                      29.839       42.608       72.447       30.448       43.478        73.925            59        100
Physical Contingencies                                 2.704         4.261        6.965        2.759        4.348        7.107            61          10
Price Contingencies                                    4.220         3.317        7.537        4.306        3.385        7.691            44          10
Total PROJECT COSTS                                       36.762       50.186       86.948       37.512        51.210       88.723            58        120
Projed Compoet by Ye- - Totds hckudhg Contk,gendes
Tobis 1ndudhg Coting.ris (DMbIOn)                                      Tods Includh9 contingendes (5 PMlon)
136      136S      137     1S1      193      20      X1       To2      19S6     1S6      137      136       130     2       21       TotW
1. hatiInd Rkfoffm                        -    0.73B    1.367    0866          -       -       -    2731          -    0753    1.395    0639          -       -       -    2787
2 FMt FenDLc F mllo                   0.633    2392    2763    1.616           -       -       -    7404    0 646    2441    2819    1 649            -       -       -    7.565
3.LEpgac RaIF                         11.021    14113   14541   1a43S   12355   6369   4.92    76813    11.246   14401    14838   1a761    12607   6499   502    7a380
TOW   j  TCOIS                          11654   17.243   18671    15728   12355   6389   4928   86948   11892   17595   19052   16049   12037    6499   502B   86723
Procurem ent Accounts by Financiers
(DMillIon)                                                                      (S Million)
Republic of                                                 Local                Republic of                                                 Local
Tunisia      The World Bonk         Total         For.     (xcl.  Duties &       Tunisia       The World Bank        Total         For.    (Eccl.   Duties &
Amount    %    Amount    %         Amount    %        Bcch.   Taxes)   Taxes   Amount    %         Amount    %      Amount    %         B&ch.   Taxes)   Taxes
A. lardw ar*
1. UpgrdngRuralods                    30251      409    43751     591    74.013    851    43745    15.485    14803    30.879    40.9   44644        591    75523     851    44638    15781    15105
2. P M P.rdic Reh9abiliat              282    40.0       4 443    800      7404      85      4410    1.514    1.481      3 022    40 0    4 533    80 0     7555       85    4 500     1 545     1511
3 Land                                 2.80     100.0                -    2.800      32          -    2240     0580      2857    1000         -        -    2857       32         -    2288      0571
Subtotal Hrdware                        38023      42.8   48194      572    84 217    989    48 155    19 219   18843    38758      42.8   49.177     572    85 938     969    49137    19811    17187
A. Softwre
1 sudmis                               0049      17.0    0240      830     0289      03      0218     0.025    0049      0050     170     0245      830     0295       03     0220     0025      0050
2 Tring                                0415      17 0    2 027     83 0    2.442     2 8     1.8      0 211    0.415     0 424    17 0    2 068    83 0    2 492       2 8    1853    0 215    0 424
Subtotal oftware                         0484      170     2.267     83.0    2.731     31      2031     0236    0.464      0474     170    2.313      830     2787      3.1    2073      0240      0.474
Total                                    36487     420    50461      580    86948    1000    50186    19455    17308    37232        420    51 491    580    88723    1000    51 210    19852    17861



Project Costs, Financing and Disbursement Schedule                                                                          55
Inflation and Exchange Rates
UIp to
Up to    Project
Negotiatlon   Start   1995    1996    1997    1998    1999     2000      2001
Inflation (In %'s) /a
ALL
Annual rates
Local                                       3.82    0.92    5.50    5.50    5.50     5.50     5.50     5.60     5.70
Foreign                                    3.82    0.37    2.20    2.20    2.20      2.20     2.20     2.20     2.20
Compounded rates
Local                                       3.82    0.92    3.70    9.40   15.42    21.76    28.46    3559    4325
Foreign                                    3.82    0.37    1.47    3.71    5.99      8.32    10.70    1314     1563
Zero
Annual rates
Local                                       000    000    000    000    000          000      000      000      000
Foreign                                     000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000
Compounded rates
Local                                       000    000    000    000    000          000      000      000      000
Foreign                                     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
Exchange rates (LocalUForelgn) lb
ALL
Ralts actually used                          0.98    0.98    0.98    0.98    0.98      0.98     0.98     0 98     0.98
Constantpurchasrig parity rates              098    099       1.01    1.04    1.07     1.11     1.14     1.18     1.22
% deviabon                                   0.00   -0.54   -268   -5.72   -8.67   -11.53   -14.29   -17.01   -19.73
Zero
Rates actually used                          0.98    0.98    0.98    0.98    0.98      0.98     0.98     0.98     0.98
Constant purchasing parity rates             0.98    0.98    0.98    0.98    0.98      0.98     0.98     0.98     0.98
% devation                                   0.00    0.00    0 00    0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
ba Yearly vakies are w itin Ech Project Year
\b Yearly values are at Project Year Mdpoins



S6                                                                                                                                                                                         Annex 3.5
Componmnts by Rnindcrs
(oUmlikn)                                                                         (S Millon
Repubilc of                                                  Local                Republc of                                                   Local
Tunisia       The World gunk         Totdl        For.    (6eiL   Dti.s &         Tunieia       The World Ibnk         Total         For.    (Exd    Outlie &
Amount    %       Amount    %       Amount    %        EBich    Taxes)   Tues   Amount    %         Amount    %       Amount   %t        Exch    Taes)   Tax.
I  slullR fnm                           0.464    17.0    2.267     830      2731      31      2.031    0.236    0464      0.474     170     2313    830       2787       31     2073     0240      0.474
2  FotdcRolobtO                         2.962    40.0    4.443     60.0    7.404      8.5    4.410      1.514    1.481    3.022     40.0    4.533    60.0    7.555       8.5    4,500     1,545    1.511
3. LOg'g fjRal ft                      33061     4.0   43.751      57.0   76.813    8U3    4745    17.705    15.383   33.736        430    44644      570    78380    88.3   44638    18.068    15.676
TotdUebuwe.ment                          36487      420    50.461     58.0   86948    100.0   50.186    19.455    17,308    37232      4Z0    51.491    58.0   88.723    1000    51210    19.852    17661
LocalForelgn/Taxes by Financiers
(D Million)                                                                    (S Million)
Pe public of                                                                   Fe public of
Tunisia              The World Bank                   Total                    Tunisia              The World Bank                   Total
Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %
L  Foreign                                     0.680           1.4      49.506         98.6       50.186          57.7        0.694           1.4      50.517          98.6       51.210         57.7
I  Local (ExcL Taxes)                         18.500         95.1        0.955           4.9       19.455         22.4       18.877         95.1         0.974          4.9       19.852         22.4
8. Taxes                                      17.308        100.0              -            -      17.308         19.9       17.661        100.0              -            -      17.661         19.9
Total Project                                    36.487          42.0       50.461         58.0       86.948        100.0        37.232         42.0       51.491         58.0       88.723         100.0
Dibursement Accounts by Flnuclers
(0 MEllon)                                                                             (M Millon)
Republic of                                                      Local                  Republic of                                                      Local
Tunisla        The World Bank          Tdtal          For.      (Bac    Outles &        Tunhba         The World Bnk           Total          For.      (SkcL   Outb e
Amount    %        Amournt    %       Amount    %          B&ch.    Taxes)    Taxes   Amount    %          Amount    %        Amount    %          Bieh.   Taxes)   Texes
1.1 badHrks                 32A129     40.0   48.194      60.0    80.323     924    47.508    16.750    16.065    32.785       40.0   49177       600    81.962      92.4    48.478    17.092    16.392
2. C1nol                     1.084    100.0         -        -      1.094      1.3    0.646      0.229     0.219     1.116    100.0         -        -      1.116      1.3    0.660      0.233     0.223
3. Cons   s                  0.484     17.0    2.267      83.0     2.731       3.1    2.031      0.236     0.464     0.474     17.0    2.313      83.0     2.787       3.1     2.073     0.240     0.474
4. Land AcquleMDn            2.800    100.0         -        -     2.800       3.2         -     2.240     0.560     2.857    100.0         -        -     2.857       3.2         -     2.286     0.571
Total                         36.487      42.0   50.461      58.0   86948    100.0   50.186    19.455    17.308    37232          42.0   51.491      58.0    8.723    100.0    51.210    19.852    17.661



Project Costs, Financing and Disbursement Schedule                                                                                                               57
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
The V%Wrld Bnk
(D Flhon)
Suggested Allocation
of Loan Proceeds                                                                                      Loan Amounts
Loan  Disbursement        Total Project Cost      Avrage Disbursement %                       Unallocated                Allocated
Amount        %         Total    LocJ   Foreign   Total    Local   Forelgn    Total    Total   Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign
1 Rc,adWorlk             43813         60.000   80.323   32815   47.508   60000    2191         99.930    48.194   4381    0.065   4316   43813    0654    43.159
2. Crtrol                     -             -    1094    0.447    0 646          -        -          -        -       -        -                 -       -        -
3 ComsLuants              2061         83.000    2731     0700      2031    83000   33669   100000        2.267   0206    0.021    0185      2.061    0214     1847
4. Lanrd Acquision            -             -    2 800    2.800             -         -                  -        -        -       -             -       -        -
ULalbcated                   4587             -        -        -         -        -         -                  -        -       -
Total                       50.461       58036   86.948   36.762   50186           -         -         -   50 461   4.587    0 087   4 501   45 874   0.868    45 006
Loan anourts frinanced by The VVld Ban
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
The Wold Bank
(SMlion)
Suggested Allocation
of Loan Proceeds                                                                                      Loan Amounts
Loan  Disbursoment        Total Project Cost      Average Disbursement %                      Unallocated                Allocated
Amount        %         Total    Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign    Total    Total   Local  Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign
1. RadWorks              44.707        60.000   81.962   33 485   48.478   60 000    2.191      99 930    49177   4 471   0.067   4 404   44.707   0 667    44 040
2. Cortrol                                  -    1.116    0.456    0 660         --                           -        -       -       -         -       -         -
3. ODultants              2.103        83.000    2.787    0.714    2.073   83 000   33.669   100 000    2.313   0.210   0 022   0188    2.103   0.219          1 884
4. Land Arqation              -             -    2.857    2.857                                    -        -              -            -
LhIibcated                   4681                                                       -        -        -        -                       -
Total                       51.491       58.036   88.723   37.512   51.210          -        -         -   51.491    4681    0.089   4592    46810    0886    45924
Loan arrourts f inanced by The Vbrld Ban



S8                                                                                                                    Annex 3.S
COsbursements bySemesters and GovernmentCash Flow
(DMilIlon)                             (S MillIon)
Costs to                                Costs to
Financing Avail  be                     Financing Avail   be
The World Financed  Repubiic of Tunisia   The World Financed  RepublicofTunisia
Bank    Project           Cumulative   Bank    Project            Cumulative
Amount  Costs  Cash Flow  Cash Fow   Amount  Costs  Cash Flow  Cash Flow
1              -    5.827    -5.827     -5.827         -    5.946    -5.946      -5.946
2              -    5.827    -5.827    -11.654         -    5.946    -5.946    -11.892
3          2.620    8.622    -6.002    -17.656     2.673    8.798    -6.124    -18.016
4          2.620    8.622    -6.002    -23.658     2.673    8.798    -6.124    -24.141
5          5.195    9.336    -4.140    -27.798     5.301    9.526    -4.225    -28.365
6          5.195    9.336    -4.140    -31.938     5.301    9.526    -4.225    -32.590
7          5.694    7.864    -2170    -34.108     5.810    8.024    -2214    -34.804
8          5.694    7.864    -2170    -36.278      5.810    8.024    -2214    -37.018
9          4.730    6.178    -1.447    -37.725     4.827    6.304    -1.477    -38.495
10         4.730    6.178    -1.447    -39.172     4.827    6.304    -1.477    -39.971
11         3.652    3.185     0.467    -38.705     3.726    3.250     0.477    -39.495
12         3.652    3.185     0.467    -38.238     3.726    3.250     0.477    -39.018
13         1.883    2.464    -0.581    -38.819     1.921    2.514    -0.593    -39.611
14         1.883    2.464    -0.581    -39.400     1.921    2.514    -0.593    -40.204
15         1.456        -     1.456    -37.944     1.486        -     1.486    -38.718
16         1.456        -     1.456    -36.487     1.486        -     1.486    -37.232
Total        50.461   86.948   -36.487    -36.487    51.491   88.723   -37.232    -37.232



Project Costs, Financing and Disbursement Schedule                                                                                                          59
Table I Upgrading Rjrai Roads - 1
DetaNed Costs
Unit
Cost (D               Totals Including Contingencies (DMlllion)                          Totals Including Contingencies (S Milion)
'000)    1995    1996    1997    1996    1999    2000    2001    Total    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    Total
L Investment Costs
A. CREH Tunis
1. Work Tunis
Road 1008 (F44)                124.6   0 034   0.058    0 059   0 055   0.050   0 026   0 020    0 302   0 034   0 059   0 061    0 056   0 051    0 027   0 021      0 308
Road 1009 (F4)                 1038   0022    0.038   0 040   0.037   0 034    0.017    0013    0.201   0023    0.039   0 040    0 037    0.034   0018    0014        0205
Road 1013(F4)                   89.0   0.017    0029    0030    0028   0025    0.013   0.010    0151   0.017   0029    0030    0.028   0026   0013   0.010            0 154
Road 1010 (F44)                110.4   0.070   0.120   0124   0.115   0105   0.054   0.042    0.629   0.071    0.122   0126    0117    0.107   0055   0.043    0.642
SubtotalWork Tunis                       0.143   0.245   0.252   0.234   0.214   0.110   0085        1 284   0.146   0.250   0257    0.239   0219    0113    0.087      1.310
2. Overhead                              0.002    0.004   0.004   0.004   0.003   0 002   0.001    0.019   0 002   0.004   0004    0 004   0.003   0.002   0001         0.020
Subtotal  HTunis                          0.145   0.248   0.256   0.237   0218    0.112   0087        1303   0.148   0.254   0261    0.242   0.222   0114    0.089       1.330
IL CREF Aribna
1. Work Arisns
Rod 2210 (F3)                   87.6   0.038   0 065   0.067   0 062   0.057    0029   0.023    0.340   0.039   0 066   0.068    0 063   0 058   0.030   0 023    0347
Road 2211 (P3)                  76.9   0.028   0.048   0049    0.046   0.042    0022    0.017    0252    0029    0.049   0050    0047    0.043   0.022   0.017    0.257
Road 2209 (F44)                 98.6   0 053   0.091    0 094   0 087   0.080   0.041    0.032    0.478   0.054   0.093   0.096   0.089   0.081   0.042   0.032    0.488
RDad 2208 (F3)                  36 6   0.034   0.058    0 059   0.055   0.050   0.026   0.020    0.302   0.034   0.059   0 061    0056   0.051    0 027   0 021       0.308
Road 2203 (i3)                  68.2   0.032   0.055   0.057   0 053   0.048   0025   0.019    0.289   0.033   0 056   0.058   0.054   0 049   0.025   0 020    0.295
Road2213(F3)                    55.7   0.062   0.106   0.109   0.101    0.092   0048    0.037    0554    0.063   0.108   0.111    0103    0.094   0.049   0038        0.565
Road2212(F3)                    68.2   0.064   0.110   0.114   0.105   0097    0.050   0039    0.579   0.066   0.113   0116   0.108   0099   0.051    0.039    0.591
RDad2205(F3)                    64.4   0.069   0.118   0121    0.112   0.103   0.053   0.041    0.617   0.070   0.120   0124   0.115   0.105   0054    0042           0.629
Subtotal Work Arlana                     0379   0.650   0.670   0.621    0.569   0.294   0.227    3.411    0.387   0.664   0684    0.634   0581    0300   0.232         3480
2. Overhead                              0.006   0.010   0.010   0009   0.009   0 004   0003    0.051    0 006   0.010   0.010   0.010   0.009   0.004   0.003    0.052
Subtotal OiR  Ariana                       0385   0.660   0.680   0631    0578    0.298   0.230    3462    0.392   0.674   0694    0.644   0.590   0.304   0.235          3.533
C. OFEF bn Arous
1. Work  bn Arous
Road 2304 (F3)                  92.6   0.046   0.079   0.082   0.076   0.069   0 036   0.028    0.415   0.047    0 081   0.083   0.077   0 071   0.036   0.028    0.424
Road 2305 (F3)                  70 1   0038    0.065   0.067   0.062    0 057    0 029   0.023    0 340   0.039   0.066   0.068   0.063   0.058   0.030   0.023    0.347
Road 2301 (F3)                  623    0.021    0.036   0037    0.034   0.032    0016   0013    0189    0021    0.037   0.038   0035    0.032   0.017   0013          0.193
Roead2306(F4)                   63.1   0.055   0095    0.098   0091    0.083   0.043   0.033    0497    0.056   0.097    0100    0.092   0085    0044    0034         0507
Subtotal Work Bn Arous                   0.160   0.275   0.283   0.263   0.241    0124   0.096    1.441   0.163   0280   0289    0268   0245    0 127   0.098           1.471
2. Overhead                              0.002   0.004   0.004   0.004   0 004   0.002   0 001       0 022   0.002    0 004   0 004   0 004   0.004   0002   0.001      0022
Subtotal ORE}l4bnArous                     0.162   0.279   0.287   0.267   0.244   0.126   0097        1.463   0.166   0.285   0.293   0.272   0.249   0.128   0.099      1.493
. DF04 Nab ul
1. Work Niabeul
Road323(F44)                   131.1   0.175   0.300   0.309   0.287   0.263    0 135   0.105      1573    0.178   0.306   0.315   0293    0.268   0138    0.107      1.605
Road 340 (3)                    67.5   0.055   0.094   0 096   0.089   0.082    0.042   0.033    0.491   0.056   0.096   0.098   0 091   0.084   0 043   0033    0.501
Road 327 (F3)                   66.2   0.071    0.122   0.126   0117    0107    0.055   0.043    0.642   0.073   0.125   0129    0.119   0109    0056    0.044    0.655
Road 336 (3)                    43.0   0.034   0.058   0.059   0 055   0.050   0 026   0.020    0.302    0 034   0 059   0 061    0 056   0 051    0 027   0 021    0.308
Road333(F3)                     74.5   0.078   0.134   0.138   0.128   0.118   0.061    0.047    0705    0.080   0.137   0.141    0.131    0120   0062    0048        0719
Road 322 (F44)                 117.7   0.095   0.163   0.168   0.156   0.143   0.074   0.057    0.856   0097   0.167   0.172   0159   0 146   0.075   0.058    0.873
Road 329 (F3)                   70.1   0.038   0.065   0.067   0.062   0.057   0.029   0.023    0.340   0.039   0.066   0 068   0.063   0.058   0 030   0.023    0.347
Road 328 (3)                    68.0   0.050   0.086   0.089   0.083   0.076   0 039   0030    0.453   0.051    0.088   0.091    0 084   0.077   0.040   0.031        0.462
Road 324 (F3)                   91.7   0.095   0.163   0168    0.156   0143    0.074   0.057    0856    0.097   0.167   0.172   0159    0.146   0075    0.058    0.873
Subttal Work Nabeul                      0.691    1.186   1.222   1.133   1.038   0.535   0414    6.218   0.705    1.210   1.246   1.156   1.059   0.546   0.422    6.345
2. Overhead                              0.010   0.018   0.018   0.017   0.016   0008    0.006    0.093   0.011    0.018   0019    0.017   0.016   0008    0.006    0.095
Subtotal DiNabeul                          0701    1.203   1.240   1.150   1.054   0.543   0.420    6.311    0.715    1228    1.265   1.173   1.075   0.554   0429        6.440
Total                                         1.393   2391    2.463   2285    2093    1.079   0.835   12.539   1.421   2.440   2.514   2.331    2.136   1.101   0.852    12.795



60                                                                                                                                                Annex 3.5
Tabe 6 Upgrading Rural Roads - 2
Detailed Costs
Cost (D               Totals Induding Contingencies (D Millon)                          Totals Induding Contingencihs (S Million)
000)    1990    1996    1997   1W8    190       2000    2001    Total    1998    1986    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    TotWi
1. Investment Costs
A. DRi4 Zaghouan
1. Work Zaghounn
Road1110(F3)                   514    0071    0122    0126   0117    0107    0055   0043         0642    0073    0125   0129    0119   0109    0056    0044    0655
Road1112(F3)                   668   0078   0134    0138   0128    0118    0061    0047          0705    0080   0137    0141    0131    0120    0062    0048        0719
Subtotal Work Zaghouan                  0150    0257    0265   0.245   0225    0116   0090         1 347   0153    0262    0270    0250    0229    0118    0091       1 374
2 Overhead                              0002    0004    0004   0004    0003    0002   0001         0020    0002    0004   0004    0004   0003    0002    0001         0021
Subtota ItIHZaghouan                      0152    0261    0269    0249    0228    0118   0091        1367    0155    0266   0274    0254   0233    0120    0093         1 395
BH  W4 BSizerte
1. Work azerte
Road917(F44)                  1181    0092    0158    0.163   0151    0139    0071    0055       0831    0094    0162    0167    0154   0142    0073    0056        0848
Road915(F4)                   1163    0117    0202    0208   0193    0176    0091    0070        1057    0120    0206    0212    0197    0180    0093    0072       1079
Road912(F3)                    903    0122    0209    0215   0200    0183    0094   0073         1095    0124   0213   0220    0204    0187    0096    0074         1 117
Road914(F3)                    845    0098    0 168   0173   0161    0147    0076   0059    0881    0 100   0171    0177    0164    0150    0077    0060            0899
Subtotal Work Ezerte                    0429    0.737   0.759   0 704    0645    0333   0257       3864    0438    0752    0 775    0718    0658   0.339   0.263      3943
2 Overhead                              0006    0011    0011    0O11    0010    0005   0004        0058    0007   0011    0012    0011    0010    0005    0004        0059
Subtotal DRHS Bizert-                     0 436    0 748   0 771   0 715   0.655   0 338   0 261     3 922   0 445   0 763   0 786   0 729   0 668   0 344    0 266    4 002
C. DREF Baja
1 Work Baja
Road1206(F3)                   742    0200    0343    0354    0328   0.300   0.155   0120        1800    0204    0350    0361    0335    0307    0158    0122       1837
Road 1207 (F44)               126 3   0141    0 242   0 250   0 232   0 212   0109   0 085       1 271    0144   0 247   0 255   0 236   0 217   0112    0 086      1 297
Road 1208 (F3)                 564    0123    0211    0.218   0202    0185    0095    0074       1 108   0126    0216   0222    0206    0189    0097    0075        1 130
Subtotal Work Beja                      0464    0.797   0.821   0761    0698    0360   0278        4179    0474    0813    0838    0777    0712    0 367   0284       4264
2. Overhead                             0007    0012    0012   0011    0010   0.005   0004         0063    0007    0012    0013    0012   0011    0006    0004        0064
Subtotal DREl Beja                        0 471    0 809   0 833   0 773   0 708   0 365   0 282    4 241    0 481    0 825   0 850   0 789   0 722   0 372    0 268    4 328
D. OXi J*ndouba
1. Work Jendouba
Road 1305 (F3)                 67.1   0117    0.202   0.208   0193    0.176   0.091   0.070      1.057   0.120   0206   0212    0197    0180   0093    0072         1079
Road1310(F3)                   571    0062    0106    0109    0101    0092    0.048   0037       0554    0.063    0108   0111    0103    0094   0.049    0038       0565
Road1309(F44)                  989    0140    0240    0.247   0.229    0210    0108    0084      1259    0143    0245    0252    0234    0214    0111    0086       1284
Road 1314 (F3)                 53 5   0 048    0 082   0 084   0 078   0 071    0 037   0 028    0 428   0 049   0 083   0 086   0 080   0 073   0 038    0 029    0 437
Road 1319 (F3)                 65.3   0092    0158    0.163   0151    0139   0.071   0.055    0831    0094   0162   0167    0154    0142    0073    0056            0848
Road1311(F3)                   836    0179    0.307    0317    0294    0269   0.139    0107      1611    0183   0313    0323    0300    0274    0141    0109        1644
Subtotal Work Jendouba                  0637    1094    1 128   1046   0958    0494   0382         5739    0650    1 117   1 151   1.067    0978    0504    0390      5856
2 Overhtead                             0010    0016    0017    0016    0.014    0007   0006       0086    0010   0017    0017    0016    0015    0008    0.006    0088
Subtotal ltiJondouba                      0647    1 111    1 144   1061    0972    0501    0.388     5825    0660    1 134   1 168    1083    0992    0512    0 396     5944
E WFtE Kef
1 Work Kef
Road 113 (F3)                  77 9   0126    0 216    0 223   0 206   0.189    0 097   0 075    1 133   0128    0 220   0 227    0 211   0193    0 099   0 077    1 156
Road 121 (F3)                  74.5   0164    0.281    0289   0268    0246   0127   0.098        1 473   0167    0287    0295    0274    0251    0129    0.100      1 503
Road 117(F44)                 131 3   0120    0.206    0213    0197    0181    0093    0072      1 082   0123    0211    0217   0.201    0184   0095   0.074        1 105
Subtota Work Kef                        0410    0703    0725   0672    0616    0317   0246    3688    0418   0.718   0739    0686   0.628   0324    0251              3763
2 Overhead                              0.006   0.011    0011    0010    0009    0005   0.004    0055   0.006   0011    0011    0010    0009    0005   0.004    0056
Subtot l DREi XKf                         0 416    0 714   0 735   0 682   0 625   0 322   0 249    3 743   0 424   0 728   0 750   0 696   0 638   0 329   0 254    3 819
Total                                       2.121    3.642    3752   3480    3188    1 644   1272    19099    2165   3.716    3829    3551    3253    1677    1 297   19489



Project Costs, Financing and Disbursement Schedule                                                                                                      61
Table 7. Lpgradig Rural Roads - 3
Detailed Costs
Untt
Cost (D              Totals Including Contingencies (D Million)                        Totals Including Contingencies (S Mlillion)
000)    1996    1996    1997    1998    1989    2000    2001    Total    1996    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    Total
I. Investment Costs
A. l Slbna
1. Work Sl ana
Road208(F3)                   78.9   0.186   0.319   0.329   0.305   0279   0.144   0.111    1.674   0.190   0.326   0.336   0311    0285   0.147   0.114    1.708
Rbad 255 (F44)               153.0   0239   0.410   0.423   0.392   0.359   0.185   0.143    2.152   0244   0.419   0.431   0.400   0.367   0.189   0.146    2.196
Subtotal Work SlIlana                  0.425   0.730   0.752   0.697   0.639   0.329   0255    3.826   0.434   0.745   0.767   0.711   0.652   0.336   0260    3.904
2. Overead                             0.006   0.011   0.011   0.010   0.010   0.005   0.004    0.057   0.007   0.011   0.012   0.011   0.010   0.005   0.004    0.059
Subtotal IDH4Sliana                      0.431   0.741   0.763   0.708   0,648   0,334   0259    3.884   0.440   0.756   0.779   0.722   0.662   0.341   0264    3.963
B RHSousse
1. Work Sousse
lad 1407 (F4)                 86.9   0.144   0247   0255   0236   0216   0.112   0.086    1296   0.147   0252   0.260   0241    0221    0.114   0.088    1.323
Road 1406 (F4)                90.8   0.098   0.168   0.173   0.161   0.147   0.076   0.059    0.881   0.100   0.171   0.177   0.164   0.150   0.077   0.060    0.899
R3ad1408(F3)                  78.6   0.074   0.127   0.131   0.122   0.111   0.057   0.044    0.667   0.076   0.130   0.134   0.124   0.114   0.059   0.045    0.681
Subtotal Work Sousse                   0.316   0.542   0.559   0518   0.475   0245   0.189    2.845   0.322   0.553   0.570   0.529   0.485   0250   0.193    2,903
2. Overhead                            0.005   0.008   0.008   0.008   0.007   0.004   0.003    0.043   0.005   0.008   0.009   0.008   0.007   0.004   0.003    0.044
Subtotal RlSousse                        0.321   0.551   0.567   0.526   0.482   0248   0.192    2.887   0.327   0.562   0.579   0.537   0.492   0254   0.196    2.946
C. O04H Monastir
1. Work Mon stir
Rad 1501 (F3)                 63.6   0.027   0.046   0.047   0.044   0.040   0.021   0.016    0239   0.027   0.047   0.048   0.044   0.041   0.021   0.016    0244
Road 1557 (F4)                88.6   0.089   0.154   0.158   0.147   0.134   0.069   0.054    0.806   0.091   0.157   0.161   0.150   0.137   0.071   0.055    0.822
Subtotal Work Monastir                 0.116   0.199   0205   0.190   0.174   0.090   0.070    1.045   0.118   0203   0209   0.194   0.178   0.092   0.071    1.066
2. Overhiad                            0.002   0.003   0.003   0.003   0.003   0.001   0.001    0.016   0.002   0.003   0.003   0.003   0.003   0.001   0.001    0.016
Subtotal DlMonastir                      0.118   0202    0208   0.193   0.177   0,091   0.071    1.060   0.120   0206   0213   0.197   0.181   0.093   0.072    1.082
D.    Mahdba
1. Work Mahdia
Road 1657 (F3)                57.7   0.084   0.144   0.148   0.138   0.126   0.065   0.050    0.755   0.086   0.147   0.151   0.140   0.129   0.066   0.051    0.771
Road 1654 (F3)                72.7   0.039   0.067   0.069   0.064   0.059   0.030   0.023    0.352   0.040   0.069   0.071   0.066   0.060   0.031   0.024    0.360
Road 1606 (F44)              121.8   0208   0.358   0.368   0.342   0313   0.161   0.125    1.875   0213   0.365   0.376   0.349   0.319   0.165   0.127    1914
RPad 1605 (F3)                49.3   0.053   0.091   0.094   0.087   0.080   0.041   0.032    0.478   0.054   0.093   0.096   0.089   0.081   0.042   0.032    0.488
Subtotal Work Mahdia                   0.384   0.660   0.680   0.631   0.578   0298   0230    3.461   0.392   0.673   0.694   0.644   0.590   0.304   0235    3.532
2. Overtead                            0.006   0.010   0.010   0.009   0.009   0.004   0.003    0.052   0.006   0.010   0.010   0.010   0.009   0.005   0.004    0.053
Subtotal IMahdia                         0.390   0.670   0.690   0.640   0.586   0.302   0234    3.513   0.398   0.684   0704   0.653   0.598   0.309   0239    3.585
E DE1 Stax
1*. Work Stax
Road 1752 (F44)              112.4   0.439   0.754   0.776   0.720   0.660   0.340   0263    3.952   0.448   0.769   0.792   0.735   0.673   0.347   0268    4.033
Riad1708(F4)                  76.7   0210   0.360   0.371   0.344   0.315   0.162   0.126    1.888   0214   0.367   0.378   0.351   0.322   0.166   0.128    1.926
Subtotal Work Stax                      0.649   1.114   1.147   1.064   0.975   0.503   0.389    5.840   0.662   1.136   1.171   1.086   0.995   0.513   0.397    5.959
2. Overtead                             0.010   0.017   0.017   0.016   0.015   0.008   0.006    0.088   0.010   0.017   0.018   0.016   0.015   0.008   0.006    0.089
Subtotal DRHStax                         0.658   1.130   1.165   1.080   OS90   0.510   0.395    5.928   0.672   1.153   1.188   1.102   1.010   0.521   0.403    6.049
Total                                       1.918   3294   3.393   3.147   2.883   1.486   1.150   17.272   1S95    3.361   3.463   3211    2.942   1.517   1.173   17.624



62                                                                                                                                                                     Annex 3.5
Table 8. Upgrading Rural Roads - 4
Detailed Cost.r
UnIt
Coot (D                 Totals Including Contingencies (D  Mllion)                                 Totals Including Contingencies (5 Million)
-000)    1995     1996      1097     1996     1000     2000      2001     Total     1995      1996     1997     1998     1999     2000      2001     Total
I. lnvestm ant Costs
A. DREH Kalrouan
1. Work Kalroumn
Road 411 (F3)                         88.5    0 226    0.389    0 401    0 372    0,340    0 175    0.136       2.039    0 231    0 397    0 409    0 379    0.347    0 179    0 139       2 081
Road 414 (F44)                       120 2    0.256    0.439    0,453    0.420    0.384    0 198    0.153       2.303    0.261    0.448    0 462    0.428    0 392    0 202    0 156       2.350
Road 413 (F3)                         51 9    0.182    0.312    0.321    0.298    0.273    0 141    0. 109      1.636    0 185    0.318    0 328    0 304    0 279    0.144    0 111       1,670
Subtotal Work Kalrouan                          0.664    1.140    1.175    1 089    0.998    0.514    0.398       5,978    0.678    1.163    1 199    1.112    1,018    0.525    0.406        6 101
2. Overhead                                     0 010    0.017    0.018    0.016    0.015    0 008    0.006       0.090    0.010    0.017    0 018    0.017    0 015    0.008    0 006        0.092
Subtotal DREN Kalrouan                            0 674    1.157    1.192    1.106    1.013    0 522    0.404       6.068    0.688    1.181    1.217    1.128    1 034    0 533    0 412        6.192
D. DREN Kasaerine
1. Work Kaesorlne
Road 513 (F3)                         83.1    0 201    0.346    0.356    0 330    0.303    0 156    0.121       1 812    0.205    0.353    0.363    0 337    0.309    0.159    0.123        1.849
Road 509 (F3)                         64.5    0 122    0.209    0 215    0200    0.183    0.094    0 073        1 095    0.124    0 213    0.220    0 204    0.187    0 096    0 074        1 117
SubtotalWork Kasacrlne                          0 323    0 554    0,571    0.530    0.485    0 250    0 194       2.907    0 330    0.566    0 583    0.541    0 495    0.255    0 198        2 967
2 Overhead                                      0 005    0.008    0.009    0 008    0 007    0.004    0.003       0 044    0 005    0.008    0.009    0 008    0 007    0.004    0.003        0.045
Subtotal DREH Kasserinf                            0.328    0563    0.580    0538    0.493    0.254    0.196         2951    0.334    0.574    0.592    0.549    0.503    0.259    0.200        3.011
C. DREH Sidl-Souzid
1. Work Sidi-Bouzid
Road 614 (F3)                         75,4    0.252    0 432    0.445    0.413    0.378    0.195    0.151       2.266    0.257    0 441    0 454    0.421    0.386    0 199    0.154       2 312
Road 616 (F44)                       105 4    0.277    0.475    0.490    0.454    0.416    0 214    0.166       2.492    0,282    0 485    0.500    0.463    0 425    0.219    0 169       2.543
Subtotal Work SIdi-Bouzld                       0.528    0.907    0935    0.867    0.794    0.409    0.317        4.758    0.539    0.926    0.954    0 885    0.810    0.418    0.323        4.855
2. Overhead                                     0.008    0.014    0.014    0.013    0.012    0 006    0005        0.071    0.008    0 014    0.014    0.013    0.012    0 006    0 005        0 073
Subtotal DREH Sidi-Bouzid                          0.536    0.921    0.949    0 880    0.806    0 416    0.322       4.829    0.547    0.940    0.968    0 898    0 823    0 424    0.328       4.928
D. DREH Gabsa
1. Work Gabs*
Road 814 (F44)                       117 7    0.261    0.449    0.462    0 429    0.393    0.203    0.157       2 354    0.267    0.458    0.472    0.438    0,401    0 207    0.160       2.402
2 Overhead                                      0.004    0.007    0 007    0 006    0.006    0.003    0.002       0 035    0.004    0 007    0 007    0.007    0.006    0.003    0.002        0.036
Subtotal DREN Gab..                               0 265    0.456    0 469    0.435    0.399    0.206    0 159       2.389    0 271    0.465    0 479    0.444    0.407    0.210    0 162        2,438
E DREH MEdanine
1. Work Madonine
Road 1806 (F3)                        75 9    0.053    0.091    0.094    0.087    0.080    0.041    0.032       0478    0 054    0.093    0.096    0.089    0.081    0.042    0 032        0.488
Road 1810 (F44)                      104.5    0.229    0.394    0.406    0.376    0.345    0.178    0 137       2.064    0.234    0.402    0 414    0.384    0 352    0.181    0.140        2 106
SubtotalWork 11enlne                            0.282    0,485    0.499    0.463    0.424    0.219    0 169       2.542    0 288    0.495    0.510    0.473    0.433    0 223    0 173        2 594
2 Overhead                                      0 004    0.007    0.007    0 007    0.006    0 003    0.003       0 038    0 004    0.007    0 008    0.007    0 006    0 003    0.3          0.039
Subtotal DREH Maldenine                           0.287    0.492    0.507    0.470    0.431    0.222    0.172        2 581    0.292    0.502    0 517    0.480    0.440    0.227    0.175       2.633
F. DREH Tataoulne
1. Worik Tataoulne
Road 1901 (F3)                        82 7    0.137    0.235    0.242    0.225    0.206    0.106    0.082       1.233    0.140    0 240    0.247    0 229    0.210    0 108    0.084        1 259
2. Overhead                                     0.002    0.004    0.004    0.003    0 003    0.002    0.001       0.019    0.002    0 004    0.004    0.003    0 003    0.002    0.001        0.019
Subtotel DREH Tataoulna                           0 139    0.239    0.246    0,228    0.209    0.108    0.083        1.252    0.142    0.244    0.251    0 233    0 213    0 110    0.085       1.278
6. DREHN Gafes
1. Work Cafes
Road 713 (F3)                         82.2    0,260    0.446    0.460    0.427    0.391    0.201    0.156       2.341    0.265    0 456    0 469    0.435    0 399    0 206    0.159        2 389
2. Overhead                                     0 004    0 007    0 007    0.006    0.006    0 003    0.002       0.035    0 004    0 007    0 007    0 007    0.006    0 003    0 002        0.036
Subtotal DREH Gatfe                                0264    0.453    0.467    0433    0397    0.204    0.158          2.376    0.269    0.462    0.476    0.442    0405    0209    0.161         2.425
M. DREH Tozaur
1. Work Tozour
Road 2102 (F4)                       100.0    0 182    0 312    0.321    0 298    0.273    0.141    0 109       1.636    0 185    0 318    0.328    0 304    0 279    0 144    0 111        1.670
2. Overhead                                     0 003    0.005    0.005    0,004    0.004    0.002    0.002       0 025    0 003    0 005    0 005    0 005    0 004    0 002    0 002        0 025
Subtotal DREH Tozeur                               0.184    0,317    0.326    0 303    0.277    0 143    0.111       1.661    0 188    0 323    0 333    0.309    0 283    0 146    0 113       1 695
I. DREH Kebill
1. Work Kabill
Road 2004 (F3)                        51.9    0.014    0.024    0025    0.023    0.021    0.011    0.008        0.126    0014    0.024    0.025    0.023    0.021    0.011    0.009         0 128
Road 2003 (F3)                        78.4    0.095    0.163    0.168    0 156    0.143    0 074    0,057       0856    0.097    0.167    0 172    0.159    0 146    0.075    0 058         0 873
SubtotalWork Kobill                             0.109    0.187    0.193    0.179    0.164    0.084    0065        0.982    0 111    0.191    0 197    0.183    0.167    0.086    0067         1.002
2. Overhead                                     0 002    0.003    0 003    0.003    0.002    0 001    0 001       0 015    0 002    0.003    0 003    0 003    0 003    0.001    0.001        0 015
Subtotal DREH K bill                               0.111    0.190    0 196    0.182    0,166    0.086    0.066      0.996    0.113    0 194    0.200    0 185    0.170    0.088    0 068        1.017
Total                                                2.788    4.787    4.932    4.574    4.191    2.160    1 671    25.103    2 845    4 885    5 033    4.667    4.276    2.204    1 705    25.615



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
AG 360( P)IRCURIREENT  lARRA        EMIEN-r
We refer to Section 3.02 and Schedule 4 of the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Republic of Tunisia (the Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(the Bank), in respect of the above-captioned Project, and to the Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
For the purposes of the above-captioned Project, the Borrower hereby confirms that the
following point will be taken into account:
A.    International Competitive Ridding (TCR)
1.    Qrigin of Materials. Bidders will be encouraged to give priority to the use of available local
goods, materials and products.
2.    Currency.   The foreign currency portion of the bid price shall be expressed in the currency
or currencies of payment of the contract price.
B.    International Competitive Bidding and L ocal Competitive Bidding (I CB)
1.    RidOpening. Opening of bids shall take place in public, in the presence of bidders wishing to
attend.
2.    Evaluation Criteria. Bid evaluation criteria will be stated in the bidding documents. No
preference will be granted on the basis of: (a) the legal nature of the bidder; or (b) financial facilities
offered by a bidder such as export credit or suppliers credit.
3.    Public Sector Companies.  Any benefit granted to the Borrower's public sector companies over
private sector companies or foreign companies in terms of guarantees shall be quantified, when
evaluating competing bids, and added to the bid price for the purpose of comparison of bids.



Republic of Tunisia
Rural Roads Project
A 3.7: Project Implementation Schedule
1995                            1996              1             1997              1             1998
ID    Task Name                               Q4      Ql      Q2      0 03    04      0 Q1    004    01                        Q2     Q3      04      01      Q2      0 Q3    0 Q4
1    Board Presentation                        1/31         rd Presentation
2    Project Effectiveness                  P                        o ffeet 'eness
3    Prject Launch Workshop                       I3/3       o       t Launct i Wor(shop
4    Mid-Term Review                                                                l                                                                3/31     Mid-Term Review
5    Upgrading Rural Roads (715 km) _
6        First Phase                              I             7/1                                                      2 1/
7        Second Phase                                                                           7'1                                                     2/13
8    Pilot Perlodic Rehabilitation (300 km)
9        First Phase                                                  10/20/1
10        Second Phase                                                                                 10                                     0/1
11        Third Phase
1011                        I ~~~~~~~~~0/1
12   Institutional Reforms _
13       IWG Study                                    fl i1f29
14       Instiutional Action Plan                                                   2/27
15       Approbation of Action Plan
711 vAppr obatioi i   Action Plan
16        Road Standard Study
17        Technical Assistance and Training                  6/1
18       Action Plan Implementation                                                                           9221
Project: Tunisia: Rural Roads ProjectTakSm ryRleUpPoes
Date: Dec 23 '94                                                Progress                                Rolled Up Task
DN mkMN1N~ORLaAKUAFAX91TUISAXTTA7_PS PPMilestone                    *Rolled Up Milestone X



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
AzI OE=Nowc FEALUXECK D)E7ANLS
A. SoCIO-ECONOMIc FRAMEWORK OF PROJECT ROADS
1.     There are four roads in the Tunis Governorate where a productive agricultural base is under
increasing pressure from alternative uses, first and foremost urban development. At some 175 acres per
km, the dimension of road influence zones is the smallest nationwide.
Bir Jazzar Road (No. 1008)
(a)    This 2-km long, low-curvature dirt road crosses a rolling terrain and connects with an already
upgraded road. It has an 8-m wide clay base, limited drainage, no bridges, and is at Li
standard32. The adt in 1993 was 697 vehicles.
(b)    The influence area comprises 1,300 inhabitants. Rainfed agriculture covers about 300 acres,
95% of which is used for cereals, fruits, and forage crops. Vegetables and fruits are produced
on irrigated lands (50 acres). The agricultural potential is good.
(c)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F44 standard; (ii) tree planting and
rehabilitation to raise production of olives, almonds, and grapes (62 acres); (iii) adoption of
yield-increasing methods for cereal production (62 acres); (iv) irrigation (50 acres); and (iv)
cattle development for milk production.
Miaou Road (No. 1009)
(d)    This 1.6-km long, narrow, road connects with the MC 39, and is extended by a 0.4-km paved
track at its other end. Construction borders its right side at km 1. The road has limited drainage,
and a base made of a mix of clay and "tuff". It is currently at Li standard. The 1993 a.d.t. is
272 vehicles.
(e)    The influence area comprises 1,575 inhabitants and 450 acres of dry farm lands, half of which
are planted in cereals and forage crops. Vegetables are grown on 48 acres of irrigated land
bordering the Medjerda canal. The agricultural potential is good.
(f)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F4 standard; (ii) tree planting and
rehabilitation to raise production of olives and almonds (138 acrea); (iii) adoption of yield-
increasing methods for cereal production (50 acrea); (iv) irrigation (27 acres); and (v) cattle
development for milk production.
Cite Lahbibi Road (No. 1010)
(g)    This 4.7-km  long road crosses a rolling terrain, originating in MC 39 and ending at Cite
Lahbibi. Structures include a 6m-wide tuff base, limited drainage, and a bridge over the
Medjerda canal. The road is at L2 standard.
32/ Four categories of service standards have been defined: (i) LI applies to summarily built dirt roads which
are occasionally graded; (ii) L11 is a natural coarse gravel road, not maintained, and generally deteriorated
and bumpy; (iii) L2 is an engineered unpaved road with a damaged structure over 30% of its length, and in
need of strengthening; (iv) L3 is a severely deteriorated paved road.



66                                                                   Annex 4.1
(h)   The influence area comprises 2100 inhabitants and about 682 acres, of which 25 are irrigated.
Dry-farming is predominant (cereals and forages) over about 90% of lands. The agricultural
potential looks excellent for almond and grape production.
(i)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F44 standard; (ii) tree planting and
rehabilitation to raise production of olives and grapes (186 acres); (iii) adoption of yield-
increasing methods for cereal production (124 acres); (iv) irrigation (50 acres); and (v) cattle
development for milk production.
Borj Chakir Road (No. 1013)
(j)    This 1.4-km long road travels in a rolling terrain, crosses a small borough, before connecting
with RVE 539. Its 9m-wide clay base is covered by a tuff layer. A culvert is the only structure.
The road is at L2 standard. The 1993 a.d.t. is 620 vehicles.
(k)   The influence area comprises 950 inhabitants and about 298 acres of dry farm land. Cereals and
forage crops are the main products, using three-fourths of the lands.
(1)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F4 standard; (ii) tree planting and
rehabilitation to raise production of olives, peach trees and grapes (201 acres); (iii) adoption of
yield-increasing methods for cereal production (355 acres); (iv) irrigation (50 acres); and (v)
ovine and beekeeping development for meat and honey production.
2.     There are nine roads in the Nabeul Governorate where the conditions are among the best for
agriculture, but water scarcity and rapid urbanization are growing constraints. The dimension of road
influence areas is still small, at some 450 acres per km.
Tabbene Road (No. 322)
(a)    Some six km long, this road links the MC 42 and the MC 26 across a slightly hilly terrain. The
8m-wide base, made of sandy clay and tuff, has limited drainage structures. The road is at a L2
standard, and its 1993 a.d.t. is 524 vehicles.
(b)   The influence area comprises 3,600 inhabitants and about 3,000 acres, most of which are
irrigated. Fruit trees cover 95 % of the area. Dry-farming agriculture concentrates on vegetables
and forage crops. The agricultural potential is important.
(c)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F44 standard; (ii) tree
rehabilitation to raise production of citrus fruit (248 acres); and (iii) irrigation (372 acres).
El-Haouaria Road (No. 323)
(d)   This 9.9-km long road travels from the MC 27 across a mountainous then flat terrain up to the
upgraded Borj H'faiedh track. With a 6m-wide base made of sand and clay, and two culverts,
the road is at L11 standard. Its 1993 a.d.t. is 344 vehicles.
(e)    The influence area comprises 7,800 inhabitants and 3,117 acres of land, of which 300 are
irrigated. Forest covers 13% of the area, and grazing lands 16%. Dry-farming focusses on
cereals, fruits, and forage crops. Agriculture has good potential.
(f)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F44 standard; (ii) tree
rehabilitation to raise production of olives and grapes (496 acres); (iii) adoption of yield-
increasing methods for cereal production (496 acreas); and (iv) improvement of grazing tracts
(372 acres).



Annex 4.1                                                                   67
Bayadha Road (No. 324)
(g)   This 7.7-km long curvy road is in hilly terrain. It originates in MC 27 and serves many small
albeit technically efficient farms. The 4m-wide base is made of sandy clay with spot tuff
improvements. It crosses an important stream and has limited drainage. The road is at Li
standard. The 1993 a.d.t. is 67 vehicles.
(h)   The influence area comprises 700 inhabitants and about 2,000 acres, of which 1,054 are
irrigated. Frnit trees and vegetables are prevalent in irrigated lands . The area has good potential
for agricultural development.
(i)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F3 standard; (ii) tree planting and
rehabilitation to raise production of strawberries (496 acres); (iii) adoption of yield-increasing
methods for cereal production (248 acres); (iv) irrigation (99 acres); and (v) cattle development
for milk production.
Dar Joundi - Jabouza Road (No.327)
(j)    This 8-kmn long road starts in flat terrain from MC 42 and extends to the south across hills. The
8m-wide base is made of sandy clay covered with tuff. Drainage is limited. The road is at L2
standard. Its 1993 a.d.t. is 151 vehicles.
(k)   The influence area comprises 1,730 inhabitants and about 4,850 acres of land, of which 712 are
irrigated. Forestry covers 40% of the area. Production is mainly of fruit trees and cereals. Olive
trees and vegetables prevail on irrigated lands. Except in the southern portion, the area has good
agricultural potential.
(1)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F3 standard; (ii) tree rehabilitation
to raise production of olives (496 acres); and (iii) cattle development for milk production.
Daroufa (No.328)
(m)   This 5.5-kin long road crosses a slightly hilly terrain. It originates at the Somaa area next to the
secondary school, crosses the Bayadha track and ends at MC 27 km 37.7, close to an industrial
area. The 6m-wide base is made up of sandy clay, clayey sand and tuff, with limited drainage.
It offers an L1i standard of service at present. The average daily traffic in 1993 was 55 vehicles
per day .
(n)   The influence area comprises 1,200 inhabitants and about 1463 acres of land, of which 521 are
irrigated. Arboriculture and marketable garden products are prevalent in irrigated agricultural
lands. The area has good agricultural potential.
(o)   Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F3 standard; (ii) adoption of yield-
increasing methods for cereal production (124 acres); (iii) irrigation (174 acres); and (iii) cattle
development for milk production.
Grombalia - Nianou Road (No. 329)
(p)   This 4-km long flat road originates in the GP1 at Grombalia and extends through large-scale
farming lands. The 6m-wide clay base has good drainage. The road is at an LI standard, and
its 1993 a.d.t. was 127 vehicles.
(q)   The influence area comprises 1,200 inhabitants and about 1,250 acres, of which 372 are
irrigated. Tree crops and marketable garden products prevail on irrigated lands. Cereals and
forage crops cover about 40% of all arable land.



68                                                                    Annex 4.1
(r)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F3 standard; (ii) tree planting to
raise production of citrus fruit and grapes (62 acres); (iii) irrigation (124 acres); and (iv) cattle
development for milk production
Hannous Road (No. 333)
(s)    This 7.8-km long road winds along rolling terrain from MC 44 to the paved Guasbatte track.
With a 7m-wide base made of a material-mix (tuff, tuffy clay, clayey sand, rocks) covered with
a tuff layer, the road is at an Li standard. The 1993 a.d.t. was 101 vehicles.
(t)    The influence area comprises 1,200 inhabitants and about 1,250 acres, of which 372 are
irrigated. The land use pattern is roughly similar to that shown for Road 329. Olive trees and
vines are found in dry-farming areas. The development potential is average.
(u)   Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F3 standard; (ii) tree planting and
rehabilitation to raise production of olives and grapes (322 acres); (iii) irrigation (50 acres); (iv)
improvement of routes (124 acres); (v) adoption of yield-increasing methods for cereal
production (248 acres); and (vi) cattle development for milk production.
Bou Argoub - Barrage Masri Road (No. 336)
(v)    This 5.8-km long road travels from MC1 to the Masri dam across a rolling mountainous and
forested terrain. It crosses a railway track and the motorway, has a lOm-wide base paved over
half its length and covered with gravel and tuff on the remaining length. Drainage is good. The
road is at an L2 standard. The 1993 a.d.t. was 158 vehicles.
(w)   The influence area comprises 1,900 inhabitants and about 1,800 acres. Irrigation is limited to
less than 4% of the land. Cereals and fruit trees are the dominant culture. The flat portion has
great development potential.
(x)   Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F3 standard; (ii) irrigation (62
acres); (iii) adoption of yield-increasing methods for cereal production (496 acres); and (iv)
cattle development for milk production.
Sidi Hamed - Zaouiet Jedidi Road (No.340)
(y)   This 6-kmn long road is in rolling terrain. From the MC 1, it crosses some constructed areas, the
motorway, a railway track, before it connects with the MC 28. The lOm-wide base is made of
sandy clay over 1.6km, coarse gravel over 1 kin, and tuff for the rest. Drainage is poor. The
road is at an Li standard, and its 1993 a.d.t. was 102 vehicles.
(z)    The influence area comprises 800 inhabitants and about 1,850 acres, of which 521 are irrigated.
Tree (olive) and marketable garden products predominate on irrigated lands. Dry farming is
mostly of cereals. Bovine are raised for milk. The area has high potential.
(aa)   Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F3 standard; (ii) tree planting to
raise production of olives and almonds (74 acres); (iii) irrigation (74 acres); (iv) adoption of
yield-increasing methods for cereal production (248 acres); and (v) cattle development for milk
production.
3.     There are eight roads in the Ariana Governorate, located in the north-east, which has a third
of all irrigated land in Tunisia. Agricultural development has great potential.



Annex 4.1                                                                     69
Borj Chakir - Bouregba Road (No. 2203)
(a)    This 3.5-km long flat road crosses large-scale farmiing lands. The lOm-wide clay base is covered
with tuff on nearly all its length. Drainage is limited, and the road is at an Li standard. The
1993 a.d.t. was 87 vehicles.
(b)   The influence area comprises 250 inhabitants and about 660 acres, of which 226 are irrigated.
Cereals, fruits and market garden produces are prevalent in irrigated agriculture. The area has
good agricultural potential.
(c)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F3 standard; (ii) tree planting to
raise production of olives and almonds (92 acres); and (ii) irrigation (124 acres).
Bir Jazzar - Mornaguia Road (No. 2205)
(d)   This 7.9-km long road has two sections. From its GP5 outlet, the first section, a 2.2-km
long in flat terrain, crosses arable land, at times bordered by construction. It has a 9m-
wide clay base. The second, a 5.7-km long in rolling terrain, crosses an urban area then
connects with an upgraded track. It has a 6m-wide rocky, clayey tuff base on lkm, and
a clay base elsewhere. The first section is at an L2 standard, and the second at an LII
standard. The 1993 a.d.t. was 116 vehicles.
(e)    The influence area comprises 300 inhabitants and about 1275 acres, of which 198 are irrigated
(Mornaguia perimeter). Vegetables and fruits are found on irrigated lands. Dry farming
concentrates on cereals and tree planting. The agricultural potential is good.
(f)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F3 standard; (ii) tree planting for
olive and almond production (87 acres); and (iii) adoption of yield-increasing methods for cereal
production (372 acres).
Raccordement GP7 - RVE 511 Road (No. 2208)
(g)   This 6.8-km long road runs across flat lands from the GP7 and through the El Ardh Taiba Farm.
It has a 7m-wide clay base, paved over the first 2.5 km and covered by a 4.5m-wide tuff
beyond. The road is at an L2 standard, and its 1993 a.d.t. was 117 vehicles.
(h)   The influence area comprising 400 inhabitants and about 2,050 acres, it is irrigated for the most
part (Jedeida perimeter), but maintenance has been neglected, and fruit and vegetable production
is constrained by lack of water. Dry farming (cereals) is routinely practiced on large estates
controlled by distant investors. The agricultural potential is good.
(i)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F3 standard; (ii) tree planting to
raise fruit production (124 acres); (iii) adoption of yield-increasing methods for cereal
production (992 acres); (iii) irrigation (87 acres); and (iv) new cattle for milk production.
Djedeida - Sidi S. Tebbassi Road (No. 2209)
(j)    This 4-km long road crosses flat arable land between the MC50 and the RVE 511. Its 8m-wide
clay base was improved by a 4m-wide tuff layer and fair drainage structures. The road is at an
L2 standard, and its 1993 a.d.t. was 587 vehicles.
(k)   The influence area comprises 300 inhabitants and about 1,050 acres of irrigated land. The land
use pattern is the same as the one described for Road 2208.
(1)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F44 standard; (ii) tree planting to
raise production of fruits (124 acres); (iii) adoption of yield-increasing methods for cereal
production (471 acres); and (iv) new cattle for milk production.



70                                                                    Annex 4.1
Mannouba - Sidi Ali Hattab Road (No. 2210)
(m)   This 3.2-km long road runs in rolling terrain through arable lands and crosses the Medjerda
canal. It ends in a paved road. The 4m-wide clay and tuff base has limited drainage. The road
is at an L2 standard, with a 1993 a.d.t. of 19 vehicles.
(n)   The influence area comprises 1200 inhabitants and about 4,250 acres of which 1,565 are
irrigated. It includes much of the public domain managed by the Societe des Fermes
Tunisiennes. Good water resources favor production of fruits and vegetables. Irrigation systems
need to be rehabilitated.
(o)   Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F3 standard; (ii) tree planting and
rehabilitation to raise production of fruits (1959 acres); and (iii) new cattle for milk production.
El Batan - Hathernine Road (No. 2211)
(p)   This 2.7-km long road stretches across arable land in rolling terrain between two paved roads.
Its 10in-wide clay and tuffy clay base has limited drainage. The road is at an Li standard, and
its 1993 a.d.t. was 285 vehicles.
(q)   The influence area comprises 2,100 inhabitants and about 1,100 acres of which 583 are
irrigated. Fruits and marketable garden products are found on irrigated lands. Estates are small,
unfit for mechanized agriculture. Rapid urban development is a constraint.
(r)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F3 standard; (ii) tree rehabilitation
to raise production of apples, pears and grapes (484 acres); (iii) adoption of yield-increasing
methods for cereal production (124 acres); and (iv) new cattle for milk production.
Forna - El Guerat par Mahfoura Road (No. 2212)
(s)    This 7-km long flat road extends from GP5 across flat arable lands. Scattered dwellings are
found alongside. Its 8m-wide base with a mix of clay, tuffy clay, and sandy clay received spot
improvements. Drainage structures need repairs. The road is at an L2 standard, and its 1993
a.d.t. was 81 vehicles.
(t)    The influence area comprises 700 inhabitants and about 2,950 acres, of which 498 are irrigated.
It includes rich agro-industrial domains (Bordj El Amri, and El Amra) based on olive trees.
Marketable garden products are also found on irrigated lands.
(u)   Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F3 standard; (ii) tree planting to
raise production of grapes (99 acres); (iii) adoption of yield-increasing methods for cereal
production (992 acres); (iv) irrigation (446 acres); and (v) new cattle for milk production.
Mornaguia - El Attar par Hmaiem Road (No. 2213)
(v)    From its intersection with RVE 580 and RVE 539, this 8.2-km long road extends across a
rolling terrain of arable lands. Its more than lOm-wide clay tuff base has limited drainage. The
road is at an LI1 standard, and its 1993 a.d.t. was 192 vehicles.
(w)   The influence area comprises 600 inhabitants and about 5,150 acres, of which 145 acres are
irrigated. Land around Mornaguia is very fertile. Marketable garden products are found on
irrigated lands. Dry-farming concentrates on fruit trees (almond, olive) and grapes.
(x)   Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F3 standard; (ii) tree planting to
raise production of olives, almonds and grapes (164 acres); (iii) adoption of yield-increasing
methods for cereal production (2976 acres); (iv) irrigation (61 acres); and (v) new cattle for milk
production.



Annex 4.1                                                                    71
4.     Four roads belong to the Bizerte Governorate in the north of the country where the most
prevalent product is cereals, and where 20% of the national cattle are located.
Menzel Zid - Ghabaya - Batia Road (No. 912)
(a)    This 10-km long road crosses mountainous terrain. Its 4m-wide rocky, clayey base has limited
drainage. It offers an L1i standard of service at present and the average daily traffic in 1993 was
204 vehicles.
(b)   The influence area comprises 2,560 inhabitants and about 12,326 acres of land, of which 35
acres are irrigated. Marketable garden products are prevalent in irrigated lands. The area has
good agricultural potential.
(c)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F3 standard; (ii) tree planting and
rehabilitation to raise production of apples, pears, olives, almonds and grapes (310 acres); (iii)
adoption of yield-increasing methods for cereal production (4960 acres); (iv) irrigation (188
acres); (v) improvement of route (496 acres); and (vi) cattle development for milk production.
Sidi El Bechir - RVE 356 Road (No. 914)
(d)   This 8.6-km long road crosses mountainous terrain and Salah M'rabet farm. Its 4m-wide rocky,
clayey base has limited drainage. It offers an Li standard of service at present and the average
daily in 1993 was 170 vehicles.
(e)    The influence area comprises 520 inhabitants and about 4,290 acres of land, of which 25 acres
are irrigated. Small and medium scale farming is prevails in irrigated lands. The area has good
agricultural potential.
(f)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F3 standard; (ii) tree planting and
rehabilitation to raise production of fruits, almonds and grapes (198 acres); (iii) adoption of
yield-increasing methods for cereal production (1240 acres); (iv) irrigation (99 acres); (v)
improvement of route (248 acres); (vi) and cattle development for milk production.
Alia - Ras Djebel Road (No. 915)
(g)   This 7.5-km long road crosses mountainous terrain and large scale farming lands. Its Sm-wide
clay base has limited drainage. It offers an Li standard of service at present. The average daily
traffic in 1993 was 53 vehicles.
(h)   The influence area comprises 4,625 inhabitants and about 5,282 acres of land, of which 350
acres are irrigated. Cereal harvests are weak due to the lack of intensification. Steep slopes in
the area and small scale farming make input provision difficult.
(i)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F4 standard; (ii) tree planting and
rehabilitation to raise production of fruits, almonds and grapes (610 acres); (iii) adoption of
yield-increasing methods for cereal production (1042 acres); (iv) irrigation (87 acre); (v)
improvement of route (360 acres); and (v) cattle development for milk production.
Ain Ksiba - Ras El Ain Road (No. 917)
(j)    This 5.8-km long flat road has a lOm-wide clay base which received an improving tuff layer.
It has limited drainage and offers an L2 standard of service at present. The average daily traffic
in 1993 was 102 vehicles.
(k)   The influence area comprises 3,250 inhabitants and about 5,692 acres of land, of which 446
acres are irrigated. In order to improve intensification, extension measures are required.



72                                                                    Annex 4.1
(1)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F44 standard; (ii) tree
rehabilitation to raise production of fruits and grapes (610 acres); (iii) adoption of yield-
increasing methods for cereal production (1,141 acres); (iv) irrigation (248 acres); (v)
improvement of route (372 acre); and (v) cattle development for milk production.
5.     Four roads belong to the Ben-Arous Governorate in the north of the country where scarce
water and land resources and the pressure associated with rapid urbanization of the neighboring capital
makes a well thought out strategy for further agricultural development of great importance.
Bairem - Khlij Road (No. 2301)
(a)    This 2.5-km long flat road borders construction and crosses farms. Its 8m-wide clay base
received an improving tuff layer on km 1. It has limited drainage and its standard of service at
present is LI. The average daily traffic in 1993 was 284 vehicles.
(b)    The influence area comprises 1,000 inhabitants and about 923 acres of land, of which 124 acres
are irrigated. Development of arboriculture and breeding are the main actions to be undertaken.
(c)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F3 standard; (ii) tree planting and
rehabilitation to raise production of fruits and grapes (174 acres); (iii) adoption of yield-
increasing methods for cereal production (112 acres); (iv) irrigation (248 acres); (v)
improvement of route (198 acres); and (vi) cattle development for milk production.
Zaouia - Oued Meliane Road (No. 2304)
(d)   This 3.7-km long flat road borders construction and crosses farms. Its 6m-wide clay base has
limited drainage. It offers an LI standard of service at present. The average daily traffic in 1993
was 282 vehicles.
(e)    The influence area comprises 560 inhabitants and about 806 acres of land, of which 558 acres
are irrigated. It belongs to the irrigated perimeter of Mornag and irrigation uses the Medjerda
canal water.
(f)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F3 standard; (ii) tree rehabilitation
to raise production of fruits and grapes (74 acres); (iii) irrigation (248 acres); and (iv) cattle
development for milk production.
Zaouia - Sidi Saad Road (No. 2305)
(g)   This 4-km long flat road has a 6m-wide clay base that received a 5m-wide improvement starting
km 2.8. It has limited drainage. It offers an LI standard of service at present and the average
daily traffic in 1993 was 252 vehicles.
(h)   The influence area comprises 580 inhabitants and about 880 acres of land, of which 546 acres
are irrigated. Fruit arboriculture is prevails in the influence area and irrigation uses mainly
surface water. The area has good agricultural potential and farmers have good technical skills.
(i)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F3 standard; (ii) tree rehabilitation
to raise production of olives, fruits and grapes (74 acres); (iii) irrigation (62 acres); and (iv)
cattle development for milk production.
Sidi Fraj - Hasbine Road (No. 2306)



Annex 4.1                                                                     73
(j)    This 6.5-km long road crosses slightly hilly terrain and large-scale farming lands. Its 1 lm-wide
tuffy clay base received 3.6m-wide damaged pavement. It has limited drainage. It offers an L3
standard of service at present. The average daily traffic in 1993 was 110 vehicles.
(k)   The influence area comprises 3,200 inhabitants and about 9,474 acres of land, of which 1,190
acres are irrigated. "Societe de Mise en Valeur et de Developpement Agricole El Khir" (an
agricultural development company) uses more than half the influence area and irrigation is
limited. The area has good potential for non irrigated agricultural production intensification.
(1)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F4 standard; (ii) tree planting and
rehabilitation to raise production of olives, fruits and grapes (496 acres); (iii) adoption of yield-
increasing methods for cereal production (3,472 acres); (iv) irrigation (248 acres); (v)
improvement of route (992 acres); and (vi) cattle development for milk production.
6.     Six roads belong to the Jendouba Governorate, the economy of which is based on agriculture.
It is the most irrigated governorate of the country. It has, however, significant mountainous areas.
Agricultural development is conditioned by workforce skills improvement.
Chemtou El Galaa Road (No. 1305)
(a)    This 13-km long road links MC 59 and the paved Bou Salem - Ain El Ksir road on flat terrain
at a the base of a mountain, it borders the Medjerda wadi. With a 12m-wide clay base, and
limited drainage structure, it offers an LI standard of service. The average daily traffic in 1993
was 75 vehicles.
(b)   The influence area comprises about 5,962 acres, of which 151 acres are irrigated. It is the
primary zone for forage crops in the Jendouba plain. Small scale farms are dominant in this
area.
(c)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F3 standard; (ii) tree planting to
raise production of fruits (124 acres); (iii) adoption of yield-increasing methods for cereal
production (1,518 acres); (iv) irrigation (248 acres); (v) improvement of route (124 acres); and
(vi) cattle and ovine development for milk and meat production.
Touahria Road (No. 1309)
(d)   This 10.5-km long road in flat terrain, originating in the urban area of Jendouba and ending at
Ben Bechir's sugar plant, borders the Medjerda wadi. Its 9m-wide clay base has fair drainage
structure, and offers an Li standard of service at present. Its course should be slightly changed
to prevent erosion. The average daily traffic in 1993 was 150 vehicles.
(e)    The influence area comprises about 3,274 acres of land, of which 372 acres are irrigated. Small
scale farming prevails in this area, where intensification measures should be undertaken.
(f)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F44 standard; (ii) tree planting
(124 acres); (iii) adoption of yield-increasing methods for cereal production (992 acres); (iv)
irrigation (174 acres); (v) improvement of route (124 acres); and (vi) cattle and ovine
development for milk and meat production.
Zralbia - Hamma Ouechtata Road (No.1310)
(g)   This 8-km long road crossing slightly hilly terrain has a 6m-wide clay and tuffy clay base with
limited drainage structure. It offers an L4 standard of service at present. The average daily
traffic in 1993 was 117 vehicles.



74                                                                    Annex 4.1
(h)   The influence area comprises about 2,852 acres of land, of which 119 acres are irrigated. It
supports both olive trees plantations and dry-farning cereals.
(i)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F3 standard; (ii) tree rehabilitation
to raise production of fruits (372 acres); (iii) adoption of yield-increasing methods for cereal
production (992 acres); (iv) irrigation (253 acres); and (v) cattle development for milk
production.
Abdel Jabbar Road (No. 1311)
(j)    This 15.9-km long road is made up of two sections, 9.2 and 6.7 km long, crossing mountainous
terrain. It has a 4 to 6m-wide clay and rock base with spot slope stability problems. It has
limited drainage structures and offers an L 1I standard of service at present. The average daily
traffic in 1993 was 154 vehicles.
(k)    The influence area comprises about 12,400 acres of land, of which 37 acres are irrigated.
Cereals and forage crops are the dominant products.
(1)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F3 standard; (ii) tree rehabilitation
to raise production of fruits and olives (496 acres); (iii) adoption of yield-increasing methods
for cereal production (5,890 acres); (iv) irrigation (868 acres); (v) improvement of route (124
acres); and (vi) cattle development for milk production.
Etrakhna - El Khiaitia Road (No. 1314)
(m)   This 6.6-km long road crossing flat terrain has a 6m-wide clay, sandy clay base with a limited
drainage structure. Its standard of service at present is Li. The average daily traffic in 1993 was
72 vehicles.
(n)   The influence area comprises about 4,216 acres of land, of which 620 acres are irrigated. The
primary products are cereals, forage crops and sugar beets. SMEDEA, a farm served by this
road, has made several investments mainly for cattle development.
(o)   Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F3 starndard; (ii) tree planting to
raise production of fruits (248 acres); (iii) adoption of yield-increasing methods for cereal
production (1,959 acres); and (iv) irrigation (248 acres).
Damous Road (No.1319)
(p)   This 10.5-km long road crossing slightly hilly terrain has a 6m-wide rocky clay, sandy clay base
with a fair drainage structure. It offers an LI 1 standard of service at present. The average daily
traffic in 1993 was 216 vehicles.
(q)   The influence area comprises about 4,687 acres of land, of which 87 acres are irrigated.
Mountainous agricultural products are dominant in this area where the risks of erosion are
significant.
(r)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F3 standard; (ii) tree planting to
raise production of fruits (198 acres); (iii) adoption of yield-increasing methods for cereal
production (1,984 acres); (iv) irrigation (124 acres); and (v) cattle development for milk
production.
7.     Two roads belong to the Zaghouan Governorate where 70%  of the population is rural.
Agricultural development, which along with rural development is a key issue in this governorate, is
weak in view of the potential of the area.



Annex 4.1                                                                    75
Boucha - Freksine Road (No.1110)
(a)    This 10.3-km long road crossing slightly hilly terrain has a 8m-wide rocky clay base with fair
drainage structure. At km 8, it approaches the Sebkhat Boucha. It offers an LI standard of
service at present. The average daily traffic in 1993 was 64 vehicles.
(b)   The influence area comprises 648 inhabitants and about 8,296 acres of land, of which 10 acres
are irrigated. Climatic conditions and weaknesses in land exploitation are the main obstacles to
better agricultural production in the area.
(c)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F3 standard; (ii) tree planting and
rehabilitation to raise production of fruits (570 acres); (iii) adoption of yield-increasing methods
for cereal production (3,720 acres); (iv) irrigation (238 acres); (v) improvement of route (620
acres); and (vi) cattle development for milk production.
Sebbala Hamra Road (No.1112)
(d)   This 8.7-km long road crossing mountainous terrain has an 8m-wide rocky tuffy base with
limited drainage structures and weakened areas noticeable all along it. It offers an L 1I standard
of service at present. The average daily traffic in 1993 was 130 vehicles.
(e)    The influence area comprises 525 inhabitants and about 7,390 acres of land, of which 10 acres
are irrigated. Yields are weak, and even if agricultural potential is only fair, development
actions are conceivable.
(f)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F3 standard; (ii) tree planting and
rehabilitation to raise production of fruits, olives and almonds (868 acres); (iii) adoption of
yield-increasing methods for cereal production (2,195 acres); (iv) irrigation (114 acres); (v)
improvement of route (744 acres); and (vi) cattle and ovine development for milk and meat
production.
8.     Two roads belong to the Monastir Governorate where due to scarce water resources,
agriculture is mainly based on large scale farming and olive trees cultivation.
MC 82 - Ksibet El Mediouni Road (No. 1501)
(a)    This 3.1 -km long road crossing slightly hilly terrain serves an olive grove. It has a 4m-wide
sandy clay base with a widening to lOin in the last kilometer. It offers an LI standard of service
at present. The average daily traffic in 1993 was 31 vehicles.
(b)   The influence area comprises about 1,143 acres of land, of which 25 acres are irrigated.
Parcelling and water scarcity are the main obstacles to agricultural development in this area.
(c)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F3 standard; (ii) tree planting and
rehabilitation to raise production of fruits, olives and almonds (233 acres); and (iii) improvement
of routes (22 acres).
Cherahil - Sidi Bannour Road (No. 1557)
(d)   This 7.5-km long winding road crosses flat terrain and has a 7m-wide sandy clay base. It offers
an Li standard of service at present. The average daily traffic in 1993 was 273 vehicles.
(e)    The influence area comprises about 4,744 acres of land, of which 25 acres are irrigated. Olive
growing is the main cultivation in this area.



76                                                                    Annex 4.1
(f)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F4 standard; (ii) tree planting and
rehabilitation to raise production of fruits, olives and almonds (744 acres); (iii) improvement
of route (84 acres); and (iv) cattle development for milk production.
9.     Two roads belong to the Kasserine Governorate the economy of which is based, to a large
extent, on traditional agriculture as intensification methods are at an early stage of implementation.
Majel Bel Abbes - Ennadhour Road (No.509)
(a)    This 14-km long road crossing slightly hilly terrain has a 9m-wide tuffy, rocky and sandy base
with limited drainage structure. It offers an L1i standard of service at present. The average daily
traffic in 1993 was 249 vehicles.
(b)   The influence area comprises 2,650 inhabitants and about 26,362 acres of land, of which 22
acres are irrigated. Water resources are scarce and agricultural potential is limited in this area.
(c)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F3 standard; (ii) tree planting and
rehabilitation to raise production of fruits, olives and almonds (4,501acres); (iii) adoption of
yield-increasing methods for cereal production (3,348 acres); (iv) irrigation (149 acres); (v)
improvement of route (992 acres); and (vi) cattle and ovine development for milk and meat
production.
Sbeitla - Khanguet Zazia Road (No. 513)
(d)   This 18-km long road crossing slightly hilly terrain has a 1 lm-wide sandy base with limited
drainage structure. Its improvement would facilitate access to three delegations in the south of
the Govemorate (Majel Bel Abbes, Hassi Frid and Sbeitla). It offers an Li standard of service
at present. The average daily traffic in 1993 was 177 vehicle.
(e)    The influence area comprises 4,200 inhabitants and about 31,000 acres of land, of which 1,141
acres are irrigated. Soil is favorable to arboriculture.
(f)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F3 standard; (ii) tree planting and
rehabilitation to raise production of fruits, olives and almonds (4,266 acres); (iii) adoption of
yield-increasing methods for cereal production (4,216 acres); (iv) irrigation (595 acres); (v)
improvement of route (4,960 acres); and (vi) cattle and ovine development for milk and meat
production.
10.    Three roads belong to the Sousse Governorate where the two main obstacles to further
agricultural development are parcelling and the scarcity of water resources.
Enfidha - Frada - sidi Saidane Road (No. 1406)
(a)    This 8-km long road crossing slightly hilly terrain serves Grimit area. It has a lOm-wide clay
base with limited drainage structure and offers an L 1I standard of service at present. The
average daily traffic in 1993 was 311 vehicles.
(b)   The influence area comprises 2,500 inhabitants and about 4,340 acres of land, of which 149
acres are irrigated.
(c)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F4 standard; (ii) tree planting to
raise production of fruits and almonds (248 acres); (iii) adoption of yield-increasing methods for
cereal production (496 acres); and (iv) irrigation (74 acres);



Annex 4.1                                                                     77
Frada Road (No.1407)
(d)   This 12.3-km long road crossing slightly hilly terrain has a 8m-wide sandy clay base with
limited drainage structure. It offers an Li standard of service at present. The average daily
traffic in 1993 was 275 vehicles.
(e)    The influence area comprises 2,700 inhabitants and about 8,258 acres of land, of which 45 acres
are irrigated. Ovine breeding and cereal raising are the main agricultural activities in this area.
(f)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F4 standard; (ii) tree planting and
rehabilitation to raise production of fruits, olives and almonds (496 acres); (iii) adoption of
yield-increasing methods for cereal production (496 acres); and (iv) cattle development for milk
production.
Sidi El Heni - Ouled Khechine Road (No. 1408)
(g)   This 7-km long road crossing flat to slightly hilly terrain has a 9m-wide sandy base with limited
drainage structure and erosion affects its steeply slope sections. Its standard of service at present
is LI 1 and the average daily traffic in 1993 was 145 vehicle.
(h)   The influence area comprises 2,200 inhabitants and about 5,084 acres of non-irrigated land.
Water is a very scarce resource in this area.
(i)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F3 standard; (ii) tree planting to
raise production of fruits, olives and almonds (397 acres); (iii) adoption of yield-increasing
methods for cereal production (744 acres); (iv) improvement of route (496 acres); and (v) cattle
development for milk production.
11.    Four roads belong to the Mahdia Governorate the most rural governorate of the country, with
a rural population of 55.3%, where the national average is 40.8%. Olive trees cover 43% of the
governorate's area.
Zgondia - Krarcha - hkaima Road (No. 1605)
(a)    This 8-km long road crosses flat terrain and has a 6m-wide rocky sandy clay base with a 30 to
40-cm embankment. It has limited drainage structure. Its standard of service at present is LI.
The average daily traffic in 1993 was 174 vehicles.
(b)    The influence area comprises 820 inhabitants and about 1,562 acres of land, of which 20 acres
are irrigated. Olive growing is the primary activity.
(c)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F3 standard; (ii) tree planting and
rehabilitation to raise production of olives and fruits (694 acres); (iii) irrigation (50 acres); and
(iv) cattle development for milk production.
Boumerdes - Ababsa - Maata Road (No. 1606)
(d)   This 12.7-km long road crossing flat terrain has two sections (7.5 and 5.2 kms) and a lOm-wide
sandy clay base with limited drainage structure. The second section has 2 kms of erodable soil.
It offers an L2 standard of service at present. The average daily traffic in 1993 was 463
vehicles.
(e)    The influence area comprises 3,200 inhabitants and about 9,796 acres of land, of which 25 acres
are irrigated.



78                                                                      Annex 4.1
(f)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F44 standard; (ii) tree planting and
rehabilitation to raise production of olives, almonds and fruits(620 acres); and (iii) cattle
development for milk production.
Ksour Essaf - El Hajeb Road (No. 1654)
(g)    This 4-km long road crosses flat terrain in an area liable to flooding. It has a 7m-wide improved
tuff base and limited drainage structure. It offers an L2 standard of service at present. The
average daily traffic in 1993 was 293 vehicles.
(h)    The influence area comprises 1,200 inhabitants and about 1,513 acres of land, of which 42 acres
are irrigated. Irrigated cultivation is common even if ground water is salty and overexploited.
(i)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F3 standard; (ii) tree rehabilitation
to raise production of olives and fruits (248 acres); (iii) irrigation (25 acres); and (iv) cattle
development for milk production.
Sidi Alouane - Bradaa Road (No. 1657)
(j)    This 10.8-km long road crossing flat unpacked terrain has a 3-km section in a salty sebkha soil
where it will be heightened by 50 cms. Its 8m-wide sandy clay base has fair drainage structure.
It offers an L1i standard of service at present and the average daily traffic in 1993 was 245
vehicles.
(k)    The influence area comprises 2,500 inhabitants and about 7,743 acres of land, of which 174
acres are irrigated.
(1)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F3 standard; (ii) tree rehabilitation
to raise production of olives, almonds and fruits (496 acres); (iii) irrigation (25 acres); and (iv)
cattle development for milk production.
12.    Three roads belong to the Beja Governorate where cereal crops are the primary agricultural
activity. This govemorate has excellent agricultural potential that should be better exploited.
Sidi Ahmed Road (No. 1206)
(a)    This 20-km long road crossing slightly hilly to montainous terrain has a 4 to 6m-wide clay base
with fair drainage structure. At km 9.5, the soil is liable to erosion, the instability zone is 400-m
long. It offers an L2 standard of service at present and the average daily traffic in 1993 was 98
vehicles.
(b)    The influence area comprises 2,255 inhabitants and about 10,912 acres of land, of which 843
acres are irrigated. Forests cover 18% of the total area.
(c)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F3 standard; (ii) tree planting and
rehabilitation to raise production of olives and fruits (620 acres); (iii) adoption of yield-
increasing methods for cereal production (1,488 acres); (iv) irrigation (248 acres); and (v)
improvement of routes (248 acres).
Tarhouni - Amdoun Road (No. 1207)
(d)    This 3.3-km- long roac crosses slightly hilly terrain. Some water sources are noticed at it, origin.
Its .m-wide L'ay hase has limited drainage structure. It offers an L2 standard of service at
present. The average daily traffic in 1993 was 245 vehicles.



Annex 4.1                                                                     79
(e)    The influence area comprises 3,237 inhabitants and about 8,134 acres of land. This road will
open up neighboring villages and facilitate supply of input to farmers.
(f)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F44 standard; (ii) tree planting and
rehabilitation to raise production of olives (347 acres); (iii) adoption of yield-increasing methods
for cereal production (1,116 acres); (iv) irrigation (248 acres); (v) improvement of route (124
acres); and (vi) ovine development for meat production.
Matria - Teboursouk Road (No. 1208)
(g)   This 16.2-km long road crosses slightly hilly terrain. Weak spots areas are noticed at km 1 and
km 3. Its 6m-wide clay base has limited drainage structure. It offers an LI standard of service
at present. The average daily traffic in 1993 was 112 vehicle.
(h)   The influence area comprises 1,655 inhabitants and about 10,319 acres of land, of which 174
acres are irigated. With the building of a lake, irrigation will be developed in this area.
(i)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F3 standard; (ii) tree planting and
rehabilitation to raise production of olives and fruits (1,364 acres); (iii) adoption of yield-
increasing methods for cereal production (4,216 acres); (iv) irrigation (248 acres); (v)
improvement of route (248 acres); and (vi) cattle development for milk production.
13.    Three roads belong to the Kef Governorate where a tough climate prevails. Hail and frost
constitute the main obstacles to further agricultural development and diversification.
Zanfour Road (No. 113)
(a)    This 12-km long road crossing slightly hilly marshy terrain has a 6m-wide tuff and clayey sand
base with limited drainage structure. It is liable to frequent interruptions due to rain falls. It
offers an Li standard of service at present and the average daily traffic in 1993 was 115
vehicles.
(b)   The influence area comprises about 8,134 acres of land, of which 484 acres are irrigated.
(c)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F3 standard; (ii) tree planting to
raise production of olives and fruits (496 acres); (iii) adoption of yield-increasing methods for
cereal production (3,720 acres); (iv) irrigation (124 acres); and (v) cattle and ovine development
for milk and meat production.
MC 173 Mellala Road (No.117)
(d)   This 6.8-km long road crosses slightly hilly terrain. Some sections are unpacked, others liable
to erosion. Its 6m-wide clay base has limited drainage structure. It offers an LI standard of
service at present. The average daily traffic in 1993 was 80 vehicles.
(e)    The influence area comprises about 16,120 acres of land.
(f)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F44 standard; (ii) adoption of
yield-increasing methods for cereal production (8,680 acres); (iii) improvement of route (496
acres); and (iv) cattle and ovine development for milk and meat production.
Kef - Mahassen Road (No. 121)
(g)   This 16.3-km long road crosses slightly hilly terrain. It has a rough surface and its clay rock
base has limited drainage structure. It offers an LI 1 standard of service at present. The average
daily traffic in 1993 was 230 vehicles.



80                                                                      Annex 4.1
(h)    The influence area comprises about 7,837 acres of land. It has tremendous agricultural potential
for all sorts of cultivation.
(i)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F3 standard; (ii) tree planting to
raise production of fruits (372 acres); (iii) adoption of yield-increasing methods for cereal
production (3,968 acres); and (iv) cattle development for milk production.
14.    Three roads belong to the Kairouan Governorate where agriculture, the primary economic
activity of the governorate, is changing from an emphasis on cereal growing to arboriculture.
Sbikha - Sisseb Road (No. 411)
(a)    This 19-km long road crosses flat terrain. It has a 8m-wide clay base with fair drainage
structure. It offers an Li standard of service at present and the average daily traffic in 1993 was
149 vehicles.
(b)    The influence area comprises 855 inhabitants and about 32,768 acres of land, of which 5,208
acres are irrigated.
(c)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F3 standard; (ii) adoption of yield-
increasing methods for cereal production (7,440 acres); (iii) improvement of route (2,728 acres);
(iv) irrigation (248 acres); and (v) cattle development for milk production.
Bouhajia - Jhina Road (No. 413)
(d)    This 26-km long road crossing flat terrain is at ground level and has to be heightened by 15 cm.
Minor water flows cross its very wide (12 to 14 m) sandy base. It offers an LI standard of
service at present. The average daily traffic in 1993 was 62 vehicles.
(e)    The influence area comprises 9,950 inhabitants and about 29,839 acres of land, of which 1,181
acres are irrigated.
(f)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F3 standard; (ii) tree planting and
rehabilitation to raise production of olives, almonds and fruits (492 acres) (iii) improvement of
route (248 acres); and (iv) irrigation (372 acres).
Oueslatia - Ain Mastour Road (No.414)
(g)    This 15.8-km long road crosses slightly hilly terrain. Its surface is rough and its sandy clay base
is 12m-wide, it has fair drainage structure. It offers an LI1 standard of service at present. The
average daily traffic in 1993 was 222 vehicles.
(h)    The influence area comprises 2,480 inhabitants and about 19,756 acres of land, of which 397
acres are irrigated.
(i)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F44 standard; (ii) tree planting and
rehabilitation to raise production of fruits (669 acres); (iii) improvement of route (620 acres);
and (iv) cattle development for milk production.
15.    Two roads belong to the Siliana Governorate where despite good agricultural potential,
enormous efforts still remain to be undertaken in order to improve the efficiency of applied agricultural
methods.



Annex 4.1                                                                     81
Kesra Bou Abdallah Road (No. 208)
(a)    This 17.5-km long road crosses hilly, forested terrain. It has a 7m-wide clay base with limited
drainage structure and offers an LI standard of service at present. Spot slope stability as well
as water sources originating close to it are noticed. The average daily traffic in 1993 was 167
vehicles.
(b)   The influence area comprises 3,660 inhabitants and about 15,872 acres of land, of which 496
acres are irrigated. Cereal growing and arboriculture are the most prevalent activities in this
area.
(c)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F3 standard; (ii) tree planting and
rehabilitation to raise production of olives and fruits (764 acres); (iii) adoption of yield-
increasing methods for cereal production (3,770 acres); (iv) improvement of route (744 acres);
and (v) irrigation (74 acres).
Jama - Bourouis Road (No. 255)
(d)   This 11.6-km long road crossing hilly terrain has a clayey, tuffy base and offers an LI standard
of service at present. On the first five kilometers, considerable excavation works are needed.
The average daily traffic in 1993 was 265 vehicles.
(e)    The influence area comprises 2,610 inhabitants and about 10,317 acres of land, of which 422
acres are irrigated. Intensification measures are conceivable to improve the agricultural system.
(f)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F44 standard; (ii) tree planting and
rehabilitation to raise production of olives and fruits (1,215 acres); (iii) adoption of yield-
increasing methods for cereal production (3,770 acres); (iv) improvement of route (496 acres);
(v) irrigation (149 acres); and (vi) cattle and ovine development for milk and meat production.
16.    One road belongs to the Gafsa Governorate, a govemorate with a harsh climate. Here
livestock, mainly ovine, are a tradition, and the primary source of revenue for the rural population.
Sidi Boubaker Road (No. 713)
(a)    This 23.5-km long road has two sections. The first, 5-km long, crosses flat terrain and has a 5
to 6-m wide base. The second, with a 7-m wide base, crosses hilly to montainous terrain.
Drainage structure is generally poor and actual risks of undermining along the road should be
addressed. This road offers an L1I standard of service at present. The average daily traffic in
1993 was 137 vehicles.
(b)   The influence area comprises 2,150 inhabitants and about 21,998 acres of land, of which 1,838
acres are irrigated. Due to the problems the mining industry is encountering in the region,
certain populations are settling down in their former lands in this area where water scarcity
remains an obstacle to agricultural development.
(c)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F3 standard; (ii) tree planting to
raise production of olives, almonds and fruits (719 acres); (iii) crop creation and rehabilition
(5,109 acres); (iv) adoption of yield-increasing methods for cereal production (1897 acres); (v)
improvement of route (496 acres); (vi) irrigation (248 acres); and (vii) cattle development for
milk production.
17.    Two roads belong to the Sfax Governorate where 45% of the national olive harvest is produced
by less than 10% of the national olive groves.



82                                                                      Annex 4. 1
Rouadhi - Teniour Road (No. 1708)
(a)    This 20.3-km long road crosses flat terrain. It has a 9 to 12m-wide sandy, clayey base with
limited drainage structure and offers an Li standard of service at present. Risk of undermining
is noticed between km 12 and km 14. The average daily traffic in 1993 was 531 vehicles.
(b)    The influence area comprises 2,650 inhabitants, of whom 1,250 work in agriculture, and about
20,068 acres of land, of which 62 acres are irrigated. Irrigation is very weak in this area.
(c)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F4 standard; (ii) tree planting to
raise production of fruits (496 acres); (iii) crop rehabilitation (2,480 acres); (iv) improvement
of route (1,493 acres); and (v) irrigation (25 acres).
Blettech - Bederna Road (No. 1752)
(d)    This 29-km long road crossing flat terrain, has a sandy clay 7m-wide base and offers an LI
standard of service at present. It has limited drainage structure. The average daily traffic in 1993
was 323 vehicles.
(e)    The influence area comprises 6,800 inhabitants of whom, 3,800 work in agriculture, and about
25,296 acres of land, of which 102 acres are irrigated. It has a good agricultural potential.
(f)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F44 standard; (ii) crop
rehabilitation (3,224 acres); (iii) irrigation (50 acres); and (iv) cattle development for milk
production.
18.    Two roads belong to the Medenine Governorate where a saharian climate prevails that is not
favourable to agricultural development.
Beni khedache - Demmer Road (No. 1806)
(a)    This 5.2-km long road crosses hilly terrain. It is unpacked on roughly all its length and has a
7m-wide clayey base with limited drainage structure. It offers an L1 standard of service at
present. The average daily traffic in 1993 was 193 vehicles.
(b)    The influence area comprises 3,520 inhabitants, of whom,508 are farm holders, and about 5149
acres of land. Strengthening farmers' skills is a priority in this area.
(c)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F3 standard; (ii) tree planting to
raise production of olives (124 acres); (iii) adoption of yield-increasing methods for cereal
production (2,108 acres); (iv) improvement of route (248 acres); and (v) irrigation.
Ajim - El Kantara Road (No. 1810)
(d)    This 16.3-km long road crossing slightly hilly terrain has a tuffy 6m- wide base and offers an
L2 standard of service at present. It has limited drainage structure. The average daily traffic in
1993 was 255 vehicles.
(e)    The influence area comprises 6,770 inhabitants, of whom 409 are farm holders, and about
11,351 acres of land, of which 124 acres are irrigated. It has good agricultural potential.
(f)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F44 standard; (ii) tree planting to
raise production of olives and almonds (298 acres); (iii) adoption of yield-increasing methods
for cereal production (3,150 acres); (iv) improvement of route (620 acres); and (v) irrigation.
19.    Two roads belong to the Sidi-Bouzid Governorate where the climate is not favourable to
agricultural development, water resources are scarce and land use is suboptimal.



Annex 4.1                                                                    83
Gammouda Road (No.614)
(a)    This 24.8-km long road crosses flat terrain. Its surface is rough and its 9 to 12m-wide sandy
clay base has fair drainage structure. It offers an LI standard of service at present. The average
daily traffic in 1993 was 178 vehicles.
(b)   The influence area comprises 8,421 inhabitants and about 16,988 acres of land, of which 12,276
acres are irrigated.
(c)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F3 standard; (ii) non rain-fed crops
rehabilitation (79 acres); (iii) adoption of yield-increasing methods for cereal production (74
acres); (iv) improvement of route (744 acres); and (v) hive development for honey production.
Regueb - Bir Ali Ben Kheifa Road (No. 616)
(d)   This 19.5-km long road crossing very flat terrain has a clayey sand large 14m- wide base and
offers an Li standard of service at present. It is unpacked on virtually all of its length, with spot
erosion risks. It has limited drainage structure. The average daily traffic in 1993 was 223
vehicles.
(e)    The influence area comprises 1,913 inhabitants and about 11,904 acres of land, of which 707
acres are irrigated. Arboriculture prevails in this area, and agricultural methods have to be
improved.
(f)    Project investments comprise. (i) upgrading of the road to an F44 standard; (ii) crop
rehabilitation (5,915 acres); (iii) adoption of yield-increasing methods for cereal production
(2,133 acres); (iv) improvement of route (248 acres); and (v) hive development for honey
prodution.
20.    Two roads belong to the Kebili Governorate where date harvests represent 55% of the total
value of agricultural production.
Menchia - Jazira El Baidha Road (No. 2003)
(a)    This 9-km long road crosses flat to slightly hilly terrain. Its tuffy 6m-wide base has fair drainage
structure and is unpacked. It offers an LI standard of service at present. The average daily
traffic in 1993 was 225 vehicles.
(b)   The influence area comprises 3,550 inhabitants, of whom 778 are farm holders, and about 6,944
acres of land, of which 1,255 acres are irrigated. Parcelling is the major obstacle to agricultural
development in the area.
(c)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F3 standard; (ii) oases
rehabilitation (558 acres); (iii) prop development (124 acres); (iv) improvement of route (620
acres); and (v) intensification of farming (558 acres).
Fej Errih - Rabta Road (No. 2004)
(d)   This 2-km long road crossing flat terrain is the extension of a paved track. It has a sandy 8m-
wide base and offers an L12 standard of service at present. It received an improving tuff layer.
The average daily traffic in 1993 was 152 vehicles.
(e)    The influence area comprises 2,875 inhabitants, of whom 220 are farm holders, and about 1,860
acres of land, of which 375 acres are irrigated. Forage crops and marketable garden products
could potentially be developed.



84                                                                    Annex 4.1
(f)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F3 standard; (ii) plants
development (25 acres); (iv) improvement of route (248 acres); and (v) intensification of
farning (174 acres).
21.    One road belongs to the Gabes Governorate where the bulk of agricultural production is
concentrated in coastal farms.
Mareth - Lafam Road (No. 814)
(a)    This 16.5-km long road crosses hilly terrain. Its tuffy 8m-wide base has limited drainage
structure and is unpacked. It offers an L 1I standard of service at present. The average daily
traffic in 1993 was 331 vehicles.
(b)   The influence area comprises 61,254 inhabitants, of whom 1,912 are farm holders, and about
39,224 acres of land, of which 992 acres are irrigated. It has good agricultural potential.
(c)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F44 standard; (ii) plants
development (2,108 acres); (iii) improvement of route (3,720 acres); (iv) intensification of
farming (4,836 acres); and (v) irrigation (79 acres).
22.    One road belongs to the Tataouine Governorate where erosion is the main obstacle to
agricultural development.
Ksar Haddada - Oued El Khil Road (No. 1901)
(a)    This 12.3-km long road crosses very hilly terrain. It has a 5m-wide tuffy base with major slope
stability problems all along. It has limited drainage structure and offers an LI standard of service
at present. The average daily traffic in 1993 was 70 vehicles.
(b)   The influence area comprises 2,440 inhabitants, of whom 543 are farm holders, and about
39,335 acres of land, of which 174 acres are irrigated. Introduction of intensification methods
and improvement of irrigation are of major concern.
(c)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F3 standard; (ii) crop development
(2,584 acres); (iii) improvement of route (2,480 acres); (iv) intensification of farming (3,621
acres); and (v) irrigation (79 acres).
23.    One road belongs to the Tozeur Governorate where due to harsh climatic conditions, only
rainfed production has been developed. Dates constitute the main produce in the area.
Chamsa - El Hamma Road (No. 2102)
(a)    This 13.5-km long road crossing flat terrain has a 2 to 6m-wide clayey, sandy and tuff base with
silting-up risks all along. It has limited drainage structure. Its standard of service at present is
LI and the average daily traffic in 1993 was 41 vehicles.
(b)   The influence area comprises 3,450 inhabitants, of whom 552 are farm holders, and about
11,296 acres of land, of which 1,932 acres are irrigated.
(c)    Project investments comprise: (i) upgrading of the road to an F4 standard; (ii) tree planting for
olives and fruits production (12 acres); (iii) crop rehabilitation (384 acres); (iv) oases
rehabilitation (174 acres); (v) improvement of route (248 acres); (vi) intensification of fanning
(1,414 acres); (vii) irrigation (79 acres); (iix) protection against silting-up (372 acres); and (ix)
bovine and camel breeding development for milk and meat production.



Annex 4.1                                                                    85
B. METHODOLOGY OF THE ECONOMIC EVALUATION
24.    The methodology used by the consultants directly follows the simplified procedures described
in Staff Working Paper No. 6102 for computation of a "simple economic return" based on most
significant benefits, and not on all quantifiable benefits. The advantage is to limit the data needed for
the evaluation, thereby speeding up the evaluation, whereas the (minor) disadvantage is to underestimate
the ERR. The consultant used Procedure 7, which not only accounts for increases in the agricultural
value-added assuming unchanged farmgate prices, but also the transport revenue related to transfer of
the additional farm production to the market, and the vehicle operating cost savings related to non-
agricultural traffic. On farm consumption effects are deemed negligible. Agricultural production is
measured within the road's influence area where boundaries are determined by examining the position
of the road in the local network, distances between farms and markets nearby, the terrain, and means
of transport used. The methodology best applies to roads with low traffic. Assuming interdependent
road improvement and agriculture development and computing a single ERR for the agricultural and
road investments treated as joint costs, the methodology is not suitable for optimization of road
improvement standards, nor for ranking of subprojects by order of ERRs since some benefits are not
captured, and may vary in size from one road to another.
25.    The agriculture-related traffic has been measured indirectly. Production was first assessed using
a model developed by FAO. Transport requirements correspond to production net of own-consumption
on the farm. Quantities generated by the nature of crops were apportioned to three categories of
vehicles, based on average load factors (shown between brackets):
-     a pick-up truck ( 0.3-0.6 ton);
*     a light truck (1.2-3.5 ton);
-     a farm tractor and trailor (1.5-3 ton).
Traffic distribution between the three vehicles would be modified with the project. The main changes
would come for agricultural input, forage crops, fruits and vegetables which would switch from tractors
and trailors to pick-up trucks and, to a lesser extent, to light trucks. Surveys were carried out over two
days in two places to determine the non-agricultural traffic, adjusted for weekly variations associated
to rural fairs and assumed to grow at an annual rate of 1.5-2% reflect the ongoing depopulation of rural
areas. Vehicle operating costs have been computed on the basis of HDM III. Road investment
comprised of land acquisition, earth moving, drainage, road structures, and surfacing, were estimated
based on preliminary engineering studies for each road, and vary according to standards chosen, from
a minimum of D 45 million for N3 to a maximum of D 150 million for N5. Road maintenance costs
include routine maintenance and the annualized periodic maintenance costs. They range from less than
$50 per km and per year for an LI standard, to around $4,500 per km and per year for a N5 standard.
26.    Agricultural production modelling associates a given crop (e.g. indian corn) to various
characteristics, for example nine zones were defined based on a combination of climates and soils, and
development potential was estimated under three degrees of cultivation intensity. These combinations
led to a typology of 73 cases for the calculation of yields, production, and input quantities. The road
2/ See: H.L. Beenhakker & A. M. Largo "Economic Appraisal of Rural Roads: Simplified Operational
Procedures for Screening and Appraisal" Staff Working Paper Nr. 610, October 1983.



86                                                                            Annex 4.1
influence areas extend an average of 1.6 km on each side of the road and cover about 800 acres. The
arable lands in the influence area are distributed by nature of crops, allowing evaluation of physical
production. Agricultural improvements assumed under the project translate into a different and more
productive land use pattern, and a larger proportion of arable lands in the influence area. Farmgate
prices were either drawn from 1993 statistics kept by the Ministry of Agriculture, or obtained from
public agencies3. The prices of agricultural inputs have been computed net of taxes but including
subsidies. Agricultural investment costs are based on data obtained from comparable recent projects,
and come to a total of roughly D 52 million for the entire project, of which some 70% would be
financed by the private sector.
C. RESULTS OF THE ECONOMIC EVALUATION4
27.     The Net Present Value (NPV) (at a 12%  discount rate) and the ERR have been computed for
each road, and are shown in Table 4.1.1: Economic Evaluation Summary, together with results of the
sensitivity analysis. Calculated ERRs are in the 19.6 - 138.9% range (weighed average of 40%).
Table 4.1.1: Economic Evaluation Summary
Location    Len-    93            Investments         Type    NPV               ERR
&         gth  traffic         (D million)
Road Number  (km)   (adt)     Road      Agric    Tot.           D       Best    Inv.      Bnf.
million    est.    +15%    -15%
Tunis Cfov-
-No 1008      2        697 0.192      0.175    0.367   F44   0.634    44.63   39.47      37.12
-No 1009      1.6      272  0.128     0.133    0.261   F4    0.436     39.17   34.51     32.29
- No 1010     4.7      369  0.400     0.240   0.640   F44   0.318      21.37   17.82     16.18
-No 1013      1.4      620  0.960     0.140    1.100   F4    0.246     30.50   26.30     23.95
Naheul Giony-
- No 322      6        524 0.544      0.315    0.859   F44   4.579    68.73   62.01      55.08
- No 323      9.9      344  1.000     0.235    1.235   F44   0.955     27.00  22.79      20.34
- No 324      7.7       67 0.544      0.191    0.735   F3    1.257    41.14   35.93      29.14
- No 327      8        151 0.408      0.291    0.699   F3    2.664    72.27   64.21      60.66
- No 328      5.5       55 0.288      0.256   0.544   F3    0.601      35.47   30.41     20.28
- No 329      4        127 0.216      0.292    0.508   F3    1.432    51.06   45.80      41.06
- No 333      7.8      101 0.488      0.236   0.724   F3    0.989    33.44   29.33       23.91
- No 336      5.8      158 0.192      0.169   0.361   F3    0.737      50.77   44.04     39.59
- No 340      6        102 0.312      0.222    0.534   F3    2.170    76.90   68.52      63.79
31 For instance, Societe Tunisienne du Sucre gave price estimates for sugar beet.
4/ See for details: SCET/Studi/BCEOM, Preparation du Programme de Routes Rurales, Novembre 1993.



Annex 4.1                                                                                     87
Location     Len-    93             Investments           Type    NPV                 ERR
&          gth   traffic          (D million)
Road Number  (km)   (adt)        Road      Agric    Tot.              D       Best    Inv.        Bnf.
million    est.    +15%    -15%
Ariana Gay
- No 2203      3.5        87  0.184       0.146    0.330   F3    0.360       33.11   28.61      25.80
- No 2205      7.9       116  0.392      0.213    0.605   F3    0.469       26.17   22.39       20.35
- No 2208      6.8       117  0.192      0.327    0.519   F3      1.495     62.61   55.38       51.29
- No 2209      4         587  0.304      0.299    0.603   F44   2.339       69.31   61.93       57.49
- No 2210      3.2        19  0.216      0.224    0.440   F3    4.005        138.9   124.04     115.75
- No 2211      2.7       285  0.160      0.063    0.223   F3      2.310      7       118.58     111.11
- No 2212      7          81  0.368      0.190    0.558   F3    0.768        132.3   31.98      28.03
- No 2213      8.2       192  0.352      0.459    0.811   F3      1.221      3       35.30      32.55
36.73
40.42
BizerteGf.ov
-No 912       10         204  0.696       1.605    2.301   F3    2.362       36.17   30.98      26.74
-No 914        8.6       170  0.560       0.589    1.149   F3     1.162      32.04   27.67      25.16
-No 915        7.5        53  0.672       0.670    1.342   F4    2.478      46.29   40.59       37.60
-No 917        5.8       102  0.528      0.867    1.395   F44   2.040       43.68   37.82       34.22
Ren-Arous
lay            2.5      284  0.120       0.301    0.421   F3      1.749     78.96   70.19       66.16
-No 2301       3.7       282  0.264       0.226    0.490   F3     3.509      103.5  92.91       88.62
-No 2304       4         252  0.216       0.870    1.086   F3    2.795       9       99.85      95.43
-No 2305       6.5       110  0.368       1.330    1.698   F4    4.484       111.1   54.26      50.02
-No 2306                                                                     8
62.23
Jendoimhn bo
-No 1305      13          75  0.672      0.737    1.409   F3      1.239     29.92   25.62       22.43
-No 1309      10.5       150  0.800      0.515    1.315   F44    1.818       37.86   32.98      27.60
-No 1310       8         117  0.352       0.524    0.876   F3    0.857       31.85   27.44      24.23
-No 1311      15.9       154  1.024       2.322    3.346   F3    2.741       30.22   25.82      22.96
-No 1314       6.6        72  0.272      0.738    1.010   F3    2.804       57.14   51.05       46.88
-No 1319      10.5       216  0.528      0.472    1.000   F3    2.050       45.02   39.91       36.53
Zaglmn
Coy           10.3        64  0.510      1.342    1.852   F3      1.184     36.96   31.73       27.20
-No 1110       8.7       130  0.560      0.983    1.543   F3    0.493       20.16   16.71       13.89
-No 1112
Mnnastir Ctrv
-No 1501       3.1        31  0.152      0.099    0.251   F3    0.244       27.74   24.19       22.10
-No 1557       7.5       273  0.512      0.178    0.690   F4    0.598       29.11   24.59       21.65
Kasserine
Clay          14         249  0.696      2.877    3.573   F3      1.550     23.54   19.30       16.59
-No 509       18         177  1.152      4.676    5.828   F3    5.124        34.75   29.56      25.85
-No 513
Sousse loy
-No 1406       8         311  0.560      0.224    0.784   F4    0.611       26.12   22.18       19.89
-No 1407      12.3       275  0.824      0.218    1.042   F4      1.095      30.35   26.01      22.89
-No 1408       7         145  0.424      0.417    0.841   F3      0.623     26.74   22.65       20.79



88                                                                                 Annex 4.1
Location     Len-    93             Investments          7ype    NPV                 ERR
&          gth   traffic         (D million)
Road Number  (km)   (adt)       Road      Agric    Tot.              D       Best    Inv.        Bnf.
million    est.    +15%      -15%
Mahdia CTo
-No 1605       8         174  0.304      0.254    0.558   F3    0.459      28.30   24.04       21.75
-No 1606      12.7      463  1.192       0.338    1.530   F44    1.012     24.50   20.62       17.86
-No 1654       4        293  0.224       0.091    0.315   F3    0.498      39.58   34.37       31.26
-No 1657      10.8      245  0.480       0.222    0.702   F3     1.350     44.99   39.47       35.74
Re6ja Gtov
-No 1206      20         98  1.144       0.835    1.979   F3    2.764      38.21   33.22       28.99
-No 1207       8.3      245  0.808       0.715    1.523   F44   2.054       36.05   31.37      27.25
-No 1208      16.2       112  0.704      1.268    1.972   F3    2.789       39.85   34.63      31.02
Kef Gov
-No 113       12         115  0.720      0.760    1.480   F3     1.522      32.49   27.92      24.18
-No 117        6.8        80  0.688      1.101    1.789   F44   2.866      46.47   40.47       34.83
-No 121       16.3      230  0.936       0.731    1.667   F3     1.239     25.36   21.80       19.67
Kairnuan Ciov
-No 411       19         149  1.296      1.724    3.020   F3    6.585      56.61   49.58       44.49
-No 413       26         62  1.040       0.653    1.693   F3    7.307      81.18   72.04       63.38
-No 414       15.8      222  1.464       0.416    1.880   F44   0.780      20.19   16.59       13.34
.lafca Cloyv
-No 713       23.5       137  1.488      2.346    3.834   F3     1.874     23.16   19.24       16.03
Sfax Gov
-No 1708      20.3      531  1.200       1.056    2.256   F4    4.091      43.88   38.37       35.12
-No 1752      29        323  2.512       1,162    3.674   F44   3.331      32.56   27.76       24.23
Wdenn
Gay            5.2      193  0.304       0.345    0.649   F3    0.915      40.76   35.38       32.33
-No 1806      16.3      255  1.312       0.704    2.016   F44    1.897     30.28   25.75       23.62
-No 1810
Sid-RL117id
-No 614       24.8       178  1.440      0.243    1.683   F3    7.306      72.08   64.43       58.05
-No 616       19.5      223  1.584       1.788    3.372   F44    1.031      19.60   15.71      12.79
Kehili Cno
-No 2003       9        225  0.544       0.865    1.409   F3     1.494     35.43   30.42       28.00
-No 2004       2         152  0.080      0.198    0.278   F3    0.648      59.27   52.06       48.31
f.ah2s Cinv
-No 814       16.5      331  1.496       3.210    4.706   F44   7.826      49.24   42.73       39.13
Siliana Ciny
-No 208       17.5       167  1.064      1.000    2.064   F3    2.423      34.83   30.03       26.96
-No 255       11.6      265  1.368       1.414    2.782   F44    1.169     22.83   19.10       16.23
Titaofne
lay           12.3       70  0.784       1.253    2.037   F3     1.304     26.69   22.46      20.27
-No 1901



Annex 4.1                                                                                  89
Location    Len-    93             Investments          Type    NPV                ERR
&         gth   traffic         (D million)
Road Number  (knm)   (adt)      Road     Agric    Tot.             D       Best    Inv.       Bnf.
million    est.    +15%    -15%
Tozeur LGov
-No 2102      13.5       41  1.040      0.641    1.681   F4    3.855     51.31   45.16      41.72






M  e d' i t e r r a n e a n 
a.  a-  .                                                                       I I  , ,    \  oL  E  Gulf of Tunis
-                    V'   SA                                      i'          NI :SC -/ ,q'      '                KeSbA
3S -
/  _ _ g _                                                                                     I K        M-rl T-i
- TA-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
j  8      i (;lous   ~Afov  ,t                                        Gulf of
\    t        \\    Sll' I'      /               )         i    d  ;   }tmm(3met
TUNISIA ~ ~ ~ IN
_______ RROSEO ROADS W'AMATE} ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~S
OK.E_,,,  t                                                                                                MON tA   GiAtE .R A    N
il s                            >9l                                          sA M i                           I
Lli~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
s rlQesswz   ~       KSs  R 1'4                     1i H ,              L                                    -     1 ttH
(D5                                                                                 SO B  / ^'.;Us1r                        .44i\;                 tlrt
T!5                                                                                                                       L          Is~ / 8  ~  \  i ( !   L*oAL L5_
!Rd- st~of                                                                                                                  MLOA ' A Cll(SA IE S
/  - - - ,--, 'R LAL IL?RtALA L                                                          Gulf of
Gabes ~ ~ ~ ~~[LS
\    Ek                                  \       <-           ~        _v ~~_/T                                                            H.l E-r.>k
'   "'J' Cwof Jerl                                                      G    I                                    J  >f  ,AmgIMirK
A                                                                                                                                                                                                ATUNISIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT               
-   FPoJEcT ROADS WPFGRA]NIJ                                                                                     /j_ 
-     .scr3ARY Kr3S|                                                                                                     .                >
'         lrDRGAUGRIIR3D 11                                                                                                        \
u   ; xw                    i\    GG~~~~~lRNt>3~At(IRPORS                                                                                    A-bJv     <l        etso
> .s, _<, d .........Rnlf @ NAIKLArS/\ )  
rs~~~~~~~~ - -5 - _P                                                                                                                                         I                          ;
rm  W -  i . J . C                                                                                                                                        r'          L NDNItA  3 YA  A  
ac   3                             ?                                           lo                                                 tb                        o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AtFI



