Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3840 TUN
                              Loan Agreement
                           (Rural Roads Project)
                                  between
                            REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                          Dated February 14, 1995
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3840 TUN
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated February 14, 1995, between the REPUBLIC OF
TUNISIA (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
    WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
    WHEREAS (B) the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with
Page  2
the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
    (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
    (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
          "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
    under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
    inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3
    of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
    (a)   "affected person" means a person, either holder of real
or personal rights to land or landless, who for at least one
(1) year prior to the date of the publication of the decree
referred to in Article 12 of the Borrower's Expropriation Law
No. 76-85 dated August 11, 1976, as amended from time to time,
has been ordinarily cultivating land, or carrying on any trade,
occupation, or calling or working for gain, in the area
expropriated for the purpose of Part C of the Project;
    (b)   "Category" means a Category of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, as set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and the term
"Categories" means more than one Category collectively;
    (c)   "Central Bank" means the Central Bank of Tunisia
(Banque Centrale de Tunisie) established and operating pursuant
to the Borrower's Law No. 58-90 dated September 19, 1958, as
the same may be amended from time to time;
    (d)   "Dinar" means the currency of the Borrower;
    (e)   "DGPC" means the General Directorate of Bridges and
Roads (Direction Generale des Ponts et Chaussees) within the
MEH (as hereinafter defined), or any successor thereto;
    (f)   "Fiscal Year" or "FY" means the twelve (12) month
period corresponding to any of the Borrower's fiscal years,
which period commences on January 1 and ends on December 31 in
each calendar year;
    (g)   "Impact Indicators" mean the impact indicators agreed
with the Borrower to assess the progress of the Borrower in
achieving the objectives of the Project, as the same may be
updated in accordance with the provisions of Section D of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
    (h)   "Institutional Action Plan" means the action plan to be
prepared by the IWG (as hereinafter defined) setting forth the
specific actions and measures for the implementation of the
Program (as hereinafter defined) and referred to in Section
4.02 of this Agreement;
    (i)   "IWG" means the Interministerial Working Group (Groupe
de Travail Interdepartemental) established by the Borrower to
carry out preparatory work on the Institutional Action Plan and
Part A of the Project;
    (j)   "MEH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Equipment and
Housing (Ministere de l'Equipement et de l'Habitat) established
and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 74-93 dated
February 15, 1974, Decree No. 88-1413 dated July 22, 1988, and
Decree No. 92-248 dated February 3, 1992, as amended from time
to time;
Page  3
    (k)   "Program" means the program of objectives and policies
designed to strengthen and further develop the Borrower's roads
sector set forth in a letter from the Borrower to the Bank
dated November 23, 1994;
    (l)   "Quarter" means a three-month period commencing on
January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a Fiscal Year;
    (m)   "selected rural road" means a rural road listed in
Schedule 6 to this Agreement and to be upgraded by the Borrower
under Part C of the Project; and
    (n)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
    Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of fifty-one million five
hundred thousand dollars ($51,500,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
    Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of works and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
    (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in its
Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 7 to this
Agreement.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
    Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
    Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
    (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
    (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                on the date immediately preceding each date
                specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
Page  4
                beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                Agreement is signed.
         (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
                be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                interest rates determined otherwise than as
                provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
        (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                second six months of a calendar year.
    (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
          principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
          from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
          the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
          of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
          (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
          2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
          accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
          preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
          applicable during such Interest Period."
                "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
          Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
          of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
          Quarter."
                "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
          commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1
          in a calendar year."
    Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
    Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
through the MEH with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, engineering,
environmental, financial, road and technical practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
    (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall take all
necessary measures to ensure that adequate budgetary funds are
made available to the MEH at all times for the successful
operation and sustainability of the Project, including, in
particular, the provision of annual maintenance budgetary
resources suitably increased in proportion to the length of the
roads being upgraded under Part C of the Project.
    (c)   Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section and except as the
Page  5
Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the works and consultants' services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
    Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
    (a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for
this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the
future operation of the Project;
    (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan; and
    (c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking
into account the Bank's comments thereon.
                                ARTICLE IV
                       Financial and Other Covenants
    Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
    (b)   The Borrower shall:
          (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
                for the Special Account, for each Fiscal Year
                audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                principles consistently applied, by independent
                auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                any case not later than six (6) months after the
                end of each such year, the report of such audit
                by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                requested; and
        (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                concerning said records and accounts and the
                audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                reasonably request.
    (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                has received the audit report for the Fiscal Year
                in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                Account or payment out of the Special Account was
                made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
Page  6
                such expenditures;
        (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                records; and
         (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                included in the annual audit referred to in
                paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                auditors as to whether the statements of
                expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year,
                together with the procedures and internal
                controls involved in their preparation, can be
                relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
    Section 4.02. The Borrower shall:
    (a)   cause the IWG to prepare and submit the
Institutional Action Plan to the Bank for its review and
approval not later than March 31, 1996;
    (b)   promptly thereafter, approve the Institutional
Action Plan as the same shall have been agreed upon between the
Borrower and the Bank; and
    (c)   carry out the Institutional Action Plan with due
diligence and efficiency and take all actions necessary to
ensure the effectiveness thereof, as follows: (i) not later
than June 30, 1998, implement a significant portion of the
Institutional Action Plan, as said portion shall have been
determined to be acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) not later
than December 31, 2001, implement the Institutional Action Plan
in its entirety.
                                 ARTICLE V
                                Termination
    Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 6.01. The Minister of International Cooperation and
Foreign Investment of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
    Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
          Ministry of International Cooperation
            and Foreign Investment
          149, Avenue de la Liberte
          1002 Tunis-Belvedere
          Republic of Tunisia
          Cable address:                       Telex:
                MCIIE                             18060
    For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
Page  7
          United States of America
          Cable address:                        Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                         248423 (RCA),
                Washington, D.C.                   82987 (FTCC),
                                                   64145 (WUI) or
                                                  197688 (TRT)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
                       REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
                       By /s/ Azouz Ennifar
                                                Authorized Representative
                       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                       By /s/ Caio Koch-Weser
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                             Middle East and North Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                 Amount of the
                                Loan Allocated             % of
                                (Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                       Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil Works                   44,700,000          60%
(2)  Consultants'                   2,100,000          83%
     Services and
     Training
(3)  Unallocated                    4,700,000
                                    __________
          TOTAL                     51,500,000
                                    ==========
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
3.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
for: (i) works, under contracts not exceeding $250,000
equivalent; (ii) services of consulting firms, under contracts
not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; and (iii) services of
individual consultants, under contracts not exceeding $50,000
equivalent, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Page  8
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
improving the management of its roads sector, carrying out
related suitable budgetary reforms, expanding the participation
of the private sector in road maintenance, improving roads
standards, reducing rural-urban migration and disparities
between urban and rural areas, and benefitting the poorer
population groups through the enhanced delivery of social
services. To these ends, the Project aims particularly at: (i)
improving the maintenance of rural roads; (ii) decentralizing
responsibilities for road management; (iii) establishing an
appropriate link between budgets and road classi- fication and
strengthening budgetary discipline, transparency and
accountability; (iv) improving the efficiency of road
maintenance works through an increased participation of the
private sector; and (v) minimizing life-cycle costs of roads by
optimizing the use of unpaved road techniques.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Institutional Development
    Development and implementation of a program of institutional
reforms designed to improve the management of the Borrower's
roads sector and its budgetary system, facilitate the
participation and development of the private sector role in
road maintenance works of the Borrower's rural roads network
and establish optimal road standards, consisting of: (i) the
reclassification of the rural roads' network; (ii) the
establishment of an appropriate link, respectively, between
budgets, road standards and resources, and road ownership and
classification categories; (iii) the identi- fication of the
road maintenance works which can be carried out by the private
sector more efficiently and at a lower cost; and (iv) the
definition of optimal rural roads standards.
Part B:   Pilot Periodic Rehabilitation
    Carrying out, pursuant to Part A (iii) hereof, of  a pilot
program to periodically rehabilitate by contract, through the
application of different types of road works consisting mainly
of regravelling, about 300 kilometers of gravel roads located
in ten (10) governorates.
Part C:   Rural Roads Upgrading
    Upgrading of about 715 kilometers of selected rural roads,
including paving of selected portions, construction to minimal
unpaved standards, and construction in anticipation of possible
future paving.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
    beginning on May 1, 2000
    through May 1, 2011                        2,145,000
Page  9
and on November 1, 2011                        2,165,000
_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
    determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
    General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                               Premium
                                       The interest rate (expressed
                                       as a percentage per annum)
                                       applicable to the Loan on the
                                       day of prepayment multiplied
                                       by:
Not more than three years                            0.18
    before maturity
More than three years but                            0.35
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                              0.65
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not                           0.88
    more than 15 years
    before maturity
More than 15 years before                            1.00
    maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Works
Page  10
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.  Works under Part C of the Project shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with
those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), and in accordance with the
following additional procedures.
    (a)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to
and in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the
Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and
award the contract.  The bid validity period may be extended a
second time only if the bidding documents or the request for
extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid
price to reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract
over the period of extension.  Such an increase in the bid
price shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
With respect to each contract made subject to the Bank's prior
review in accordance with the provisions of Part C.2 (a) of
this Section, the Bank's prior approval will be required for:
(i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the period
of extension exceeds sixty (60) days; and (ii) any subsequent
extension of the bid validity period.
    (b)   In the procurement of works in accordance with this
Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto
as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes
of the Project.  Where no relevant standard bidding documents
have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding
documents based on other internationally recognized standard
forms agreed with the Bank.
2.  Bidders for works under Part C of the Project shall be
prequalified as provided in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
3.  To the extent practicable, contracts for works under Part C
of the Project shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to
cost the equivalent of $2,000,000 or more.
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
Local Competitive Bidding
    Works under Part B of the Project may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory
to the Bank.
Part C:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of prequalification:
    With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided
in Part A.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to: (i) each contract for works to be
awarded under Part A hereof estimated to cost the equivalent of
$1,000,000 or more; and (ii) the first contract for works to be
awarded under Part B hereof, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two (2) conformed copies of the contract required to
Page  11
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall
be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two (2) conformed copies of the contract together with the
other information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant
to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of
the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Loan Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
3.  The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants: (i) whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) who
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981
(the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants'
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower
shall use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to: (i)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (ii) contracts for
the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank
review shall not apply to: (i) the terms of reference for such
contracts; (ii) single-source selection of consulting firms;
(iii) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably
determined by the Bank; (iv) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above; or (v) amendments to contracts
for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                          Implementation Program
Section A:   Institutional Arrangements
1.  General Directorate of Bridges and Roads (DGPC)
    (a)   The DGPC shall have overall responsibility for the
implementation and oversight of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure that the
DGPC is provided at all times with staff, financial and
physical resources adequate to enable it to carry out its
Page  12
responsibilities.
    (b)   For the purposes of ensuring the proper
coordination and execution of the Project, the DGPC shall be
vested specific responsibility for, inter alia: (i) timely
planning and coordination of Project activities; (ii)
monitoring progress in the imple- mentation of Project
activities; (iii) liaising with the Bank; (iv) preparing the
quarterly Project progress reports referred to in Section D.2
(b) hereof for submission to the Bank, and, on those basis,
preparing the final Project completion report referred to in
Section 9.07 (c) of the General Conditions; and (v) carrying
out procurement of works and employing consultants in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines thereon and supervising
the execution of works and services under the Project.
2.  Interministerial Working Group (IWG)
    For purposes of ensuring an efficient sustenance of Project
activities, the Borrower shall maintain the IWG throughout the
period of Project implementation under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section B:  Criteria for Selection of Road Periodic Rehabilitation
    In order to maximize the benefits to be derived from the
Project, the Borrower shall establish, on the basis of
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, that the roads selected for
periodic rehabilitation under Part B of the Project shall yield
an economic rate of return of at least 15%.
Section C:  Environmental Safeguards
1.  For each rural road proposed to be upgraded under Part C of
the Project, the Borrower shall cause the DGPC:
    (a)   to prepare and submit for the Bank's review and
approval before the award of a contract for works for each said
road a standard assessment questionnaire issued by the Bank
identifying any potential adverse environmental effects to be
produced by the proposed works; and
    (b)   to follow mitigation guidelines satisfactory to the
Bank and the Borrower's Agence Nationale pour la Protection de
l'Environnement to screen and mitigate any such adverse
environmental effects.
2.  In the event a portion of land adjacent to the rural road is
required to be expropriated to upgrade a road under Part C of
the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that each affected
person shall be provided with compensation for said portion of
land, consisting at his or her option and subject to the
availability of public agricultural land, in either land of
equivalent productive potential or cash compensation,
determined at the replacement value of the land, or, in the
case of a landless affected person, determined in accordance
with an alternative procedure satisfactory to the Bank, and, as
appropriately, with compensation for other lost immovable
assets, determined in accordance with guidelines satisfactory
to the Bank.
Section D:  Project Monitoring
1.  The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, or cause the DGPC to
furnish to the Bank, not later than June 30, 1995, a list,
satisfactory to the Bank, defining the baseline values for
public and private agricultural investments in the rural roads'
zone of influence to be utilized as parameters for the Impact
Indicators.
2.  The Borrower shall cause the DGPC:
Page  13
    (a)   to maintain operational procedures adequate to enable
it to monitor, in accordance with the Impact Indicators, the
progress achieved in carrying out the Project and any
constraints hindering the achievement of the objectives of the
Project;
    (b)   to prepare and furnish to the Bank, not later than the
30th day after the end of each Quarter in each Fiscal Year
beginning with Quarter after the Quarter ending on September
30, 1995, a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request, on the conclusions and
recommendations resulting from the monitoring activities
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) above during the preceding
Quarter and any corrective action proposed to further the
progress of the Project, along with proposed Project activities
for the following Quarter; and
    (c)   to afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views on said reports, and, thereafter, undertake any remedial
measures agreed upon by the Borrower and the Bank to ensure the
proper execution of the Project.
Section E:  Mid-Term Review
    The Borrower shall cause the DGPC:
    (a)   to prepare and submit to the Bank, not later than July
31, 1998 a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Borrower and the Bank shall have agreed, on, inter alia: (i)
the progress achieved by the DCPC in carrying out the Project
during the precedent mid-term Project implementation period,
with special focus on Part A of the Project and Project
achievements measured on the basis of the Impact Indicators and
the agreed Project objectives and implementation schedule; (ii)
the progress under the Institutional Action Plan; (iii)
proposed revisions to be introduced to the Impact Indicators;
(iv) the commitments and the prospective future disbursements
for Project activities; (v) the actual and planned
implementation of public agricultural investments in the rural
roads' zone of influence; and (vi) a detailed description of
the implementation of the arrangements for procurement of works
and employment of consultants for all Project components.
    (b)   not later than October 31, 1998, to exchange views with
the IWG and the Bank on said report; and
    (c)   promptly thereafter, to introduce such modifications
into the Impact indicators, as shall have been agreed upon with
the Bank, and to take all action which the Borrower and the
Bank shall have agreed is required on the part of the DGPC to
ensure the successful and timely implementation of the Project
and to achieve the objectives thereof.
                                SCHEDULE 6
                           Selected Rural Roads
    Unless the Bank may otherwise agree, the rural roads to be
upgraded under Part C of the Project shall consist of the
following roads:
1.  Governorate of Tunis: the Bir Jazzar Road (No. 1008), the
Miaou Road (No. 1009), the Cite Lahbibi Road (No. 1010), and
the Borj Chakir Road (No. 1013);
2   Governorate of Nabeul: the Tabbene Road (No. 322), the El-
Haouaria Road (No. 323), the Bayadha Road (No. 324), the Dar
Joundi-Jabouza Road (No. 327), the Daroufa Road (No. 328), the
Grombalia-Nianou Road (No. 329), the Hannous Road (No. 333),
the Bou Argoub-Barrage Masri Road (No. 336), and the Sidi
Hamed-Zaouiet Jedidi Road (No. 340);
Page  14
3.  Governorate of Ariana: the Borj Chakir-Bouregba Road (No.
2203), the Bir Jazzar-Mornaguia Road (No. 2205), the
Raccordement GP7-RVE 511 Road (No. 2208), the Djedeida-Sidi S.
Tebbassi Road (No. 2209), the Mannouba-Sidi Ali Hattab Road
(No. 2210), the El Batan-Hathermine Road (No. 2211), the Forna-
El Guerat par Mahfoura Road (No. 2212), and the Mornaguia-El
Attar par Hmaiem Road (No. 2213);
4.  Governorate of Bizerte: the Menzel Zid-Ghabaya-Batia Road
(No. 912), the Sidi El Bechir-RVE 356 Road (No. 914), the Alia-
Ras Djebel Road (No. 915), the Ain Ksiba-Ras El Ain Road (No.
917);
5.  Governorate of Ben Arous: the Bairem-Khlij Road (No. 2301),
the Zaouia-Oued Meliane Road (No. 2304), the Zaouia-Sidi Saad
Road (No. 2305), and the Sidi Fraj-Hasbine Road (No. 2306);
6.  Governorate of Jendouba: the Chemtou El Galaa Road (No.
1305), the Touahria Road (No. 1309), the Zralbia-Hamma
Ouechtata Road (No. 1310), the Abdel Jabbar Road (No. 1311),
the Etrakhna-El Khiaitia Road (No. 1314), and the Damous Road
(No. 1319);
7.  Governorate of Zaghouan: the Boucha-Freksine Road (No. 1110)
and the Sebbala Hamra Road (No. 1112);
8.  Governorate of Monastir: the MC 82-Ksibet El Mediouni Road
(No. 1501) and the Cherahil-Sidi Bannour Road (No. 1557);
9.  Governorate of Kasserine: the Majel Bel Abbes-Ennadhour Road
(No. 509) and the Sbeitla-Khanguet Zazia Road (No. 513);
10. Governorate of Sousse: the Enfidha-Frada-Sidi Saidane
Road (No. 1406), the Frada Road (No. 1407) and the Sidi El
Heni-Ouled Khechine Road (No. 1408);
11. Governorate of Mahdia: the Zgondia-Krarcha-Hkaima Road
(No. 1605), the Boumerdes-Ababsa-Maata Road (No. 1606), the
Ksour Essaf-El Hajeb Road (No. 1654), and the Sidi Alouane-
Bradaa Road (No. 1657);
12. Governorate of Beja: the Sidi Ahmed Road (No. 1206),
the Tarhouni-Amdoun Road (No. 1207), and the Matria-Teboursouk
Road (No. 1208);
13. Governorate of Kef: the Zanfour Road (No. 113), the MC
173 Mellala Road (No. 117), and the Kef-Mahassen Road (No.
121);
14. Governorate of Kairouan: the Sbikha-Sisseb Road (No.
411), the Bouhajla-Jhina Road (No. 413), and the Oueslatia-Ain
Mastour Road (No. 414);
15. Governorate of Siliana: the Kesra Bou Abdallah Road
(No. 208) and the Jama-Bourouis Road (No. 255);
16. Governorate of Gafsa: the Sidi Boubaker Road (No. 713);
17. Governorate of Sfax: the Rouadhi-Teniour Road (No.
1708) and the Blettech-Bederna Road (No. 1752);
18. Governorate of Medenine: the Beni Khedache-Demmer Road
(No. 1806) and the Ajim-El Kantara Road (No. 1810);
19. Governorate of Sidi-Bouzid: the Gammouda Road (No. 614)
and the Regueb-Bir Ali Ben Khelifa Road (No. 616);
20. Governorate of Kebili: the Menchia-Jazira El Baidha
Road (No. 2003) and the Fej Errih-Rabta Road (No. 2004);
21. Governorate of Gabes: the Mareth-Lafam Road (No. 814);
Page  15
22. Governorate of Tataouine: the Ksar Haddada-Oued El Khil
Road (No. 1901); and
23. Governorate of Tozeur: the Chamsa-El Hamma Road (No.
2102).
                                SCHEDULE 7
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of works and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $2,300,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                deposits into the Special Account at such
                intervals as the Bank shall specify.
         (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                and other evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested.  On the basis of each such request,
                the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                by said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                expenditures. All such deposits shall be
                withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under
                the respective eligible Categories, and in the
                respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
                justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
Page  16
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
    (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
    (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
    (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining
on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to
the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
Page  17
