Document of               F           COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-1754-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
FOR THE
ELEVENTH INDUSTRIAL IMPORTS PROGRAM
February 2, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as at December 8, 1975)
Rs 1.00          =     Paise 100
US$1.00          =     Rs 8.91
Rs 1.00          =     US$0.1123
Rs I million     =     US$112,250
(Prior to September 24, 1975, the Rupee was officially
valued at a fixed Pound Sterling rate. Since then, it
has been fixed relative to a "basket" of currencies
consisting of the U.S. Dollar, the Pound Sterling, the
Deutschmark and the Japanese Yen. As all of these cur-
rencies are now floating, the U.S. Dollar/Rupee exchange
rate is subject to change. Conversions in the appraisal
report were made, unless otherwise stated, at US$1 to Rs 8.75
which was the short-term average at the time of appraisal.)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA FOR THE
ELEVENTH INDUSTRIAL ITtPORTS PROGRAM
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to India in an amount equivalent to US$200 million on standard IDA
terms for the Eleventh Industrial Imports Program.
PART I - TIIE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Economic Situation and Prospects
of India" (691a-IN dated May 1, 1975) was distributed to the Executive Direc-
tors on May 20, 1975. A country data sheet is attached as Annex 1.
Background
3.        India is exceptional among the Bank Group's member countries for its
size and diversity. While India's economic policies and performance have
their shortcomings, the sheer magnitude of the task facing the Government
must be recognized; the country is divided into more than 20 states with a
population of some 600 million and over 60 languages. The country's poverty
and inadequiate domestic savings, together with a net transfer of external
resources averaging in recent years only about US$1 per head per annuim, have
imposed sharp limitations on the rate of growth. Account must be taken, also,
of the uncertainties imposed by the erratic availability of water. A bad
monsoon, which is inevitable from time to time, has a aervasive influence over
the entire economy and wipes out the results of years of efforts. Thus, the
annual growth of national income has averaged a modest 4% during the past 25
years, but only about 1% during the last four years (1971/72-1974/75), which
have included two consecutive monsoon failures -- i.e., an actual decline in
per capita terms.
4.         Since independence, progress has been impressive on many fronts, but
disappointing on others, and has all too often fallen short of India's massive
needs. The growth of the socio-economic infrastructure (transport, education,
health services, etc.) has been spectacular, but has often been achieved at
high cost and has yielded results of variable quality. Many industrial and
agricultural investment schemes have been highly successful, but others have
taken excessively long to be completed and have operated well below fulL capa-
city. In some regions of the country, growth and structural change have been
rapid and compare favorably with developments in many other parts of the world,
but in other regions there has been stagnation and possibly even decline.
Despite improvements and although the distribution of income in India is
relatively even by comparison with most developing countries, there has been
little impact upon the living standards of the vast masses of the urban and
rural population. The Government has become increasingly concerned about the
plight of the lower income strata, which - conservatively measured - consist
of some 200 million people with incomes of less than US$60 per head per year,
and has initiated in recent years a variety of programs specifically designed
to alleviate poverty.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
5.        The structure of the economy has been slow to change.    Agriculture
remains the dominant sector, accounting for some 45% of natinnal product in
the earl.y 1970s compared with around 49% twenty years previously. The share
of output contributed by the industrial sector has increased onlv slowly and,
since the late 1960s, has remained approximately constant at a level of 23.'.
There has, however, been a shift in the composition of industrial production,
with consumer, intermediate, and capital goods now contributing about one
third each, compared with an overwhelming preponderancce of consumer goods
prodtuction 25 years ago.
Development Potential
6.        Despite the slow pace of change and despite the undeniable magni-
tude of the problems confronting her, India has the potential. in a number
of important fields to mount a development effort which has a reas-onable
chance of success in th-e longer run.  In agriculture, as Ci.scussed in the
economic report of MIay 1975, the particular opportunities of substantial
promise for improving the food situation over the next decade are:
a.   Rejuvenation of the Green Revolution in wheat which
has taken place in recent years in the Northwest
and to a lesser extnt in Bihar and Wlest Bengal, but
which has been losing momentum since about 1970.    This
is the result of deficiencies which can be corrected --
most importantly seed deterioration and lagging irrigation
development.
b.   Better use of the vast potentials that have been created
by surface irrigation through more expeditious project
completion and complementary land and on-farm imiorovements
to ensure better management and higher productivity of water.
c.   Acceleration of groundwater development, especially in the
Eastern regi.ons, which are figuratively describhed as "floating
on water," where the untapped potential. is large and where
consequently there are large opportunit:ies for multiple
cropping, bett-er water management and greater crop security.
d.   Promotion of increased production of monsoon rice,
based on improved varieties which as yet have had onlv
modest success but which are expected, on the basis of
current research, to open the way to much greater product-
ivity over India's vast rain-fed rice producing areas during
the next few years.
e.   Pursuit of the promising, althouglh somewhat less definite,
potential for greater productivity in dryland cultivation
and for extensive introduction of higher-yielding varieties
of coarse grai.ns.
Because of the difficulties likely to be encountered in tihe effective devel-
opment of these potentials, their realization is likely to follow unleven time



- 3 -
patterns, probably coming in bursts of expanded production as in the case
of the Green Revolution. And, along with administral:ive concentration and
effectiveness, they will all require provision of the supplies and services,
especially fertilizer and power for irrigation, whicth are essential comple-
ments of the necessary technical and environmental changes.
7.        Greater agricultural success would also make an important contri-
bution to India's perenially difficult balance of payments situation, which
is frequently aggravated by the need for large food imports. From the balance
of payments viewpoint, another essential ingredient for a resumption of modest
growth is sustained export volume growth at considerably higher rates than have
been achieved historically. In view of the composition of Indian exports, the
momentum for such growth would have to be provided primarily by the rapid
expansion of industrial exports which, in addition to easing the foreign
exchange constraint, would act as an important stimulant to industrial growth
-- notably absent since the mid-sixties. In the field of energy, too, there is
considerable potential in the development of recently discovered oil resources
and in the continued expansion of coal production.
8.        It is hard, however, to conceive of the timely and effective ex-
ploitation of these various potentials unless administrative capabilities,
which are overtaxed and diffused in an attempt to guide and control most
economic activities, are focused on these areas. The requirement for indus-
trial export stimulation would appear to be more generous and expeditious
incentives, sufficiently attractive and reliable to induce domestic producers
to venture into the competitive pressures of world markets. Finally, real-
ization of India's potential will undoubtedly also require a considerable
infusion of external assistance, both to ease the payments constraints and
to supplement the limited domestic resources available for development.
Thus while there is potential for resuming the interrupted process of growth,
there remains the formidable obstacle of the short-run difficulties facing
India.
Recent Trends
9.        The past two to three years have been extraordinarily difficult for
the Indian economy. Not only did agriculture suffer a severe setback in 1972
and 1974 on account of poor monsoons but India experienced a serious deter-
ioration in her terms of trade as a result of the worldwide oil and commodity
price rises. In this situation it was hardly surprising that adjustment to
immediate difficulties was the prime economic preoccupation. Growth had
necessarily to take a second place to short-run exigencies in the emphasis
of economic policy at the start of the Fifth Five-Year Plan period.
10.       In contending with these difficulties, the economy did succeed in
posting some modest gains. National income rose by an average of just over
2% per annum during the two years 1973/74-1974/75. Hlowever, in the aftermath
of the poor monsoons and inflation, industrial output was more severely affec-
ted and, as a result, output actually declined in 1973/74 and achieved a growth
of only 2.5% in 1974/75 (Annex VIII). The most significant achievement during



- 4 -
this period was the outstanding success of the Government in curbing infla-
tion which had been rising at a rate of 30% per annum in mid-1974 but which
by mid-1975 was brought down to virtually zero. Tight credit restrictions
played an important part in this achievement and monetary expansion, which
had been running at a rate of 15% in 1973/74, was reduced to 6% in 1974/75.
The burden of these restrictions was borne largely by private and Government
commercial activities, without a significant reduction in the rate of increase
in net bank financing of the Government Budget.
11.       The shortage of food was especially acute over this period with the
drought of 1972 being followed by similar conditions in 1974. A crisis was
averted in 1974, however, by imports of more than 6 million tons of foodgrains
during the year ending in March 1975 or almost twice as much as the. imports of
1973/74. With these imports and with relative emphasis on food distribution
in the cities rather than the countryside, where supply conditions were
presumed to be not quite so unmanageable, the threatening food situation
was weathered, although not without hunger and privation for a great many of
the poor who were unable to afford much of what food was available.
12.       The oil situation was managed, although at double the cost for
a marginally lower import level, by curbs on consumption and by substitution.
Motor spirits were heavily taxed to reduce consumption by about 20%; fact-
ories and power plants were converted from fuel oil to coal wherever possible
and supplies of fuel oil were reduced by more than 15%; coal production, after
years of stagnation, was increased by about 10%, and, after a poor start,
transport managed to keep up with the additional coal in spite of serious
labor troubles on the railways. There was also some improvement in the
operation of the deficient power system through special efforts to raise the
low capacity utilization of thermal plants and by a more systematic allocation
of available power, with special priority for requirements of agricultural
irrigation and fertilizer production. Power shortages continued, however, to
affect adversely many regions.
13.       The balance of payments for 1974/75 turned out to be manageable
in spite of a 47% jump in the import bill (Annex VII). ELconomies in import
volume helped. More importantly, there was also an increase of 30% in the
value of exports. The main payments support, however, was an increase of
about US$1 billion in external financing, made up of large drawings on the
International Monetary Fund including the Fund's Oil Facility, larger aid
from the India Consortium including the World Bank Group, oil purchaes on
credit, a million tons of wheat on loan from the USSR, and additional food
aid from several other countries. With all this, in 1974/75 India had to
draw on its gross reserves (US$1,417 million as of March 31, 1974) by only
about US$50 million, but external debt service requirements in the medium
term were increased, as were obligations to the IMF.
Situation in 1975/76
14.       This year the economic situation, though still very difficult, is
more encouraging than last year. With a favorable summer monsoon and good
prospects for the forthcoming spring (rabi) crop foodgrain production is



-5-
confidently predicted to achieve a record of over 110 million tons. Infla-
tion continues to be tightly curbed, and the wholesale price index for July
1975 was actually 2.1% lower than a year earlier, unacljusted data indicated
that the index will show a further decline by the end of 1975. With good rains
and greatly increased coal production, the power situation has improved, and
the Government's expectation is of 20% growth in power generation over the
year. At the same time there has been a substantial improvement in the
availability of domestic raw materials, most notably steel. However, although
the performance of several public industries has improved considerably, de-
mand, particularly for consumer goods, continues to stagnate, and the Gov-
ernment's expectation of 5-7% growth is unlikely to be achieved. Industrial
growth of 4-5% now appears much more likely.
15.       Exports during the first six months of 1975/76 showed some volume
increases although in dollar terms, earnings showed only a marginal rise on
account of exchange depreciation. The trade deficit is likely to be almost
US$1.5 or somewhat lower than the US$1.7 billion deficit of last year. How-
ever, this should be compared with hardly any trade deficit at all in 1972/
73, which was before India's terms of trade worsened. Adding to the 1975/76
trade deficit another US$800 million of payments on exsternal obligations, and
taking account also of probable net invisible receipts, this year's overall
balance of payments deficit seems likely to come to about US$2.4 billion, or
about the same level as last year (Annex IV). These enormous deficits persist
in any reasonable calculation of minimum import requirements of fuel, food,
fertilizer and other essentials, for which further compression seems hardly
feasible, especially with the expected pick-up of the economy.
16.       Fortunately, nearly half of this year's prospective deficit (about
US$1,155 million) can be covered from gross disbursements of previously
committed foreign aid, including just over a billion dollars of Consortium
aid about evenly divided between bilateral and World !3ank Group sources.
Eastern Europe is expected to provide perhaps US$100 million, which is
down considerably from last year in the absence of further food assistance
from the USSR. India has already drawn US$240 million from this year's Oil
Facility, and can reasonably expect about US$500 million from disbursements
out of Consortium pledges made in June. This leaves IJS$600 million to
be financed from other sources, including a possible dlrawdown of foreign
exchange reserves, which stood at about US$1,480 million at January 9, 1976,
or the equivalent of just under 3 months of payments for imports and debt
service.
17.       To highlight the crucial variables in India's longer-term payments
outlook, the May 1975 economic report contains some projections, for the
10 years following 1975/76, illustrating India's debt management problem.
Broadly speaking, the conclusion which emerges is that a modest increase
in India's import capability - an average of 5.2% per annum after allowing
for inflation - could be achieved, provided: (a) new aid commitments in
real terms (including IMF facilities and the aid provided by oil producers)
remain approximately at 1974/75 levels, (b) India's exports attain an average
volume growth of about 8% between 1976/77 and 1985/86, and (c) the bulk of
new aid continues to be provided on concessional terms. Given the above
assumptions, the debt service ratio (expressed as a percentage of export
earnings) would rise from about 19% in 1974/75 to 23% in 1979/80 and then



decline slowly. India's external public debt outstanding and disbursed
on March 31, 1974, stood at US$10.2 billion.
18.       Clearly, further improvements in export performance will be
crucial to a successful development effort and for this reason India's
export performance and prospects are given special atten tion in Part II
below.
PART II - EXPORT PERFORMANCE AND PROSPECTS
Past Developments and Problems
19.       Long Run Trends:   Although the rate of growth of exports in
real terms has been rising over time, export performance since India's
Independence has been poor. As a result of this and rising import costs,
India has experienced a succession of severe balance of payments crises and
a chronic foreign exchange shortage. Moreover, the slow rate of growth of
industrial exports has limited the overall growth of the sector, given
the diminishing potential of import substitution as an engine of growth.
Over the period 1960/61 to 1974/75, growth of exports in real terms averaged
only about 3.5% p.a. although over the past three years (1972/73 to 1974/75)
the growth rate was higher at an average of 5% p.a. (Annex V).
20.        Part of the explanation for India's generally poor export per-
formance has been the initial dominance of stagnant items like jute,
cotton textiles, and tea which in 1950/51 accounted for 52% of India's
exports. Given their low rate of growth and steady decline in importance
to a level of about 23% of India's export in 1973/74, the overall rate of
growth should have risen as other, and particularly more dynamic, items
gained greater weight. However, although there have been many items that
have grown significantly over the past 25 years, characteristically the
growth of individual items has been spasmodic rather than sustained. A
result of India's failure to find items with sustained rapid growth has
been her declining share of overall world trade and of world trade in all
major categories. For instance, whereas India secured about 2% of world
trade in 1950/51, this percentage had declined to just over 0.5% in 1973/74.
21.       A significant feature of India's exports has been the growthl in
earnings from barter trade with Eastern European countries. From 1955/56 to
1967/68, of a total increase in export earnings of US$346 million, US$290
million (84%) was accounted for by growth in this trade, which does, of
course, severely limit India's flexibility in balance of payments manage-
ment. However since 1967/68, the almost total stagnation in India's earnings
of convertible currency appears to have ended.     Thus, while the average growth
rate in earnings from barter trade continued at around 16% per annum between
1960/61 and 1974/75, that of convertible currency earnings jumped from only
0.2% between 1960/61 and 1967/68 to 14% from 1967/68 to 1974/75 (Annex VI).
22.       Another significant aspect of India's efforts to adjust the
direction of its exports, and take advantage of new opportunities, has



- 7-
been its exports to Middle Eastern OPEC countries. Exports to these
countries rose from US$108 million in 1972/73 to US$560 million in 1974/75.
Engineering exports, for which there is a particularly good potential,
rose from US$38 million in 1972/73, to US$62 million in 1973/74 and US$132
million in 1974/75. Thus, these countries' share of India's total engine-
~ring exports, rose from 19% in 1972/73, to 28% in 1974/75. Apart from
ngineering goods, India has had success in exporting increased amounts
)f cement, sugar, jute bags, basmati rice, and livestock. This is a rela-
lively successful area of recent performance.
73.       The factors that have caused the generally poor performance are
nany and varied, since the composition of India's exports is extremely
ieterogeneous. In particular, distinctions must be rmade between problems
3f agricultural and manufactured commodities, and between thie situation
Df those homogenous commodities in the public sector and other items
which are produced by a wide range of profit-oriented private farmers and
Dusinessmen. As far as homogenous commodities like :iron ore, steel and coal
are concerned, the basic problem has been one of production and, in the case
)f iron ore, of transportation facilities. For agricultural commodities,
productivity and profitability for the farmer have been key issues.
In addition, overseas market conditions, the exchangc rate, and export taxes
aave all affected the various items in differing degrees. For the wide range
of commodities produced or processed by the private sector, the most fundamen-
tal problems have, undoubtedly, been those of the effective exchange rate and
Df the control system. The dominant orientation of Indian industrial develop-
nent has been towards total import substitution. Detailed studies have
indicated both that effective rates of protection and domestic resource cost
ratios have been variable, and that the effective exchange rate for export
activity, even allowing for the various export incentives, is far lower than
for activities oriented towards the domestic market. Correspondingly, profit-
ability has also generally been lower in exports. The control system, which
has been the main instrument of industrial policy and of foreign exchange
rationing, has had many significant effects on exports from the private
sector. In particular, firms have found the procedures for obtaining per-
mission to expand difficult and often restrictive. As a result many of the
firms that could have been the backbone of the export drive were discouraged.
Foreign exchange controls have restricted the access of exporters to appro-
priately priced inputs, and, in particular, have imposed numerous delays,
making it difficult to meet export deadlines. Other serious problems facing
private firms are those of (i) slow and unreliable and expensive freight
the last mentioned influenced to a considerable extent by control through
conference lines, and pervasive port congestion, (ii) regulations affecting
the use of labor, especially female labor, in industries like garments, and
electronics; and (iii) frequently changing rules and regulations restricting
the firms' speed of response and ability to plan, which are both most import-
ant for any export activity.
24.       The Government devalued by 57.5% in June 1966, partly in order
to tackle the problem of inadequate profitability in exports. However, at
the same time it reduced many export subsidies and imposed export duties
on many "traditional items" over which it thought India had monopoly power.
The resulting net devaluation on trade account was 21.6% for exports and
42.3% for imports. Thus, in a somewhat perverse development, although



- 8 -
the devaluation increased the profitability of tradeables vis-a-vis non-
tradeables, it also increased the incentive to produce import substitutes
by more than that to produce exports. Subsequently, the inadequacy of the
devaluation as executed was revealed, as were many of the problems con-
sidered above; in response, the Government introduced several further
measures which were defective in many respects. These are described below
as background to the policy changes introduced in 1975 which are described
in the following section.
25.       Cash assistance was introduced to offset domestic taxes and levies
which were incurred at various stages in the manufacturing process and which
were not covered by duty drawback arrangements. The computation of this as-
sistance was based primarily upon the differences between domestic short-run
marginal costs of production and f.o.b. realizations. As a compensatory
arrangement, however, there was no relationship with the extent of domestic
value added. Most of the assistance went to the engineering goods industry,
which still accounts for only about 10% of total exports. Other industries,
many of which have been the basis of other LDC exports performance and have
great promise for India, such as leather goods, jute, and textiles, have
received less assistance. An additional problem was the practice of announc-
ing cash assistance on an annual basis, which discouraged firms from planning
export-oriented investments. Further, since cash assistance was not designed
to cover long-run cost effects, it provided no incentive for such investment.
26.       Another incentive was the import replenishment license (REP) which
is a supplement to the normal import license.    A manufacturer received an
import license on the basis of his production needs and in accordance with the
priority of his industry. If a manufacturer exported some of his output he
would receive an REP equivalent to the estimated import content of his exports.
REPs were transferable within certain limits laid down by GOI and could
command a premium on the domestic market. The market for REPs has been small
as manufacturers preferred to retain their import entitlements. However, to
the extent REPs were traded, their value was affected by availability of
domestic raw materials and was influenced by the business cycle, all of which
led to unpredictable prices for REPs.    This price volatility ran counter to
the objective of trying to establish a more secure environment for sustained
export growth. But, of much more importance was the application of "indigenous
angle" clearance, and restrictions on the proportions of the license alloted
for specific items, which severely reduced both the value of the license and
the flexibility it provided to exporters.
27.       The third important incentive, the duty drawback, was designed
to repay to the exporter all excise and import duties, which can be very high.
Difficulties were created by the complex procedures for agreeing on the
initial rate of drawback and on securing payment. The former was especially
discouraging for those firms which have a constantly changing input-mix, while
the latter was an unnecessary disincentive.
28.       The Government also introduced export obligations in the hope
that those firms which were restricted from expanding would be encouraged to
accept an obligation in order to obtain increased access to the domestic
market. In general, the export obligation was set at around 60%, although
specific levels were developed for certain industry groups and categories of



- 9 -
ownership. However, faced with inadequate profitability from exports, many
industrialists appeared unwilling to invest in expansion even with the pros-
pect of increased access to the domestic market. Further, in the case of
engineering goods, it is unlikely that such extreme export orientation is
sustainable and where obligations have been accepted, there have been ins-
tances where these have been fulfilled through the export of poor quality
goods which have damaged India's reputation.
29.        To summarize, in looking at India's past performance as a whole,
there are some commodities whose export expansion has been constrained by
market factors outside India's control. But for a large proportion of India's
exports, and certainly for that portion which has potential for dynamic
growth, the points mentioned above are indicators of the more deep-seated
problem of how to overcome the effect of years of domestic protection in the
interest of import substitution. Central to this problem are the two over-
riding obstacles to better performance, namely profitability and competitive-
ness in terms of price as well as quality. Related to these obstacles are the
key issues of (1) granting greater freedom to efficient firms to expand since
they will be the basis of any export drive; (2) developing a more secure
industrial policy environment; (3) improving profitability especially in
respect of exports; (4) giving exporters access to essential inputs at
reasonable prices through freedom to import when needed.
Policy Changes in 1975
30.        A growing recognition over the past three years of the obstacles
just mentioned led to some improvements, largely procedural, being introduced.
But it was only during 1975 that the Government recognized fully the need to
set export goals and to introduce more substantive changes. This recognition
was heralded by the Prime Minister who in a recent Speech stated: "We must
prepare ourselves to achieve an annual growth in exports of at least 8%-10% in
volume." She also said: "Perhaps we have lived too long in the rather cosy
atmosphere of a high cost sheltered domestic market.. Now we must venture out
into the world with a new spirit of dynamism and eff-iciency." Further, on the
importance of export profitability, Mrs. Gandhi stated" "It is obvious that
exports cannot be increased by mere exhortation. We are alive to the need
to make it worthwhile for exporters to sell in the more exacting markets
abroad." While Indian policy is still directed towards import substitution,
which leads to the banning of competitive imports and the use of controls,
shifts in emphasis and in the operation of policy have been made which are
likely to lead to better utilization of current export potential, and
which indicate a new willingness to make policy adjustments, when necessary,
to expand exports. The changes made so far cover four important areas,
namely, industrial licensing, import licensing, bureaucratic procedures,
and the level and extent of cash incentives.
31.        The most significant changes in industrial licensing policy, at
least for exporters of engineering goods, have resulted from the recommendations
of the Sondhi Committee (a Government Committee chaired by Mr. M. Sondhi,
Secretary of the Department of Heavy Industry which reported in May 1975). Of



- 10-
particular interest is the automatic approval for production beyond authorized
capacity, when earmarked for exports, and improved arangements for the supply
of inputs for export production; a second major policy change is the permission
granted to all firms for automatic expansion of 25% in capacity over a five-
year period for a broadly defined group of "select" industries. Other import-
ant recommendations of this committe, not strictly limited to industrial
licensing, were (i) lengthening the period for which cash assistance is
guaranteed; (ii) exempting import duty on raw materials imported under advance
REP licenses; (iii) focusing the right to impose export obligations in the
Licensing Committe; and (iv) various changes in export credit. All these
recommendations have been accepted except the future basis for the computation
of cash assistance which is still under discussion within the Government.
32.       The second major area in which changes have occurred is that of
import licensing where significant improvements in liberalization have been
introduced. Under the new import policy any actual user amongst the "select"
(i.e. priority) industries is guaranteed an automatic license for imports of
raw materials to meet the user's production target for the year. Users in
other than "select" industries who exported more than 20% of their production
are also receiving automatic licenses on this basis.      At the same time
replenishment licenses have been increased by 10% for all exporters, and by
an additional 10% for those whose domestic value added is more than 50%.
Finally, both the transferability of replenishment licenses, and the flexi-
bility with which they can be used, have been significantly increased, partly
through some pragmatic relaxation of "indigenous angle" clearance. Thus,
problems with the availability of raw material imports are significantly
reduced. Furthermore, since exporters can get all of last year's imports
through actual user licenses, the replenishment license is now clearly an
incentive.
33.        In the case of cash assistance, GOI announced in October 1975
an increase in cash assistance for a range of eligible industries, primarily
in the engineering goods sector, and the extension of cash assistance to
industries such as marine products, chemicals, and jute carpet backing which
had not been receiving this assistance before. Indeed, in the case of jute
backing, the Government imposed an export tax until quite recently. This
change is a positive indicator of GOI's willingness to extend assistance for
the expansion of exports. A change in the basis of computing cash assist-
ance, which would have the effect of a yet further increase of their value, is
still under discussion as mentioned above in paragraph 31.
34.        The final area of improvement has been procedural. The details
are complex, but it is clear that over the past two years there has been
a continuing acceleration in the speed with which the various industrial
and import license applications and incentive payment are being processed.
This is expected to go further with the present proposal to introduce automatic
payment of duty drawbacks and cash assistance, on receipt of claims, through
the commercial banks.



- 11 -
35.       Policy on the Exchange Rate:   Policy towards the exchange rate
is clearly important. During the period of exchange instability which began
in August, 1971, the Rupee was tied to the pound sterling. This has meant a
fairly steady devaluation against most currencies and has therefore partially
offset the decline in India's competitiveness that inflation was bringing
about. More recently, price stabilization in India has worked in favor of the
price competitiveness of India's exports. Since September 1975, the rupee has
been linked to a basket of currencies representing India's major trading
partners, which is expected to introduce stability into the Rupee exchange
rate.
36.       Monitoring Export Progress:   A Cabinet Committee consisting
of the Ministers of Finance, Commerce, and Industry has been established.
It possesses the delegated power of the Cabinet. Its establishment has
clearly speeded up decision-making, cut through inter-ministerial conflicts,
and focussed attention on the importance of exports. Several examples can
be cited of its effectiveness: the speed with which the recommendations
of the Sondhi Committee on engineering exports were accepted (paragraph
31); the ease with which significant increases in the automaticity and
flexibility of import licensing were introduced; the speed with which the
October decision to expand the scope of cash assistance was taken; and the
willingness to push through and organize the politically and administrative-
ly complex task of exporting a quarter of the available sugar. The Cabinet
Committee is serviced largely by the Ministry of Commerce and is receiving
regular information on short-term progress from these sources. Information
on specific industries comes largely from the export promotion councils
which meet regularly with their sponsoring ministries. Perhaps the most
important such meeting is a monthly one between the Engineering Export
Promotion Council and the Secretary of the Department of Heavy Industry.
Although statistics on exports are usually about four months out of date,
the Trade Development Authority prepares quarterly forecasts, which are of
high quality. Thus, the primary inflow of information into the Government
is quite good.
37.       Export Outlook for 1975/76.   GOI originally projected 1975/76
exports at Rs 38 billion, which implied volume growth of more than 12% over
1974/75 compared to the average rate of growth of 5% in volume since 1969/70.
Since 1975/76 is proving a decidedly adverse year for world trade, this
estimate has now been revised to Rs 35-36.5 billion based upon a 6% volume
growth. The lower and upper limits of volume growth are estimated at 4% and
8% growth, respectively. GOI's original target depended upon achieving
extremely high increases for sugar (which accounts for 45% of the targeted
volume increase), iron and steel (which account for 23%), cotton textiles
(which account for 10%) and leather and leather manufactures (which account
for 9%), and upon avoiding sharp falls in vulnerable items like jute manufac-
tures, tea, iron ore, and cashews.
38.       The very large increase in sugar exports is, on the basis of
contracts already entered into, feasible. Much of the target for iron
and steel should also be achieved, since there is now a very substantial



- 12 -
exportable surplus. But, at present, the world market for steel is soft
so contract breaking as well as renegotiation' of prices is very probable
and a shortfall from the target may occur. Of the items expected to grow over.
1974/75, cotton textiles are the most dubious, especially millmade piecegoods,
and a shortfall of more than 10% from GOI's 1975/76 target is likely.      For
leather the target is likely to be achieved. Chrome tanned and,, particu-
larly, finished leather are going very well and the latter is likely to double
in volume over 1974/75. This is very encouraging for GOI's overall program of
conversion from semi-finished to finished leather. It appears, therefore,
that three of the four categories expected by GOI to generate much of the
growth should do well. However, other items are likely to fall short of
expectations, for a variety of reasons, but largely because of poor world
demand. These include gems, iron ore, chemicals, and tea.
39.       On balance, it is the expected shortfalls in the various vulner-
able items that lead to the view that a 6% volume growth rate is the most
probable outcome. However, a small decrease in dollar value over last year's
level of about US$4,130 million may occur because of an expected decline in
the dollar prices of India's exports by about 5.5% since 1974/75.
Export Program
40.        Somewhat over a half of India's export earnings come from manufac-
tured items. The balance comprises various commodities for which individual
export programs need to be , and are being, developed by the Government. For
the purposes of this credit, the Association has concentrated upon the export
development of manufactured items. Clearly,, the emphasis on import substitu-
tion, the persistent shortage of foreign exchange and concern over concentra-
tion of economic power have all deeply influenced the structure and management
of industry over the past two decades and the resulting industrial policy
administration has led to the obstacles to better export performance. In
these circumstances, the task of reorientating the focus of industrial activity
will take time and thus an export program will have to be concerned with the
short- and long-run aspects.
41.        For the short term, the essential feature of policy must be more
use of existing capacity for export. The measures described in paragraphs
30-34 will undoubtedly assist in this direction. The Government has indicated
that a minimum real growth rate in exports of around 8% per annum should be
the objective, and this will be no easy task to accomplish especially over the
next year or so on account of worldwide trends. The Government intends to
monitor progress closely in order to make further adjustments as when and
necessary. The Government.will send (in. acccordance with Section 3.04(c) of
the Development Credit Agreement) to the Association a quarterly report on its
monitoring activity which will include an aqalysis of trends and proposals for
remedial measures.
42.        For the longer term, GOI has recognized the need for some fundament-
al structural changes. Most especially this recognition is to be found in
respect of engineering goods in the Sondhi Committee report (see also paragmph
31), but a program which will provide conditions and incentives for promoting
new investment for export and more vigorous exploitation of India's export



- 13 -
potential has yet to be formulated. This will be a particularly difficult and
complex task and the Association will be maintaining a close dialogue with the
Government on this aspect. GOI representatives at the negotiations of this
credit explained that the Government had initiated the formulation of develop-
ment programs for modernization and expansion for four key exporting industries,
sugar, cotton textiles, cement and engineering industries which in 1974/75 ac-
counted for 30% of India's total exports and have considerable potential in
the future. The Government will send the Association by August 1976 informa-
tion on the progress in preparing these programs and will also examine the pos-
sibility of identifying projects or programs which the Bank Group could assist.
The Government will also send a response to the various policy proposals set
out in the Textile Machinery report which was prepared by the Association as
part of the appraisal of this credit and which is available to Executive
Directors on request (Report 976-IN of January 27, 1976). The summary and con-
clusions of this report are attached as Annex XI which, in turn, is summarized
in paragraphs 75-80. ICICI is carrying out under Loan 1097-IN a study of
export performance, problems and prospects of its clients. The results should
be directly relevant to the export policy considerations of the Government.
PART III - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
43.        Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 44 loans and 75 development
credits to India totalling US$1,436 million and US$3,635 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$721 million has been
repaid, and US$1,519 million was still undisbursed as of November 30, 1975.
Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of November 30,
1975, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
44.        Since 1957, IFC has made 14 commitments in India totaling US$51.8
million, of which US$9.6 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 milion cancelled. Of the balance of US$27.7 million, US$21.2 mil-
lion represents loans and US$6.5 milloin equity. A summary statement of
IFC operations as of November 30, 1975, is also included in Annex II
(page 2).
45.        In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agrictulture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting
minor irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit
operations. Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying
are other agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the
Bank Group has been active in financing the expansion of output in the
fertilizer sector and through its sizeabre assistance to development fi-
nance institutions, in a wide range of geographically scattered medium-
and small-scale industrial enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw
materials and components for selected priority sectors under previous
industrial imports program credits has been instrumental in facilitating
better capacity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been



- 14 -
act-ve in supporting irnfrastructure development for power, tel.ecommuni-
cati-ons. and railways.  F'amily planning, education, water supply develop-
mnerit. andc urban investments have also received Bank Group support in recent
years .
46.       The direction of assistance uLnder the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government priorities.   The empha-
sis of the program or agriculture, industry, power, and transport remains
highly relevant.  Projects designed to foster agricultural production through
the provision of essential inputs such as credit for on-farm investments,
command area development of existing irrigation schemes, and seed produc-
tion form, an important aspect of the Bank Gro(up's program for the next years.
Special emphasi-s will be given to projects benefitting smal'L farmers. Lending
in support of infrastructure and industrial investments will focus on energy-
related projects.  Repeater credits for power anod railways 1-have priority in
this context, and discussions are under way withi the Government in an effort
to identify and prepare projects specifically designed to facilitate coal
transport.  Lending for fertilizer projects, which has been an important
feature in recent years, is expected tc, continue to occupy a prominent place
in the future program.
47.       The need for a substantial net transfer of ext:ernal resources
min support of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of Bank economic
reports and of the discussions withlin the lndia Consortium. The need for
readily usable foreign exch-iange assistance is especially pressing at a tPime
when output and investmrent have to be adjusted to a radically different
price situation.  Consequenitly, Bank Group lending for critical industrial
raw materials and components continues to be an essential element within
the overall program of assistance.  As in the past, Bank Group assistance
for projects in India should include, as appropri.ate, the financing of local
expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because of the
capacity of the domestic capital goods industry. The import component of
projects tends to be especially low in such high-priority areas as agricul-
ture, education, and family p],anning. For the Bank C-roup to he able to make
an appropriate contribution to the financing of projects in these sectors, it
is importanit to cover a proporti,on of local expenditures.
48.       Of the external assistance received by Tndia, the proportion cooi-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly.   In 1969/70, the Bank
Grotup accounted for 34% of total comnitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 35%, 28% and
42A, respectively, in 1973/74, and the contributiort of the Bank Group is
expected to continue growing.  Vhereas on March 31, 1974, the Bank Group's
share of India's outstanding external ptublic debt was 23%, by 1979, it is
likel]y to account for about 25%.  Because Banlk GrCLup assistance to India is
predominantly in the form of IDA creclits, debt service to the Bank Group will
rise slowly.  In 1974/75, about 14% of rndia's total debt service payments
were to the Bank Group.



- 15 -
PART IV - THE PROPOSED PROGRAM CREDIT
THE CASE FOR PROGRAM ASSISTANCE
49.       The case for program assistance is based on our assessment of
two general factors, India's needs and the Government's own effort to promote
development especially in the areas of agriculture, energy and exports.
India's need for assistance requires little amplification. India has one of
the lowest per capita incomes; she ranks among the countries most affected by
the oil crisis and commodity inflation; and she has to endure the vagaries of
the monsoon the failure of which can have such devastating effect. In the
past, the Association has emphasized the difficulty of India's domestic
resource situation, the inadequate foreign exchange available to supplement
these domestic resources, and thus India's need for aid. The last Industrial
Imports Credit (Cr. 528-IN) for US$100 million was signed on February 14,
1975. The amount of the credit was subsequently raised to US$200 million and
an amendment to the Development Credit Agreement to this effect was signed on
March 7, 1975. The Closing Date of the Credit is June 30, 1976. However,
the credit had been fully disbursed by the end of January 1976. Approval of a
further credit at this time will assist the Government to ensure an uninter-
rupted flow of maintenance imports for the industrial sector.
Domestic Resource Position
50.        By a combination of fiscal and monetary measures, the increase in
wholesale prices in the year ending March 1975 was only 7.7% as compared to
about 30% in the corresponding period of the previous year.    Since March 1975
wholesale prices have been declining and unadjusted data for the latter part
of 1975 show that by the end of this year, the index will be below the level
of 12 months previously. Efforts to enforce greater discipline in non develop-
ment expenditure were further reinforced by measures to mop up additional pur-
chasing power by impounding one-half of the increase in wages, and by imposing
a ceiling on distributable profits. The Bank rate was raised from 7% to 9% in
July 1974, and the overall credit policy has been one of restraint. Mobiliza-
tion of resources by the Central and State Governments reached a record level
of Rs 1,048 crores, but on account of the increase in dearness allowances,
food subsidies, larger purchases of fertilizers and additional outlays in
capital formation, the aggregate deficit in 1974/75 was Rs 727 crores or Rs
234 crores higher than in the previous year.
51.       The Annual Plan for 1975/76 envisages an increase in development
outlays of about 23% over 1974/75. Domestic budgetary resources are expected
to finance 82% of the plan outlay as against 79% in the previous year.
External assistance including oil credits is expected. to provide about 14%
while the remaining 4% would be met through deficit financing. The Government
has introduced measures to improve tax collection and. has also made clear its
determination to control wage increases. An underlying trend which has
adversely affected the domestic resource position for some years now has been
the low level and stagnation in savings. In the early sixties, the total
savings ratio averaged 13%. By 1973/74, this ratio had fallen to 12%.    This has



- 16 -
compounded India's difficulty in trying to achieve economic growth and there
would seem to be no easy remedy as the only sustainable solution lies in the
long and arduous task of making more effective use of the country's existing
capabilities for domestic as well as export production. GOI has indicated
that for the next fiscal year (1976/77) development expenditures are likely to
increase by a further 20% which, in view of the price stability now achieved,
should stimulate a substantial and real increase in investment activity.
Priority will again be given to completing on-going irrigation and power
projects with continued emphasis on industrial investment especially for
fertilizer.
Ralance of Payments
52.        Between 1972/73 and 1974/75, India's terms of trade declined
quite sharply by as much as 30%. Although this deterioration may be coming
to an end,   India is still faced with an enormous trade deficit    and dif-
ficult trading conditions in which to expand real export earnings. Improve-
ments in foodgrain production together with the rise in output of domestic
caily produced fertilizer and steel could significantly reduce foreign ex-
change outlays for the import of these items in future years, and thereby
give India some flexibility in financing essential raw materials for in-
dustry which has had to make do with imports in real terms at about the same
level for the past four years. However, this flexibility will not be appre-
ciable in the short term, so that India's need for aid in non-project form
will continue.
53.        In more specific terms, imports in 1975/76 are expected to be at
about the same level as or slightly lower than 1974/75. The composition will
also be much the same with about 60% of imports being accounted for by oil
(25%), foodgrains (20%) and fertilizer (15%). Export earnings, too, will
remain about the same level in dollar terms although a 6% increase in
volume terms is expected (paragraph 39). The trade deficit is expected
to be about US$1.5 or somewhat lower than the level of the previous year
(US$1.7 billion). For 1976/77, the most recent forecast indicates that the
growth in real terms of exports is again likely to be 6% and as prices overall
are expected to show little change, the increase in export earnings will he of
the order of 6% as well. India's requirements for foodgrains and fertilizer in
quant-ity terms is likely to remain much the same, the former to permit the
re-building of India's essential stocks. In the case of the latter, the
substantial decline in international prices will enable India to reallocate
more resources for other imports including primarily industrial raw materials.
At this stage, GOI's initial forecast indicates that the trade deficit may be
at about the same level as, or perhaps lower than) projected for this year
(i.e. US$1.5 billion). However, in view of the expected revival of domestic
demand following the good harvests of 1975/76, an increase in import capabi-
lity will be essential to respond to the favorable demand factors especially
for manufactured goods. The requirements for rebuilding inventories, which
were drawn down heavily in 1975, and the desire on the part of GOI to make
import licensing more liberal will be amongst these demand factors. Conse-
quently, India will need increased import capability, over and above the
present projection, if the economy is to recover from the unacceptably low
levels of economic activity over the past two years.



- 17 -
The Government's Development Efforts
54.       Over the past three years, the Government's efforts have been
directed towards making adjustments in the face of the oil and commodity
price situation and rampant domestic inflation. The Government has been
remarkably successful in both these areas and during this period of re-
adjustment, GOI has been reconsidering the priorities and requirements for
longer term economic development. Much of the Government's present proposals
in this respect have been mentioned in Part I of this report. There are,
however, three areas of special interest to the Bank Group at this time namely
agriculture, energy and exports, the first two of which have been receiving
substantial project assistance from IDA. The Government:'s development efforts
are summarized below.
55.        In the case of agriculture, a pragmatic assessment of potentials
and constraints is being made and priority will now be given to rejuvenating
wheat production, to better use of surface irrigation water from existing
projects, to development of improved rice varieties and thereby of rice
production, and to more exploitation of groundwater. The Association has
established a satisfactory dialogue with GOI and a number of new projects are
being prepared for IDA assistance in the critical areas of seed production,
irrigation and command area development and extension. A noticeably weak
area, both at the Center and in the States, is planning capacity to prepare
food production programs and this is now being given special attention by GOI
together with the Association.
56.       In the case of energy, the Government has made: substantial changes
in the allocations so that this sector now receives 50% more in development
funds than before 1972. The emphasis has been placed on. improving coal pro-
duction, stepping up oil exploration and installing more generating capacity.
In each of these areas significant progress has already been made or is in the
offing. Coal production increased by 10% in 1974/75 with a further increase
of 15% in 1975/76 now expected. Arrangements to intensify oil exploration
through contracts with foreign companies are being made. In the case of
Bombay High Offshore production is expected to begin and to reach 0.5 million
in 1976. Thereafter production is expected to rise until full development of
an estimated 7-8 million tons p.a. (just over 30% of present consumption) in
the early 1980s. Finally, there has been marked improvement in the commis-
sioning of power generating capacity. 1,700 MW came into operation in 1974/75
and further 2,000 MW is expected in 1975/76 representing in total for the two
years an addition to existing capacity of about 14%.
57.       In the case of exports, the Government's efforts to date have
been discussed in Part II and as already explained there, the Association will
be closely involved in a continuing dialogue with Government on this subject
(paragraphs 41 and 42).
58.       To summarize, India's need for aid, particularly in program form,
has been mentioned above in paragraph 46 and the case for this type of
assistance is further reinforced by the fact that the structure of the
economy, and especially the large capital goods industry, places a limit on



- 18 -
t'he e:-tent to which aid can be in project form financing capital equipment.
Indeed. 807% of India's import requi.rements are for industrial raw materi.als
and food., The other part of the case is the Government's own efforts toward
development.  HiUstorically, thes2 have been considerable although the achieve-
Meat of significant progress has been frustrated ly natutral disasters, the
recent oil and commodity price situation, and the effort to find a balance
between social and economic goals. Nonetheless, Government has persisted and
therc is evidence that a growing pragmatism and desire to improve economic
perrormance are determining new policy considerations.    Thus while new stra-
tegies are being evolved in many areas, and in particular for exports and
industry, continued program assistance can provide flexibility to the Govern-
ment in the management of India's balance of payments to support these ef-
forts.
59.       The Bank Group has approached India's need in a flexible manner
by financing under project assistance 'o'-l curren1cy expenditu-res.
How,aver, the level of such disbursements is dependent upon the project mix of
the Bank Group's commitments as well as the rate of implementation of pro-
jects.  Through program lending the AssocLation can assure a more predictable
flow of resources, thereby complementing the efforts of Consortium members to
meet the urgent needs of the country in the most effective manner.
THF PROPOSED CREDIT
60.       This credit was appraised by a mission which visited India du-ing
October 1975.   Negotiations were held in IJashington from January 20 to 22,
1976. The (;overnment of India was represented by J.S. Saijal, Joint Secretary,
Department of Eronomic Affairs, Ministry of Finance, and Dr. B.N. Jalan,
Economic Advriser, Ministry of Industries and Civil Supplies.   A credit and
program s-mmarv is attached as Annex III.
61.       T.he elements of the case for program assistance have, of course,
in.fluenced the design of the previous industrial -imiports credits (ten credits
wiere approved between 1964 and 1975 for a total. of US$1,130 million).  Tihe
pri.mary objective has been to ensure a rapil transfer of resources and thereby
to support the Government's overall development effort.    A further objective,
^-ihich has been increasing in importance, has been to provide directly to
certana priority industries an improved flow of imports so that efficiency and
comnp?titiveness can be improved. And related tG this objective has been the
es:-ahlishment of a dialogue with GOT on industrial policy in general and on
tae develnoment of certain industries in particular.    Hitherto, the selection
of industries has been in terms of priority for the domestic economy and there
have been only rather marginal clhanges in the selection of industries. Over
"le past three years, the Associatian has carried out a seri.es of special
studies on the manufacture of commercial vchic..Ies, tractors, forgings and
foundries and textile machinery. These stuc'ies have drawn attention to the
export potential of these industries as well as the measures required to
enable them to manufacture competitivel-y.  Againzt this background and the
Association's overall concern that India's export performance should improve,
some changes in the design of the proposed credit compared with previous
credits have been made as explained in paragraph 63 below.



- 19 -
62.       The industrial situation against which the proposed credit has
to be considered is set out in Annex X. Very briefly, the present situa-
tion is that industrial production in 1975/76 is now expected to increase
by between 4% and 5%. This compares with previous growth rates of 2.5%
during 1974/75 and a decline in output of 0.4% in 1973/74. The poor per-
formance during 1973/74 was the direct consequence of the drought in genera-
tion, all of which have been referred to in Part I of this report. It has
proved a slow process to overcome these early setbacks and during 1975/76
demand for industrial products has remained constrained by low overall eco-
nomic growth. The industrial prospects for 1976/77 look encouraging with
considerably improved availability of raw materials and power and the expec-
tation that the much improved agricultural performance should stimulate a
revival of overall demand.
63.       The design of the proposed credit to respond to the present situa-
tion has been arranged so that allocations fall into three main categories.
The first category is to support export development through assisting in
the cost of financing import replenishment licenses for exporters; this is
the first time that this type of assistance has been proposed under these
industrial imports credits. The second category is to support industries
which are vital to the economy while also having export potential. Finally,
the third category includes support for those industries which are vital to
the priority sectors of agriculture and power. The combined list of eligible
industries emerging from the last two categories does not differ very markedly
from the lists under previous credits, although there has been some modifi-
cation of industry groups and aluminum smelting and manufacture of heavy
construction equipment have been dropped; the former because the special need
for funds no longer exists and the latter because of the downturn in demand.
Textile machinery has been included for the first time following on the
Special Study which formed part of the appraisal of this credit (see also
paragraph 75). The lack of change is because these industries continue
to be crucial for the supply to the economy of essential capital goods and
inputs as well as being an important source of export: potential. The: purpose
of the reclassification of the list into the two categories proposed here is
to focus attention on the'export potential of certain industries and in this
context to provide through the Technical Development Fund, to be financed
under the credit, a means for providing capital equipment and know how for
modernization. The allocations are set out below andl details on the cate-
gories and the Technical Development Fund are described in the succeeding
paragraphs. The performance and prospects of the selected industries are
described in Annex IX. Table 5 of Annex IX shows theb disbursement of previous
credits amongst the IDA-assisted industries.



- 2 0 -
Proposed  Allocation of the Credit
Estimated Foreign              Amount Allocated
Exchange Require-    Amount    as Percentage of
ment in 1976/77    Allocated      Requirement
To Support Export Development      ------------US$M------------ 
l.  Import replenishment
licenses for exporters                 200             40             20
To Support Vital Industries with
ExDort Potential
2. Raw materials, components and
spares for manufacturers of:
i) Commercial Vehicles            50            12             24
(ii) Automotive Ancilliaries        70            15             25
(iii) Machline tools, small tools,
ball and roller bearings,
casting and forgings          70            15             21
(iv) Electrical equipment lip to
6)6Kv:  Transformers and
switchgear and related
related components, stamp-
ings, cables and wires       90             17             19
(v) Textile machinery              20             6             30
3.  Technical Development Fund                5              5            100
Subtotal:                     305            70             23
To Support Prioritv Sectors
Agrictilture:
A. Raw materials, components and
spare parts for manufacturers of:
(i) Tractors, agricultural
discs and power tillers       30             5             17
(ii) Fertilizers                   250
(iii) Pesticides                     35  )         50             18
5.  Spare parts for heavy earth-
moving equipment                        20             1O             50
Power:
6.  Raw materials, components, and
spare parts for manufacturers of
electrical generators and boilers
and spare parts for power gene-
rators                                 150             25             17
Subtotal:                    485             90             19
TOTAL               990            200             20



- 21 -
64.        The allocations have been based upon overall foreign exchange
requirements, after taking into account other possible sources of foreign
exchange where this has been feasible. The allocations for the manufac-
turers of fertilizer, pesticide and power generators and boilers are maxima
to ensure that a reasonable proportion of the credit is available for the
other items. The remaining allocations are indicative. In order to ensure
that the financing of REPs and the Technical Development Fund is fully
maintained, savings under these items will only be reallocated to other
eligible items under the credit after consultation with the Association.
Export Development
65.        Import Replenishment Licenses for Exporters (REPs).     Hitherto,
exporters have received their import requirements in the form of REPs after
they had exported. This procedure had a constraining effect upon exporters
and so GOI has now introduced a scheme whereby exporters may request REPs
for export production in advance of actual exports. The scheme has two
parts. First, there is "Imprest" licensing, under which an exporter receives
100% of his import requirements based upon the REPs issued to him in the
preceding year. Under the second part of the scheme, an exporter who has
won a contract may obtain an "Advance" license for the imports required to
fulfill the contract. An advance license may be granted in cases where an
imprest license has already been issued. Under this scheme of imprest and
advance licensing, an exporter is assured of his import requirements and
can plan his production accordingly.
66.        The scheme will provide significant support to India's export
effort but there will be an incremental working capital cost for GOT in
financing REPs in advance of the realization of export earnings. Accordingly,
US$40 million has been allocated to assist GOI in meeting this foreign
exchange cost. All REP licenses issued by the CCIE, with priority being given
to advance and imprest licenses, would be eligible for financing from the
credit except for such licenses issued for the gem and jewelry industries.
The total of REPs for 1976/77 is estimated at US$200 million and so the credit
would finance 20% of total REPs.
Vital Industries with Export Potential
67.        Selected Industries.   The bulk of the output from these industries
has been directed to the priority sectors of the economy. Nearly all of
these industries has been looked at in some detail during the course of the
appraisal of this and the three previous credits. This work has shown that
there are firms within these industries with considerable potential for export
which could be exploited provided there was a more encouraging export environ-
ment, a drive to modernize production processes, andl greater freedom to import
essential requirements.   The export environment is being tackled in the broad-
er context as explained in paragraphs 41 and 42 above, while GOI will be con-
sidering the more specific requirements of providing a more effective basis for



- 22 -
export development (paragraph 81) and this examination will include these
IDA-assisted industries. So far as the second requirement is concerned
certain developments have taken place as described in paragraphs 64 to 67
below and further support in this process will be received through the Tech-
nical Development Fund which is described in the next paragraph. Finally, the
allocation of foreign exchange under this credit should give the industries
greater freedom to import.    These industries accounted for nearly 30% of total
engineering goods exports in 1974/75 and in that year earnings were nearly
double the earnings in the previous year thus, even after allowing for price
increases, representing a markecl increase in real terms.
68.       Technical Development Fund.    The establishment of this Fund is an
outcome of the special study work IDA has been carrying out over the past
three years in connection with the appraisal of these program credits.      A
cell has been set up within the Ministry of Industry and Civil Supplies
to administer the Fund which would finance balancing and modernization
equipment, and purchase of technical know-how and designs. The principal
considerations behind the design of this Fund have been first, that the
procedures for obtaining assistance should be quicker and less complicated
than those required for obtaining an import license for equipment through
the Capital Goods Committee; and secondly, that the new cell should mark a
first step in the direction of the Ministry of Induistry looking more actively
at the problems of modernization and the requirements for developing export
competitiveness. As this approach develops, and as industry gains confidence
in the quality of the service being offered, the Ministry is expected to play
an important role in bringing about the changes needed to ensure that the
engineering industries establish a strong competitive hase for exports.
liowever, the present proposal is modest in scope and muist he regarded as
experimental. The cell will also be responsible for monitoring the progress
on special studies and the implementation of industry development programs
(see paragraphs 71-74 below).    The terms of reference for this cell have been
prepared by GOI and are acceptable as required by Section 3.02 of the DCA.
69.       An indicative allocation of US$5 million is proposed.      Thie
eligible industries would be commercial vehicles, tractors, forging,
foundries, textile machinery and machine tools, All have been subject to
special studies except for machine tools which receivedl special attention
from this appraisal mission. Other IDA-assisted industr-ies will also be
eligible, where a special need has been identified for enabling a firm to
compete for export orders. An approval committee within the Ministry of
Industry and Civil Supplies will be responsible for approving applications
processed by the cell. A ceiling of US$250,000 to any one enterprise has
been placed to ensure that a reasonable spread of enterprises are benefi-
ciaries.
Support for Priority Sectors
70.       The selection of industries for the agriculture and1 power sectors
has been made on the basis of priority for manufactured goods and in
conformity with the thrust of thie Association's own efforts in these



- 23 -
sectors. In the case of agriculture, tractors and rclated equipment are
crucial capital goods while fertilizer and pesticides are essential inputs.
Similarly, the manufacture of power generating equipment and boilers is vital
for implementation of GOI's energy investment program. The inclusion of spare
parts for heavy earthmoving equipment continues t:he arrangement made under
previous credits which has led to a significant improvement in the utilization
of existing equipment on major irrigation and land development schemes.
Development Programs
71.       Previous Special Studies.   The Association prepared special
studies for the commercial vehicles and tractors in 1973 and for forgings and
foundries in 1974. These studies proposed for GOI and the individual firms
programs which were needed to support the development of these industries.
For GOI, these programs involved such matters as removing price controls,
improving the allocation of scarce domestic raw materials and introducing more
flexibility into import licensing arrangements. For individual firms the
recommendations covered primarily technical aspects concerning product design,
technology, quality and costs. Each program also contained proposals for
improving export capability. These programs have been monitored by the
Ministry of Industry and Civil Supplies.
72.       In the case of commercial vehicles and tractors,the response, both
at the Government and firm levels, was slow but subsequently most of the policy
recommendations were implemented. The implementation of the development
programs for individual firms to improve their operations has varied. As
might be expected, the more efficient firms have formulated and are implement-
ing action programs while the less efficient have yet to take significant
action. In some cases, the rate of expansion of efficient firms is barely
keeping pace with domestic demand for their products and thus there is little
exportable surplus left from the more efficient producers. The Ministry of
Industry has prepared revised programs for these industries.
73.       In the case of forgings and foundries, GOI has experienced difficul-
ty in following up on the special study recommendations and in formulating
development programs because of the large number of firms and the large
variety of products involved. Accordingly, we agree with GOI that the programs
should concentrate only on general factors affecting the whole industry such
as availability, quality, distribution of raw materials, the development of an
institutional framework for providing technical assistance to the industry,
and the development of the "core" segment of the industry (such as thin-walled
grey iron castings used in cylinder head and cylinder blocks and crankshaft
forgings) where the IDA Special Studies identified both major bottlenecks as
well as export opportunities.
74.       During negotiations the Association discussed with the GOI re-
presentatives and approved arrangements, to complete the outstanding actions.
As mentioned in paragraph 61 above, the cell established for the Technical
Development Fund will be responsible for following up on the special studies
and completing the implementation of these programs.



- 24 -
75.        Special Study on Textile Machinery Manufacture.    The study report,
which includes a review of the Textile Industry as a whole to provide the
necessary background to this industry, is available to the E1xecutive Directors
on request (Report 976-IN of January 27, 1976).     The summary and conclusions
of this report are attached as Annex XI. The study Eound that since tlle
mid-1960's output had leveled off as the textile machinerv industry had become
too closely tied to the stagnant domestic textile industry. A recovery
recently started to take place and has been largely attribtutable to exports.
The industry has taken advantage of its large excess capacity (about 50%), low
prices (40% below international prices) and shiort delivery dates to raise ex-
ports fifteen-fold over the past four years to account no:w for 15% of total
output. However, the industry is faced with a number of structural weaknesses.
Total output is less than the output of some of the larger international firms
and many of the designs are of 1950-1960 vintage. Few of the firms have been
able to develop research and design capabilities or have developed after sales
service. The prospects for this industry are not particularly bright in its
present structure, now that the process of import substitution has beenl
largely completed. The domestic textile industry, which accoutnts for almost
85% of total textile machinery, is likely to remain sluggish, and the increas-
ingly competitive export market for textile machinery can only provide partial
relief. A long term basis for sustained export of quality machinery can only
be created if the domestic market base is enlarged and this could be done by
developing an export oriented textile industry together with an export orient-
ed labor intensive garment industry.
76.        The industry itself has formulated a modernization and expanston
program and is anxious to improve product design. In the light of this
industry's needs, it has been included as eligible under this credit and
firms will also be able to apply to the Technical Development Fund for
further assistance in preparing modernization.     In the context of the general
conclusions mentioned above, the study sets out certain recommendations to aid
further development and these are:    (i) GOI should prepare a comprehensive
five-year development program for restructuring the textile industry, in
particular an export segment, and thereby defining the domestic requiremenlts
for textile machinery; (ii) GOI should promote the rationalization and modern-
ization of the textile machinery industry so that larger and more efficient
units can develop; and (iii) GOT should improve the operation of the Projects
and Equipment Corporation (a subsidiary of the GovernImeTnt-owned State Trading
Corporation) in organizing export consortia for textile machinery. The recom-
mendations of this special study were discussed with GOI and individtuial firms
during the appraisal of this credit and during negotiations COI indicated that
it would be making appropriate arrangements for the follow up and implementa-
tion of these recommendations. The report also makes recommendations for
action on the part of the industry itself to improve product range, planning
and manufacturing methods, training and marketing. The Technical Development
Fund will assist firms in this task.
77.        The review of the textile industry which was carried out to provide
backgrounld for the textile machinery industry is pertinent also to the wider
context of the prospects before India's textile industry as a whole and in
particular for textile exports. This review found that the textile industry



- 25 -
is financially weak and depends on the sluggish agricultural sector for the
bulk of its raw materials and for a significant part of its sales. On the
supply side, the textile industry is still almost entirely cotton based, and a
good deal of the local cotton is of extremely poor quality. On the demand
side, the per capita consumption has consistently.declined by 1.5% per year
over the last ten years because the increase in food prices has left the rural
and urban poor, who account for more than 80% of the population and 60% of
consumption, with less money for clothing. Textile exports fared somewhat
better; they grew at a rate of 12% per year in current value terms albeit from
a very low level. But exports consist primarily of cloth at the lower end of
the quality spectrum (mostly grey cloth) for which demand is contracting, and
hence cannot provide a basis for long-term export growth.
78.       This lack of growth meant that the modern and more efficient sector
of the textile industry could not have expanded its output without infringing
on the market of the "decentralized" labor intensive sector (hand loom and
power loom) which employs roughly 7 million people and accounts for 48% of the
domestic market. The Government took a number of steps to protect the decen-
tralized sector by restricting the growth of the organized sector. But, in
the absence of vigorous export incentive programs to divert the output of the
organized sector from the domestic market to exports, these measures have led
to a weak textile industry. Profitability has been quite low (about 6.5%
return on capital) compared to other industries (10-18%), and thus a signific-
ant part of the industry profit has been diverted to other industries.
Consequently, even in the best year the demand for textile machinery has not
exceeded 50% of the industry's installed capacity.
79.       Given the size and complexity of the Indian textile industry it is
obviously difficult to reach at this stage any firm conclusions but a number
of tentative ones appear justified. On the raw material side, a quantum
improvement in productivity (about 30%) can be achieved by upgrading the
quality of Indian cotton. The increased use of viscose and synthetic fibers,
particularly to clothe the masses, also warrants serious consideration in view
of the increased durability and lower cost of the cloth produced. On the
production side, there is much scope for improving the use of existing capa-
city. Indeed, even the more optimistic projection of demand could be met by
rehabilitation and better utilization and management of existing capacity. As
regards exports, there are limited oppotunities for Indian speciality fabrics
(e.g. hand woven saris) but substantial opportunity exists for the export of
international fabrics to developed countries. The demand in international
narkets is increasingly for fabrics having a number of attributes not gene-
rally possessed by Indian-made textiles. If export are to be increased, it
will be necessary specially to develop a segment of the industry that could
meet that market's quality requirements.
80.       To summarize, the report emphasizes that the reorientation of
the textile and textile machinery industries will require substantial
changes in existing export policies, which will have to be based upon a
long-term commitment to make production for export more profitable than pro-
duction for domestic markets. In particular, these changes should allow ex-
porting units not only to expand their exports but to develop their domestic
base as well where this is required to sustain export growth. There will



- 26 -
also be a need to examine on what terms industries with export potential
which fail to perform should enjoy access to the protected domestic market.
81.       These recommendations have wide applicability in industry as a
whole and they should form essential components of the long-term export
program referred to in paragraph 42. In this connection, GOI will send to the
Association by August 1976, its response to the proposed policy measures
mentioned in this special study.
Administration of the Credit
82.       IDA-Assisted Industries.   As in previous credits, medium- and
large-scale enterprises registered with the Directorate General of Technical
Development (DGTD), and others as notified, in the sectors to be assisted
by IDA will be eligible to utilize the proposed credit for all imported
requirements of raw materials, components and spares. At present, there are
approximately 800 eligible firms. Imports of raw materials and components
by these firms will be effected either through direct procurement by the
firms themselves against import licenses issued to them, or through public
secor trading corporations or Canalising Agencies as they are known in
India. Items imported directly by eligible firms will not be subject to any
special procurement procedures as these firms can be expected to make purchases
on the best terms to meet their circumstances. Spare parts for heavy earth-
moving and power generating equipment will be procured by dealiers authorized
by Chief Controller of Imports and Exports for the purpose of this cr-dit.
Disbursement will be against the c.i.f. cost of direct imports and for imports
obtained through Canalising Agencies in accordance with the arrangements
discussed in paragraph 85 below.
83.       Replenishment Licenses for Exporters (REPs).    All REPs, with priority
being given to advance and imprest REPs, will be eligible for refinancing from
the proceeds of the credit except for REPs issued to the gems and jewelry
industries. No special procurement procedures will be applied as exporters
can be expected to make purchases on the best terms to maintain their inlerna-
tional competitiveness. Disbursements will be on the same basis as described
in paragraph 82 above.
84       Technical Development Fund.    The cell administering the Technical
Development Fund will recommend schemes for modernization to the approval
committee of the Fund in the Ministry of Industry and Civil Supplies. Dis-
bursement for imported capital goods will cover the c.i.f. value of imports.
Procurement documents will be retained for inspection by the Association
during supervision missions. Since procurement for imports to be financed
under this credit component would depend on the decision of many enterprises
for a large number of relatively small items, international competitive
bidding would not be required. Instead, procurement will he on the basis
of the applicant's choice as approved by the committee. Contracts for con-
sultants will be awarded by the approval committee in accordance with guide-
lines on "The Use of Consultants by the World Bank and its Borrowers"



- 27 -
issued in April 1974. Disbursements for this purpose would be made by IDA
to GOI on the basis of certified statements concerning the engagement of
consultants together with appropriate documentation of invoices and evidence
of payment.
85.       Procurement through the Canalising Agencies.    T'he Government has
given the Canalising Agencies exclusive rights to import certain commodities
which are suited to bulk orders; in addition, agencies will procure for
firms when requested. In today's world of uncertain prices, the Canalising
Agencies perform a valuable function through placement of bulk import orders
and through supply contracts covering longer peirods than individual firms
could afford. As in previous credits, the Association and GOI have agreed that
for orders over US$100,000, Canalising Agencies would secure offers from at
least three suppliers. In practice, items supplied through Canalising Agencies
are usually procured through international competitive bididng. In certain
cases, after receipt of bids under international competitive bidding, addi-
tional long-term supply contracts have been negotiated on. the basis of the
lowest evaluated bid. Exceptionally, the Canalising Agencies adopt interna-
tional shopping procedures, in particular when items are only available from
a limited number of suppliers. It is estimated that abou.t US$100 million or
50% of the proposed credit will be disbursed against imports arranged by
these agencies. Procurement documentation will be retained for review by
supervision missions.
86.       Documentation for Withdrawal Claims.    In the case of direct imports
by IDA eligible enterprises and under REPs, GOI will submit the usual document-
ation in support of withdrawal claims, namely evidence of payment and shipment
and supplier's invoice. The same will also apply for claims in respect of
payments made from the Technical Development Fund.     In the case of imports
made through Canalising Agencies, these agencies will submit withdrawal claims
with a certificate that procurement of goods, for which reimbursement is being
sought, has been conducted in accordance with procedures in the Development
Credit Agreement.
87.       Disbursement.   The monthly utilization of the Froceeds of the IDA
credit is expected to be maintained at around US$20 million until the approved
amount of the credit has been exhausted. The credit will be made to GOI on
standard IDA terms and GOI will make the foreign exchange proceeds of the cre-
dit available through the Reserve Bank of India to the specified beneficia-
ries, which will purchase foreign exchange with rupee funds through authorized
banks. The credit will not involve any financing of beneficiaries.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
88.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the Recommendation provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of
the Articles of Agreement, and the text of a draft Resolution approving the
proposed credit, are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
No special conditions of effectiveness are proposed.



- 28 -
88.       The special features deccribed in paragraphs 83, 85 and 86 of this
report are reflected in Schedule 4 (Procurement) of the Draft Development Cre-
dift Agreament. In all other respects the Draft Development Credit Agreement
follows the pattern used for industrial imports program credits generally
and is in conformity with credits previously approved for India in this
sector.
89.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI-RECOMMENDATION
90.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
February 2, 1976



X UATA - INDIA
3,280,683 hat                                          577.0 .iJLiUe (wd-i9?7))                         350     Perk2. .e.o arbl  land
SOCIAL lWDIOATORS
.%ferrnoe Coutries
IndI      JLIndcoceetae P611
SEP NUB GAPIT A0 Ml AT      BASIS) /1                              ..              b 7              90 /         220 7       2,6(02 
ra~,h    te (Per thonusand)                                 30 7           38 /   ad        Il L6         h 5  d      13.9
assdo deaths rate (Par th-noed)                                  I3             16.i             5   4        12 L~1      12.07
Infan  mortality rate (per thousand -ive births)                139        220-mO d7,              .   8     0             17.5 7
Life expeetancy at hbirth (flre                                   LI !          50               uS            58            72
Grows rapeudction rate A2                                        2.7 /h.1       2.9              3 u           3 3           1.3
Population growth rat.                                           3.32.3
2 _3         2 32.0k
Pupulatios, growth rot  - urbn                                     3/hk.I,0:
Age etrocure popecet)
S-li                                                           Li             507              h1 37                     23.7
15-66                                                           516            57741           152            567         62.7/
65 and near                                                                             3 3/                   3A         13.67
Ec-nomi   doped-7o ratio                                         1.0            1.I  7            .7           1.0           00 /
Urban popeltlon. as poroot of total                               18 74          20 /.hk         18 /I         32 /.          70 8~
Feefly planniog;   BaM of acceptors -oslotico (thna.)         1,000 7            .                o1,09
No. .of u.oro (% of married -osnn)            *..                             . 
2 ~ brforco (thoosando)                                189.0107 Z     221,1CC 4/.s.s    60,l(   7     13,2500 74    25,701077
Per-enlge neployod in agricultu.e                              73 74           71  c_d          62 74        5    4          3
Peroetao onoploynd                                             ..3                  an             /f          774        3.6   4
Percen   of ntional inom     reocloed by highest 5%                27   r         5L,y            .              25cr         l54,
Peroont of national   one. received by highest 20%                52 74                         5      3 74
Percen.t of notional inooee received by 1ownt 20%                  14             5rn,7r                                      6E
Percent of nationa   incom rmoo.ed by Ioweot 40%                 ii, 74          ' 3  ,                        12rL.       19 tL
MSThIV7oMN OF 1.68 oWglESHIP
8 owned by  -eo1ist 10% of -cure
Poplaio     pr    aoelie                                       5,600 74        ,600           27,C    Ic     1,,1
Populatio  per   ureing person                                5,11,0 74      5,110            0,7C 7        1,.17
Pouaion per hospital bed                                   2,600 7        1,620 74az       1.5   7W        80   4,       nO   4s
Per  oplt. calorie eupply as 8 of reqitrseete /5                 95             03                93           85           125
Per capita protoin eupply, total (grosse per doyV76              551            53               53            1,5           90
Of edh c,WAnea    sod pole.                                    19 /p          16 lob           lb 74         227I
teeth rate 1-i. yeare /7                                         1,.            .                .               7             74
1a3-Thd /8 pric-ar  echbol enrolmet ratio                        1279                            71           112 ~~o       110
Adjust.d 79 no...sdary echon1 e-nrofet ratio                     10             16 BU12                        ,55           70
Tsears of sabooI.Ag provided, first and asond level              12             12               12            10            13
Voca.tional enrollmen  as % of sac,. shool enrollment              6             62//              8           10 Z.oc        S
Adult 11terecy rate %                                             2L Z_g        367      k        5Oca         72 /d,.j      97/
Bc-"   N. of pr-on  per r.c. (cohen)                        2.6 /.4t5k     2.8 /o.0.ish      .             .             .07k
Percent of occpied undts without piped waer.....                                                               66 /nd.nj
A."nes toealoocrinity (oe % of-total population)                 ...                             .23 /cdoji
Percent of t.ra1 pePelethon coaneted to el1ctricity             ...                              .6 /od,o 
I~eIreo      per 106C 1.pulation                              5             23 7             1.1.6 74                   672 7
Paseneger oars per 1ODO poycatl-to                              0.0                 427                        231 74 3
leotric Po-,r oon-upti,n (kho    p-c)                            ii10              74~757                             1    7257
Bese.priet co-uptioc p-c kg per year                            0.2            0.1  4           0.? 'n        1.7 tn(.2./
Noton -t.igo-    refer  itbor to the lotont pertodc cc tonouio                     ,,I-.sna     tempertr, 1%body -ighte     and
the l.atet yea-c.   latet periodo refor in prcciple to                  Itiuinb.g          and se   o  rtiona   'populaion.
Ito years 19.56-60 is- 1966-70; the intent yeoe L. psin-          L6  Protein standargs (rscseei) for ill nootsiss ae eotab-
ciple to 1960   nd I970.                                              lobead by IUSD RcnoI       -heerci Service pr-cide for a elnlcc
74  The Per Ceplt.IF2 eetlsotn i       t n cacht psi-o  for           alloance of 60 gram    of titol protein per day, and 20 ga-ae   of
yeas-  other thou                 by0ciuitdi  the coo  cocc....rno-on   animlen pbce protein, of hbioh 10 vane ebo.1d he anima
technique as tin 1972 W-rd, hoc dtle,,                            protein.   Thes  s ta,d-.rd  am o-meha   lover than those of 75
74Averoge wobes of daughters per -00     of oprod.ctiv-             g-o    of total protein and 23 gcoe   of antoal protein as an
oge.                                                              acerags for the ecrld, propose.d by FAl in the Third Wrsld Food
7  Phpletlcn ga-ook rt- os-n fs- the d-coc      ending in           So_.cY.
1960 nod 1970.                                                Z)  Sons stu~dle  have ouZggetad that crude death rates of    hildren
74  Btio of populatIon under 15 and 65 and ove r to popula-          ages 1 through L may to used ae a foist appron-tiatt     tode  of
tite  of ageso. 6i  for age dopod-ny ratio end to lobor           eal-ts-ition.
froe- of eages 15-6  for ecconol   depend-ny ratio.           74   Proetage e-rlled of oorrep-cdlng population of aohool age
74FAO refernce ete.nda.rds sep-eeent phyeiologhoalI re-              as defined fnr each noatry.
qaimnato for nornal activity and health, takciog
a 19,72;   74  Estimate eno..I   -acrgo for 1963-66 hosed 00 reouie. of the national sample e-r-y;         /0  1971;    /d  Eslinato;
74 1965-70;   74   1973;   74  SEtinated annual avrge for 1951-61 hosed onanlyl           of do-e-ial cenou;       /h  19'1-6o;
a  Rate he sotmate haead on his-thu obtained by applIcation of     ronrse es-vial' nethod to relnof 1951 and 0961
.-.u.e;      74  1960-72;    7k  For itho definition of urban one U(&..lsg       PBs)4jeos-~kgj22. p. 154;   a1  Muooip.jitio-,
rogenoy copitelo end other ploce    6th us-hn ch-rste-etlon         .J     . ,nodig ot  rnian;  7  rs tho dnfinitico of os-ha
ens ON Deecsmohlc Yoahoob 1923.P. 127;  L.  As-n 1oneifiod 00 us-ha  for local gonero_ot pc,poeen, in.. onuoty
horoghe,muniipalhoroghend u-han dietricts;    74   1961;   74   Ioclodoo all indicidnalo oho portcipatc in any
tYpe of Gecono..  ac tivity;   Z4  AID noticete of lah- f-ro     in age group 15-59.   11RD reopet- glec a fig.re of 180.1
nillio hon...d 00 the 192i population -.eo. The differonoec io duo to changes ic the deficitico of o ocsrknr. Ic the
1971 -enso, pea-onc sr      rloofid     nlY on the heoio of thois- main ootlritieo.     This led to the o-i-Jion of ovsa
categories, such acoseuo;           /r  P ..eeholda;   A    1967-68;   7t   1968;   74  1962;    74  Pes.-ec  1e in go-   -oet
nersom.les only;    Z4   1957;   74   lV9;    Z   Including roal hoepital.;      74   G-rerosent hospital cetobliobheote only;
/~1960-62;    Ab    1969-70;   L.-   Eotimate which includeovbeerago otadents;      /4d  1967;    Ztn Not including cocetional
ehort-tero co-usos;    LnL   19'65;  /sg  1961;    lh   Popalatioc of 10 Y.ore nod cn-r hone.d on one pnront e..cPI. dote
of 1971;    /o.i 15 Yeare -od ovr;      q       Dlat  s-efer to houne.holde;  74_j laIn booed on -splo  obulatlco of   nu
rt,tu,no;  /.I   Doto refer to hou...huld. in coneeti-nol doelllngo;      l1 poorte oclyl       ,     BR~giote-d applic-to
for ...ch.
oSine and popoILotbo   mke 1odon... le   relevant rofes-eo co    Io,nthogh it is to the per capito ucoo           grou.p hboi.
Sodia.
naThe United Klogdon han bean noinotne      ...cue  of the Inportan  rLe-1  of public ce-tor .oterpio.sc sad, the highly
d-coloped systee of o-ial oiae
80, July 23. 1977



ANNEI I
Page 2
UCDNOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
GNP P8  CAPITA IN 1972 s4 US   110
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1972/73 /                                ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US S Bln.      %                   1961/62-1965/66   1965/66-1969/70  1970/71-1972/75
GNP at Market Prices               60.0      100.0                       3.1              4.3               1.0
Gross Domestic Investment          10.4       17.2
Gross National Saving               9.8       16.2
Current Account Balance            -0.6        1.0
Resource Gap                       -Q 3       -O.5
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
'Value Added (at factor  ost)        abor Force       V.A. Per Worker
US $ Bin.              %           Min.              US $ < of National Average
Agriculture                        23.1                46.6         130.0  72.1         178           65
Industry                           10.1               20.4          20.2  11.2         500           182
Servioes                           16.4               33.0          30.2  16.7                       198
Total/average                      49.6               100.0         180.4 100.0         275           100
GOVERNMENT FINANiCE 
General Government                      Central Government
(Rs. Bln)         % of GDP                (Rs. Bln)           of GDP
1973774      1973174  1971/72-1973/74     1973/74     1973/74   1971T72-1975 74
Current Receipts               88.11        15.2         15.8            50.59       8.7           9.2
Current Expenditures           88.89       .15$1         16.0            49.11       -g 9.1
Current Surplus/Deficit        -0.78        -0.1        -0.2             1.48        0.3           0.1
Capital Expenditures l         27-70         4.8          5.2            20.99       3.6           3.9
External Assistance (net)       3.93         0.7         0.8              3.93       0.7           0.8
?AGNEC   CREDIT AND5 PRICES                 1969/70  1970/71   1971/72   1972/73  1973/7   September 1973  September 1974
(Billion Rs outstanding at end of period)
Money and .uaci ;;oney             61.4      93.3     105.7     122.4     1h5.2     169-4       155.1        177.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector       40.8      52.4      56.9      69.0     82.5      93.5        91.2         102.2
Bank Credit to Private Sector      28.1      48.3      56.7      64.4      76.0     85.6        79.3          90.5
(Percentage or Index 1umbers)                 March 1974      Harcli 19/5
Money and Duasi Money as - of GDP  24.0      23.6      24.3      26.3      27.9      26.8
Wholesale Price Index
(1961/62 = 100)                131.6     171.6     181.1     188.4     207.1    254.0       283.6         308.5
Annual percentage charges in:
Wholesale Price Index               7.7       3.8       5.5       4.0       9.9     22.7                       8.8
Bank Credit to Public Sector       12.9       1,5       8.6      21.3      19.6     13.3                      11.5 e/
Bank Credit to Private Sector      12.8      15.1      17.4      13.6      18.0      12.6                     13. 5 vI
j/ The per capita GNP estimate is at 1972 market pricec, calculated by the same conversion technique as the
1972 World Atlas.  All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period oovered.
b/ Fstimates.
i/ Transfers between Center and States have been netted out.
vl All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
i  Credit to Government, as on March 21, 1975.
V   Credit to Commercial Sector, as on March 21, 1975.



AINNiX I
sagp. 3
2ALrPJ.IL 07Q AIEN'T S           1971 /72  1 972/j3  1 973/74  1     f      MERCBMODTSE EX?OF'TS (AV3RAGE 'Z-l '72-i 97L/
( Hillicn   US                                                  X j  bS r 1T ,
FxporL3 'o' Goods                 2160      2,558     3,187     J.,09h4     Ixite Ranulazturers        r 6        11
Trr,;rts of Goodk                -2,572    -2,682    -3,982     5,811       Tea                          7         7
-sr.de Baiance                   - b12     - 121     - 765     -I ,717      Cotton Texttle-            17k)        6
NFS *e                           *   45    - 146       n.a.        79       Iron Ore
Engineering Goods          ,51         2
r%e.-)IUrce Gap                  - 4s60    _  270      n.a.    -1 63E8      Others                   1
Total301                              r
lnter-st Pai-erits (net)            230    - 237       n.s.      n.a.
0-Lhor Fector Fayments (net)     -    7    -    8      n.a.      n.a.
Net Tran3fcr5                       358    -   50      n.a.      r.a.
Fp.lance on Current Account       - 339     - 565      n.a.      n.a.       EXTERIAL DEBT, 1tARCr- 31i, 1 9&
Of-icial Aid                                                                                                   05$ 'lr.
Disbursements                 1.203       955     1,24      1,750i      Repayable in foreig-n currenoy       9,7'-
.4nortization                  -385                -692      -746       Repayable through export of CSnos 1    4o9
iransacticns ith 1I4F                -         -         75       515       Total Outstanding and Disbursed     1,1
All Other Items                    -2514       52       239        67
I~U-rease in Reserves (-)         -225       -3a      -106        L2       DEBT SPEIVICE RATIO FOP. 1 9tcl/?5  1id.D uercan
Gross Reserves (end year)         1 ,277    1 ,311    1,417     1,379
ts?et aeservns :end year)         1 ,277    1 ,31 1   1 ,31h2     759'
1BRD/IDA I131DI NG ,0 5 .-? 30  1975  /tJ-S' ?f-,.
Nuel and Related Materials
1B.RD     !DA
Imrrorts                            ?62       26c       719     1,375
Of wIich: Petrolevn10M            262       265       719     1,375       Outstanding and Disbursed  1l17.9   2,389.2
Undisbursed                 288 2   1 ,3 .2
SoAports                             15       141        20      n.a.       Outstanding ircluding       730 1   3, -2O.i
of r.hich: Petroleum                9        37        16      n.a.         Undisbursed
RATE OF FXCHAGiGEV
Prior to rid-Decomber 1971  1U$ 1.00 - Rs 7.5                               After end June 1y72: Yloastine -cst-
1s '.00 -f. U.; 3.133333
Spot late Jan. 1?, 1975.
w1rl-'5neeeaher 1c71 to      US$ 1.00 - Rs 7.27927                                 approx. US$ 1.00 - Rs 8.I2s8h
end June 1972              Rs 1.00 w US$0.137376                                 approx. Rs 1. 00 = US$o.1 1 ?1
ii/ Estimated.
-, .ncludes intesre3t anu hence is equsl to debt service.
% Net of IMF credit nse as of end March 1975.
Amortizatior. and interest payments ($ 750 million) as a percentage
o' nerchandise *xports.
kl  Aid vnd krade figures con-vertem to US dollars using exchange rates
and I}T trade conversion factors as indicated in inside frant cover
of this report or in not.es to individual table.
1/ Dsbt rspayaole tc Eastern European cowitries.



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEBENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of i'ovember 30. 1975)
Loan or                                                                   US$ MillionV
Credit No.    Year   Borrower               Purpose                   (Net of Cancellation)
Bank      IDA   Undisburaed
38 Loans/                                                          1,032.5
34 Credits fully disbursed                                                   1,841 -9
614-IN        1969     India    Tarai Seeds                           13.0      -        7?.
176-IN        1970     India    Kadana Irrigation                      -        35-0     O.4
203-IN        1970     India    Punjab Agricultural Credit             -        27-5    24.6
226-IN        1971     India    Andhra Pradesh Agr. Cr.                -        24.4     )1.9
242-IN        1971     India    Power Transmission II                  -        75.0    46.3
249-IN        1971     India    Haryana Agricultural Credit            -        25.0     9.6
250-IN        1971     India    Tamil Nadu Agr. Cr.                    -        35.0    10.0
264-IN        1971     India    Cochin II Fertilizer                   -        20.0     4.0
267-IN        1971     India    Wheat Storage                          -         5.0     3.8
268-IN        1971     India    Pochampad Irrigation                   -        39.0     2.5
789-IN        1971     ICICI    Industry DFC IX                       60.0      -        5.2
278-IN        1972     India    Mysore Agricultural Credit             -        40.0    19.9
279-IN        1972     India    Gorakhpur Fertilizer Expansion         -        10.0     1.0
293-IN        1972     India    Maharashtra Agr. Cr.                   -        30.0     7.9
294-IN        1972     India    Bihar Agricultural Markets             -        14.0    13.2
312-IN        1972     India    Population                             -        21.2    15.5
342-IN        1972     India    Education                              -        12.0    11.9
356-IN        1972     India    IDBI                                   -        25.0    23.0
357-IN        1973     India    Nangal Fertilizer Expanion             -        58.0    16.2
377-IN        1973     India    Power Transmission III                 -        85.0    32.2
378-IN        1973     India    Mysore Agricultural Markets            -         8.o     8.0
902-IN        1973     ICICI    Industry DFC X                        70.0      -       23.2
390-IN        1973     India    Bombay Water Supply                    -        55.0    51.3
391-IN        1973     India    Madhya Pradesh Agr. Cr.                -        33.0    16.8
392-IN        1973     India    Uttar Pradesh Agr. Cr.                 -        38.0    26.1
403-IN        1973     India    Telecommunications V                   -        80.0    57.3
427-IN        1973     India    Calcutta Urban Development             -        35.0    24.7
440-IN        1973     India    Bihar Agricultural Credit              -        32.0    24.o
456-IN        1974     India    HP Apple Processing & Marketing        -        13.0    13.0
481-IN        1974     India    Trombay IV                             -        50.0   146.5
1011-IN        1974     India    Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD               52.0      -      64.6
482-IN        1974     India    Karnataka Dairy                        -        30.0    30.0
502-IN        1974     India    Rajasthan Canal CAD                    -        83.0    62.7
520-IN        197)4    India    Sindri Fertilizer                      -        91.0    86.0
521-IN        1974     India    Rajasthan Dairy                        -        27.7    27.7
522-IN        1974     India    Madhya Pradesh Dairy                   -        16.4    16.4
526-IN        1975     India    Drought Prone Areas                    -        35.0    35.0
1079-IN        1975     India    IFFCO Fertilizer                     109.0      -      108.8
528-IN        1975     India    Industrial Imports I                   -       200.0    29.4
1097-IN        1975     India    Industry DFC XI                      100.0      -       99.2
532-IN        1975     India    Godavari Barrage Irrigation            -        45.0    4b.5
540-IN        1975     India    ARC Credit                            -         75.0    72.0
541-IN        1975     India    West Bengal Agr. Dev. Project         -         34.0    34.0
562-IN        1975     India    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) CAD          -        24.0     24.0
572-IN        1975     India    Rural Electrification                 -         57.0    57.0
582-IN        1975     India    Railways XIII                         -        110.0   107.2
585-T!        1975     India    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply                     40.0     Lox.
Total                                                               i,436.5 3,635.1
of which has been repaid                                        706,1 1..7
Total now outstanding                                                 701.3  3,620.4
Amount sold                       111.5
of which has been repaid     111.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                       735.2 3_620.4
Total undisbursed (including*)                                       288.2   1,231.2  1,519.4
* Not yet effective
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page  2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVE5TMENTS
(As of November 30, 1975)
Amount (US$ million)
Year            Company                             Loan      Equity       Total
1959       Republic Forge Conpany Ltd.               1.5         -          1.5
1959      Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.                 0.9         -          0.9
1960      Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                     1.4         -          1.4
1961      K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                          0.2         -          0.2
1963-66   Precision Bearings India Ltd.              0.7        0.3         1.0
1964      Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.               0.8        0.4         1.2
1964-75   Mtahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.            11.8        1.0        12.8
1964      Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.                 1.0        0.3         1.3
1967      Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                    1.0        0.1         1.1
1967      Indian Explosives Ltd.                     8,,6       2.9        11.5
1969-70   Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                 15.1        3.8        18.9
TOTAL                               43.0         8.8       51.8
Less:  Sold                               6.0         1.6         7.6
Repaid                             9.6         -          9.6
Cancelled                          6.2        0.7         6.9
Now Held                          21.2         6.5       27.7
Undisbursed                        9.5         -          9.5



ANNEX II
Page 3
C, PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Generally, the implementation of projects lias been proceeding
reasonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are
below. The level of disbursements was US$480.3 million in FY75 or 57,'
of Bank Group commitments to India in that year. The undisbursed pipeline
cf US$1,559.4 million as of November 30, 1975, corresponds roughly to
comTitments over the preceding two-year period and reflects the leadtime
which would be expected given the mix of fast and slow-disbursing projects
in the India program.
Ln. No. 789     Nlinth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; IJS$60.0 million loan of October 21, 1971; Effective
Date: December 20, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Ln. No. 902     Tenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$70.0 million loan of June 8, 1973; Effective
Date: August 16, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Ln. No. 1097    Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; UJS$100 million loan of April 2, 1975; Effective
Date:  July 1, 1975; Closing Date:   December 31, 1980
These loans have supported industrialization in India througlh a
well-established development finance company, Loan 789-IN is fully com-
mitted; disbursements under Loan 902-IN are ahead of schedule.
Ln. No. 614     Tarai Seeds Project; US$13.0 million loan of June 18, 1969;
Effective Date: September 12, 1969; Closinpl Date:
December 31, 1976
This loan to the Tarai Development Corporation is to assist in
the development of seeds of high-yielding varieties. Thie Corporation is
working efficiently and has developed a reputation for excellent seed
quality.  Seed production is meeting targets.    Expansion of an existing
processing plarnt has been completed.  TBo other plants are being consider-
ably expanded. Bids have recently been cleared for orders to be placed for
the equipment necessary to complete the expansion program. Bids have also
been cleared for special drilling rigs to complete the land development com-
ponent of the project.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4
r. No. 176     Kadana Irrigation Project; US$35.0 million credit of
February 9, 1970; Effective Date: July 29, 1970; Closing
Date: September 30, 1976
This project will finance in part the construction of Kadana Dam
on the Mahi River and the expansion of the irrigated area below the dam. The
project also includes field channel construction, land-leveling, drainage
works and roads, and a program to support agricultural development. The
project will be completed about two years behind schedule because of delays
in dam construction. The agricultural components of the project are also
behind schedule. Some of the delays in implementation occurred at the
start of the project before major investments were made. These will not
affect the economic justification of the project.   Further delays have
occurred as a result of building materials shortages.   The Government
intervened and made adequate quantities of building materials available.
In spite of an additional delay in the procurement of a large batching
plant, the dam is still expected to be completed in July 11977, which is
in accordance with the revised schedule. A project review mission is cur-
rently in the field.
Cr. No. 268    Pochampad Irrigation Project; US$39.0 million credit of
August 23, 1971; Effective Date: November 15, 1971;
Closing Date: March 31, 1977
The project will assist the agricultural development on the tight
Fbank of the Godavari River by providing perennial irrigation to some 100,000
ha. It includes the construction of Pochampad Dam, a concrete-lined main
canal, distributary canals, field channels, drains and roads. Until mid-
1973, overall performance on the project was satisfactory with construction
and disbursements from the IDA credit progressing ahead ol- schedule. For
two years, acute shortages of construction materials, especially explosives
for the canal excavation, hampered progress. As a result, construction of
the main canals has fallen about one year behind schedule. which is likely
to delay the introduction of irrigation to over 40% of the project area.
Since the end of 1974, all material shortages have been removed and progress
has been satisfactory. Construction of the dam is ahead of schedule. Land
development, however, is haphazard and increasingly lagging behind water
availability in the project area.   Government is aware of the inadequacy of
the operation for land development and has requested IDA ifinancing for a
Command Area Development Project, to be implemented by a Central Authority
for all farmers in need of land development. This project was appraised in
August 1975, as a major component of the proposed Andhra l?radesh Composite
Irrigation and CAD Project, which is scheduled for Board presentation early
in calendar year 1976.



AENEX II
Page 5
Cr. No. 532     Godavari Barrage Project; US$45 million credit of March 7,
1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1973; Closi ng Date:
June 30, 1980
Tendering for the supply of equipment is under way. A mission is
presently in the field. The contract for civil works was recently awarded
after international competitive bidding.
Cr. No. 203    Punjab Agricultural Credit Project; US$27.5 million credit
of June 24, 1970; Effective Date: September 4, 1970;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 226    Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project, US$24.4 million
credit of January 3, 1971; Effective Date: May 10, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 249    Haryana Agricultural Credit Project; US$25.0 million credit
of June 11, 1971; Effective Date: November 2, 1971;
Closing Date: March 31_1976
Cr. No. 250     Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 million
credit of June 11, 1971; Effective Date: Niovember 2, 1971;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Cr. No. 278     Mysore Agricultural Credit Project; US$40.0 million credit
of January 7, 1972; Effective Date: September 25 1972;
Closing Date: December 31 1976
Cr. No. 293     Maharashtra Agricultural Credit Project; US$30.0 million
credit of March 29, 1972; Effective Date: January 31, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1975
Cr. No. 391     Mladhya Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project: US$33.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Effective Date: October 10, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Cr. No. 392     Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$38.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Effective Date: October 31, 1973;
Closing Date:   December 31, 1976
Cr. No. 440     Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date:   March 29, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 540    Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC) Project: US$7 5.0
million credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date:    August 5,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Apart from the Punjab project, which consists of mechanization
equipment only, all the above agricultural credit projects are similar in



ANNEX II
Page 6
structure, being designed to provide long- and medium-term credit to farm-
ers through credit institutions for such on-farm investments as imported
tractors, minor irrigation and land-leveling. Disbtlrsement of these
credits started slowly. So far as the minor irrigation components were
concerned, the main difficulties stemmed from the institutional require-
ments, in particular the introduction of changes in lending criteria and
lending terms and the strengthening of institutions responsible for assess-
ing groundwater availability. These constraints have been overcome and dis-
bursements are on schedule. Tractor procurement was delayed following changes
in both the supply and demand situations after the projects were originally
appraised, which prompted GOI to request that indigenous as well as imported
models should be eligible for IDA financing under these credits. The Execu-
tive Directors approved this request in December 1973 and those credits which
have tractor components have been amended accordingly. Tractor procurement
is proceeding satisfactorily. Credit 540 is a contiLnuation nationwide of
the previous program of agricultural credit projects, which were confined
to individual states.  ARC will continue to act as the financial intermedi-
ary for refinancing agricultural credit.
Cr. No. 267    Wheat Storage Project; US$5.0 million credit of August 23, 1971;
Effective Date: November 14, 1972; Closing Date: September 30,
1978
This project originally consisted of construction of ten 10,000-
ton capacity godowns and ten 20,000-ton silo units, engineering and consult-
ing services and an All-India Grain Storage Study. However, a July 1974
feasibility study for silos indicated that due to substantial cost increases,
particularly in steel, cement and other materials, the cost of constructing
silos, which represented the bulk of total project costs, would be about
double the original estimates. Also, because the increase in demand for
foodgrains in India has exceeded the increase in foodgrains supply, the
use of silos for buffer stock storage has shifted to their use as bulk
grain receiving, seasonal storage and dispatch facilities. The Food
Corporation of India (FCI), SIDA and IDA have thus agreed on a redesign
of the silo component that would provide about half the original 200,000
tons of silo storage in five units and, in addition., two'to four bulk grain
receiving stations and would also avoid an overrun in project cost. The
economic rate of return of this revised component is'about 15%, slightly
more than half the return estimated at the time of original appraisal. In
order to allow sufficient time to complete construction and disbursements
of the silo program, the project closing date has been extended by three
years. The FCI has completed a contract for construction of the silo
foundations at two sites. A tender has been offered for foundations at
three sites. Tenders have been cleared for a part of the equipment. The
godown component has been fully disbursed. In addition, the All-India Grain
Storage Study is progressing and the staff training program has been planned
in detail and is to be implemented soon. Project implementation is now pro-
gressing satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 7
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing ard Marketing Project;
US$$13 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
This project was designed to promote the development of apple
processing and marketing in Himachal Pradesh, and comprises roads, cold
storage, juice processing, and marketing facilities. The project has
encountered initial delays due to managerial and technical problems, and
implementation has fallen behind schedule. A recent supervision mission
has recommended remedial action, including certain project revisions to
bring it in line with managerial and technical capabilities. Although
the project would be scaled down in some respects, project cost would not
be altered, since there has been a substantial escalation in prices of
equipment since appraisal. Disbursements should be completed by the pres-
ent closing date. Government's agreement to the mission's recommendations
is currently being sought.
Cr. No. 403    Telecommunications V Project; US$80.0 million credit of
June 25, 1973; Effective Date: July 30, 1973. Closing
Date: December 31, 1976
Disbursements have been delayed mainly because of delays in mate-
rial supply from both local and external sources. Delays in local supply
were due to labor problems affecting one of the principal suppliers and
imports were delayed due to longer than anticipated leadtime required.
Revised disbursement schedules for these two credits are now expected to
be met.
Cr. No. 242    Power Transmission II Project; US$75.0 million credit of
M4ay 3, 1971; Effective Date: July 29, 1971; Closing Date:
March 31, 1977
Cr. No. 377    Power Transmission III Project; US$85.0 million credit
of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: October 10, 1973; Closing
Date: September 30, 1977
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150.0 million
Credit of January 22, 1976; Effective Date: April_22,
1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Power Transmission II, which is a continuation of the project
financed by Loan 416-IN, was designed to assist in financing the purchase
of equipment and materials required to develop a power transmission program
in nine states under the Fourth Five-Year Plan. Initial delays occurred
because of problems associated with preparing bid documents suitable for
international bidding and the analysis of the very large number of bids
involved, but all contract awards have now been made. As a consequence
of the delays, however, the closing date of the credit had to be postponed
accordingly. For Power Transmission III, virtually all equipment has now
been ordered, and there are likely to be substantial cost overruns.



ANNEX II
Page 8
Cr. No. 264    Cochin II Fertilizer Project; oUS$20.0 million credit of
July 30, 1971; Effective Date: December 2, 1971; Closing
Date: June 30, 1976
Cr. No. 279    Gorakhpur Fertilizer Project; US$10.0 million credit of
January 7, 1972; Effective Date: April 5, 1972; Closing
Date: March 31, 1976
Cr. No. 357    Nangal Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$58.0 million credit
of February 9, 1973; Effective Date: MSy 11, 1973; Closing
Date: March 31, 1977
Cr. No. 481    Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$50.0 million
credit of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: August 21, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 520    Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91 million credit of December 18,
1974; Effective Date: February 27, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Ln. No. 1079    IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$109 million loan of January 24,
1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975; Closing Date:
March 31, 1979
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 miLllion credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: Miarch 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Cochin Fertilizer Project is intended to help finance the
expansion of fertilizer manufacturing facilities at Cocthin. The project
is now proceeding about 24 months behind schedule, mainly because of pro-
curement delays, slow progress on civil works, and shortages of steel and
cement. Procurement problems have been largely overcome, and most of the
equipment is either at the site or at the Cochin port. Another factor which
has contributed to the delay has been technical problems in the commission-
ing of the Cochin I plant, which has required a disproportionate amount of
management attention. Credit No. 481 contains funds for a Plant Operations
Improvement Program which will be used in part to overcome these problems;
the use of these funds has been identified on a plant-by-plant basis and
procurement has been initiated. The Gorakhpur project is expected to be
commissioned late in 1975. Engineering work, procurement and site construc-
tion for the Nangal Fertilizer Project are proceeding satisfactorily, but the
project faces substantial cost over-runs due to increases in equipment prices.
Progress on the Trombay IV project has been good although project completion
may be delayed by about four months because of longer than expected delivery
times for critical equipment. Engineering design and procurement for the
Sindri project are proceeding on schedule. The IFFCO project has been
delayed by about six months as a result of a change in feedstock from fuel
oil to naphtha. Credit 598-IN is designed to increase the utilization of
existing fertilizer production capacity.



ANNEX II
Page 9
Cr. No. 294     Bihar Agricultural Markets Project; US$14.0 million credit
of March 29, 1972; Effective Date: July 31, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
Cr. No. 378     Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects were designed to help with establishment of whole-
sale markets in a number of towns in Bihar and Karnataka. Progress under
the projects has generally been satisfactory. Markets construction in
Bihar was delayed due to legal challenges arising out of the state's acqui-
sition of land for market sites; however, these difficulties have been satis-
factorily resolved and construction of the first ten markets is well advanced.
Market construction in Karnataka is expected to be on schedule.
Cr. No. 312     Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
This credit was designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts
in each state, is almost complete, The two Population Centers, which will
design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning. The building program will be largely completed as
scheduled in March 1976.
Cr. No. 342     Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million Credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project implementation has improved with satisfactory progress
on civil works, preparation of equipment lists, bid documents, fellowship
programs and university development plans. The rate of disbursement has
been slow, partly due to previous delays in the selection of key personnel
and in the preparation of equipment lists, but is expected to improve by
FY1976 in line with progressing construction and equipment procurement.
Cr. No. 356     Industrial Development Bank of India Projecti US$25.0 million
credit of February 9 1973; Effective Date: June 2 1973;
Closig_Date:_ June 30, 1977
The project had a particularly slow start which was mainly due
to institutional problems in the participating State Financial Corporations
(SFCs). However, there is now evidence of improvement in the utilization
of this credit. Commitments are well underway and are expected to be co
completed by June 30, 1976. In order to provide continuity in the Bank
Group's involvement with small scale industry, a second line of credit is
presently under active consideration, which would cover the expected foreign
exchange requirement of SFC sponsored small and medium scale industrial r
projects for the two year period beginning on July 1, 1976.



ANINEX II
Page 10
Cr. No. 390     Bombay Water SupEly and Sewerage_Project; US$55.0 million
credit of Januar_ 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13L1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
A substantial cost overrun on the project from US$158 million
equivalent to about US$375 million equivalent has been caused by inflation
and price increases resulting from delays in appointment of engineering con-
sultants and redesign of certain components of the project. Action has been
taken to redefine and rephase the project construction to fit the financing
available from the Credit, local loans and bonds, and internal cash genera-
tion of the project entity. The revised cost estimate for the implementation
period 1975/76 to 1979/80 amounts to US$266 million dollar equivalent exclud-
ing interest during construction. Project construction is proceeding and most
major contracts for civil works, equipment and materials have been awarded.
Financial performance of the project entity during 1974/75 was satisfactory,
but major rate increases will be necessary starting in 1976.
Cr. No. 528     Tenth Industrial ImETrts Proi ct, US$200.0 million credit
Februauy_142        Ef ective Date:  March 31     1975; Closinp
Date: June 30L 1976
This credit was signed on February 14, 1975, for the initial
tranche of US$100 million and amended to US$200 million on March 7, 1975.
The credit was fully disbursed by the end of January 1976.
Cr. No. 427     Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$35.0 million credit
of_September 12, 1973; Effective Date: January_10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Progress in implementation of this project was rather slow during
the first construction season (1973/74) in view of the reduction in overall
funding of the CMDA program and of organizational problems, but project im-
plementation and credit disbursements have now improved. Hlowever, project
costs have increased considerably, especially for subprojects in the water
supply and sewerage/drainage sectors. In order to accommodate the project
size to funding available, CMDA has submitted a redefined project, which is
expected to be substantially completed by April 1978, about 15 months behind
the original schedule.
Cr. No. 482     Karnataka Dairy Developament Project; US$30 million credit of
June_19._1974; Effective Date:   December_23L_1974,_Closing
Date: September 30L 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Developmhent ProtectL _US$27.7 million credit
of Dece ber '8L 1974; Effective Date: -August 8, 1975;
Closing _ate:   December 31_ 198_ 2



ANNEX II
Page 11
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
These three credits totaling US$74.1 million support dairy
development projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL
dairy cooperative scheme in Gujarat State. Progress on the Karnataka
project has been slow, partly because of inadequate staffing of the
Karnataka Dairy Development Corporation (KDDC) and partly due to poor
project management. However, improvement in implementation is expected
with the recent recruitment by KDDC of a management consultant. Training
has progressed with the completion of a two-month training program by 68
field staff. Overall, the project is six months behind the original sched-
ule. Progress under the Madhya Pradesh project is satisfactory, with the
Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Corporation having been established and
all key staff positions filled. Field staff training has commenced and
the first dairy cooperative societies should be established by December,
1975. Detailed design studies for plant construction have begun and con-
struction is expected to begin soon. With respect to the Rajasthan project,
the Rajasthan Dairy Development Corporation has been formed and key personnel
appointed. The first milk union has been formed and good progress has been
made in organizing dairy cooperatives at the village level.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September .., 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects are generally proceeding satisfactorily. In par-
ticular, agricultural extension has made remarkable progress.
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides credit over 4 years for construction of about
18,000 shallow tubewells, 300 deep tubewells, 200 agro-service centers and
3 markets. The credit also helps the state t'i finance the completion of a
number of state-owned river lift and deep tubewell schemes and to improve
agricultural extension and maintenance facilities. Participating banks
and the Agricultural Refinance Corporation are preparing schemes for ini-
tiating the agricultural credit components. The state government has reor-
ganized its agricultural extension services and is taking steps to reorganize



ANNEX II
Page 12
the State Water Board and to carry out studies needed for completion of river
lift schemes.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project-   S$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975, Effective Date:   June_9,_1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
This project will help to increase employment and production in
order to improve income distribution for weaker sections of the population
in six districts selected for intensive assistance.   A project review mission
has just returned and has reported that despite the project's unusual com-
plexity, most project components are proceeding well.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Pro ect_ US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23L 1_975L_Cosing
Date: December 31 1K979
Cr. No. 582    Railways XIII Prolect;US$110.0 million credit of August 26,
1976; Effective Date: October 10,_1975; Closing Date_
September 30, 1977
This project consists of Indian Railway's nelw and on-going investment
program between April 1, 1975 and March 31, 1977. The credit is expected to be
fully disbursed by March 31, 1977.
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water_ S   Iy and Sewerage_Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
January 26,L1976; Closing Date:   June 30L2980O



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDIA
ELEVENTH INDUSTRIAL IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:              India, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:         Exporters of manufactued items requiring imported raw
materials and components and approximately 800 medium-
and large-scale enterprises in selected priority indus-
tries.
Amount:                US$200 million equivalent.
Terms:                 Standard
Project
Description:         To assist in financing the foreign exchange cost of
imported raw materials and components required by
exporters of manufacturers; to finance the foreign
exchange cost of foreign know-how and balancing
equipment to improve price competitiveness and pro-
ductivity of selected IDA beneficiaries, primarily
exporters, and to enable selected priority indus-
tries to maintain ancl expand their production by
supplying part of their requirements of foreign ex-
change for imports of raw materials, components, and
spares.
Cost of Project:                           1976/77
Foreign
Exchange             As Percentage
Requirement  Amount   of Requirement
---- Us$M -----------       %
To Support Export
Development
1. Import re-
plenishment
licenses for
exporters         200        40          20



ANNEX III
Page  2
1976/77
Foreign
Exchange              As Percentage
Requirement  Amount   of Requirement
-- US$M -----------X
To Support Vital
Industries with
Export Potential
2.  Raw materials,
components
and spares for
manufacturers
of:
(i) Commercial
Vehicles        50.       12          1.2
(ii) Automotive
Ancilliaries     60       15          25
(iii) Machine tools,
small tools,
ball and
roller bear-
ings, castings
and forgings     70       15          21
(iv) Electrical
equipment up
to 66 Kv:
Transformers
and switchgear
and related com-
ponents, stamp-
ings, cables
and wires        90       17          19
(v) Textile
Machinery        20        6          30
3. Technical Devel-
opment Fund           5        5          100
Sub-Total:          305       70           23



ANNEX III
Page 3
1976 /7 7
Foreign
Exchange              As Percentage
Requirement   Amount  of Requirement
----US$M -   ---- -
To Support Priority
Sectors
Agriculture:
4.  Raw materials,
components and
spare parts of
manufacturers
of:
(i) Tractors,
agricultural
discs and power
tillers          30        5           17
(ii) Fertilizers     250)      50           18
(iii) Pesticides       35)
5.  Spare parts for
heavy earthmoving
equipment            20       10           50
6.  Power:
Raw materials,
components, and
spare parts for
manufacturers of
electrical gene-
rators and boilers
and spare parts
for power gene-
rating equipment    150       25           17
Subtotal:           485       90           19
TOTAL               990       200          20
Notes:   In the Development Credit Agreement, allocations
for items 1 and 3 are shown as separate categories.
For the remaining items, allocations are indicative
subject only to the amounts allocated tinder items
4(ii), 4(iii) and 6 being maxima.
Import replenishment licenses would be eligible,
except for the gems and jewellry industries, with
priority being given to advance and imprest
licenses.



ANNEX III
Page  4
Estimated
Disbursements:       About US$20 million per month.
Procurement
Arrangements:        Approximately 50% of imports financed by the Asso-
ciation will be procured by Canalising Agencies,
which are Government trading corporations, on behalf
of industrial enterprises; the balance will procured
directly by individual enterprises.    In the case
of Canalising Agencies, for all order-s in excess of
US$100,000 equivalent, thiese Agencies wil. secure
offers from at least three suppliers. Tn practice,
items supplied by Canalising Agenc:ie,; are uslua.lty
procured throughl international competitive biddn ,-
or exceptionally through international slhopping when
appropriate.  Direct imports by individul enterprises
will procured uncler normal commercial arrangements.



INDIA
ELEVENTh INDUSTRIAL IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
BALANCI OF PAYMENTS
(US $ million)
1968/69    1969/70    1970/71    1971/72    1972/73     1973/74    1974/75    1975/76
Estimated
Merchandise Exports                 1,810       1,884      1,950'/    2,160      2,558      3,187      4,130      4,120
Merchandise Importsb/              -2,523      -2,148     -2,311     -2,572     -2,682      3,952      5,811      5,650
Debt Service                         -500       -550        -600       -615       -682       -692       -746       -805
(of which, to
Consortium                       (406)      (434)      (465)      (512)      (561)      (601)      (640)      n.a.
Other)                           (94)       (116)      (135)      (103)      (121)       (91)      (106)      n.a.
Credit Transactions with IMF          -62       -157        -183         -          -          75        515        205
Gross Aid Disbursements               310       1,233      1,147      1,203        896      1,249      1,860      1,900
(of which, from
Consortium                    (1,197)     (1,113)    (1,070)    (1,174)      (855)    (1,074)    (1,330)    (1,5)00
Traditional Non-Consortium                                                              (175)
Other                            (114)      (120)       (77)       (29)       (41)      (175)      (530)      (400)
Miscellaneous Capit qi and
Invisibles (Net)c                    16          64        -46         49        -56        239         -          260
Use of Reserves (- = increase)         -51       -326         43       -225        -34       -106         52        -30
Reserve Level at end of Period         769      1,095      1,052      1,277      1,311      1,417      1,365      1,395
Note: Except for 1974/75, data for all other years are actuals.
a/ Adjusted for over-recording of exports.
b/ Adjusted for under-recording of imports.
c/  Includes errors and omissions.
Sources:  1)  Merchandise trade figures are taken from the Department of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics, Monthly
Statistics of Foreign Trade, Volumes I & II. The import figures, however, have been adjusted for under-
recording of imports.
2) Aid and debt statistics are from the Ministry of Finance and the IBRD Debtor Reporting System.
3)  Credit Transactions with the IMF, the use of reserves, and level of reserves data are from the various
issues of the monthly "International Financial Statistics" published by the IMF.
4)  Other items have been determined as residual.



INDIA                                                                  ANNEX V
LLMVZTH IIVOUSMTIAL IMPORTS P8OGiAI CRlEIT
Principal L%porte
(Value US $ million)
Salt                1965/66         1970/71          1971/72           1972/73           197374            1974/75          197'/76'/
oo     Value     oan- Value      Quan- Value       Qiua-  Value      Quva.-  Value     Qua.- Value      Qan-  Value
tity             taty            tity              tloy              tlty              tity            tlIty
I AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS
Tea                                  000 tone                197    241.2     199   197.7     207    210.0      193     191.1     190.7   185.9     224.8  280.0           255.7
Oileakee                             000 tong                829     72.8    879     73.9     742     53.9    1,001     97.0    1,224     218.9     832.3  119.6           113.b
Coffee                               000 toe                  27     27.2     32     33.5      36     29.6       5:t    42.7       53      59.1      49.5   64.2            68.2
Sugar                                000 toe                 311     22.0    348     36.8     317     40.6      l0;!    17.2      250      54.5     694.6  423.8           511.4
Spicee                               000 tone                        48.5     is     20.3      64.7   48.6      44.4    37.8       61.1    70.4      51.6  76.7             68.2
Eb.h                                 000 tons                 15     14.3      32.6  41.7      32.7   55.6       34.4   69.8       46.6   112.0      38.5   82.7           102.3
Caebev                               000 ton.                 51     57s5     5o     69.4      80.4   82.4       66.3   88.9       52.3    95.6      65.1  147.7            95.5
Vegetable oilaf'                     000 tons                 24.2    8.6      23.2   9.4      24.8   10.2       53-3   32.0       39.6    39.6      48.1   42.1            n.0.
Eceential Oile                                                        4.9             5.1              5.3               5.3                7.8            11.6             na.
II CRUDE ATERIALS
Raw Cotton                           000 ton                  36     20.4     32     18.6      31.7   21.9       38.0   28.0       54.9    41.6      20.0   19.0            n.u.
U.nonufactured Tobaoom               000 tone                n..     41.1     50     43.4      57.3   56.8       94-5   79.2       78.2    87.8      75.0  100.5           113.6
Iko. Ore                             million tons             12    88.4      21.2  156.4      19.9 140.7       20.6   142.5       23.7   170.5     22.3  200.5            193.2
Nine                                 000 tone                 43     23.7      27    20.7      23     20.7       2'     21.6       19.1    16.3      34.2   27.7      a      .
Mongsnece                             millio  t-e              1.4   23.2      1.6   18.6       1.1   14.2        0.8   11.3        0.8    11.6       1.0  21.5             r.a.
III IVNUFACTURED ITES
Jute Manufactures                    000 tone                900    384.0    561    253.9     670    356.4     580     324.4      563     291.7     586   363.6            255.7
Cotton Tantile
1) Mill Made                      million eq. metere      513     98.5    415     90.0     382     89.5     449     109.5      650     206.9     373.1  1633 .340.1
ii) Handloo                         millIon esters          40     17.5     28     10.4      29     13.4      47      21.5       67      41.2     49.4   36.4 -
Coir Manufaotureo                    000 tons                 70     22.5     49     17.3      47     18.0      41'     18.6       46      19.7     42     22.4             62.5
Clothing                                                             13.4            34.6             50.6              72.2              122.6            118.9           113.6
Cotton Tarn and Thread               000 tone                 15     14.6     23     27.5      16     23.8      22      32.0       12      20.5      9.9   22.9             18.2
Leather and Leather Ynufaeturea                                      72.6           111.2            135.3             239.0              234.7           206.2            240.9
Ge-s                                                                 31.0            55.8             69.2             101.1              138.0           lli.t            118.2
Other Sandicra-o                                                    21.4            37.3             40.6              54.2               72.0           1O9.O            118.0
Iron and Stem"J                                                     26.5            105.6             34.0              30.8               33.1            25.7            113.6
E gineerir/                                                         41.6            155.3            163.1             184.9              212.1           440.9            443.2
ChmicaleS./                                                          19.2            39.1             40.9              45.8               63.3           115.6            102.3
Pineral Fuels                                                        19.6             7.7             15.4              41.5               19.7            25.5             29.5
Sub-total                                         1.476.2         1.691.2          1.840.7            2.119.9           2.647.1     1     .'92.5            n.a.
EPORTS (in..uding othere)                                          1.6918          2.046.9          2.160.4           2.557.S            3.187.3         4.130.2          4.098
E/ dible oils, excluding vanaspati.
/ In accordance with the    laeifloation followed by the MInistry of Comero. In 1972 several anoufootared ite      f-rerly inoluded under 'Iron & Steol' u.re rec- ooified as
E.gino.r.ig Goods. Data froa 1971/2 onvarde follow the nevw lesifiestion and h.noe are net meprable with (lata for earliei years.
S/ Okeloding esoential oils and pl"eties.
d/ Pro-lsional.
1   Egstntet.  Bre-bkdaw  eat -etiloble for --r rene.t tote1 figurs shove is A..e. IV.
S-uroe: Department of Conerolal Intelligence & Statistios.   Monthly Statietio   of the Foraig. Trade of India and lXt.try of Coemere., &port PlannIig Sectino: Advance Infroratien
Series II, Serial No. 12.



IND11                                                         ANN:X VI
EL6ENNTR7 IHSTRIAL D PORTS PROCiW  CREDIT
D 6imtion:ofthrte
(usS   illion
19 6S/66                 17/11971 2                                        1972/7                    937                     1974/75'
V.I.,Vlu                                          V.I..                    V.I..     ,{                l71 t                 Val       ,
Africa                    129.9    7.6             185.7    9.1             177.4    8.2             1 1.2   5j               129.5     4              297. 78    1
UAR                      56.8     3.4             75.2     3.7             31.0     .14             41.2     1.6             19.0    0.6              65.6     1.6
Other-                   73.1    4.3             110.06   5.4             146.6    6.7              90.0    3.5             110.5    3.5             228.2    5.5
America                   17.4j   22.3             U7.j    16.0             427.0   19.t             402.8    15.8            498.2   15.6             S'4.05   13.4
USA                     310.4    18.3            276.5    13-5            353.4   16.6             357.8   16.0             439.9   13.8             469.7    11.6
Canada                   42.6     2.5             37.3     1.8             52.9     2.4             36.6     1.5             39.5    1.2              55.1    1.3
Othe:r                   25.4     1.5             13.8    0.7              20.7     1.0              8.4    0.3              18.8    0.6              29.2    0.7
Asia and Oceania      3       94_6  21.1           650.0    31.8            655.7    0C        q      j.0A    32.6          1,116.4    u             31,4394   36.2
ECAFE                   334.0   19.7             546.1    26.7            570.3    26.4            737.2    28.8            938.0   29.4           1,132.'    27.4
Of wh1ch:
Japan                 (119.7)  (7.1)           (271.3)  (13.2           (26.9)  (11.3            (281.3) (11.0)          (655-8)  (14-,)           '165.1)  (a.9
A.a,traliO            (36.9)   (2.2)            (2.2 6)  (21.6)          (37.6)  (1.7)           ,t,      (1.3                     72q 14 5   )    (76 5)  (0S
Othere                   60.7     3.6            103.9     5.1             85.6     4.0             95.9     3.             178.4      .              3tl.1    8.7
CeylOc         (27.1)  (~~~~~71.6      (62.5-)  (2.12)          (28.)     1.)              18     (0.)              1.5     0.1
A.atera iars,.           128.8   19.4             683.2   21.              661.6   21.6             6       21.0             611.7 2                  6.12     20.6
02IJM                   195.3    11.5            279.8    13.7            280.4    13.0            395.6    15.5            364.3    11.4             '22.7   12.7
Coechosiovakie           33.3     2.0             39.3     1.9             41.0     1.9            5S.8      2.3             53.4     1.7             75.5     1.8
East Germoy              28.8     1.7             32.7     1.6             24.1     1.1             19.6     0.8             27.7     0.9             q'.0     1.0
Poland                   19.1     1.1             29.5     1.4             26.8     1.2             57.3     2.2             62.7     2.0             9,6.8    2.3
Other-                   52.3     3.1            101.9     5.0             89.3     4.1             77.3     3.0            105.6     3.3            113.5    '..7
Weetet. E-.oe             460.6   ?27.             400.4   19-6             438.7    20.3            S80.9    22.7            829.S    26.0            .fl7 9   22.7
Belgiv.                  20.0     1.2             27.1     1.3             32.7     1.5             39.1     1.5             56.3     1.6              66.6    1.6
France                   23.6     1.4             24.0     1.2             32.5     1.5             59.6     2.3             62.4     1.9             105.9    2.5
West Germany             38.2     2.3             43.1     2.1             49.8     2.3             80.8     3.2             105.5    3.3             131.6    3.2
Italy                    17.7    1.0              18.7    0.9              32.5     1.5             63.4     2.5             87.7     2.7             65.2     1 .
Netherlands              16.6     1.0             18.6     0.9             19.8     0.9             45.9     1.0             91.4     2.9              68.7    2.1
Un                      306.1    18.2            227.3    11.1            226.6    10.5             223.9    6.7            331.1    1(.4             303.     9.j
Cthere                   38.4     2.3             41.7     2.0             44.8     2.1             68.2     2.7             95.1     3.0             97.3     2--
Grand 'otal             1,692.0   100.0          2.046.9   100.0          2.160.4   100.0          2,5$7 5   100.0           3,187.3  100.          q...i.    100.AM
' Provisional data.
So.rc.: Lepartoent of Comercial Iatelli6gce ad Statisti.s, Mosnthly St.tistioa of th. Froig. Trade of India.



INDIA                                         ANNEX VII
ELEVENTH INDUSTRIAL IltPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
Import Summary-/
(US $ million)
1970/71     1971/72      1972/73     1973/74     1974/75-      1975/76
Estimate
Cereal and Cereal Preparations                                  284         176         105          635       1.165          1,210
Maintenance Imports, of which:                                1,512       1.883        1,939       2,655       4,131           n.a.
Steel                                                         196         319         293          311         522            240
Non-ferrous metals                       a/                   159         138         142          179         223
Fertilizers and fertilizer raw materialsa-                    133         150         189          290         825            890
POL                                                           181         261         265          719       1,375           n.a.
Cotton                                                        132         152         118           67        n.a.           n.a.
Chemical elements and compounds                                71          86          84          102        n.a.           n.a.
Components and spares                                         284         384         460          490        n,a.          n.a.
Others                                                        356         393         388          497        n.a.           n.a.
Complete Machinery and Equipment                                260         268         249          339         312           n.a.
Others b                                                        255         245         389          323        n.a.
TOTAL IMPORTS                     2,311       2,572        2,682       3,952       5,811
a/  Foreign exchange rates used:   1968/69 to 1970/71 - $1 - Rs 7.50
1971/72            - $1 = Rs 7.44
1972/73            = $1 - Rs 7.70
1973/74            = $1 = Rs 7.8285
1974/75            - $1 = Rs 8.00
,/ Includes IDA adjuatment for under recording of imports.
/ Provisional and incomplete data from Monthly Statistics of Foreign Trade of India.



INDIA
ELEVENTH INDUSTRIAL IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT                       ANNEX VIII
INDEX OF INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION
(------ Base: 1960 = 100 ---     )             (Base: 1970 = 100)
Commodities                          Weight    1965   1970    1971   1972    1973      Weight  1973/74   1974/75
Mining and Quarrying                            9.72     131.7  149.0  153.4  164.2  163.6        6.89    105.0    117.4
Manufacturing                                  84.91     154.0  174.8  178.9  191.4  193.1
Food Manufacturing                           12.09     122.2  157.5  157.6  162.6  154.6        7.70     96.2
Beverage and Tobacco                          2.22     147.6  170.1  182.5  174.1  179.4       2.21     104.3
Manufacture of Textiles                      27.06     114.8  109.7  106.0  114.4  113.2       14.89    101.3
Manufacture of Footwear and Wearing
Apparel                                     0.21    169.4   161.3  168.1  150.8  151.3       n.a.      n.a.     n.a.
Manufacture of Wood and Cork except
Manufacture of Furniture                    0.80     235.2  198.7  224.1  217.7  158.4       n.a.      n.a.     n.a.
Manufacture of Furniture and Fittings         0.39-
Paper and Paper Products                      1.61     147.2  216.5  225.7  226.1  236.4        2.24    106.6    111.0
Leather and Fur Products                      0.43     122.7   65.3   55.3   59.9   76.4       n.a.      n.a.     n.a.
Rubber Products                               2.22     159.4  215.7  241.8  256.0  251.3        2.22    116.2    120.3
Chemicals and Chemical Products               7.26     152.6  236.5  252.7  293.8  ,01.9      10.90     123.7    125.3
Petroleum Refinery Products                   1.45b/   152.7  297.3  316.9  317.2  332.8        1.62    114.4    113.1
Non-Metallic Mineral (including cement)       3.85     149.1  189.1  207.6  225.2  227.1        3.33    116.5    119.7
Basic Metal Industries                        7.38     180.9  205.3  208.6  225.3  215.8       8.67     104.8    109.5
Metal Products                                2.51     205.6  219.0  234.4  242.7  243.1        2.77    118.3    121.8
Non-Electrical Machinery                      3.38     320.9  369.5  373.2  402.7  454.9        4.78    156.4    147.4
Electrical Machinery                          3.05     208.2  362.7  404.8  435.0  436.2        5.30    115.0    118.5
Transport Equipment                           7.77     206.3  132.0  122.1  133.4  148.1        5.46    122.1    114.0
Miscellaneous Industries                       1.23    132.9  120.0  114.0   86.5   74.5        1.69     91.3    100.1
Electricity Generated                           5.37     190.9  334.0  358.5  390.7  383.8        9.23    121.0    128.6
C/
All Commodities (Seasonally Adjusted)-         100.00    153.8  180.8  186.1  199.4   200.8               112.4    115.2
a/ Production figures are not reported.
b/ Reported production statistics relate only to products whose total weight amounts to 1.34 in the index.
c/ The indices for 1971/72 and 1972/73 on 1970 base were 108.0 and 112.8 respectively.
Sources: 1. Government of India, various issues of the Economic Survey.
2. Ministry of Industry and Civil Supplies, Estimates for 1973/74 and 1974/75.



ANNEX IX
Page 1
INIDIA
ELEVENTH INDUSTRIAL IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
Performance and Prospects of Proposed IDA-Assisted Industries
I. SUMMARY
Performance in 1974/75
1.        Output increased by about 5.8% which was somewhat higher than the
achievement of the industrial sector as a whole. Substantial rises in the
production were achieved by a few industries such as power generating equip-
ment (+64%), power tillers (+108%) and, to a lesser degree, tractors (+29%);
moderate growth of about 10% in nitrogeneous fertilizers, three-wheelers,
and some automative ancillaries. Otherwise, the scene was, in fact, one of
stagnation or decline, reflecting in large part the effects on demand of the
succession of poor harvests and the worldwide inflation in commodity prices.
For the IDA industries as a group, the growth rate in production has been
declining from the nearly 10% reached in 1971/72 (Table 1).
Trends in 1975/76
2.        The improved availability of power and raw ma.terials and the
increase in public sector outlay on power and industry of about 50% in the
Annual Plan for 1975/76 have created some optimism for an improvement in
performance this fiscal year. In particular, the electrical goods sector,
which had been stagnating earlier on account of the SEB's lack of funds,
shows signs of recovery. At the same time a good kharif crop and prospect
of a good rabi crop are already having an impact upon demand for fertilizers,
pesticides, tractors, power tillers and agricultural discs. However, in
the other sectors, domestic demand has still not picked. up with a consequent
effect upon the automotive and certain metal working industries.
Exports
3.        Many IDA industries have demonstrated an abil.ity to respond to the
falling off in domestic demand by exporting. IDA-assisted industries vir-
tually doubled their level of exports from Rs 530 million in 1973/74 to
Rs 1020 million in 1974/75, thereby maintaining the share of IDA-assisted
industries in tota]. engineering goods exports of around. 30% (Table 2). The
auto ancillaries contributed about 39% of the total export earnings from
IDA-assisted industries, followed by electrical equipment (25%) and tools
and parts (21%). Exports during the first half of the current year have held
up surprisingly well despite the recessionary trends in. the world market.
However, a decline in new orders has now become noticeable in a number of
IDA-assisted industries. More specifically, in machine tools, textile mac-
hinery, castings and forgings. India has enjoyed a basic cost advantage in



ANNEX IX
Page 2
terms of steel and labor input, but the margin of advantage has been narrow-
ing. Recently, demand has been declining and fierce competition has developed.
In the case of electrical equipment, the prospects are not at all good for
much the same reasons despite improved availability of aluminum and copper.
Prospects for 1976/77
4.        A revival in demand from the agricultural sector for investment
goods and fertilizer is expected in 1976/77 following the excellent harvests
expected this fiscal year. The overall improvement in the economy should
enable the Government to proceed with its development programs which should
generate substantial demand for investment goods. On the other hand, invest-
ment demand from the private sector is more problematic in view of the
considerable excess capacity while export prospects are generally uncertain.
The full pressure of competition, which has been made more acute by worldwide
excess capacity in engineering industries, is expected to be felt by Indian
exporters. In this competition, not only price will be a key factor, but
so also will quality and after-sales service which are areas in which some
Indian manufacturers have not excelled. Nonetheless, the Indian engineering
industry should be able to maintain, and maybe achieve a modest improvement,
in the level of exports. But significant increases on the scale experienced
in recent years seems unlikely.
5.        In the following paragraphs 6 to 35, the performance of individual
IDA-assisted industries is reviewed in more detail. Table 3 shows past and
projected output in physical terms for these industries. In paragraphs 36
and 37, the financial performance of these industries is analyzed and Table
4 shows financial performance data, while export performance is reviewed in
paragraphs 38-42. Table 5 shows the disbursement of past industrial imports
credits to IDA-assisted industries.
II. PERFORMANCE OF IDA-ASSISTED INDUSTRIES
Tractors and Related Equipment
6.        Production of tractors is a relatively new industry in India,
and in the last five years production has increased bv 70% since 1971/72
to over 31,000 in 1974/75, which was close to thl target of 32,000.     Compared
with a production of 24,200 in 1973/74, production in 1974/75 was 28% higher.
Performance of Hindustan Machine Tools, a public sector unit, has been
particularly striking. Within two years of coming into production, this
unit has been able to achieve a production of about 7,000 tractors in
1974/75 (capacity utilization being 87.5%).
7.        The indigenous range now covers tractors from 25 HP to 60 HP.
Among the 11 existing firms, nine firms have collaboration with well-known
international manufacturers of tractors, e.g. Massey-Ferguson, Ford, and



ANNEX IX
Page 3
International Harvester.   Most of the components for production of tractors
are available indigenously and the import content of tractors is about 10%.
8.        On the basis of present trends, it is expected that production of
tractors would increase to 35,000 in 1975/76 and 38,000 in 1976/77. The
off-take of tractors has also been fairly satisfactory, and in the last two
years, India has also made a beginning in the export of tractors. In 1974/75,
the value of tractors exported increased substantially to Rs 8.3 million from
Rs 0.7 million in 1973/74. In 1975/76, exports of tractors are likely to
increase further.
9.        Tractor industry was also the subject of a special survey by the
World Bank at the end of 1972. A large number of reconmendations made by
the Bank team of consultants have already been implemented, and some are
under implementation. A revised program for the future development of this
industry has been prepared.
10.       Power Tillers.   The last three years have bee!n a period of high
rate of growth in the production of power tillers. Despite problems in
respect of power availability, production of power tillers has increased
from 386,000 in 1972/73, to 1 million in 1973/74 and just over 2 million
in 1974/75, the last mentioned figure meeting the target. In its initial
phases, power tiller industry had suffered from lack of demand. However,
in the last two or three years, there has been an improvement in this
respect and it is expected that production of power tillers should reach
3 million in 1975/76.
11.       Agricultural Discs.   There was also a substantial fall in produc-
tion in 1974/75 (23,000) as compared with 92,000 in 1973/74. This also
represents a substantial shortfall from a target of 200,000. The fall in
production is attributed to protracted delays in the delivery of high carbon
steel sheets/plates from overseas suppliers. This situation has now been
corrected, and a revival in production is now taking p:Lace. The production
target for 1975/76 has been set, conservatively, at about 100,000, or about
the same level as actual production in 1973/74.
Fertilizers
12.       Although the use of fertilizer in the country has increased rapidly
over the last.10-15 years consumption stagnated in 1973/74 and 1974/75,
reflecting the effects of poor monsoons and the substantial increase in
fertilizer prices that has taken place in the last two years.
13.       Domestic production of nitrogenous fertilizer in 1974/75 was about
11% higher than in the previous year (1,191,000 tons of N as against 1,077,000
tons in 1973/74). The growth of this industry was interrupted in 1973/74
due to power shortages and the fact that plants of both FCI (Namrup) and
Southern Petro-chemical Industries Corporation could not go into production
as envisaged in 1974/75. These plants are expected to start this year and
production in 1975/76 should reach 1.5 million tons of N.



ANNEX IX
Page 4
14.       For effective utilization of existing capacity, measures have been
undertaken by various units to overcome technical constraints and to improve
plant maintenance. Some units facing raw material problems have also under-
taken suitable schemes for changeover of feedstocks/raw materials. Thus,
FCI (Sindri) would be using gypsum recovered from the phosphoric acid unit,
instead of inferior grade Bikaner gypsum. Similarly, at FCI (Nangal), a new
scheme has been undertaken which would do away with power as the basic raw
material for production of ammonia. FCI (Gorakhpur) is installing its own
captive power station and modification programs have already begun in the
existing plants of Neyveli Lignite and FCI (Durgapur). As a result of these
improvements, some of which have already been completed, production of public
sector nitrogenous fertilizer plants in the first three months of 1975/76
shows a growth of 14.6%.
15.       Production of plhosphatic fertilizer, however, has shown a marginal
fall in 1974/75 and was well below the target of 400,000 tons of P205 and
largely attributable to the effect of a substantial rise in the price of rock
phosphate and sulphur on demand for superphosphate, whiclh is a low nutrient
fertilizer.  Production in 1975/76 is expected to show only a modest in-
crease to reach 415,000 tons of P205. The production target for phosphatic
fertilizer for 1976/77 is placed at 480,000 tons of P2OS when four new projects
(at Goa, Khetri, Sindri and Tuticorin) are coming on stream.
Pesticides
16.       In 1974/75, there was a small increase in production of technical
pesticides as well as solid and liquid formulations. In relation to targets,
however, there was a slight shortfall. This is attributecl to slow offtake
due to sharp increases in prices of pesticides as well as shortfall in avail-
ability of pesticide raw materials in the international market. Recently,
there has been demand for more sophisticated pesticides and formulations
which are less bulky. The target of production for 1975/76 is 38,000 tons
for technical pesticides, 68,000 tons for solid formulations, and 15,000 KI.
for liquid formulations.
Electrical Equipment
17.       This sub-sector embraces a wide variety of products.    Since gener-
ation and distribution of electricity is largely in the public sector, Govern-
ment expenditure at Central and State levels in the power sector has a large
influence in determining the level of demand for the products of the electri-
cal equipment industry. The Government is giving the highest priority to
the generation and distribution of power; in the Annual Plan for 1975/76,
an allocation of Rs 11,020 million for the power sector has been made as
against Rs 7,670 million in 1974/75. The rate of growth in real terms is,
however, likely to be somewhat lower because of increases in prices of
electrical equipment that has taken place in the last two years.
18.       Electrical Motors.   Small-scale industry is an important producer
of electric motors, and it has been the Government's policy to encourage
production in the small-scale sector for motors of lower ratings. As a



ANNEX IX
Page 5
result, in aggregate terms, production of electric motors in the medium-
and large-scale sectors, has grown only slowly. Production in 1974175
was slightly below the target of 3.4 million HP. For 1975/76 and 1976/77,
production is expected to be somewhat lower at around 3 million HP. Most
of the increases in production are likely to be confined to the small-
scale sector of motors below 10 HP.
19.       Transformers.  These items are primarily required by the SEBs for
their power generation and distribution programs. In 1974/75, the resource
position of the Electricity Boards, because of Government's anti-inflationary
policies and strict control over aggregate expenditure, was extremely tight.
As a result, the offtake of transformers was below the levels expected at
the beginning of the year, and production of transformers in 1974/75 was at
the same level as in 1973/74 (12.4 million KVA). Because of sharp increases
in prices of copper and special steel sheets, combined with a shortage of
aluminum, there was a substantial increase in the price of transformers,
which also had a dampening effect on demand. According to present indica-
tions, production of transformers is likely to increase slightly in 1975/76.
20.       Switchgears and Control Gears.   These items are also essential
equipment for transmission and distribution of electric power. Production
of switchgears has increased rapidly in the last three years and the total
value of production in 1974/75 was of the order of Rs 806 million as com-
pared with Rs 650 million in 1973/74. For 1975/76, production is expected
to increase to Rs 1,100 million. In this industry, copper and a number of
extruded components have now been very largely replaced by domestically
produced aluminum.
21.       Stampings and Laminations.   These products are basic inputs for
the manufacture of electric transformers and motors. iin 1974/75, produc-
tion of these items increased to 37,000 tons from 33,000 tons in 1973/74
and the target for 1975/76 is 40,000 tons.
22.       Cables and Wires.   This category comprises a number of products,
e.g. ACSR/AAC conductors, winding wires, power cables End VIR/PVC cables.
Production performance in respect of this category of items was unsatis-
factory in 1974/75, and in quantitative terms, production actually declined
(Table 3). Output was affected by the reduction in the! offtake by SEBs which
account for a large part of the market for these products. In addition,
aluminum was in critically short supply on account of the shortage of
power. The expected increase in production of indigenous aluminum, as well
as arrangements that have already been made for imports in 1975/76, should
ensure an increase in production of these items during 1975/76. There is
also an increase in the pace of investment in the power sector, which is
likely to further boost demand.
23.       Power Generating Equipment, Including Boilers.   The increase in
production of power generating equipment has been about 200% over the past
two years while boiler production has increased by about 40% over the same
period. Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. (BHEL) in the public sector is a
major producer of these items. The target for 1975/76 -for power generating



ANNEX IX
Page 6
equipment is placed at 3,800 MW, and for boilers, at Rs 1,300 million. As
BHEL does not propose to raise prices this year, this increase in value terms
should represent real growth.
Commercial Vehicles
24.       Important factors affecting the growth of this sector in 1974/75
have been the rise in petrol prices combined with a sharp increase in the
price of vehicles. The influence of the rise in petrol prices can be seen
from the following figures:
PRODUCTION OF DIESEL/PETROL ENGINE VEHICLES
(Unit/Numbers)
Production of        Production of
Year       Diesel Engine       Petrol Engine        TOTAL
Vehicles             Vehicles
1972/73      32,267               6,107             38,374
1973/74      36,012               6,728             42,740
1974/75      38,139               2,506             40,645
25.       Jeeps are produced by one company, and the effect of the energy
crisis is also seen in the production figures of this item (Table 3). The
1975/76 target for the production of jeeps is placed at around 11,000 vehicles.
Production of three-wheelers has, however, shown a substantial increase in
1974/75 over the previous year (12,200 as compared with 11,200 in 1973/74).
Automotive Ancilliaries
26.       Tires and Tubes.   In India, 90% of the production of tires is that
of rayon tires. The percentage of passenger car tires in the total product-
ion is approximately 20%. In 1974/75, production of tires has increased
to 5.5 million from 5.2 million in 1973/74. Production at this level was
also equal to the target set for this year. There was some slippage in the
production of tubes as compared with the target of 5.5 million due to
relatively lower demand for tubes. Automobile tires and tubes are also being
exported, and their exports have increased from Rs 51 million in 1972/73 to
Rs 65 million in 1973/74, and to Rs 95 million in 1974/75.
27.       The target for 1975/76 for production of tires is placed at 6
million, and for that of tubes at 5.2 million. The growth in exports
experienced in the last three/four years is also likely to be maintained
in 1975/76.
28.       Automotive Components.   This category includes miscellaneous
automobile ancillaries, storage batteries, auto-leaf springs, coil springs,
and high tensile fasteners. This particular sector has made rapid strides
in the last decade, and almost all the items required for automobiles are



ANNEX IX
Page 7
now manufactured indigenously. There are about 160 units in the large-scale
sector manufacturing auto ancillaries. There are also a large number of small-
scale units in the sector producing a wide variety of small value automo-
tive products. Although there has been growth in prodluction in 1974/75,
the development of this sector has naturally been affected by fuel prices
as well as high prices of many of its raw materials. The following table
shows production of various automotive components in 1973/74, 1974/75 and
the target for 1975/76:
PRODUCTION OF AUTOMOTIVE COMPONENTS
Unit      1973/74    1974/75   1975/76
(target)
Storage Batteries            Lakh Nos      12.9       13.2      14.0
Synthetic Rubber             '000 tons     23         19        25
Bus bodies                   '000 Nos      15         16        17
Automobile ancillaries       Million
rupees   1,502       1,973     2,000
Auto leaf springs            '000 tons     31         29        31
Coil springs                 Tons         896      1,031     1,150
High Tensile Fasteners
H.T. bolts and Nuts       '000 tons      6.7        7.3       8.0
H.T. Machine Screws       - Do   -       1.5        2.0       2.5
Machine Tools and Cutting Tools
29.       Machine tool industry in India has been one of the more dynamic
in the industrial sector. Hindustan Machine Tools (HMT), the major pro-
ducer of machine tools in the country, has not only established a high
reputation for quality at home but also has been able to capture substan-
tial markets abroad. Total production of machine tools (Rs 880 million)
has substantially exceeded the target for 1974/75 (Rs 730 million). Machine
tools are currently being manufactured by 118 firms, including four in the
public sector. Out of the total production of Rs 880 million, HMT's con-
tribution is of the order of Rs 320 million or about 36%. Although quanti-
tative figures are not available, the increase in the value of production
in 1974/75 of 35Z also represents a substantial increase in production
in physical terms as, for example, the price of HMT machine tools are
estimated to have increased by no more than about 15% for some of their
more popular models during 1974/75.



ANNEX IX
Page 8
30.       Apart from increases in the volume of production, there has also
been a tremendous diversification in the product range. The country has
become completely self-sufficient in general purpose machine tools (which
also represent its major export item), and has progressively taken on the
production of more complex and larger types of equipment. In the field
of sophisticated technology, a beginning has also been made in developing
numerical control machine tools at HMrT and the Central Machine Tool Insti-
tute, Bangalore. The average import content of machine tools in India has
also come down from about 21% in 1969 to about 15% during 1974/75, despite
a substantial increase in international prices during the period. During
1974/75, a number of items were manufactured for the first time in the
country, e.g. nut-lapping machines, center-less grinders, bed-type milling
machines, numerical control lathe, friction screw press and die-casting
machines of 600 ton capacity.
31.       Growth experienced during the last fewq years is likely to be
maintained in the coming years, and the production target for 1975/76
is placed at Rs 1,020 million. Since prices of machine tools are also
likely to remain stable, this order of increase would also mean a sub-
stantial increase in physical production.
32.       Production of small and cutting tools, and abrasives was of the
order of Rs 670 million in 1974/75 as against production of about Rs 500
million in 1973/74 and a target of Rs 600 million for 1974/75. Small tools
and hand tools industries have made a major thrust in the export market
and the current level of exports of these items is of the order of Rs 100
million, of which more than 50% is accounted for by the forged hand tools
industry. Production target for 1975/76 for this industry has been placed
at Rs 660 million.
33.       Production of ball and roller bearings during the year was
affected by power shortages experienced by units producing this item as
well as by shortages of seamless steel tubes, which are entirely imported.
Total production was 23.6 million in 1974/75. The demand for ball bearings
in the country remains high, and domestic production target is placed at
26 million because of improvement in power availability. Certain types of
ball and roller bearings are also exported, and exports in 1974/75 are
estimated to have increased to Rs 12.4 million in 1974/75 from Rs 0.7
million in 1972/73.
Castings and Forgings
34.       These industries were the subject of a special review by the
Association in 1973/74. Production as well as the estimates for various
kinds of castings and forgings are given in Table 3.
35.       Production of steel forgings increased substantially in 1973/74,
but has come down marginally in 1974/75. This is mainly due to shortages
of forging quality steel, including die block steel, power cuts and lack
of demand in the automobile industry. Production of cast iron spun pipes



ANNEX IX
Page 9
and cast iron castings, on the other hand, has been higher than the last
year, and has also exceeded the targets. Production of other types of
castings, e.g. steel castings, malleable castings and S.G. iron castings,
has also been close to targets indicated at the time of the negotiations
of the Tenth Credit.
III. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OF IDA-ASSISTED INDUSTRIES
36.       Profitability figures for all IDA-assisted uniits are not available.
However, an attempt was made to work out profitability figures for 1972/73
and 1973/74 for a number of IDA-assisted units for which balance sheets
for these years were available. These data, which inc:Lude 83 companies
assisted by IDA, show that during 1973/74, profit before taxes plus interest
as a percentage of capital employed for IDA-assisted industries, varied from
5% in respect of aluminum to 35.8% in respect of storage batteries. Profit
before taxes as a percentage of sales in 1973/74 varied from 1.4% in respect
of cables to 25.8% in respect of power tillers. All the units covered by
the sample have shown a positive rate of profit, and for most industries,
return on capital employed has increased in 1973/74. Table 4 shows sales,
profit before taxes as a percentage of sales, and return on capital employed
for 83 IDA-assisted units, grouped into various industries.
37.       Among the IDA-assisted industries which showed a return of over
15% on capital employed were, storage batteries, pestic:ides, bearings,
automobile ancillaries, electric motors, machine tools, tires and tubes,
small tools, tractors, and steel forgings. On the other hand, the return
of capital employed for fertilizers, cables, and power tillers was below
10%. In general, the financial performance of IDA-assisted industries has
been satisfactory.
IV. EXPORT PERFORMANCE OF IDA-ASSISTED INDUSTRIES
38.       Foreign exchange earnings by IDA-assisted industries increased
by 14% in 1973/74 to US$68 million, and by 88% in 1974/75 to US$127 million
or 29% of all engineering goods exports earnings. All the IDA-assisted
industries with a significant contribution to export earnings are in
the engineering sector, where export earnings also grew rapidly in these
two years, by 34% in 1973/74 and 77% in 1974/75. In general, the demand in
1974/75 for engineering goods worldwide was sufficient to cause a rise in
the prices and an increase in the volume of trade especially of exports from
a country such as India, whose goods in many product lines normally make a
small contribution to world supply.
39.       60% of the increase in IDA-assisted industry export earnings (and
14% of engineering goods export earnings growth) between 1972/73 and 1974/75
was concentrated in 3 industries: (i) cables and wires; (ii) automobile
components and parts; and (iii) cutting, small tools and abrasives. Cables



ANNEX IX
Page 10
and wire exports earnings fell in 1973/74, but with an increase in world
demand, volume rose substantially in 1974/75. However, rises in copper
prices and consequent unit price rises accounted for a large part of this
earnings increase of 100%. While the prospects for 1975/76 seem relatively
secure, improved export performance in subsequent years may be difficult to
achieve. Automobile component manufacturers in India have become established
in the replacement part market particularly in Europe. This is true of other
automotive ancillaries, among which tyres and tubes make a significant con-
tribution to export earnings in absolute terms. The earnings increase of 228%
for automobile components and parts between 1972/73 and 1974/75 probably
represents a substantial and relatively secure increase volume. Similarly,
the increase of 78% in earnings from cutting, small tools and abrasives
reflects the successful development of these three markets in the past two
years, based to a great extent on the efforts a number of exporters have made
efforts to maintain quality and, in the case of small hand tools, the
comparative advantage derived from labor abundance in India.
40.       Trucks and buses are also prominent export items.    The two or three
industry leaders are competitive in quality and price and should be able to
sustain a gradual increase in export earnings in the medium term. Exports
of machine tools have also been growing, and the prospects for continued
expansion are good provided one or two steps are taken such as an increased
emphasis on marketing and after-sales service.
41.       In general, the export prospects of IDA-assisted industries appear
fair for 1975/76. An increase of about 15% in the rupee value of exports
by IDA-assisted industries (and all engineering industries) is projected for
1975/76. However, this will represent a much smaller increase in terms
of foreign exchange (perhaps a 5% increase in dollar terms), and probably
stagnant performance in real terms. On the other hand, this must be seen
against a background of generally depressed demand as a result of the current
recession in the developed countries of the world.
42.       A relatively high proportion of the orders outstanding for capital
goods exports at the beginning of September are reported to mature in the
second half of the year, so that the targets established for heavy electrical
equipment, commercial vehicles, machine tools and earthmoving equiipment all
seem to be within reach. With regard to the export prospects of the remaining
categories of IDA-assisted industries, provisional figures suggest that exports
in the first six months of the year have been above target. Ilowever, there
are some indications of weak order book position and one or two cancellations
have been reported. This can be attributed in part to uncertainty regarding
rates of cash assistance, which lead exporters to delay acceptance of new
orders. Rates have now been settled for the rest of the fiscal year, so that
some recovery of orders may therefore be expected.



INDIA                                        ANNEX IX
Table 1
ELEVENTH INDUSTRIAL IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
INDEX NUMBER OF PRODUCTION OF IDA INDUSTRIES
(1970-71 - 100)
Name of Industry                     Weight    1971/72    1972/73    1973/74    1974/75
1. Agricultural Tractors             0.1000      83.6      98.5      120.9      154.7
2. Nitrogenous Fertilizers (N)       0.8662     114.4      127.3     129.3      143.0
3. Phosphatic Fertilizers (P205)     0.5192     121.9      143.0     142.1      140.4
4. Pesticides (Technical)            0.1471     100.0      112.5     129.2      141.7
5. Electric Motors                   0.3521     110.3      103.5     106.9      113.7
6. Transformers                      1.8300     100.9      110.1     113.7      115.5
7. Aluminum -                        o.5496     107.1      103.5      87.6       74.5
8. Commercial Vehicles:
(a)  Trucks & Buses              1.9940     96.h       93.2      104.1       97.1
(b)  Jeeps                       0.2309     114.2     132.5      126.1       97.7
(c)  Three-Wheelers              0.0296     155.3     227.5      238.0      259.2
9. Automobiles Diesel Engines        0.o452      65.6       69.8      92.0       92.0
10.  Tires and Tubes:
(a)  Tires                       1.0038     111.6     116.3      121.0      128.0
(b)  Tubes                       0.0921     1h2.4     142.4      145.4      142.3
11.  Storage Batteries                0.2160     120.0      111.0      125.0     129.0
12. Synthetic Rubber                  0.0965     122.2      118.5       85.1      66.1
,13. Springs for Automobiles           o.o585     106.6      96.7      103.4       96.7
14.  H.T. Bolts and Nuts              0.0937     136.3      131.8      152.2      165.8
15. Machine Tools                     0.5367     1h9.3      141.9      193.3      257.2
16. Small and Cutting Tools and
Abrasives                   0.6105     139.0      143.0      143.8      202.2
.17.  Ball and Roller Bearings        0.5900     113.0      122.6      138.4      134.9
Overall Index of above                          106.0      116.5      122.6      129.7
Growth      over the previous year (percent)    (+9.9)     (+6.0)     (+5.2)     (+5.8)
1/ Not included under Eleventh Credlt.
Notes:   (i)  Weights are as per Index Number of Industrial production base 1970 = 100.
(ii)  The IDA Industries listed above exclude a few items for which weights in the
Index Number are not separately available. However, such industries account
for an insignificant weight in the total index.
Source: DGTD
November 1975



ANNEX IX
Table 2
INDIA
ELEVENTH INDUSTRIAL IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
Export Performance of IDA-Assisted Industries - 1972/73, 1973/74 and 1974/75
(Fiscal Years, in million US $)
Percentage Growth
Industry             1972/73   1973/74  1974/75  1972/73-1973/74  1973/74-1974/75
Tractors                             .03      .09     1.04            -             1055.6
Power Tillers                        .26      .43     1.01          65.4             146.3
Fertilizers                          .84      .01      -              -             -100.0
Pesticides                           .01      .04       .03           -              -25.0
Electrical Equipment:
Motors                             .94     1.57     1.85          67.0              17.8
Transformers                      1.90     1.61     3.24        -15.3              101.2
Switchgear                        1.86     2.72     5.08         46.2               86.8
Cables and Wires                  8.30     7.39    16.61        -11.0              124.8
Boilers                           0.86     3.86     2.99         348.8             -22.5
Power Gen. Equipment              0.40     0.36     1.20         -10.0             233.3
Commercial Vehicles:
Trucks and Buses                  7.70     5.02     9.61        -34.8               91.4
Jeeps                              .80      .19       .33        -76.3              73.7
Three-Wheelers                     .76      .05       .21        -93.4             320.0
Automobile Diesel Engines          .12      .19       .18         58.3              -5.3
Automotive Ancillaries:
Tyres and Tubes                   6.58     8.36    11.82          27.1              41.4
Synthetic Rubber                   -        .22      .51            -              131.8
Storage Batteries                 1.92     2.48     4.78          29.2              92.7
Auto Components & Parts          10.03   .12.62    32.94          25.8             161.0
Castings and Forgings               3.42     4.27     8.14          24.9              90.6
Tools and Parts:
Machine Tools                     2.70     4.41     6.95          63.3              57.6
Cutting, Small Tools &
Abrasives                       9.87    11.56    17.56          17.1              51.9
Ball and Roller Bearings           .09      .45     1.55         400.0             244.4
TOTAL        59.40     67.90   127.63         14.3               88.0
All Engineering Goods Exports     184.9    2h8.5    440.9          34.4               77 4
Sources: Government of India; Engineering Export Promotion Council; Manufacturers'
Associations; and IDA estimates.
December 1975
Country Programs Department



INDIA
ANNEX IX
ELEVENTH INDUSTRIAL IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT                           Table 3
PRODUCTION PERFORMANCE OF INDUSTRIAL SECTORS ASSISTED BY IDA - 1965/66, 1970/71-1975/76
Estimated
i965/66   1970/71    1971/72   1972/73    1973/74   1974/75    1975/76   1976/77
Tractors                       Nos.000          6        20         18        20         24        31        35         38
Power Tillers                  Nos.000         .4        .3         .1        .4        1.0       2.0        3.0       4.0
Fertilizers-
Nitro e1                     1000 tons      238       832        952      1060      1077       1191      1500       1900
P2(5,=                       1000 tons      119       228        278       326       324        315       415        480
Pesticides:
Technical                    1000 tons       12        24         24        27        31         34        38         42
Solid Foundations            1000 tons      n.a.       34         44        60        64         67        68         68
Liquid Foundations           1000 KL        n.a.        7         10        12         13        14        15         16
Electrical Equipment2/
Motors                       Mill. HP       2.0       3.2        2.9       3.0        3.1       3.3        3.0       3.0
Transformers                 Mill. KVA      5.6      10.9       11.0      12.0      12.4       12.6      13.0       14.0
Switchgear                   Mill. Rs.      170       364        391       469       650        806      1100       1250
Cables and Wires:
Winding Cables             1000 tys       9.0      17.0       19.6      18.6      21.4       16.3      19.0       22.0
PVC/VIR Cables             m.c.m          367       563        557       721       578        464       450        450
Power Cables               M.M.4?         9.0      17.0       17.0      19.3      20.4       14.4      18.0       20.0
Steel Stampings_5/             1000 tons      n.a.       34         35        25         33        37        40         45
Aluminum Smelting 7/           1000 tons       69       169        181       175        148       126        175       200
(primary metal)
Cast Iron Spun Pipes           1000 tons      n.a.      174        199       209        274       286       310        340
Commercial Vehicles:
Trucks and Buses             Nos. 000      35.0      41.0       41.0      38.4      42.9       40.2      42.0       46.0
Jeeps                        Nos. 000      10.4       9.8       11.0.     13.0      12.4        9.6       8.0        8.0
Three Wheelers               Nos. 000       1.5       4.7        7.0      10.7      11.2       12.2      12.0       13.0
kutomotive Ancillaries:
Tires                        Nos. Mill.     2.3       4.3        4.8       5.0       5.2        5.5       6.0        6.5
Synthetic Rubber             1000 tons      n.a.       27         33        32        23         19        25         30
Storage Batteries            Nos. Mill.      .7       1.0        1.2       1.1       1.3        1.3       1.4        1.5
Auto Components and Parts    Mill. Rs.      614      1332       1202      1228       1500      1973      2000       2200
Tools and Parts:
Machine Tools       ]        Mill. Rs.      255       355        527       502        654       881      1020       1160
Cutting, Small Tools and
Abrasives                  Mill. Rs.      300       395        488       502       505        673       660        720
Ball and Roller Bearings     Nos. Mill.     8.3      17.7       20.0      21.7      24.5       23.6      26.0       30.0
Engines for Earth-moving
EquiDm t    7/               Nos.           n.a.      888        889      1447      1864       2709      ?R5n       3100
Castings6/
Steel Castings               1000 tons      n.a.      n.a.        56        71        69         66        75         80
Cast-Iron castings          1"" tons       n.a.      n.e.       Inh       137       17R        1R/.      9nn        220
Malleable Iron Castings      1000 tons      n.a.      n.a.        17        19         18        19        22         24
S.G. Ir2n Castings           1000 tons      n.a.      n.a.       2.1       2.7       2.8        3.4       3.5        4.0
Forgings--                     1000 tons      n.a.      n.a.      72.5      79.0       98.0      94.0     115.0      130.0
Boilers                        Mill. Rs.      n.a.      n.a.       409       606        812      1036      1300       1500
1/  Figures from Fertilizer Association of India.
2/  Government figures have been adjusted by IDA on the basis of additional information obtained from other official
sources and trade associations.
3/  Million crore meters.
4/ Million meters.
5/ Figures exclude production in captive units.
6/ Data for calendar year 1971/72
7/   Not included under Eleventh Credit.
Source: DGTD and mission estimates.
December 1975         0
,,Country Programs Department



INDIA                                         ANNEX
Table 4
ELEVENTH INDUSTRIAL IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OF IDA-ASSISTED INDUSTRIES
Number          Net Sales         Profit before tax    Profit before tax + Int.
I N D U S T R Y              of          (Rs million)          as % of sales      as % of caital emn2   d
Companies    1972/73   1973/74     1972/73   1973/7h    1972/73   1   97     LfT
1. IDA-ASSISTED INDUSTRIES:
Automobiles                     9          3,433     3,939       4.4       5-4       12.9           14.1
Automobile Ancillaries         11            376       450      15.9      17.1       23.1           23.5
Pesticides                      3            172       199      15.6      17.9       26.3           33.1
Fertilizers - Single
Superphosphate               4            121       156      12.7      11.1       25.3           26.3
Fertilizers - Nitrogenous
and composite                3            703       586      23.h      10.5       18.7            9.4
Cables                         10            671       657       5.4       1.4       14.8            8.5
Winding Wires                   4            133       157       4.0       4.4       10.9           13.1
Electric Motors                 2            150       176      10.4       9.0       19.2           19.0
Storage Batteries               3            189       221      14.3      15.7       33.6           35.8
Machine Tools                   3             70        85       9.5      11.8       14.0           18.0
Small Tools                    11            225       259      15.0      15.5       18.9           17.6
Bearings                        4            173       212      25.8      22.4       25.7           2h.14
Tractors                        3            717       856       3.1       4.2       12.2           15.7
Power Tillers                   1              6         7      40.3      25.8       11.8            8.1
Steel Forgings                  4            120       214       0.5       6.3        6.8           15.8
Tires and Tubes                 5          1,276     1,324       6.4       6.4       18.9           19.8
2. ALL INDUSTRIES                 532         45,370    49,214       7.2       7.7       13.9           14.1
Source: DGTD - Compiled from balance sheets of some of the companies financed by Financing Institutions. All
companies eligible for IDA financing have not been covered.
November 1975



INDIA
ELEVEiTH INDUSTRIAL IMPORTS PROGRAII CFILDIT            ANNEX IX
Table 5
DISBUhSEKENTS BY CATEGORY IN THE PREVIOUS Ild)USTRIAL IKPORTS CREDITS
(US $ 1illion)
First     Second    Third      Fourth    Fifth      Sixth     Seventh     Lighth   Ninth     Tenths
Category            Credit    Credit    Credit     Credit    Credit     Credit    Jre0it      Credit   Credit    Credit    TOTAL
T5-2-15)  79-M      (92 -IN)   T9-7-5r)  (38-IN    (82-IN      327       (402-IN   (74-ll)   (
Components and alaterial
and Spare Parts for the
ranufacture of:
- Commercial Vehicles     43.6     31.6        22.8      5.9       13-3      10.4        9.8       7.5      8.5        10.6    164.0
- Agriculture Tractors     -         -          1.8      0.4        2.3       2.6        3.4        5.0     1.6         6.7     23.8
- Automotive Ancilliaries  10.6    16.3        23.9      10.9      23-9       26.6      17.0       12.2     8.1        12.7     162.2
- Nachine Tools            4.3      4.1         2.2       1.1       2.5)      16.9)     21.6)      39.7     6.4)       13.8)    132.8
- Cutting and Small Tools  4.8      5.0         4.7      2.2        3-5)          )
- Ball & Roller Bearings   -         -          2.5       1.1       2.4         -         -          -                           6.o
- Electrical Equipment    11.2     12.1        16.3       3.6       8.0        3.4       4.7        7.2    42.4        52.2     161.1
- Fertilizers & Pesticides  -        -         24.0      22.1      25.7       15.0      18.0       25.3    69.1        76.,     275.4
- Cables and Wires         -        19.8       44.5      12.3      22.5         -         -          -       a         /a        99.1
- Industrial and Mlining
Machinery             -          -         4.3       3.3      16.0         -          -         -                           23.6
- Basic Nonferrous 14etals  -                   2.6       2.0       3.2         -         -          -                           7.8
- Castings & Forgings      -         -        small     small       0.2         -         -          -      3.7         6.9      12.6
- Heavy Construction
Equipment             2.9       3.5        _-                              -         -         2.8                           9.2
- Aluminum Smelting        -         -                              -           -        0.5        0.3     1.7         1.2       3.7
- Miscellaneous            -         -          -       small       0.7         -         -          -                           0-7
B. Balancing Equipment         2.5      1.8         0.4       0.2       0.7         -         -          -                           5.6
C. Spare Parts for Heavy
Construction Equipment
Dealers                    7.7       5.8        -         -         -           -         _          _      1.9            )     15.4
D. Heavy Construction
Equipment                 2?4         - -                           -           -         -                 6.6        12.3)     21.3
TOTAL         90.0    100.0       150.0     65.o      125.0      X* 2       E5       100.0    150.0      IL. 6    1124.6
' Included in Electrical Equipment Category.
' Disbursements as of January 14, 1976.                                                   Source: IDA
January 14, 1976
South Asia Pr,Lrams






ANNEX X
Page 1
THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
This annex reviews the current situation ancd the Government's
development efforts.
I. CURRENT SITUATION
1.        Industry in 1975/76.   Industrial output thiS year is unlikely to
increase by the 5-7% which was forecast at the beginning of the year.
Instead, a growth rate of the order of 4-5% is probable compared to about
2.5% achieved in 1974/75. The reasons for this less optimistic outlook are
that demand continues to suffer from the aftermath of the drought years and
the oil crisis with consumer demand being especially weak. The recovery
has also been slowed down by the measures which have been taken over the
past 12 months to curb inflation. On the investment side, the Government's
own budget for increaised plan outlays is only slowly having some impact.
In the private sector, business confidence has been adversely afected
by poor consumer demand as well as uncertainty over the Government's
program and, consequently, there has been stagnation in investment in
many industries. Where there has been demand, many industries have been
able to meet it to a considerable extent by drawing down inventories which
has been a noticeable feature of 1975. Export demand for manufactures is
only a small factor in industrial output at this time and while there has
been some modest expansion, its effect on the performance of the sector as
a whole has been marginal.
2.        Availability of Power.   The poor monsoon in 1972 led to low res-
ervoir levels and, hence, reduced power generation in 1973 from hydro units
which account for over 40% of India's total electric power. This shortfall
was compounded by reduced output from thermal generation and delayed starts
on new thermal nuclear plants. These constraints were only alleviated
slowly so that 1973 and 1974 were years of acute power shortage ranging
as high as 30% in some regions. A rise in reservoir levels, a substantial
increase in coal production and improved operation of thermal plants together
with some contribution from nuclear sources has led to quite a dramatic im-
provement in power availability. Only in the Western Region is power short-
age still a significant problem.
3.        Availability of Raw Materials.   While the shortage of power was
an overriding constraint on industry in 1973 and again in 1974, domestic
raw materials were also in short supply. Aluminum production declined to
127,000 tons entirely on account of cuts in power. However, in the cur-
rent year, output should recover to 175,000 tons which was the 1972 level.
Other metallic raw materials were affected in part by lack of power but
also by production problems. Steel output has been improving slowly from
the historic low point reached in 1973/74 (production in that year was
lower than production a decade earlier) but still only reached about 70%



ANNEX X
Page 2
of capacity in 1974/75. This year production should increase by about 1
million tons and capacity utilization should reach about 75%. Ironically,
this improvement occurs just when domestic demand has declined sharply leaving
the steel producers with an estimated surplus of 1.4 million tons, the export
of which is now being pressed. The production of other metals, copper, zinc
and lead has been affected by slow implementation of new units and production
problems. However, improvements are in sight. In the case of copper, pro-
duction of domestically mined ore rose sharply in 1974/75 by 25% to account
for about the same percentage of India's total requirement. The balance is
imported but the commissioning of a smelter at the end of 1974 now means that
India has the capacity to finish about 50% of her present requirements. In
the case of zinc, domestic output should increase by nearly 30%. On the other
hand, capacity constraints will restrict lead production until a new plant,
which will double existing capacity, comes into operation in 1977.
4.        The other major mineral is coal, the production of which had
been stagnating for many years. However, the nationalization of the
private coal mines after a long period of uncertainty and the success-
ful establishment of the Coal Mines Authority led to a 10% increase in
output in 1974/75 to be followed by a further increase of about 15% this year
to reach 100 million tons.
5.        The supply of agricultural raw materials has also greatly improved
except for jute. However, the quality of much of this production is still a
constraint especially in the cotton textile industry. Thus, overall, the
raw material situation in 1975/76 and also in 1976/77 should permit quite
significant increases in industrial production.
6.        Labor.   Man-days lost in the public sector during 1974/75 reached
a record level of nearly 12 million, in spite of the firmness with which
Government dealt with the railway strike of May 1974 and later the dock
workers strike in October. This should he compared with about 3 million
man-days lost in each of the two previous year. The situation was equally
difficult for the private sector which sustained a loss of 25 million man-
days, nearly 8 million more than in 1973/74. This total of 37 million man-
days is equivalent to a loss of labor throughout the year by the organized
sector of somewhat less than 1%. The fall in disputes and man-days lost
in 1975/76 has been dramatic and, for the entire six-month period, April-
September, man-days lost were only 4.3 million, of which 3.7 million were
in the private sector. This reflects a considerable improvement in indus-
trial relations, which can be partly attributed to the state of emergency.
7         The Investment Climate.   According to the most recent findings
of the RBI on finances of the corporate sector, the growth in gross capital
formation of medium and large public and private limited companies during
1973/74 was 10.8 and 13.4% respectively. For 1974/75 an analysis of the
balance sheets of a selected number of public and private limited companies
shows that there was a sharp decline in the gross capital formation to



ANNEX X
Page 3
wout 7% which was entirely due to a decline in inventories because the
growth of fixed assets remained stable in the region of 8.4%. The sample
for this analysis was small, but the conclusion that new investment is
being approached cautiously was borne out by the views of many industrialists
and by the fact that the number of expansion and other industrial licenses
issued during the first nine months of 1975 has leveled off. On the
other hand, these unfavorable indicators are being offset to a limited
extent by the more optimistic picture emerging from the capital market and
financial institutions. On the former, approvals for capital issues during
1974/75 and 1973/74 showed little change but then in 1974/75 there was an
increase of 14%. This upward trend continued during the first six months
to 1975/76 which showed an increase of 70% over the same period in the
previous year. So far as the latter is concerned, disbursements by term
lending institutions have increased steadily by 33% or more in 1973/74 and
1974/75 and the same again is expected for 1975/76. However, in real
terms, these increases are more modest, probably of the order of 10-15% and
overall investment activity remains depressed.
8.         In the public sector, the Annual Plan for 1975/76 envisages
an increase in development expenditures of 23%. The increase in out-
lays on industry will be significantly higher at 50% largely concen-
trated in four public sector industries, fertilizer, petroleum, steel
and coal. There are also indications are that the public sector may be
generating some real increase in demand for investment goods.
9.        Credit.   Credit to the commercial sector during the first half of
1975/76 expanded by less than 2% compared with an expansion of nearly 6% the
previous year.   While credit policy has been restrictive, the Government has
tried to ensure that the requirements are met of select priority industries
and as well as exporters. Nonetheless, the credit squeeze has imposed a
severe burden on the commercial sector although one good result has been
the decline in speculative inventories.    This process has been aided fur-
ther by the tough measures taken against hoarding, smuggling and illegal
money. The Government also imposed in 1974 restraint on the distribution
of profits. While this measure had an adverse effect upon the capital mar-
ket, it did mean that, over the short term, firms retained their earnings.
A very recent development in reaction to the credit squeeze has been the
taking in of deposits by firms.    By these and other means, industry appears
to have been able to meet its working capital requirements at the level of
activity dictated by the economy as a whole. However, if industrial output
is to expand significantly next year, the Government will have to redonsider
its credit policies.
10.       Prospects for 1976/77.    The outlook for 1976/77 is that there
should be some relief from the depressing economic events of the past three
years. AgrLcultural production will, of course, depend again upon the
monsoon next year but at least there is the expectation that India will
be able to start the year with substantial foodgrain stocks for the first
time since 1971/72. The success of the harvests this year should result
in an increase in overall demand. On the supply side, industrial potential



ANNEX X
Page 4
for 1976/77 looks promising. Raw materials and power should not be
a constraint, at least over the immediate future; productive capacity
exists; the Government's investment program is planned to gather
momentum; inflation has been contained and demand is expected to
recover. While the stage will have been set for some recovery, the
maintenance of industrial gorwth is likely to prove difficult if it
is to be maintained beyond 1976.
II. GOVERNMENT'S DEVELOPMENT EFFORTS
11.       Background.   Economic planning in the period following in-
dependence looked to industrialization to provide the stimulus for
growth. Industrial strategy was directed by two main considerations,
the desire to build up manufacturing capacity to substitute for imports,
and the need to avoid the concentration of economic power and wealth.
Up until 1965, import substitution did prove to be an important factor
in supporting growth and the industrial sector made impressive gains
to the point that India can now manufacture most of her needs. However,
this strategy led to a high level of domestic protection while concern
about concentration of economic power led to the rapid expansion of the
public sector as well as restrictions on the larger private industrial
undertakings. The task of bureaucracy in following through the strategy
was made infinitely complicated by the scarcity of raw materials and
foreign exchange, thus necessitating yet further controls. However, a
big part of this strategy, namely import substitution became largely
outmoded by 1965. But the system of controls remained and the continuation
of the high levels of protection led to wide areas of inefficiency and
high cost production.
12.        Structure of Industry.   These developments gave rise to a
structure of the sector which emerges from the 1970 Annual Sujrvey Indus-
try (the most recent available). The Survey shows that 60% of productive
capacity was in the public sector and by far the largest part was con-
centrated in power generation which is virtually a Government monopoly.
But the public sector also controlled 100%, or nearly so, of manufacturing
capacity in telecommunications and power generating equipment; between
70-80% of locomotive production, heavy electrical goods, and salable
pig iron; and 50% or more of finished steel and machine tool production.
Yet, the public sector accounted for only 22% of output. This percentage
has been distorted by the relatively low output to productive capital
ratio for electricity, but capacity data for public enterprises shows
that there has been substantial underutilization in many areas arising in
many cases from managerial and technical problems and to shortages of raw
materials, both domestic and imported, although to only a limited extent
because the public sector has priority for allocations. Another feature
of public enterprises is that these are entirely oriented towards meeting
domestic requirements and so they are, on the one hand, the major source of
demand for capital equipment while, on the other hand, they have had little
or no role in exporting.



ANNEX X
Page  5
13.       The private sector has concentrated on textiles, food proces-
sing, engineering goods and chemicals.    It has suffered acutely from
shortages of both domestic and imported raw materials and tlherefore had
underutilized capacity in many areas even before the recent decline in
demand.   The private sector has been responsible for an overwhelming
proportion of total industrial output as well as virtually all manufactured
exports.
14.       As industrial output has only expanded at marginally above the
rate for the economy, the percentage contribution of this sector to national
income has shown only a modest increase. However, some important shifts
have occure(d within the sector.   In 1960, 40% of output came from textiles
and food processing. By 1970, this percentage had fallen to 25%. Instead,
basic industries, engineering goods and chemicals had expanded to account
for around 40% of output and thereby taking the place previously held by
textiles andt food processing.
15.        If a successful strategy for industry can he evolved, then
India has a remarkably wide range of resources to offer.     In terms of
raw materials, India has ample sources of iron or-, coal, bauxite, cotton
and most other agricultural commodities; there are also useful quantities
of non-ferrous metals and some oil with the distinct prospect of substantially
more. Power generation, which has been suchl a serious constraint of late,
could be greatly expanded to use hydro and coal fuel potential.      In addition,
India has a skilled labor force with low costs by international standards
which our special studies have shown can produce most competitively in
terms of price, qualitv and technology when efficiently managed.      Finally,
India has a very broad industrial base.
16.       Government's Development Efforts.     In the face of poor industrial
performance and much ulderutilized or inefficiently utilized capacity, the
Government has been reconsidering its strategy. The Government recognizes
that existing capacity must be utilized more efficiently; that public sector
enterprises should be expected to meet more commercially oriented criteria
for output, price, and profitability; and that with slow growth of the
domestic economy, industry can only expand at a reasonable rate through
exporting which, if successful, could provide a broad based stimulus
to the economy by easing the foreign exchange constraint.
17.       The process of revising strategy has been taking place for some
time but the first discernible signs emerged in 1972.     Then and subsequently,
the Government has introduced measures to simplify procedures and to intro-
duce more flexibility to the point that by now new capacity or expansion for
exports are freely available; in the case of enterprises belonging to large
industrial houses and foreign majority companies, export obligations are
set. For the dometic market, licenses are also freely available except for
industries reserved for the small sector and except for the large industrial
houses and foreign majority companies which are confined to a priority list
of industries, which has in fact been fairly broadly defined.      Processing
time for licenses has been reduced to a matter of weeks so that the obstacle



ANNEX X
Page 6
posed by licensing procedures has been virtually eliminated for all except
the larger houses and foreign majority companies for which the obstacle
has been much reduced.
18.       By the beginning of 1975, price control had been finally lifted
from all finished manufactures. Certain intermediate products are still
subject to formal price controls largely as a result of the fact that
the Government is the main producer (i.e. coal, steel, oil products and
fertilizer). Distribution control on industrial materials has been lifted
for all items except foundry grade steel and electrical grade aluminum,
both of which are in short supply.   Import policy has also undergone
changes.  A system of aujtomatic licensing on an annual basis, has been
introduced together with simpler provisions for supplementary licenses.
Procedures for obtaining export incentives and necessary raw materials have
been revised and under the Import Policy for 1975/76 significant changes
are made as explained in paragraphs 30-34.
19.       The Government has also induced an improvement in the operation of
public sector enterprises and for the second consecutive year (1972/73 and
1973/74) these enterprises, in aggregate, made a net profit, albeit meager.
This contrasts with years of losses and especially significant is the
achievement of net profits by the public sector steel plants and the Heavy
Engineering Corporation, which have in the past been operating with massive
losses. The weak areas remain fertilizer and the recently nationalized coal
industry.
20.       These various changes mark a significant effort on the part of
Government but the major structural problems of the sector remain. In sum-
mary form, these are that the public sector has still a long way to go with
many Government undertakings before they become efficient producers operating
at a reasonal return on capital investment. The efficiency of the public
sector is crucial to the rest of industry not only because it is the
main supplier of essential materials, but also because it is the predominant
factor in demand for investment goods. As far as the private sector is con-
cerned, it will be the main source of exports and thius any export strategy
will have to include an assessment of how price and quality competitiveness
can be developed. This aspect will inevitably raise questions of permitting
efficient uinits to expand; of discouraging fragmentation of industry where
this is inimical to efficient competitive production; of making exports
more profitable; and Finally, of the long range profitability of industry
and encouragement to reinvest. The dilemma before Government is to formulate
this strategy in a wa' which is still consistent with the Government's
social goals.



ANNEX XI
Page 1
INDIA
ELEVENTH INDUSTRIAL IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
SURVEY OF THE TEXTILE MACHINERY INDUSTRY 1/
SUMMARY OF CONCLUSIONS AND PRINCIPAL RECOMNENDATIONS
i.        The textile machinery industry has recovered froin its long reces-
sion of 1964-71. Over the last three years its output has grown at an
average rate of 12% per year compared to only 1-2% during the sixties.     The
current value of the output is estimated at Rs. 125 crores (US$156 million
equivalent) -- Rs. 80 crores for textile machinery and Rs. 45 crores for
spare parts and accessories -- and represents over 90% of the domestic re-
quirements.
ii.       The reason for the lackluster performance in the last decade is
that domestic demand for textile machinery has been stagnant, and once the
initial process of import substitution came to end in the mid-sixties the
fortune of the textile machinery industry became closely tied to that of
the stagnant domestic textile industry. Indeed, a good part (70-85%) of
the last three years' recovery can be attributed to exports. The industry
has taken advantage of its large excess capacity (about 50%), low prices
(40% below international prices) and short delivery dates to increase its
exports from Rs. 1.1 crores in 1971 to Rs. 15.5 crores in 1974 in competition
with overbooked international firms. In 1973/74, direct exports accounted for
15% of total output (compared to an average of 3% for the engineering
industries) correspording to 25-30% of the output growth. An additional
40-60% of the growth was attributable to indirect exports as 80% of the growth
of the textile industry during the same period was directed to exports. The
recovery was not evenly divided among the three major segments of the industry.
Spinning machinery, which is more acceptable on the export market than both
weaving and finishing machinery on account of more current design, has grown
at an average annual rate of 15%, while the other types of machinery have
remained stagnant.
iii.      By international standards the Indian textile machinery industry
has a number of structural weaknesses.    Its total output is smaller than that
of some of the larger international firms, and its production is fragmented
among many firms producing similar machinery. With few exceptions its pro-
ducts were acquired through foreign collaboration agreements in the fifties
and sixties; they are still suitable for the domestic market but have limited
long term export prospects. Again with few exceptions, plants were built in
the fifties and early sixties to produce low speed machinery and have not been
updated to keep pace with the rapid technological change that has taken place
in the sixties and which has elsewhere converted the textile machinery industry
1/   Report 976-IN of January 27, 1976.



ANNEX XI
Page 2
into a precision industry producing high speed machinery. Very few firms have
developed research and design capabilities to substitute for expiring colla-
boration agreements and most firms are too small to sustain any meaningful
R & D programs. Except for one or two firms, the industry has not developed
a strong supplier base or effective after sales service either at home or
abroad. Moreover, generally poor quality, non-adherence to delivery schedules,
and inefficient after sales service have tarnished the reputation of the Indian
textile machinery industry in export markets.
iv.       The Mission visited 20 firms accounting for about 90% of the industry's
output. Of these only 3 or 4 firms, accounting for 25-30% of output are inter-
nationally competitive, in quality and price; their order backlog extends
from 2 to 5 years. These operations are based on relatively modern designs
and manufacturing methods; rigorous training; strict quality control; and
active participation of the foreign collaborators, who also have a significant
financial stake in the firms, in labor and management training, in production
planning and in quality control. Another 6-7 firms, accounting for 35% of
the industry output could become internationally coimipetitive in 3-4 years
if effective action programs to upgrade machin2ry design, manufacturing methods,
training and marketing are carried out. The remaining 10 firms could not have
survived in a competitive environment and will require substantially more time
and effort to overcome major structural deficiencies.
v.        The major problem facing the textile n-achinery industry is the
erratic and stagnant demand of the financially weak textile industry which in
turn depends on the sluggish agricultural sector for the bulk of its raw
materials and for a significant part of its sales. On the supply side,
the Indian textile industry is still almost entirely cotton based, and a
good deal of the local cotton is of extremely poor quality. On the demand
side, the per capita textile consumption has consistently declined by 1.5% per
year over the last ten years because the increase in food prices has left the
rural and urban poor, who account for more than 80% of the population and 60%
of consumption, with less money for clothing. Textile exports fared somewhat
better; they grew at a rate of 12% per year in current value terms albeit
from a very low level. But exports consist primarily of cloth at the lower
end of the quality spectrum (mostly grey cloth) for which demand is contract-
ing, and hence cannot provide a basis for long-term export growth.
vi.        This lack of growth meant that the modern and more efficient sector
of the textile industry could not have expanded its output without infringing
on the market of the "decentralized" labor intensive sector (hand loom and
power loom) which employs roughly 7 million people and accounts for 48% of
the domestic market.   The Government took a number of steps to protect the
decentralized sector by restricting the growth of the organized sector. But,
in the absence of vigorous export incentive programs to divert the output of
the organized sector from the domestic market to exports, these measures have
led to a weak textile industry. Profitability has been quite low (about 6.5%
return on capital) compared to other industries (10-18%), and thus a signifi-
cant part of the industry profit has been diverted to other industries. Con-
sequently, even in tie best year the demand for textile machinery accounted for
only 50-60% of the textile machinery industry's installed capacity.



ANNEX XI
Page 3
vii.      The major targets of the Fifth Five Year Plan (1973-78) in the
textile sector are: (i) to increase the per capita cloth consumption from 14.6
to 17.5 meters/year; and (ii) expand exports from 500 to 1,300 million meters
by 1978. About Rs. 1,400 crores of machinery would be required to meet these
targets (Rs. 500 crores for rehabilitation and Rs. 900 crores for expansion).
But beyond specifying these targets, very little has been done to evaluate the
costs and benefits of alternative programs. Furthermore, the Plan targets
were drawn up on a need basis and do not reflect the capacity of the textile
industry to finance this investment or sell the cloth produced. A major
reassessment of the Plan is therefore needed to determine the structural
changes required to achieve the dual objective of increasing the supply of
low cost durable cloth for domestic consumption and substantially increasing
exports.
viii.     Given tihe size and complexity of the Indian textile industry it
is obviously difficult to reach at this stage any firm conclusions about those
changes. Nevertheless, a number of tentative conclusions appear justified.
On the raw material side, the quality of Indian cotton is by far the worst
of the handicaps under which the textile industry labors. Most Indian cotton
is excessively dirLy, variable in staple length and contains a great deal of
immature fibers; a quantum improvement in productivity of the textile industry
(about 30%) can be achieved by upgrading the quality of Indian cotton. The
increased use of viscose and synthetic fibers, particularly to clothe the masses,
also warrants serious consideration in view of the increased durability and
lower cost of the cloth produced.   On the production side, there is much scope
for improving the use of existing capacity.    Indeed, even the more optimistic
projection of demand could be met by rehabilitation and better utilization and
management of existing capacity.   As regards exports, there are limited oppor-
tunities for Indian specialty fabrics (e.g. hand woven saris) but substantial
opportunity exists for the export of international fabrics to developed
countries. The demand in international markets is increasingly for fabrics
having a number of attributes not generally possessed by Indian-made textiles.
If exports are to be increased, it will be necessary to specially develop a
segment of the industry that could meet that market's quality requirements.
ix.       On the basis of both the likely demand for textiles and the financial
capability of the textile industry, the Mission estimates the domestic demand
for textiles over the next five years to be of the order of Rs. 370 crores at
1974/75 prices. Although this figure is only 28% of Plan estimates it still
represents a 10% annual real growth rate over the boom year of 1973; and could
be easily met by the textile machinery industry provided its production capacity
of drafting systems (required for rehabilitation of the textile industry) and
weaving preparatory machinery is expanded and the necessary raw materials and
power are available. But this projected domestic demand is only 50-60% of what
is required to induce the structural changes necessary for international compet-
itiveness. Since the prospect of increasing domestic sales is limited by domes-
tic demand for textiles, the extent and pace of these changes will hinge on
expanding exports. Three major export options are discernible, namely: (i) con-
tinued reliance on the domestic market with marginal expansion; (ii) moderniza-
tion of the textile machinery industry to double exports in four years; and



ANNEX XI
Page 4
(iii) modernization of the textile machinery industry coupled with the develop-
ment of an export oriented textile industry.
x.        The prospects for substantially expanding exports within tile exist-
ing inward looking textile machinery industry structure (Option I) are not
encouraging, particularly since the factors that the textile machinery industry
capitalized on to expand exports in 1973-74, namely lower prices and short
delivery dates, have been considerably eroded with the decline in world trade
in textile machinery and the relative decline in international prices of steel
compared to Indian steel prices. Accordingly, direct exports are only likely
to increase from Rs. 16 crores in 1975 to Rs. 22 crores in 1979. An increasing
share of exports is likely to be in the form of equity participation of Indian
entrepreneurs in joint ventures in South and East Asia, rather than orders
obtained in competition with international firms. They are also likely to be
concentrated in a few efficient firms.
xi.       But this marginal export expansion of textile machinery will not
provide the base necessary to support a meaningful modernization program.
Such a program will require that the textile machinery industry at least
douible its exports, to about Rs. 30 crores in four years, i.e. to 25-30% of
its projected output (Option II). This export expansion would help the indus-
try to overcome the difficulties arising from frequent fluctuations in domestic
demand. It will require concerted action between industry and Government.
At the individual firm level this will mean upgrading machinery design, replac-
ing machine tools, improving manufacturing methods, instituting training pro-
grams and developing marketing organizations. At the industry level it will
mean developing effective ancillary suppliers and radically improving the
operation of the export consortium organized by the State Trading Corporation.
At the government level it will require that Government not unduly fragment
the industry by granting licenses to a large number of manufacturers to produce
the same item. It will also mean more liberal allocation of foreign exchange
for raw materials, spare parts and precision machine tools, and more liberal
approval of collaboration agreements to ensure a continuous flow of technical
know-how in design and manufacture for firms with a definite modernization
and export program.
xii.      But the substantial change in industry structure that is necessary
to provide sustained long term exports for major segments of the industry
cannot be developed without a strong domestic base. This could only be done
if the Government actually encourages the development of an export oriented
textile industry which would also supply an export oriented garments industry
(Option III). Without such a determined program, it is unlikely that the
Indian textile industry can maintain its exports at the 1975 level of 500-600
million meters, much less expand it. The development of this export oriented
textile industry could well raise the direct and indirect export of textile
machinery to about Rs. 50 crores by 1979 or 55% of total output; and this
figure could be easily doubled or tripled in the following four to five years.
xiii.     The result will be a more capital intensive segment of the textile
industry with a marginal capital/labor ratio of US$10-15,000 per job compared
to US$6-9,000 per additional job created in textile mills producing for the
domestic market. But this lower employment per unit of investment will be



ANNEX XI
Page  5
far outweighed by the employment generated due to increased output and by tl-ie
indirect employment generated in the textile machinery and garments industry.
This is clearly borne out by the experience of large textile exporting count-
ries. By contrast employment in the domestic oriented labor intensive
Indian organized textile industry has remained stagnant at 970,000 over the
last ten years.
xiv.      But a substantial and rapid reorientation of the textile industry,
and for that matter most other industries, towards exports will require
much more than marginal changes in existing export policies which merely
attempt to compensate exporters for disadvantages arising from the Government's
fiscal and foreign exchange policies and as such do not provide the stimulus
to restructure and revitalize an industrial sector which has been drained
of vitality and resources for the last decade and has fallen way out of step
with international trends. What is needed instead, are policies that un-
mistakably signal industry the Government's unwavering long-term conmitment
to make production for exports more profitable than for the domestic market. Ln-
deed, in cases where India has a comparative advantage one could go as far as
making access to the protected domestic market contingent on export performance.
xv.       On the basis of this as well as previous in-depth studies undertaken
by the Bank over the last three years which cover about 60% of the organized
Indian engineering industry, a number of changes in government policies are
suggested to improve the international competitiveness and export perfornmance
of the industry. An analysis of Indian exporting firms indicates that exports
are concentrated in a relatively small number of efficient firms. These firms
have a large domestic order book position and despite relatively rapid expansion
are barely keeping up with the growing domestic demand, thus leaving little
additional surplus capacity for exports. A more rapid export drive will require
a much faster capacity expansion as well as upgrading technological and market-
ing capabilities which will undoubtedly strain the firms' financial capabilities.
There seems to be a need to complement the existing export incentive system
by positive measures that aim at fast injection of capital and technology
in firms that undertake to export a substantial part of their additional capac:ity.
One such policy instrument could be preferential access of exporting firms to
long term credit at terms concessional enough to compensate firms for the effort
and risk associated with rapid reorientation from a proitected domestic market
to a competitive export market. Part of the hesitation firms have shown to
expand production for exports can be explained by the uncertainty they have
faced about frequent and unpredictable changes in export: policies and in-
centives. By providing an ex-ante predetermined export incentive this
measure would have an encouraging effect on export oriented investments.
xvi.      This approach could be criticized as leading to capital intensive
operations. But, the experience of the better Indian firms suggests that
modernization will pay off handsomely in terms of savings on raw materials
which constitute about 50% of total production cost on account of lower
rejection rates, increased direct employment resulting from larger sales of
quality machinery and increased employment in related industries.



ANNEX XI
Page 6
xvii.     Similarly, priority for approving foreign collaboration agreements
should be given to firms that undertake to export a significant part of their
output.  This selectivity would weed out those firms that are either incapable
or unwilling to export and would additionally consolidate production in a few
firms that are capable of digesting and building on the expensive imported
know-how and thus enlarge their domestic market base so essential for a
sustained export drive. Foreign firms are reluctant to transfer know-how
to enable Indian firms to export unless such foreign firms can obtain a
reasonable share of the export profits in compensation for their potential
market loss. The foreign investment regulations recognise this need but their
application has often resulted in delays and other difficulties which have
discouraged foreign firms from investing in India.
xviii.     Finally, import licensing policy could be further exploited to
favor exporters. GOI should examine arrangements which will favor firms
in industries with export potential to expand production for exports, improve
quality, and increase export sales using policy instruments which minimizes
bureaucratic processes.   The role of additional REPs and improvement in
the flexibility of their use, in particular eliminationi of indigenous
angle clearance should be analyzed in quantitative terms for both actual
users and REPs.
xix.      In summation, the thrust of the suggested changes is (i) to make
exports more profitable than for the domestic market; (ii) to relate access
to the domestic market to export performance when this is appropriate; and
(iii) to enable certain industries, again where this is appropriate, to
establish a sufficiently large production base to compete in export markets,
if necessary at the expense of non-exporting units. The experience of the
last 20 years has clearly demonstrated that Indian firms have responded
positively to government policies that affect their profitability. This
should be no exception. Ultimately, the changes would lead to larger exports,
better quality products for both the domestic and export markets, larger
employment and a stronger industrial structure with potential for further
growth.
xx.       Of the three options outlined for the development of the textile
machinery industry, namely, (i) continued reliance on the domestic market
with marginal export expansion, (ii) modernization program of the manufac-
turing capabilities to double exports in four years, and (iii) modernization
of the textile machinery industry coupled with the development of an export
oriented textile industry, only the third makes long term economic sense.
But it will require fundamental policy changes that are likely to require
considerable time to take effect. In the next two years it will therefore
be practical to adopt the second option to pave the way for a longer range
development program moving towards the third option.



JA;IUARY 1975
0  -   JAMMU & KASHUIRj
A        C    H   I   N   A                          I-A
t N D / A N  O C f A N
')   5DMAC,NAL&s
C% ANCAL ..,
30  4}                          WNPUNJ.A           (T  I B E T)
q0-                                   -       -                                            .r.f,)  30-
0'DELHI                                                 *.
rN _.o           L-._,>     8 t     \'\,IKKIMjJ eHUTAN  W
'/    J A I P UTTAR  PRADESH  -.. ,A. _, _  KIM SU.  _ * - -      /
JAIPUR                  ArINAMUP
0 1    ;,-   IEL        GORAKHPUB  '-'.J'---  Ar       NAMRUP A
'IA A T AN H A            A                                                   9
-A        !''  A  P'  CE'HJMS        DP M     SIEST   >        X MEGHALAYAr
.~                            NI,>  I H AR 
 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- >-,\t                               O5 R SS
URNPU- -8 BANGLADESH J-
,_                                 ,.'';''.,'_l- ..... e +.J ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BU N  r,,
--------                                  S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iNDRI'ks 1
-GUJARAT                                          )UGPR~EA
CaFE                       R0URKFLU~~~~,~...nJ'"ROU
N~~~C'-~~>Iu  K+ IRAKUD
0. *       ,-  ,.  _             ' I     R
:A TROMBAY                                 7 .A
-OMBAY,    MAl. A T A R A S it:                                   of
OPOONA                         j~61eo
COR OMANDEL A
O.-~ ~ ~~~~~.-FRD
H - * e '~~ . - g N E Y VE L I 2 - -I n 7 r i r n ; N I r 8 0 u n D r r iI e S 
,9BEL                             LOCATION OF MAJOR INDUSTRIAL CENTERS
BHADRAVATI     /                      Q  Industri0l Centers
KAMRNAT AK                                  A   'FertilieaAr "-Plants  -
BANGALORE        0 MADRAS                  luminium-
,~            State.t o  Union Territ,y 'Boundaries
-Interrnational Boundaries
NEY VEL I
SALEMp           -  '-,.             i - ;  4 - . tR 5,
MI'41L  NADU                                n
ID.                     COEHIN
ND 200~  SOD0  400  500.,
800
-70,                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~90,



