CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 616-IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Eleventh Industrial Imports Program Credit)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 26, 1976


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 26, 1976, between INDIA, acting by
its President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPHENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Specified Enterprises" means firms, registered with
the Borrower's Directorate General of Technical Development of
the Ministry of Industry and Civil Supplies, and others (exclud-
ing Hindustan Cables Limited, Hindustan Teleprinters Limited and
Indian Telephone Industries Limited), notified from time to time
by the Borrower to the Association, in the industrial manufactur-
ing secturs listed in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, as such Sched-
ule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Bor-
rower and the Association;
(b) "Canalizing Agencies" means State Trading Corporation
of India Limited, Minerals and Metals Trading Corporation Limited,


﻿-3-
Hindustan Steel Limited and such other agencies of the Borrower
as may from time to time be agreed upon between the Borrower and
the Association;
(c) "CCIE" means the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports
in the Borrower's Ministry of Commerce;
(d) "Authorized Dealers" means suppliers of spare parts for
heavy earth-moving and power generating equipment authorized by
CCIE for the purposes of this Agreement, as notified to the
Association;
(e) "Replenishment Licenses" means licenses issued by CCIE
to eligible exporters for the importation of raw materials and
components against their exports; and
(f) "Technical Development Fund" means the fund to be estab-
lished pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Agreement.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to two hundred million dollars ($200,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services re-
quired for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
raw materials, semi-finished goods and components required for the
Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and to be
procured through the Canalizing Agencies shall be procured in ac-
cordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1977 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4


﻿-5-
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each June 1
and December 1 commencing June 1, 1986 and ending December 1,
2025, each installment to and including the installment payable
on December 1, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
--            Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
"W Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project,
or cause the Project to be carried out, with due diligence and
efficiency.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) promptly upon receipt of appro-
priate applications issue, or cause to be issued, such import li-
censes as shall be required to carry out the Project; (ii) make
available, or cause to be made available, promptly as needed all
foreign exchange which shall be required to carry out the Project;
and (iii) with respect to locally produced materials which are
subject to allocation make, or cause to be made, allocations of
such materials promptly and in such quantities as shall be re-
quired to carry out the Project.
Section 3.02. For the purpose of importing balancing and mod-
ernization equipment and use of design and technical know-how in
the industrial sectors agreed by the Association to be financed
from the proceeds of the Credit allocated under Category (2) of
the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall cause to be established a Technical Devel-
opment Fund to be administered by the Department of Heavy Indus-
tries in the Borrower's Ministry of Industry and Civil Supplies,
in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause the imported goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be insured, or


﻿-7-
cause adequate provision to be made for the insurance thereof,
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans and programs for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to re-
cord the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods, works and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in the Proj-
ect; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives
to examine the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and any relevant recor& and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the program (re-
ferred to in Schedule 2 to this Agreement) of which the Project is
a part, the Specified Enterprises, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Credit and the goods, works and services financed out of
such proceeds.
(c) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association reports on
its exports performance in a form as shall be agreed upon between
the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds of the
Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the de-
partments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. Except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Specified Enterprises and Authorized
Dealers shall not, on the grounds that they are participating in
the Project, be subject to any conditions or requirements for is-
suance of import licenses and release of foreign exchE,nge not im-
posed on other encerprises engaged in similar business in the
territories of the Borrower.


﻿9
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date April 30, 1976 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
4.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or the
Closing Date, whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director or Deputy Secretary of the Department of
Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Darties hereto, acting through their
reDresentatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their resDective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INDIA
By /s/               T. N. Kaul
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/               Ernest Stern
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 12-                                       '.
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of imported items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the alloca-
tion of amounts of the Credit to each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                Dollar Equivalent)
(1) Equipment and materials                        4090009000
(excluding gems and
jewelry) to be procured
against Replenishment
Licenses
(2) Equipment, materials and                        5,000,000
technical services under
the Technical Development
Fund
(3)  (a)  Fertilizers and                          50v,0001000
Pesticides
()   Other sectors                           105,000,000
TOTAL     200,000,000


﻿-13 -
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(b) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement;
(c) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manu-
facture, procurement or supply thereof;
(d) foreign exchange allocations under Category (2) in
excess of $250,000 equivalent in favor of a single beneficiary
enterprise; and
(e) expenditures for electric generators and boilers in
excess of $25,000,000 equivalent under Category (3)(b).
3.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, can-
cel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit.


﻿1
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project forms part of the program of the Borrower to in-
crease, during the period from March 1, 1976 to February 28, 1977,
the production of goods for the domestic civilian market and for
export, and the utilization of existing equipment, by making avail-
able foreign exchange for the import of raw materials, semi-
finished goods, components, spare parts and miscellaneous items of
manufacturing equipment, and for the utilization of technical ser-
vices, improving thereby the rate of utilization of existing produc-
tive capacity and capital equipment in India.
The Project consists of the provision of foreign exchange and
other resources required by the respective Specified Enterprises
and the Authorized Dealers for the production of goods for the
domestic civilian market and for export, and the issuance of Re-
plenishment Licenses to eligible exporters.


﻿-15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Industrial Manufacturing Sectors under the Project*
Listed hereunder are the industrial manufacturing sectors of
capital equipment and other goods from which the Specified Enter-
prises and Authorized Dealers are to be selected:
Agricultural
1.   Tractors, Agricultural Discs and Power Tillers
2.   Fertilizers
3.   Pesticides
4.   Spare parts for heavy earth-moving equipment
Electrical
5.   Transformers and Switchgear and related components,
Stampings, Cables and Wires (up to 66 kv)
6.   Power Generating Equipment and Spare Parts, and
Boilers
Transport
7.   Commercial Vehicles
8.   Automotive Ancillaries
*    See Section 1.02 (a).


﻿- 16-
Metal Working
9.   Machine Tools, Small Tools, Castings and Forgings,
Ball and Roller Bearings
Textiles
10. Textile machinery


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
1.   With respect to any contract for the purchase of goods to be
financed from the proceeds of the Credit the cost of which is
equivalent to $100,000 or more:
(a) offers shall be invited from not less than three major
suppliers from member countries of the Bank and Switzerland; and
(b) the contract shall be awarded to the supplier whose offer
is the lowest evaluated offer.
2.   The Borrower shall cause each Canalizing Agency to retain all
relevant documentation relating to contracts financed in whole or
in part out of the proceeds of the Credit, including without limi-
tation, the details of the offers sought, the names of the suppli-
ers invited to submit offers, the analysis of offers, recommenda-
tions for award and conformed copies of such contract, for review
by the Association at its request.
3.   Applications for withdrawal in respect of contracts awarded
to the lowest evaluated offer shall be submitted to the Associa-
tion with a certificate indicating that the conditions set forth
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule have been satisfied, and with doc-
umentation on evidence of payment and of shipment together with
the supplier's invoice.


﻿-18-
4.   The Borrower shall submit to the Association, together with
any application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account,
two certificates prepared by the appropriate Canalizing Agency
stating that: (i) the goods (or an equivalent amount of the goods)
in respect of which the withdrawal is requested are for the account
of, and have been or will be delivered to the Specified Enter-
prises; and (ii) no withdrawal for these same goods has been or
will be made from the proceeds of any other external financing
available to the Borrower or the Canalizing Agency.
5.   The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
delivery of the goods financed in whole or in part from the pro-
ceeds of the Credit to the Specified Enterprises, such information
as the Association shall reasonably request regarding the per unit
cost of the goods to the Specified Enterprise.


