                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 35429

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (IDA-34230 SCL-45830)

                                                  ON A

                                             LOAN/CREDIT

                              IN THE AMOUNT OF US$10.07 MILLION
                       (US$5.06 MILLION LOAN & SDR 3.8 MILLION CREDIT)

                                                    TO

                                               GRENADA

                                                 FOR A

              EMERGENCY RECOVERY AND DISASTER MANAGEMENT PROJECT




                                               June 8, 2006




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective March 1, 2006)

                           Currency Unit = Eastern Caribbean Dollar (EC)
                        (EC) Dollars 2.70 = US$ 1
                                  US$ 1 = Dollars (EC) 2.70

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1 to December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL    Adaptable Program Lending
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
CDB    Caribbean Development Bank
CDERA  Caribbean Disaster Emergency Recovery Agency
CIDA   Canadian International Development Agency
EIA    Environmental Impact Assessment
EOC    Emergency Operations Center
MCWPU  Ministry of Communications, Works and Public Utilities
NADMA  National Disaster Management Agency
NDC    National Disaster Coordinator
NERO   National Emergency Relief Organization
NHMC   National Hazard Mitigation Council
NMS    National Meteorological Services
OECS   Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
OFDA   Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance
PCU    Project Coordination Unit
SSU    Special Services Unit




                          Vice President:    Pamela Cox
                        Country Director     Caroline Anstey
                         Sector Manager      John Henry Steain
        Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Francis Ghesquiere

                                          GRENADA
                   Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             30
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             32
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                33
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            34

Project ID: P069922                                                  Project Name: GD Grenada Emergency Recovery &
                                                                     Disaster Management Proj
Team Leader: Francis Ghesquiere                                      TL Unit: LCSFU
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 8, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: GD Grenada Emergency Recovery & Disaster                 L/C/TF Number: IDA-34230; SCL-45830
                            Management Proj
   Country/Department: GRENADA                                                            Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Flood protection (68%); Central government administration (31%); General information and
                            communications sector (1%)
                  Theme: Natural disaster management (P); Participation and civic engagement (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 12/01/1998                                     Effective: 02/07/2001                02/07/2001
     Appraisal: 05/30/2000                                         MTR: 10/15/2004
      Approval: 10/17/2000                                      Closing: 05/15/2004                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GRENADA/MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND PLANNING; GRENADA/NERO;
                                           GRENADA/MCWPU; GRENADA/MET OFFICE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     David de Ferranti
Country Director:               Caroline D. Anstey                             Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:                 John Henry Stein                               Maria Emilia Freire
Team Leader at ICR:             Francis Ghesquiere                             Arnaud Guinard
ICR Primary Author:             Marc Forni


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

    The project was part of a second phase Adaptable Program Lending (APL) operation in the
    five member countries of the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS). The program
    aimed to support emergency disaster preparedness efforts in St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia,
    Dominica, Grenada, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines.                The region's inadequate
    preparedness, poor physical mitigation and limited disaster response capability was
    particularly evident in September 1998 with the devastating impact of Hurricane Georges on
    several islands, especially on St. Kitts.

   l The first phase of the program (APL1) supported the immediate reconstruction and
       rehabilitation of infrastructure in St. Kitts and Nevis, while over the longer term
       encompassed disaster mitigation works and institutional strengthening on those islands, in
       addition to St. Lucia and Dominica. This first phase has been completed and
       Implementation Completion Reports have been issued.

   l The second phase (APL2) continued to support these same disaster mitigation and
       institutional strengthening activities in Grenada and St. Vincent and the Grenadines.

   l APL3 was to focus on additional physical investments identified through hazard mapping
       analysis and provide further long-term institutional strengthening. Funding for this phase
       was eventually allocated to APL2 because of financing constraints. As a result, APL3 did
       not materialize as originally expected.

   l APL4 was to provide contingency funding for any eligible OECS members in case of a
       severe natural disaster during the six year program period. Funding for this phase was
       made available to Grenada immediately after the devastating impact of Hurricane Ivan in
       September 2004.

    At the time of preparation, establishing individual loans and credits for all five participating
    countries was considered inefficient. Therefore, rather than financing a series of individual
    emergency operations in each country, the Bank opted in support of a regional facility to
    address disaster risks. To do this the standard APL approach was modified to allow countries
    to enlist in different phases, based on their stages of preparation (APL1-3). At the same time,
    an innovative contingent facility was established, with allowance for post-disaster mitigation
    work--accessed in the event of a natural disaster (APL4). This emergency funding would take
    advantage of the shared risk characteristics of the group of countries as a whole.




                                                 - 2 -

    The original project objective was to strengthen Grenada's resilience, preparedness and
    response to natural disasters. This objective was to be achieved by:

     Strengthening the country's institutional structures;
     Building the capacity of the National Emergency Relief Organization (NERO) and other
        relevant public agencies to perform their respective responsibilities more effectively during
        a crisis;
     Implementing physical mitigation, retrofitting and prevention measures to protect key
        infrastructure and lifeline facilities before disasters strike;
     Retrofitting shelters to improve the safety of the poorer and most exposed populations;
     Improving natural resource management; and
     Promoting community involvement through organizing, training and equipping community
        disaster committees, and enhancing their role in disaster preparedness and mitigation and
        recovery operations.

    The objectives were stated clearly and relevant to Grenada, a country vulnerable to severe
    storms and hurricanes, that have resulted in loss of life and infrastructure, or property damage.
    Over the past 6 years alone Grenada has been hit by three hurricanes--with Hurricane Lenny
    in 1999, Hurricane Ivan in September 2004 (which caused considerable damage), and
    Hurricane Emily in July 2005.

    The project financed structural and non-structural measures to protect people, infrastructure
    and property from future hurricane damage. In order to manage natural disasters more
    effectively in the future, the program also supported institutional capacity-building at the
    national and local levels, both in the public and private sectors. The project supported two
    main goals of the June 4, 2001 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS): supporting infrastructure
    and safeguarding the environment.

3.2 Revised Objective:

    The project objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

    The project was made up of three components, with several subcomponents, listed below:

       I    Strengthening Disaster Management Capacity. (US$4.12 million)

            a. Strengthening the National Emergency Relief Organization (NERO) through: (i)
                 the creation of two additional professional staff positions to support the agency's
                 functioning and development; (ii) the provision of technical assistance to review
                 the National Disaster Plan and improve disaster management procedures; (iii) the
                 rehabilitation and expansion of the Emergency Operations Center (EOC) at Fort
                 Frederick to respond to future disasters;           (iv) the purchase of emergency
                 equipment and supplies (portable generators, emergency lighting and rescue tools,
                 etc.) to improve day-to-day functioning of NERO; (v) the training of NERO staff


                                                   - 3 -

      and other related agencies to better manage future disaster operations; and (vi) the
      use of public awareness campaigns to transmit disaster management procedures
      and the role and services provided by NERO.

   b. Improving emergency communications and early warning systems through: (i) the
      provision of communications equipment (such as HF, VHF, CB and satellite radio
      equipment) to be installed and/or stored at the EOC; and (ii) technical assistance,
      training and equipment (weather stations and computers) to be installed in the
      Meteorological Office.

   c. Strengthening a shelter program through: (i) the retrofitting of high priority
      shelters; (ii) the development of a national shelter program; (iii) the construction of
      a prototype multi-purpose shelter in a priority area; and (iv) the development of a
      shelter management and maintenance manual.

   d. Strengthening the capacity of the Ministry of Communications, Works and Public
      Utilities (MCWPU) in disaster management response by: (i) supplying a stock of
      prefabricated metallic bridges, including launching equipment, training of
      maintenance crews and the purchase of assembly manuals, as well as a stock of
      gabion baskets to protect piers and abutments; and (ii) providing technical
      assistance and training to improve MCWPU's capacity to carry out environmental
      assessments and to monitor mitigation measures.

II    Preventive Physical Mitigation. (US$6.79 million)

   a. Constructing one kilometer of sea wall and reinstating adjacent roads along the
      Western Coast Main Road at Grand Mal Bay, including a supplemental
      Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and materials for investigation studies of
      these works.

   b. Updating a 1994 coastal protection and sea defenses study to better reflect
      changes in weather patterns and climate change in Grenada, including the storm
      surges of November 1999 associated with Hurricane Lenny.

   c. Preparing feasibility studies aimed at developing MCWPU's knowledge of
      landslides, subsidence and flood hazards, and defining technical solutions to
      mitigate the impact of heavy rains associated with the rainy and hurricane seasons.
      This included an island-wide slope protection and river training study, and a
      drainage and flood control study in St. Georges and Grenville.

III   Project Management. (US$0.83 million)

   a. Providing an Assistant Project Coordinator or a Procurement Officer, an
      Accountant and an Administrative Assistant for the duration of project
      implementation.



                                       - 4 -

            b. Supplying office equipment and materials for the functioning of the Project
                Coordination Unit (PCU).

            c. Financing a Technical audit to verify the quality of sea defense works at Grand Mal
                Bay and financial audits to ensure project accountability and transparency.
.
3.4 Revised Components:

    The project components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:


    Quality at entry is rated satisfactory.

    The project was well prepared and its design incorporated lessons learned from the
    implementation of APL1. Whereas the first phase under APL1 was rapidly conceived and
    prepared, (including both emergency response and longer-term mitigation), the design for
    ERDMP concentrated on balancing a longer-term approach to disaster management with
    preventive mitigation. Besides this new approach, the project greatly benefited from
    immediate and close coordination with donors, resulting in agreements on key activities and
    focused co-financing within the APL framework.

    Particular attention was also paid to reviewing detailed design options and cost estimates for
    major mitigation works at Grand Mal Bay, which accounted for about 50% of the total
    project costs. As a result, more substantial cost savings were achieved over originally
    proposed designs.

    Longer preparation time and early involvement of key PCU staff also resulted in improved
    tender documentation and initially more rapid and efficient project implementation, than for
    projects under APL1.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

    Overall, the outcome of the project is rated satisfactory.

    The first objective, strengthening key economic and social infrastructure and facilities with
    the aim of minimizing damage caused by future disasters and reducing the disruption of
    economic activity in the event of disaster emergencies (pre-disaster works), was fully met
    through the completion of all physical mitigation measures financed under the project. This
    included rehabilitating and expanding the EOC, retrofitting schools and shelters, and
    rehabilitating road and sea defense works at Grand Mal Bay. All these works and facilities
    successfully weathered the effects of Hurricane Ivan and were among the only assets left
    unscathed by the disaster.




                                                - 5 -

    Successful achievement of this objective averted losses estimated at US$34 million.
    Considering project costs of US$10 million, the project is deemed successful despite shortfalls
    in the achievement of other project objectives.

    The second objective, strengthening the Government's disaster response capacity, was met
   satisfactorily through extensive training of NERO staff (recently renamed National Disaster
   Management Agency or NADMA) and purchase of emergency equipment. However, had
   NERO relocated to their newly renovated EOC at Fort Frederick during Hurricane Ivan, and
   had emergency equipment financed under the project been distributed throughout the island
   prior to Hurricane Ivan, the Government's response to the disaster may have been more
   effective. Improvements in distribution of equipment in the aftermath of Hurricane Ivan, and
   the purchase of additional equipment, including solid waste removal machinery and additional
   communication equipment (using project savings) enhanced Government's disaster recovery
   capacity.

   The third objective, strengthening the country's institutional capacities to prepare for and
   respond to disaster emergencies in an efficient and effective manner, was mostly met only
    after and as a consequence of Hurricane Ivan and thanks to the provision of additional
    assistance from other donors. Donors, led by the Canadian International Development Agency
    (CIDA) and the Caribbean Disaster Emergency Recovery Agency (CDERA) financed and
    executed the preparation of a revised National Disaster Plan and Training Program. These
    activities were originally planned for project financing and to be completed well ahead of
    Hurricane Ivan. In the end, the objective was met, but not entirely as a result of the project.

4.2 Outputs by components:

    I   Strengthening Disaster Management Capacity (Appraisal US$ 3.66 million/Actual US$
   3.88 million)
        Most activities were implemented with delays and some were canceled or carried out by
        other donors with grant funds, as indicated below. In the end, implementation can be
        judged mostly successful as the Government provided renewed impetus to strengthening
        the country's disaster management capacity in the aftermath of Hurricane Ivan.

        a. NERO has been transformed into the National Disaster Management Agency
            (NADMA) with a broader mandate. A permanent National Disaster Coordinator
            (NDC) and a deputy NDC are being recruited to replace those who temporarily hold
            these positions.

            The rehabilitation of the EOC, which was originally delayed because of poor design,
            has been completed and serves as headquarters to NADMA. A few additional repairs
            were made after the building was slightly damaged by Hurricane Ivan.

            All emergency equipment and supplies were purchased and delivered by August 2002.
            NADMA has prepared a detailed plan for distribution and emergency arrangements.
            In addition, NADMA has established a computerized database to monitor and manage
            emergency equipment and supplies. Additional emergency response and solid waste


                                                - 6 -

      management equipment was financed immediately after Hurricane Ivan.

      Activities originally planned under the project but financed by other donors were
          A public awareness program, which was initiated in 2001, but with a training
           needs analysis that never took off and was canceled. This activity has now been
           picked up by CDERA, CIDA and the Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance
           (OFDA). A comprehensive training and public awareness campaign is now
           underway.
          Disaster management procedures, which have been revised and incorporated into
           an updated National Disaster Management Plan. Additional training of NADMA
           staff is also being provided by CDERA, CIDA and OFDA.

   b. All emergency communications equipment was purchased by August 2002 and
      associated training for NADMA staff was provided thereafter. While the equipment
      was not distributed throughout island prior to Hurricane Ivan, it was subsequently
      installed and distributed throughout the country.          Radio communication was
      maintained throughout Hurricane Emily one year later.

      Early warning systems, including procurement of equipment and training, have been
      set up at the National Meteorological Services (NMS) at Point Salines airport.
      Additional training of NMS staff in real-time data analysis is still required to fully
      benefit from the use of these systems.

   c. The shelter program was implemented in two Phases. Phase 1, which consisted of
      retrofitting three shelters, was completed in mid-2003. All facilities withstood the
      impact of Hurricane Ivan. Phase 2 initially consisted of retrofitting seven schools to
      serve as shelters, and the construction of a prototype shelter. The design was revised
      after Hurricane Ivan as some schools were badly damaged and the scope of works has
      to be substantially expanded. At project completion, three shelters were fully
      retrofitted and a prototype shelter has been completed.

   d. The stock of metallic bridges and gabion baskets was purchased in 2002. Some
      gabions were already used in response to landslides caused by Hurricane Emily in
      2005. Staff of the MCWPU and the Special Services Unit (SSU) has been trained to
      use this equipment. A Utilization Plan has been submitted to the Bank.

      The technical assistance to improve the MCWPU's capacity to conduct environmental
      assessments and monitoring has been completed; however recommendations are yet to
      be implemented.

II Preventive Physical Mitigation (Appraisal US$ 5.82 million/Actual US$ 5.63 million)
   The sea defenses and road rehabilitation works at Grand Mal Bay were satisfactorily
   completed on time and below appraisal cost estimates. As a result of savings, an
   amendment to the original contract was signed in mid-2003 to provide for additional rock
   armoring and beach replenishment. Upon completion, a technical audit of the Grand Mal



                                           - 7 -

        Bay road rehabilitation and sea defense works was conducted by independent consultants.
        This audit concluded that some technical specifications used were slightly higher, while
        others slightly lower than originally envisaged during project design--thus querying the
        quality of supervision by Government-appointed engineers. Although the Government has
        yet to officially respond to this audit, it should be noted that the works fully withstood the
        impact of Hurricane Ivan.

             Studies under Physical Mitigation
                  A coastal protection and sea defense study was updated. Study recommendations
                   have resulted in a project to be financed by the Caribbean Development Bank
                   (CDB).
                  A slope protection and river training study has also been completed and the CDB
                   is developing a project using proposed recommendations.
                  A drainage and flood control study has been initiated but was not completed as
                   the consultant's inception report was never approved by government.

   III Project Management (Appraisal US$ 0.78 million/Actual US$ 1.20 million)
        A Procurement Specialist and Project Accountant were recruited to work in the PCU
        during project implementation. Office equipment and vehicles were purchased to improve
        PCU operational capacity. As mentioned above, a technical audit of Grand Mal Bay road
        rehabilitation and sea defense works was carried out. Independent auditors were recruited
        and financial audits were submitted on time.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

    At project completion, a re-evaluated economic analysis points to an NPV of US$19.4
    million. Instead of estimated probability of occurrence and estimated damages averted as a
    result of the project, historical information was incorporated into the exercise. In this case,
    damages averted following the passage of Hurricane Ivan (2004) and Hurricane Emily (2005)
    have been used to demonstrate the project's economic benefits, while expenditures were
    revised to match actual cash outflows. The project appraisal assumed the passage of a
    hurricane would lead to losses equivalent to 20 percent of GDP, although in reality Hurricane
    Ivan resulted in losses in excess of 200 percent of GDP. Nevertheless, damages averted due to
    the project were revised downward, from 10 percent of GDP to 7.5 and 2.5 percent of GDP
    for Hurricanes Ivan and Emily, respectively. Despite the devastating effects of Ivan, these
    figures more accurately represent the events over the life of the project. A detailed description
    of the revised economic analysis is presented in Annex 3.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

    This analysis is not applicable since this is a non-revenue generating project.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

    The project proved a good vehicle to sensitize core government agencies to disaster
    management issues. Providing an adequate mix of structural and non-structural support,



                                                   - 8 -

    overall the project has had a positive institutional impact on the country's capacity to handle
    such events.

    This positive development could, however, have been greater had the government given more
    impetus to adequately staffing NERO and activating the National Hazard Mitigation Council
    (NHMC) during early stages of project implementation. The outlook has taken a more
    positive turn since Hurricane Ivan, as the Government has now fully realized the importance
    of disaster management and the critical need to implement and maintain well-run emergency
    management and communication systems.

    NERO has now been transformed into a National Advisory Disaster Management Agency
    (NADMA). Placed directly under the Prime Minister's office, NADMA has a broader
    mandate to deal with all aspects of disaster management. Since Hurricane Ivan the
    Government has also, with the assistance of other donors, taken further steps to enhance
    Grenada's institutional capacity to prepare for, mitigate and respond to disasters. Its response
    to Hurricane Emily in July 2005 was in general satisfactory. Overall, the combined effect of
    this project and additional technical assistance demonstrate an improved institutional
    disaster-management capacity.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

    Hurricane Ivan struck Grenada in September 2004, causing major damage to public buildings
    and private housing, and resulting in serious disruption of economic activities. Struggling to
    cope with substantial emergency needs and re-establishing normalcy, initially Government's
    project implementation slowed but gradually resumed at a quicker pace.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

    Government dawdled in resolving management issues, including staffing problems, which
    developed at the PCU in October 2002 soon after the first project coordinator left for study
    leave.

    Government also did not provide sufficient staff to NERO and did not display strong
    leadership required to ensure a well functioning NHMC. This negatively influenced
    implementation speed and may have reduced Government's ability to respond to critical needs
    during and in the immediate aftermath of Hurricane Ivan.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

    The PCU was often slow in completing procurement processes. The unit's lack of leadership
    and efficient management from October 2002 to September 2004 also negatively impacted
    project implementation.




                                                     - 9 -

5.4 Costs and financing:

    There were substantial cost savings on the major sea-defense works. The contract was
    awarded at about 25 percent less than original estimates as the lowest bidder had just
    completed similar works in the country and could therefore mobilize almost immediately at
    very limited cost. A large part of these savings was used to finance additional works at Grand
    Mal Bay (rock armor reinforcement and beach replenishment). After Hurricane Ivan,
    remaining project savings were used to finance repairs of damaged assets (mainly schools
    serving as disaster shelters) and the purchase of additional emergency equipment. In addition,
    the loan and credit agreements were modified in December 2004 to eliminate counterpart
    financing requirements, thus allowing for 100 percent financing of all categories.

    At project closing, the total project cost was US$9.6 million as compared to an original
    estimate of about US$10 million. Over US$5.6 million was used for prevention and mitigation
    works (see Annex 2). Annex 2 also shows a breakdown of project costs by procurement
    method and by source of funding (Bank and Government).

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

    Project Sustainability is rated likely.

    The National Hazard Mitigation Council (NHMC) was established prior to effectiveness but
    not fully activated until after Hurricane Ivan. Since then, the Government has recognized the
    importance of the NHMC in case of an emergency. In this regard, the Government's response
    to Hurricane Emily in July 2005 demonstrates increased commitment and an improved
    institutional outlook in ensuring a more effective NHMC.

    NADMA is now operational at the rehabilitated EOC. It is being further strengthened through
    technical assistance provided by other donors and recruitment of additional staff is underway.

    Since the passage of Hurricane Ivan, the Government is committed to ensure that appropriate
    communication and management systems are put in place to prepare for, mitigate the impact
    of and respond to future disasters.

    Under the institutional objective, three important processes remain to ensure sustainability: (i)
    Cabinet ratification of the revised National Disaster Management Plan and updated emergency
    procedures; (ii) permanent appointment of a National Disaster Coordinator and a Deputy
    Coordinator, as well as other technically qualified staff; and (iii) inclusion of a separate budget
    line in the Prime Minister's budget to ensure that NADMA remains funded after donors
    disengage from their intense intervention over the past year.




                                                - 10 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

    Maintenance of sea defense works at Grand Mal Bay is the responsibility of the MCWPU.
    Additional gabion baskets are available for ongoing slope stabilization works and the purchase
    of additional stock is the responsibility of the MCWPU. Metallic bridge sections are also
    available for emergencies and trained staff can be deployed accordingly.

    All communication equipment and emergency supplies are properly stored at the EOC and
    NADMA has developed appropriate plans and procedures to distribute them in case of an
    emergency.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

    Bank performance for lending is rated satisfactory.

    The Bank's preparation incorporated lessons learned from the implementation of the APL1,
    deliberately applying standard investment loan procedures to the new project design. These
    procedures enabled more detailed preparation of design and bidding documents in addition to
    more clearly defined procurement and implementation arrangements than under an APL1
    project. The team's thorough project documentation, including a detailed review of design
    options and cost estimates for the Grand Mal Bay rehabilitation works, provided a sound basis
    for implementation.

7.2 Supervision:

    Frequency and quality of supervision is rated satisfactory.

    During implementation there were 17 supervision missions, some combined with the
    preparation and/or supervision of other projects. Of the 17 supervision missions, 10 took
    place after the passage of Hurricane Ivan. Supervision reports were well prepared and
    thorough. They included detailed checklists and timetables for tracking progress on each
    component. These checklists, which were updated by each mission, provided a good basis to
    monitor progress and to assess final results.

    A mid-term review planned for October 2004 was cancelled after the passage of Hurricane
    Ivan. From then on, the Bank's team provided added support to the PCU and maintained a
    semi-permanent presence in Grenada for about one year. Intense supervision over the last year
    and a half of the project to actively assist the Government in the implementation of the
    reconstruction program has facilitated a successful completion of the original project, in
    coordination with the recovery needs.




                                                  - 11 -

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

    Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.

    The Bank's preparation and supervision efforts were consistently thorough. Overall, the Bank
    team provided strong support in a responsive and flexible manner during implementation,
    particularly when additional needs emerged in the aftermath of Hurricane Ivan.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

    Borrower performance during preparation is rated satisfactory.

    Government was actively involved in the identification and preparation of project components.
    It quickly established the PCU and by pre-appraisal, the Ministry of Finance had appointed a
    full-time experienced Project Coordinator. Strong Government commitment to the project
    was also displayed during a well-attended and highly successful project launch in December
    2000.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

    On balance, Government implementation performance is rated marginally satisfactory.

    Government worked diligently to declare the loan and credit effective, and provided
    substantial counterpart funding up front. It also ensured that the PCU had sufficient staffing
    from the outset.         This initial momentum was, however, not sustained throughout
    implementation as Government did not display the leadership required to nurture and
    strengthen a nascent institutional framework.         Prior to Hurricane Ivan, the Government
    exhibited little initiative in: (i) solving PCU staffing and management problems; (ii) providing
    sufficient resources (financial and technical) to NERO, where a permanent Coordinator and a
    Deputy Coordinator have yet to be appointed; and (iii) ensuring a fully functioning NHMC.
    Following Hurricane Ivan, Government gave renewed impetus to the project and its
    performance improved.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

    Overall implementing agency performance is rated marginally satisfactory.

    Initially, the PCU was well managed. It performed efficiently and diligently in its coordination
    and fiduciary role at the beginning of project implementation. The performance of the PCU
    deteriorated sharply after the departure of the project coordinator on study leave in October
    2002. Because of communication problems between the PCU and implementing agencies, as
    well as the lack of clear decision making in renewing/finalizing staff contracts and approval of
    bidding documents, implementation delays occurred.           As a result, a first twelve-month
    extension of the closing date was required to complete the project.



                                                  - 12 -

    By the time Hurricane Ivan passed over Grenada in September 2004, the PCU was no longer
    the efficiently led and managed organization it was at inception.          During Ivan, the unit
    consisted of only the Project Coordinator and the Administrative Assistant because all other
    officers had either resigned, or did not have their contracts renewed in the summer of 2004,
    once the first closing date extension was granted.

    The Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Finance served as Acting Project Coordinator
    immediately after Hurricane Ivan and the PCU staff was subsequently reconstructed. Two
    new staff members (Deputy Project Coordinator and Procurement Officer) were recruited and
    three of the four officers who left in summer 2004 returned.             To replace the Project
    Accountant who did not return to the unit, the Project Accountant for a separate ongoing
    Bank project was named Acting Project Accountant for the unit.

    During the 12 months following Ivan, until a permanent Project Coordinator was hired, the
    unit worked on an ad-hoc basis and staff faced uncertainties regarding their tenure, length of
    contract and responsibilities. This uncertainty caused three officers to leave the unit within 8
    months of their return. Financial management in particular suffered as a result of Government
    delays in hiring a full-time Project Accountant. With the naming of the Project Coordinator in
    September 2005, these issues began to subside and performance started to improve.

    Implementation of the physical mitigation works and studies was carried out by the MCWPU
    with adequate institutional support.     Limited technical resources were complemented by
    specialized engineering consultants appointed by the Government.              Overall, MCWPU
    performed satisfactorily its coordination role during implementation of physical works.
    However, because of limited specialized expertise, it faced more difficulties in providing
    inputs to the elaboration of studies financed under the project and ensuring their timely
    completion.

    Implementation of the component on strengthening disaster management capacity was the
    responsibility of NERO. After a very slow start, it performed its role more actively once it
    was transformed into NADMA and received closer support from Government and additional
    financing from donors in the aftermath of Hurricane Ivan.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

    Overall borrower performance is rated marginally satisfactory.

    Most of the project components, including the most important works, studies and equipment
    procurement were implemented, albeit with a one year and seven month delay in part caused
    by the impact of Hurricane Ivan in September 2004. Had all institutional components been
    implemented before the original May 2004 closing date and had the Government lent stronger
    support to strengthen NERO both technically and financially, the response to Hurricane Ivan
    may have been stronger and the project achievements would have been more robust.
    However, in the end, Grenada has an improved physical infrastructure and the country is in a
    better position to enhance further its institutional capacity to respond to and mitigate disasters.


                                                 - 13 -

8. Lessons Learned

    The project has clearly demonstrated the economic benefits and the value of undertaking
    retrofitting and mitigation works. All key infrastructure assets financed under the project
    withstood the impact of Hurricane Ivan.            Given the ongoing importance of prevention
    measures, some of the types of investments made under this project should be mainstreamed
    into sector investment programs during non-emergency periods.

    The Bank should have dealt more forcefully with the institutional strengthening component of
    the project from the start. The unfortunate events of September 2004 demonstrated the need
    for effective disaster preparedness capacity at all time. Including more up-front conditionality
    in project design may have facilitated this process. Moreover, the Bank could have taken a
    stronger stance on the appointment of a permanent NDC and Deputy before granting the first
    closing date extension.

    Requiring that Government counterpart funds be made available by loan and credit
    effectiveness greatly facilitated initial project implementation.

    For large mitigation works, design and supervision contracts should preferably be procured on
    a competitive basis rather than under a government appointed consultant arrangement. This
    would ensure a more independent and effective performance of the tasks at hand. At the same
    time, it is important to include a technical audit for major mitigation works. However, as in
    the case of this project, unless the Government officially responds to the results and
    recommendations of the technical audit for Grand Mal Bay works, the purpose and usefulness
    of such audit is likely to be defeated.

    The Bank needs to consider requiring performance guarantees in consultant contracts and
    applying penalties for late submission of expected outputs.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


Introduction
The Loan and Credit Agreements for the Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Project
were signed on November 13, 2000 and became effective January 2, 2001. The declaration of
effectiveness made it possible to for Grenada to receive disbursements of US$5.06 million from
the IBRD loan and IDA credit totaling SDR 3.8 in support of activities under the project.

Objectives
The primary objective of the project was to strengthen Grenada's resilience, preparedness and
ability to respond to natural disasters.

This objective was to be achieved by:
         Strengthening the country's institutional structures;



                                                   - 14 -

         Building capacity of the national emergency relief organization (NERO) and other
        concerned public agencies to perform their respective responsibilities more effectively
        during a crisis;
         Implementing physical mitigation, retrofitting and prevention measures to protect key
        infrastructure and lifeline facilities before a disaster strike;
         Retrofitting shelters to improve the safety of the poorer and most exposed populations;
         Improving natural resource management; and
         Promoting community involvement through organizing, training and equipping
        community disaster committees, and enhancing their role in disaster preparedness and
        recovery operations.

The Government's own review is in broad agreement with Bank's assessment. Given the
level of detail and depth provided in the assessment by the Bank in previous sections, the
Government will limit this discussion to general statements regarding progress in
achievement of each objective, or to highlight areas where the Government's assessment
differs from that of the Bank.

Quality at Entry
There is no doubt that the project was well prepared and its design incorporated lessons learned
from APL1. Moreover, the Government is comfortable with the balance achieved between a
longer term approach to disaster management and physical preventive mitigation in project design.

Early agreement between the Government and Bank that the framework for determining project
components should be located within the strategic context of the Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS), and Government's own policy for management of natural disasters, facilitated clear
conceptualization and identification of project components. This dialogue enabled early start up
of preparatory work with efficient allocation of task to co-implementing agencies.

In addition to strong and effective support from the Bank's team, the Ministry of Finance, Project
and Development Cooperation Unit provided effective coordination.           This ensured that the
various co-implementing agencies undertook preparatory activities and prepared relevant
documents within agreed deadlines during the preparatory stage. The arrangement provided the
basis for the development of an effective management structure for project implementation that
enabled Government to make key appointments within the Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
during pre-appraisal. The Bank's insistence of the appointment of a coordination entity, and focal
points in each co-implementing agency, before commencement of the preparatory stage is
commendable and ensured quality at entry.

Achievement of Objectives and Outputs

Outcome/Achievements of Objectives

The Government agrees that the first objective, to strengthen key economic and social
infrastructure and facilities with the aim of minimizing damage caused by future disasters and
reducing the disruption of economic activity in the event of disaster emergencies, was fully met



                                                  - 15 -

due to strong support from the Bank and hard work of the PCU and co-implementing agencies.
However, participating co-implementing agencies at times considered themselves stretched to the
limit. They considered project preparation activities to be additional tasks to their day to day
functions, which had to be performed with the same level of resources. Moreover, some agencies
were not familiar with Bank procedures and guidelines.

This resulted in some level of frustration and friction between the coordination entity (PCU) and
co-implementation agencies that at times may have put achievement of the objective at risk - had
it not been for a strong and effective Project Coordinator. The situation points to the need for a
strong central coordination entity and a responsive flexible approach by the Bank.             This
arrangement can ensure that adequate resources are made available early to co-implementing
agencies to assist in project preparation and the training of staff in Bank procedures and
guidelines.

Though the second objective, to strengthen the Government's disaster response capacity, is
considered satisfactorily met, Government recognizes that its performance left much room for
improvement. Achievement of this objective can be considered marginally satisfactory. Despite
the fact that emergency equipment was purchased early in the project and the Emergency
Operations Centre was refurbished by early 2004, both were not in use prior to the passage of
Hurricane Ivan. Non-use of these resources resulted from the institutional weakness within the
then National Emergency Relief Organization (NERO) that remained unresolved up to that time.

While a National Disaster Coordinator and Technical Data/Specialist were appointed early in the
project, Government failed to fill the position of deputy National Disaster Coordinator in a timely
and appropriate manner. Therefore, when the Director left for study leave, and was then
reassigned, the organization was left without proper leadership.          This negatively affected
implementation of the institutional strengthening initiatives under the project.

The third objective, to strengthen the country's institutional capacity to prepare for and respond
to disaster emergencies in an efficient and effective manner, is considered mostly met. The
Government considers its performance marginally satisfactory. In hind sight, Government felt that
the main activities in this regard, such as development of National Disaster Plan and Training
Program, should have occurred upfront.        Implementation of the approved plan and training
program could have been more effectively assigned as activities under the project.

Outputs by Components

Strengthening Disaster Management Capacity (Appraisal US$3.66 million/Actual US$3.88)

Although NERO was transformed, and given a broader mandate under a National Disaster and
Management Agency (NADMA), this occurred late in the project and with assistance from other
donors after the passage of Hurricane Ivan.




                                                - 16 -

The delays in refurbishment and occupation of the EOC point not only to poor design, but also,
limited technical capacity among the relevant co-implementing agency, as well as an inflexible
approach among various entities to problem solving.

Although all emergency equipment and supplies were purchased and delivered by August 2002, a
detailed plan for distribution and emergency arrangements were only prepared after Hurricane
Ivan.   This plan was activated the following year during the passage of Hurricane Emily.
Government recognized that had such a plan been in place during the passage of Hurricane Ivan,
the emergency response would have been better coordinated.

Now that a distribution plan and computerized database to monitor and manage emergency
equipment and supplies are in place, the response capability of NADMA has                  improved
significantly. Moreover, the additional emergency response and solid waste management
equipment, financed under the project after Hurricane Ivan, will expand debris removal and
disposal capability. This proved a critical element of disaster response in a situation of extensive
collateral damage.

A number of activities originally planned under the project, such as Needs Assessment Training
and updating of the National Disaster Management Plan, were financed by other donors. This
occurred as a result of long delays in implementation and the expressed need for such assistance
after the experience of Hurricane Ivan. In hind sight Government agrees that these activities
should have been carried out up-front during the preparatory stage. Recommendations made as a
result of the preparatory work could have been incorporated into the project as specific activities.
Therefore, rather than carrying out a training needs assessment or update the emergency plan as
part of the project, these activities could have taken place during preparation. Actual training of
staff and institutional requirements for the disaster plan could have been activities financed by the
project.

The National Meteorological Services (NMS) at Point Salines airport was equipped and the staff
was trained under the project. However, there is a need for additional training, particularly in real
time date analysis and information presentation skills. The Met Office has not been forthcoming
with offer of assistance in that regard.

Government considers implementation of the shelter program to be a success not only because all
schools retrofitted withstood hurricane Ivan, but also, in the manner that the program was
implemented. Collaborative efforts of the Ministry of Education, NERO, Ministry of Works, and
PCU came through very well. This exercise points to the need to provide additional resources
early to co-implementation agencies, faced with resource constraints, to enable them to be better
able to implement activities under the project.

The procurement of metallic bridges and gabion baskets was carried out early in the project. The
relevant agencies, MCWPU and Special Services Unit (SSU) were asked to submit the names of
persons to be trained well before the bridges arrived. This avoided delays in training by the
supplier. Most of the gabion baskets have been used and two bridges were erected to replace one
damaged by a truck and another during the passage of Hurricane Emily. Erection of the metallic



                                                - 17 -

bridges was done by the staff of MCWPU and SSU trained under the project. A Utilization Plan
was also submitted to the Bank in good time.

The technical assistance to improve the MCWPU's capacity to carry out environmental
assessments and monitoring was provided with considerable delay. This was due in part to weak
monitoring and supervision capacity, and extensive damage to the Ministry's office as a result of
Hurricane Ivan. Now that the Ministry's office is fully refurbished and re-equipped, attempts have
been made to activate the program.

Preventive Physical Mitigation (Appraisal US$ 5.82 million/Actual US$ 5.63 million)

The sea defenses and road rehabilitation works at Grand Mal Bay were completed satisfactorily,
on time, and below appraisal cost estimates. This enabled additional works to be financed from
the project savings. A technical audit of the work at Grand Mal was conducted by an outside
consulting firm and was critical of the work. While a formal response to the audit was not
submitted to the Bank, the Government recognizes the need to carry out such exercises after the
completion of major civil works and considers carefully the appointment of design and supervision
consultants for such projects. The Bank must be commended for working closely with
Government to obtain assistance from the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB) for rehabilitation
works at second site, at White Gate/Palmiste. This area was damaged during hurricane Lenny and
identified in the preparatory study for Grand Mal.

Studies under Physical Mitigation

The updating of the coastal protection and sea defense study were delayed considerably due to
weak monitoring and supervision by the MCWPU. This was the result of resource constraints
among its specialist staff. A project was developed based on one of the sites identified for
intervention by the study and implemented using savings from the CDB financed
Whitegate/Palmiste Sea Defense project.

Despite considerable delays in completion of the slope protection and river training study, due to
weak monitoring and supervision by the MCWPU, the PCU working closely with the Bank and
Ministry. The unit successfully leveraged additional funding to develop key recommendations of
the study into a project for which the CDB has provided a funding. Implementation of the work
should commence shortly. The responsiveness and flexibility of the Task Manager must be
commended in this regard.

A drainage and flood control study has been initiated but has not been completed because the
inception report was never approved by the Government.

Project Management (Appraisal US$ 0.78 million/Actual US$ 1.20 million)

The decision to use the Projects and Development Cooperation Unit as the coordinating entity
during the identification stage of the project proved valuable.      In addition, the subsequent
appointment of a well experienced and qualified Project Coordinator contributed to the early



                                              - 18 -

establishment of a well functioning PCU with experienced staff. This contributed significantly to
the strong implementation performance in the early stages of the project. However, Government
recognizes that its response to addressing staff issues after the departure of the then Project
Coordinator contributed to the decline in implementation experienced after October 2003.

Institutional Development Impact

The project raised the profile of disaster management within the Government's development
agenda, and improved the country's capacity to mitigate and manage after a disaster. The project
also helped to strengthen project cycle management and build experience in implementing Bank
funded projects.

Notwithstanding the slow response in addressing staff issues and the appointment of foreign
consultants within the PCU; during the course of the project a number of local personnel received
training in procurement and financial management procedures of the Bank. Government
recognizing the need to improve its performance in implementing Bank funded projects, the
importance of strengthening the country's absorptive capacity and overall coordination has taken
steps to create one project coordination unit to implement all Bank funded projects.

It is hoped that by complimenting the core staff of the PCU created under the project, with
additional staff from other project implementation units, the unit will be further strengthened. A
merged projects unit should provide an environment for knowledge sharing and continuous staff
development, improving the country's performance in implementing Bank projects. The project
also helped expose staff of the co-implementing agencies to Bank procedures and guidelines.
Thus, the number of persons within the public service who have some knowledge of Bank
practices has increased.

Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The passage of Hurricane Ivan resulted in severe disruption and dislocation within the civil
service.   This negatively impacted project implementation. However, project implementation
improved after Ivan due to excellent assistance from the Bank's team, the result of a flexible and
responsive approach, and strengthening of the PCU.

Factors generally subject to government control:
Government acknowledged its slow response to resolution of management issues. In addressing
the issue, the Government had to confront resource constraints within the public service, which
further compounds the problem. However, with the strengthening of the PCU in the latter stage
of the project, it is hope that problem will be mitigated in the future. With disaster management
high on the Government's priority, most of the institutional issues that plagued the project in the
early stages have been addressed or being rectified at this time.

Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The procurement function within the PCU was strengthened with the signing of a procurement
specialist, procurement officer, and assistant procurement officer. Notwithstanding the extended


                                                    - 19 -

delays during the period October 2002 to September 2004, once the adequate procurement staff
was hired, activities picked up considerably.

Costs and financing:
The substantial cost savings from the major sea defense works was used appropriately to finance
additional civil works at Grand Mal which further strengthened the country's disaster mitigation
capacity. Similarly, the additional emergency and waste management equipment purchased with
the remaining savings after Hurricane Ivan. This equipment provides the Government with
sufficient capacity to implement an emergency debris removal and disposal program, developed
up under the umbrella National Disaster Management Plan.

Sustainability

Rationale for sustainability rating:

Project Sustainability is rated likely.

The Government has moved to ensure that activities implemented during the project are sustained
beyond the project life by ensuring that the National Hazard Mitigation Council (NHMC) is fully
functional. Additionally, the budget for NADMA was increased significantly and new positions,
including an information specialist and community program officer, were created within the
agency. However, the positions of Director and Deputy Director are yet to be regularized.
Nonetheless, the experience of the country's response to Hurricane Emily suggests that it is highly
likely that major activities would be sustained well after the project life.

Transition arrangement to regular operations:

Maintenance of sea defense works at Grand Mal Bay is the responsibility of the MCPWU.
Additional gabion baskets are available for mitigation works; metallic bridge sections are also
available for emergencies, and trained staff can be deployed accordingly. All communication
equipment and emergency supplies are properly stored at the EOC.             Finally, NADMA has
developed appropriate plans and procedures to distribute them in case of an emergency.

Lessons Learned

The implementation of the project highlighted many lessons that can assist in improvement in the
Borrower's and Bank's performance. There are a few of the most important lessons learnt:

        1.    The more work done during preparation, the more likely that implementation
        downstream will be successful.
        2. A flexible and responsive approach by both Bank and Borrower's staff is required
        during implementation.
        3. Co-implementing agencies and other stakeholders should be involved as early as the
        identification stage.
        4. Establishment of a dedicated coordinating entity during the identification stage is
        critical for project success.



                                                - 20 -

        5. More intense and focused supervision by the Bank helps to identify problems that may
        place the project at risk, early, and provide solutions in a timely manner.


(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

N/A




                                                 - 21 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                     1
                Indicator/Matrix                              Projected in last PSR                     Actual/Latest Estimate
Operational emergency procedures and             Revised Disaster Management plan              100% achieved (by CDERA)
mobilization guidelines in place as per          completed in 2005
international standards by July 2001.

Improved reporting of weather information by Equipment Purchased and installed at              Mostly Achieved
the Meteorological office NERO--a) with          National Meteorological Office
regularity (at least once daily); and b) quality
(verified by missions of the Caribbean
Meteorological Organization).

Enhanced ability at NERO to accurately           NADMA performed satisfactorily as the         100% achieved (with outside assistance)
analyze incoming information and data on         'clearing house' during Hurricane Emily
emergencies and serve as a single "clearing
house" for early warning information and
dissemination (as evidenced by timely
decision making, the triggering of emergency
procedures and timely dissemination of
warnings by NERO to populations at risk).

Increased number of people serviced by           6 Shelters (3 community centers, 3 schools) 100% achieved
adequate shelters due to the retrofitting        retrofitted and prototype shelter constructed
program.

Strengthened capacity in Ministry of Works to Ministry of Works performed satisfactorily as Somewhat achieved
carry out EIAs and works during                  the 'clearing house' during Hurricane Emily
emergencies.


Output Indicators:
                                                                                     1
                Indicator/Matrix                              Projected in last PSR                     Actual/Latest Estimate
1.1 National Disaster Coordinator (NDC)          -Acting NDC in place but permanent staffing Not Achieved
position filled by a full-time permanent civil   arrangements, with necessary technical
servant; at least 2 additional professional      competencies not yet achieved.
staff (a Deputy Coordinator and a
Technical/Data Specialist) in NERO by
December 2000. 1.2 National Hazard
Mitigation Council (NHMC) with defined
membership by August 2000. 1.3 At least
one training course carried out for high level
govt officials in managing emergencies.


2.1 Adequately equipped and staffed              -Meteorological Equipment purchased           100% achieved after Ivan
Meteorological Office with complete early        -16 district coordinators in place in 2005
warning system. 2.2 At least 72-hour
advance warning from Met Office to NERO
of impending tropical events. 2.3 Number of
District Disaster Coordinators reached, and
reduced response time of those coordinators
to an emergency.


3.1 Number of shelters retrofitted. 3.2 At       6 Shelters (3 community centers, 3 schools) 100% achieved
least one shelter manager per shelter trained    retrofitted and prototype shelter constructed
and in place.


4.1 Dedicated unit in MCWPU capable of           -metallic bridges purchased                   100% achieved
erecting on-site metallic bridges of a 6m span   -bridges installed after Hurricane Emily
in one day. 4.2 Training MCWPU in carrying
out EIAs and manage/monitor mitigation
measures. 4.3 No more than one day of




                                                                    - 22 -

interruption to traffic on rehabilitated roads
due to weather conditions.


5.1 Sea defenses constructed and road          Construction completed, additional work   100% achieved
rehabilitated at Grand Mal Bay.                executed


6.1. Recommendations of studies financed       CDB Project developed as result of slope  50% achieved (2 studies canceled)
by the project reviewed by Government          protection and coastal defense studies
before the end of 2001 and approved
recommendations implemented by the end of
2002.

1End of project




                                                                - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                       Component                          US$ million   US$ million
1. Strengthening Disaster Management Capacity
   a. NERO Strengthening                                     0.82            0.43            52.4
   b. Emergency Communication / Early Warning                0.28            0.52           187.6
   c. Shelters Program                                       1.98            2.04           103.3
   d. Strengthening of MCWPU Capacity                        0.58            0.89           153.3
2. Preventative Physical Mitigation
   a. Sea Defense and Road Rehabilitation                    5.40            5.26            97.4
   b. Slope Protection and River Training                    0.21            0.37           176.2
   c. Drainage and Flood Control                             0.21            0.00               0
3. Project Management                                        0.78            1.20           153.6




Total Baseline Cost                                         10.26          10.71
 Physical Contingencies                                      0.71            0.00
 Price Contingencies                                         0.77            0.00
                         Total Project Costs                11.74          10.71
                   Total Financing Required                 11.74          10.71


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB           NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            6.06            2.40         0.00         0.00          8.46
                                   (4.55)          (2.22)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (6.77)
2. Goods                            0.76            0.00         0.27         0.00          1.03
                                   (0.76)          (0.00)      (0.27)         (0.00)       (1.03)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00         2.20         0.00          2.20
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (2.20)         (0.00)       (2.20)
4. Operating Expenses               0.00            0.00         0.03         0.00          0.03
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.03)         (0.00)       (0.03)
5. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                            6.82            2.40         2.50         0.00         11.72
                                   (5.31)          (2.22)      (2.50)         (0.00)      (10.03)




                                                - 24 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
    1. Works                                5.08               2.28              0.03             0.00              7.39
                                           (4.06)             (2.13)            (0.03)            (0.00)           (6.22)
    2. Goods                                0.51               0.00              0.56             0.00              1.07
                                           (0.51)             (0.00)            (0.56)            (0.00)           (1.07)
    3. Services                                                0.00              2.21             0.00              2.21
                                              ()              (0.00)            (2.21)            (0.00)           (2.21)
    4. Operating Expenses                   0.00               0.00              0.04             0.00              0.04
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.04)            (0.00)           (0.04)
    5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
    6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                5.59               2.28              2.84             0.00             10.71
                                           (4.57)             (2.13)            (2.84)            (0.00)           (9.54)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1. Strengthening Disaster
Management Capacity
 a. NERO Strengthening          0.75         0.07                     0.36         0.07                  48.0     100.0
 b. Emergency                   0.28         0.00                     0.52         0.00                  185.7     0.0
Communication / Early
Warning
 c. Shelters Program            1.63         0.35                     1.96         0.09                  120.2     25.7
 d. Strengthening of            0.58         0.00                     0.89         0.00                  153.4     0.0
MCWPU Capacity


2. Preventative Physical
Mitigation
 a. Sea Defense and Road        4.39         1.01                     4.24         1.02                  96.6     101.0
Rehabilitation
 b. Slope Protection and        0.21         0.21                     0.37         0.00                  176.2     0.0
River Training
 c. Drainage and Flood          0.21         0.21                     0.00         0.00                   0.0      0.0
Control
4. Project Management           0.77         0.01                     1.20         0.01                  155.8    100.0




                                                           - 25 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


Introduction

At preparation, an economic analysis was completed to assess the project's financial viability. The
analysis concluded that Grenada had a 10 percent chance of being affected by a hurricane and that
the project could help avert losses equal to 10 percent of GDP. With these assumptions, the
project had a net present value or NPV of US$21.5 million over a period of 20 years.

To arrive at this conclusion, disaster losses and resulting costs were broken down into two parts.
First, costs were broken into direct loss to infrastructure and an inability to safeguard the
population and their property, and second into the opportunity cost of lost economic activities.
Under the project, these losses were partially offset by mitigation measures aimed at limiting
damages and improving response times once a disaster strikes.

The original economic analysis examined the sensitivity of the expected net economic benefits for
the APL 2 phase of the Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Project in Grenada.
During project development, scenario analysis was conducted to combine concrete project costs
with estimated benefits and project rate of return.

The revised economic benefit analysis of the project (assuming project duration would cover 5
years between 2000 and 2005) points to an NPV of US$19.4 million. Instead of using estimated
data on the "probability of occurrence" and estimated costs for "damages that could be averted as
a result of the project," historical information was incorporated into the exercise. As such
Hurricane Ivan (2004) and Hurricane Emily (2005) were used to calculate the economic benefits
of the project, while expenditures were revised to match actual cash outflows. The project
proposal assumed the passage of a hurricane would lead to losses equivalent to 20 percent of
GDP, although in reality Hurricane Ivan resulted in losses in excess of 200 percent. Nevertheless,
damages averted due to the project were revised downward, from 10 percent of GDP to 7.5 and
2.5 percent of GDP for Hurricanes Ivan and Emily, respectively. Despite the devastating affects of
Ivan, these figures more accurately represent the events over the past 5 years.


Main Assumptions

The main thrust of the economic analysis is to compare the cost of physical mitigation (through
strengthened disaster management capacity and improved infrastructure durability/retrofitting)
with the present and future costs averted (imputed benefits) from pursuing such investments. The
project's costs are defined as the direct investment associated with the project, in addition to the
future operations and maintenance costs, plus depreciation of physical assets. The imputed
benefits will be defined as the future costs foregone (or saved), which is tantamount to the
opportunity cost in not undertaking mitigation investments.

A discount rate of 10 percent will be applied to the costs and benefits in order to calculate the
NPV and economic internal rate of return (EIRR) for the project as a whole. For the project's


                                                - 26 -

purposes, the NPV calculations are more important, since a zero NPV will yield a positive EIRR,
and the economic analysis is generally more concerned with a positive NPV for the project.

Because a discount rate is applied to the analysis, the timing of project expenditures is relevant to
the project's overall NPV. Many of the planned expenditures were not disbursed as expected,
which resulted in project extension. The costs are therefore revised from planned investments to
actual expenditures.

As for damages averted, instead of relying on scenario analysis generated in project preparation,
actual data from hurricane damage have instead been incorporated in this exercise. Rather than
using the originally expected probability of occurrence (10%), estimated losses averted (10% of
GDP), and estimated total losses (20% of GDP), actual figures will be included.

The probability of occurrence assumption will be replaced with hurricane data from 2004 and
2005. The second key assumption (losses averted is equal to 10 percent) will be lowered to 7.5
percent of GDP in the analysis to more accurately reflect losses averted for
Hurricane Ivan.

Hurricane Ivan caused unprecedented damages to Grenada, valued at 200 percent of the island's
GDP. This destruction is 10 times the assumed loss to GDP during project preparation. However,
it cannot be asserted that a full 10 percent loss to GDP was averted as a result of the project.
Instead, 7.5 percent of GDP was protected through the Sea Defense and Road Rehabilitation at
Grand Mal, retrofitted shelters, gabions for improved slope stability, and institutional
strengthening of NERO. The estimated losses averted, which total 7.5 percent of GDP (or US$34
million) can be found in Table 1 below.



                         Table 1 - Expected Losses Averted
                Activity                                    Loss in USD
                Reconstruction of Grand Mal Road            $ 15 million
                Economic Activity lost due to road cut      $ 10 million
                Reconstruction of 3 schools                 $ 3 million
                Debris Removal of vulnerable slopes         $2 million
                Reconstruction of lost bridges              $2 million
                Economic Activity lost due to bridge cut    $2 million
                Total Losses                                $34 million




Since Hurricane Emily caused less damage than Ivan, we estimate that losses of 2.5 percent of
GDP were averted due to the project. This is due to the fact that Grand Mal would have likely
only suffered minor damages and economic activity would have been interrupted for a shorter
period of time. Schools that suffered damages from Emily needed simpler roof rehabilitation
repairs than the reconstruction requirements stemming from Ivan. On the other hand, because of
increased rainfall and due to the damaged watershed, Emily caused more flooding and mudslides.
As a result, the gabion works averted greater losses from mudslides, shorter delays and less cost



                                                  - 27 -

in the clearance of debris and faster replacement of bridges due to the use of those purchased
under the project.


Statistical Analysis

The analysis below examines the net economic benefits of the project. Benefits have been
calculated using the estimated combined damage-expenditures averted from Hurricane Ivan and
Emily (as expressed as a percentage of GDP) due to the mitigating investments of the disaster
management project. Table 1 shows the actual costs of the project based on the date of
expenditure, while Table 2 shows the benefits derived from the investment. In the case of
Hurricane Ivan, 10% of GDP is protected and for Hurricane Emily 2.5% of GDP is protected as a
result of the project. Table 3 combines the costs and benefits of the project, with a 10 percent
discount rate applied to all investments. The results of the analysis demonstrate that the present
value of the project at its inception is $33 million.



                                          Table 2 - Total Project Costs
                                            2000         2001        2002        2003          2004       2005
Instituional Strengthening
Nero Strengthening                           -            -       69,485      126,750      182,268      51,126
Emergency Comm & Early Warning               -            -      172,517        1,480       77,266     264,856
Shelters Program                             -            -      465,518       40,110      203,401   1,335,777
Strengthening MCWPU Capacity                 -         32,333    185,512      223,851      258,690     189,083
Physical Strengthening
Sea Defenses & Road Rehab                  5,263       12,940   3,429,668   1,451,981      534,536         -
Slope Protection Study                       -            -       44,033       87,847       43,939      90,032


PROJECT MANAGEMENT                        24,627      283,169    100,695      160,767      165,768     164,364


TOTALS                                    29,890      328,443   4,467,428   2,092,787     1,465,870  2,095,237




                              Table 3 - Total Project Benefits
                                                                   IVAN          EMILY
                                                              7.5% protected 2.5% protected
Benefits                       2000     2001     2002     2003          2004           2005
Institutional Strenthening     -         -        -        -       2,039,000      1,840,000
Physical Mitigation            -         -        -        -      30,000,000      6,000,000
Project Management             -         -        -        -         735,000        164,000
TOTALS                                                            32,774,000      8,004,000




While the expected losses averted for the two hurricanes is underestimated in relation to the likely
actual values, a scenario analysis was conducted to further understand the project benefits based
on a sliding scale of damages averted. In this case, the only possible value at which the net benefit



                                                  - 28 -

would be considered negative is if both Hurricanes only averted losses worth 1 percent of GDP
(or US$4.5 million). For each case greater than this sample, net outcome is positive. The most
likely scenarios are highlighted in Table 4 below. The conservative best guess scenario of 7.5
percent and 2.5 percent for Ivan and Emily respectively is extrapolated in Table 5, and gives a
NPV over the life of the project of US$19.46 million.

                                Table 4 - Scenario Analysis of Net Benefits
 Damages Averted                      Damages Averted during Ivan (values in millions of USD)
   during Emily            1%       2%      3%         4%       5%       6%     7%        8%      9%   10%
        1%              (2.03)    1.05    4.12       7.19    10.27    13.34  16.41    19.49    22.56  25.63
        2%               0.77     3.84    6.91       9.99    13.06    16.13  19.21    22.28    25.36  28.43
        3%               3.56     6.63    9.71      12.78    15.86    18.93  22.00    25.08    28.15  31.22
        4%               6.36     9.43   12.50      15.58    18.65    21.72  24.80    27.87    30.94  34.02
        5%               9.15    12.22   15.30      18.37    21.44    24.52  27.59    30.66    33.74  36.81
        6%              11.94    15.02   18.09      21.16    24.24    27.31  30.38    33.46    36.53  39.61
        7%              14.74    17.81   20.88      23.96    27.03    30.11  33.18    36.25    39.33  42.40
        8%              17.53    20.61   23.68      26.75    29.83    32.90  35.97    39.05    42.12  45.19
        9%              20.33    23.40   26.47      29.55    32.62    35.69  38.77    41.84    44.91  47.99
       10%              23.12    26.19   29.27      32.34    35.41    38.49  41.56    44.63    47.71  50.78




                    Table 5 - Net Benefits and Return at mst likely scenario
                        Present Value of Costs - 7,895,092
                                 2000      2001            2002        2003        2004         2005
                               29,890   298,584       3,692,089   1,572,342   1,001,209    1,300,978


                        Present Value of Benefits - 27,354,937
                                 2000      2001            2002        2003        2004         2005
                                  -         -               -           -    22,385,083    4,969,854


                                 2000      2001            2002        2003        2004         2005
          Net Benefits        (29,890) (328,443)     (4,467,428) (2,092,787) 46,308,340   11,159,968


      PV Net Benefits         (29,890) (298,584)     (3,692,089) (1,572,342) 21,383,874    3,668,877
       Cumulative PV          (29,890) (328,475)     (4,020,564) (5,592,906) 15,790,968   19,459,845
 NPV for life of Project  19,459,845




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              01/21/2000                8    LEAD SPECIALIST, TTL (1);
                                             URBAN SPEC. (1);
                                             TRANSPORT SPEC. (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                             SPEC. (1) ; ECONOMIST (1)
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC. (1)
                                             DISASTER SPEC. (2)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              07/17/2000                2    LEAD SPECIALIST, TTL
                                             (1); CIVIL ENGINEER (1)

 Supervision

              03/24/2001                1    TEAM LEADER (1)                  S               S
              04/24/2002                3    LEAD URBAN SPECIALIST            S               S
                                             (1); ENGINEER (1); SR.
                                             ENGINEER (1)
              10/15/2002                5    LEAD SPECIALIST, TTL (1);        S               S
                                             PROGRAM OFFICER (1);
                                             INTERN (1); ENGINEER (1);
                                             DISASTER SPECIALIST (1)
              02/15/2003                3    TEAM LEADER, URBAN               S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1); ENGINEER,
                                             CONSULTANT (1); PROGRAM
                                             OFFICER (1)
              05/22/2003                3    LEAD SPECIALIST (1);             S               S
                                             PROGRAM OFFICER (1);
                                             CONSULTANT, ENGINEER (1)
              08/28/2003                2    TTL (1); PROJECT ENGINEER        S               S
                                             (1)
              03/01/2004                2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             CIVIL ENGINEER (1)
              9/15/2004                 3    TTL (1); OPERATION               S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              9/30/2004                 6    COUNTRY DIRECTOR (1) TTL         S               S
                                             (1); OPERATION SPECIALIST
                                             (1); ENVIRONMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); HEALTH
                                             SPECIALIST (1); EDUCATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              11/20/2004                3    TTL (1); OPERATION               S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENT SPECIALIST



                                              - 30 -

                                            (1)
               1/29/2005               3    LEAD SPECIALIST; TTL (1),         S    S
                                            OPERATIONS SPECIALIST
                                            (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                            (1)
               05/05/2005              2    AIRPORT SECURITY                  S    S
                                            SPECIALIST (1); TRANSPORT
                                            SPECIALIST (1)
               05/15/2005              2    OPERATIONS SPECIALIST             S    S
                                            (1); CIVIL ENGINEER (1)
               07/13/2005              2    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);           S    S
                                            ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC. (1)
               08/29/2005              3    LEAD SPECIALIST; TTL (1),         S    S
                                            OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                            ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC (1)
               11/15/2005              3    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);           S    S
                                            ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC. (1);
                                            FINANCIAL MGMT SPEC. (1)
               2/13/2006               1    ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC (1)            S    S

 ICR
               02/22/2006             3     OPERATIONS                        S    S
                                            SPECIALIST (1); CIVIL
                                            ENGINEER (1);
                                            OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                            (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               22                           62
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    15                           42
  Supervision                              54                          218
  ICR                                       4                           11
  Total                                    95                          333




                                            - 31 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

-Project Appraisal Document  Report No: 20899-GRD
-Environmental Impact Assessment - February 2000
-Document Credit Agreement No. 34230-GRD, November 13, 2000
-Document Loan Agreement No. 45830-GRD, November 13, 2000
-First Loan/Credit Extension, March 3, 2004
-Loan/Credit Amendment / Extension, December 20, 2004
-Financial and Audit Reports 2003-2005
-Hurricane Ivan Damage Assessment, September 2004
-Grenada: A Nation Rebuilding - An assessment of reconstruction and recovery one year after
Hurricane Ivan, October 31, 2005
-Project Files




                                           - 34 -

- 35 -

