Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20899-GRD
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 5.06 MILLION
AND SDR 3.80 MILLION (US$ 5.01 MILLION equivalent) RESPECTIVELY
TO GRENADA
FOR THE SECOND PHASE (APL 2) OF THE
ORGANIZATION OF EASTERN CARIBBEAN STATES
EMERGENCY RECOVERY AND DISASTER MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
GRENADA EMERGENCY RECOVERY & DISASTER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
September 15, 2000
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Country Management Unit--LCC3C
Latin America and Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 2, 2000)
Currency Unit = EC$
EC$ 1.0 = US$0.37
US$1.0 = EC$ 2.7
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL                  Adaptable Program Loan (World Bank)
CARICOM              Caribbean Community and Common Market
CDB                  Caribbean Development Bank
CDERA                Caribbean Disaster Emergency Relief Agency
CIDA                 Canadian Intemational Development Agency (Canada)
DDC                  District Disaster Committee
DFID                 Department for Intemational Development (United Kingdom)
DMF                  Disaster Management Facility (World Bank)
EU                   European Union
EOC                  Emergency Operations Center
FEMA                 Federal Emergency Management Agency (USA)
GEF                  Global Environmental Facility
GOG                  Govemment of Grenada
IAPSO                Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office
IBRD                 Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank)
IDA                  Intemational Development Association (World Bank)
LDCA                 Land Development Control Authority
MCD                  Ministry of Community Development
MCWPU                Ministry of Communications, Works and Public Utilities
ME                   Ministry of Education
MFP                  Ministry of Finance an dPlanning
NDC                  National Disaster Coordinator
NDP                  National Disaster Plan
NEAP                 National Environmental Action Plan
NEMO                 National Emergency Management Organization
NERO                 National Emergency Relief Organization
NHMC                 National Emergency Mitigation Council
NMS                  National Meteorological Service
NOAA                 National Ocean and Atmospheric Administration (USA)
OAS                  Organization of American States
OECS                 Organization of Eastem Caribbean States
OFDA                 U.S. Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance
ODP                  Office of Disaster Preparedness
PC                   Project Coordinator
PCU                  Project Coordination Unit
UNDP                 United Nations Development Program
USAID                United States Agency for Intemational Development
Vice President:     David de Ferianti
Country Manager/Director:        Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager/Director:       Danny M. Leipziger
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Bernard A. Becq



GRENADA
GRENADA EMERGENCY RECOVERY & DISASTER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective                                   Page
1. Program purpose and program phasing                                                 3
2. Project development objective                                                       3
3. Key performance indicators                                                          3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      5
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          6
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  8
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans                  10
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 10
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      12
3. Benefits and target population                                                     13
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      13
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          14
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         16
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           17
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   18
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        19
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           19
2. Financial                                                                          19
3. Technical                                                                          20
4. Institutional                                                                      20
5. Social                                                                             21
6. Environmental                                                                      21
7. Participatory Approach                                                             22
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     23



2. Critical risks                                                                     24
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     24
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            24
2. Other                                                                              25
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          25
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         25
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          26
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    31
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         37
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                   39
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                               43
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       46
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     53
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   54
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  55
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            57
MAP(S)
see Report No. 18645-LAC



GRENADA
Grenada Emergency Recovery & Disaster Management Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSFT
Date: September 15, 2000                            Team Leader: Bernard A. Becq
Country Manager/Director: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos    Sector Manager/Director: Danny M. Leipziger
Project ID: P069922                                 Sector(s): BY - Other Public Sector Management, MY -
Non-Sector Specific
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)    Theme(s): Public Sector
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
.     .niati  FnancigPEstimated
APL             Indicative Financing Plan.         Implementation Period           Borrower
.________   __________-(Bank             FY)    -__
IBRDIIDA           Others      Total    Commitnent   Closing
US$ m     %       US$ m       US$ m        Date         Date
APL 1        19.57    82.3     4.22       23.79       01/31/99   06/30/2002 St. Kitts & Nevis, St. Lucia,
Loanl 14.07/                                                           Dominica.
Credit 5.50
APL 2        15.99    86.0     2.61        18.60     11/16/2000   05/15/2004 Grenada (US$ 11.79 m total);
Loanl 8.03/                                                            St. Vincent & the Grenadines
Credit 7.96                                                             (US$ 6.81 m total).
APL 3         0.00     0.0     0.50         0.50                            Reallocated to APL 2
Loan/ 0.00/
Credit o.0o
APL 4        10.00    83.3     2.00        12.00       01/31/99   06/30/2005 APL 1 & APL 2 countries
Loan/ 5.00/                                                            following a declared disaster.
Credit 5.00
Total        45.56             9.33       54.89
Project Financing Data
M Loan          1 Credit         O Grant         O Guarantee      El Other (Specify)
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 5.06 IBRD (LIBOR-based single currency loan; 5.01 equivalent - SDR 3.8 million IDA (standard
credit).
Proposed Terms:
Grace period (years): 5; 10                             Years to maturity: 15; 35
Commitment fee: 0.75% IBRD;                             Service charge: 0.75%
0.50% IDA
Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%



GOVERNMENT                                                      1.07            0.65          1.72
IBRD                                                             1.00           4.06          5.06
IDA                                                             0.95            4.06          5.01
Total:                                                          3.02            8.77         11.79
Borrower: GRENADA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND PLANNING, NERO, MCWPU, MET OFFICE
Address: The Carenage, St George, Grenada
Contact Person: Mervin Haynes
Tel: 473 440 2214                Fax: 473 440 4115                 Email: mhgene@hotmail.com
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
FY2012020324
Annual     2.9           4.7          2.3         0.2
Cumulative     2.9           7.6         9.9        10.1
Project implementation period: 3 years
Expected effectivenessdate: 11/15/2000  Expectedclosing date:  05/15/2004
OCS APL PAD FO.P FR. MR- . 28h
-2-



A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing:
This project for Grenada, along with a similar forthcoming project for St. Vincent & the Grenadines, forms
the second phase (APL 2) of an Adaptable Program Loan (PAD Report No. 18645 LAC) that covers five
Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS) member countries. The program aims at strengthening
the OECS countries' ability to manage emergency situations efficiently and effectively in order to reduce
the likelihood of loss of life and assets. The program also aims at enhancing the capacity of disaster
management agencies and mitigating the adverse effects of disasters that regularly strike the island, in
particular floods, landslides, storm surges, and hurricanes. To this end, the program aims to support the
strengthening of physical infrastructure to better weather natural disasters and enhance institutional.
capacity in order to improve responsiveness if a disaster strikes.
The entire program will consist of individual lending operations in five OECS countries (Dominica, St.
Lucia, St. Kitts & Nevis, Grenada and St. Vincent & the Grenadines). It will be phased over a period of
approximately six years, supporting the following comprehensive set of activities:
* Physical prevention and mitigation investments: Key social and economic infrastructure will be
protected and strengthened before disasters strike so as to reduce the likelihood of loss of life and
assets--alternatively, they will be rehabilitated or reconstructed in the aftermath of a disaster.
3 Capacity building and strengthening disaster management capacity: The capacity of national
emergency management and disaster preparedness agencies will be strengthened to enable them to
perform more effectively.
* Community preparedness: Community-level disaster committees will be organized, trained and
equipped to enhance their role in disaster preparedness, mitigation and recovery.
APL 1: The first phase of the program (APL 1) is currently underway in St. Kitts & Nevis, Dominica and
St. Lucia, where credit and loan agreements have been effective since respectively April, June and August
1999. By and large, the implementation of these projects has been up to now slow due to a general lack of
capacity in Governments, the difficulty to coordinate all agencies involved, and the leadtime necessary to
review all proposals and complete tender documents.
APL 2: Grenada and St. Vincent & the Grenadines constitute the second phase of the program. In light of
the damages caused by Hurricane Lenny, the project for Grenada, and to a lesser extent in St.Vincent and
the Grenadines, will require substantially more financing than was originally allocated to Grenada under
APL 2 ($10 million vs. $2 million allocated). This, however, does not significantly modify the scope of the
project as the additional funds are mostly dedicated to one critical sea defenses investment (about $5.5
million). The rest of the additional funding that is sought stems mostly from an inaccurate original estimate
of requirements for a balanced project including both physical mitigation measures and strengthening
disaster management capacity. These additional funds will be taken from APL 3, leaving virtually no funds
for this phase, which should be canceled. The APL 4 phase, the contingency funds, will remain intact, thus
maintaining the comprehensiveness of the program.
APL 3: All countries participating in APL I and APL 2 require long-term support in order to improve
capacity to prepare and respond to disasters. The APL 3 phase was originally designed to allow the Bank
to provide continued support for long-term strengthening of disaster management capacity and focus on
continuing and enhancing the process of community outreach and involvement, and to finance additional
physical investments for which feasibility and detailed engineering studies will be carried out during APL 1
& APL 2. With this phase cancelled for lack of available funds, APL 1 & APL 2 will thus strengthen the
-3 -



capacity of the countries to manage disasters and provide for some preventive physical mitigation
measures, and APL 4 will allow for quick response following an emergency. Should the countries need
additional financing for further capacity building in disaster management and preparedness, or for further
preventive physical mitigation measures (which APL 3 would have provided), further World Bank support
would take the form of new and separate projects, and/or supplemental loans and credits in accordance to
Bank policy. This course of action is justified on the basis of the very slow implementation of APL 1 in all
partiticipating countries, and limited results and progress at this stage, as the APL3 phase was to be
conditioned by: (i) the satisfactory implementation and completion of APL 1 or APL 2 (depending on the
country); (ii) the evidence of adequate maintenance of infrastructure (in particular those funded under APL
1 or APL 2); and (iii) the existence of formal disaster committees and disaster-resilient communities to
finance more community-based investments.
APL 4: Through APL 4, the program will make contingent financial resources readily available for
reconstruction needs to restore, inter alia, critical public facilities in the event of a national disaster
emergency. This phase of the program will include contingency funding for any on the five participating
countries should a severe natural disaster strike them during the program period (approximately six years).
This phase will run in parallel with APL I and APL 2, meaning that as long as a country has signed for
either APL 1 or APL 2, they would be eligible to access the contingency funds. The contingency fund was
originally to be triggered by the declaration of a national disaster emergency by the respective government
seeking to access the fund and recognition by the international donor community of an emergency, and
provided that there is evidence of the government's commitment to improving disaster mitigation policies
through proper implementation of APL 1 and APL 2. In light of the fact that no country can really afford
to declare a state of national disaster emergency, the first trigger would be amended to the declaration of a
local disaster emergency by the respective government seeking to access the fund and recognition by the
World Bank of such an emergency.
2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The primary development objective of this phase of the APL for Grenada (hereafter referred to as "the
project") is to strengthen Grenada's resilience, preparedness, and ability to respond to the effects of natural
disasters.
This objective will be achieved by:
*   strengthening the country's institutional structures;
* building the capacity of the National Emergency Relief Organization (NERO) and other concerned
public agencies to perform their respective responsibilities more effectively during a crisis;
*   implementing physical mitigation, retrofitting and prevention measures to protect key infrastructure and
lifeline facilities before disasters strike;
*   retrofitting shelters to improve the safety of the poorer and most exposed populations;
* improving natural resource management; and
*   promoting community involvement through organizing, training and equipping community disaster
committees in disaster preparedness and mitigation, and enhancing their role in disaster preparedness
and recovery operations.
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The following performance monitoring indicators will be used to measure project progress and impact.
Outcome Indicators:
* Operational emergency procedures and mobilization guidelines in place as per international standards
- 4 -



by July 2001.
*   Improved reporting of weather information by the Meteorological Office to NERO as per the
following--a) with regularity (at least once daily); and b) quality (verified by missions of the Caribbean
Meteorological Organization or equivalent institution).
*   Enhanced ability of NERO to accurately analyze incoming information and data on emergencies, and
serve as a single "clearing house" for early warning information and dissemination (as evidenced by
timely decision-making, the triggering of emergency procedures and timely dissemination of warnings
by NERO to populations at risk).
*  Increased number of people serviced by adequate shelters due to the retrofitting program.
*  No more than one day of interruption to traffic in the Grand Mal Bay area due to weather conditions.
*   Strengthened capacity in MCWPU to carry out works during emergencies.
Output Indicators:
*  National Disaster Coordinator (NDC) position filled by a full-time permanent civil servant; at least 2
additional professional staff (a Deputy Coordinator and a Technical/Data Specialist) in NERO by
December 2000.
*  National Hazard Mitigation Council (NHMC) with defined membership by August 2000.
* Adequately equipped and staffed Meteorological Office with complete early warning system.
* At least 72-hour advance warning from Meteorological Office to NERO of impending tropical events.
*   Number of District Disaster Coordinators reached, and reduced response time of those coordinators to
an emergency.
*   At least one training course carried out for high level officials in managing emergencies.
* Number of shelters retrofitted.
*  Number of shelter managers actually from communities.
*   At least one shelter manager per shelter trained and in place.
-   Dedicated unit in MCWPU capable of erecting on-site metallic bridges of a 6m span in one day.
e   Training for MCWPU in carrying out EIAs and monitoring and managing mitigation measures.
i   Sea defenses constructed and road rehabilitated at Grand Mal Bay.
3 Recommendations of studies financed by the project reviewed by Government before the end of 2001
and approved recommendations implemented by the end of 2002.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex l)
Document number: 14295-LAC        Date of latest CAS discussion: 05/04/95
The program directly supports two principal goals of the OECS Country Assistance Strategy (CAS):
strengthening infrastructure and safeguarding the environment. As Grenada develops further into a
service-based economy, strengthening infrastructure and ensuring their reliability will become increasingly
important, especially to increase the country's resilience to disasters and prevent economic activities from
being interrupted. With regard to the environment, the Government of Grenada (GoG) is developing, with
the support of major donors, UN agencies and the World Bank, a framework for environmental
management, including National Environmental Action Plans (NEAPs), which have identified disaster
prevention and mitigation as a priority, and are an important part of this process. In addition, the program
is expected to have a tangible poverty reduction impact, both direct through the provision of shelters which
will benefit the poorer populations whose houses cannot withstand strong hurricanes, and early warning
and better communications which will allow those populations to seek refuge in time, and indirect by
reducing the economic and social risks, income loss, and vulnerability of the usually more exposed poorer
populations.
-5 -



Economic Development Grenada's rapid growth during the 1980s was driven largely by a favorable
external environment, characterized by concessional aid flows, which financed a large portion of public
investments in infrastructure, preferential market access, favorable agricultural export commodity prices,
and fast growth in the tourism sector. In the 1990s, however, real GDP growth has slowed from an annual
average of 4.8% in the 1980s to roughly 3.6% for the period 1990-1998. This slowdown in growth has
been largely due to a reversal in the external environment, with external flows slowing down considerably
and concessional aid flows declining rapidly. During the 1990s, the main economic trend in Grenada, as
with other OECS countries, has been the rapid transition from an agriculture-based economy to a
service-based one, primarily driven by increased tourism. The prospects for GDP growth have improved
somewhat and real GDP is expected to grow by an annual average of approximately 4% over the next few
years, due mainly to the expansion of the tourism sector in substitution of the agricultural industry as the
main foreign exchange earner. The challenge that Grenada faces is that both of its main foreign exchange
sources--tourism and agriculture--are particularly vulnerable to natural disasters.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Grenada is very vulnerable to natural disasters stemming primarily from hurricanes, floods and storm
surges. During the last century, Grenada was struck by three hurricanes and experienced one major flood,
and each year, it is subject to storm surges that batter its coastline. As recently as November 1999, the
country was devastated by storm surges caused by Hurricane Lenny. The repercussions of disasters on
Grenada and its economy can be severe, evidenced by the hurricane of 1975 which incurred damages of
roughly 20% of GDP. The devastation associated with the impact of these hazards also often overwhelms
local emergency systems resulting in the need for massive external assistance. Grenada faces special
challenges due to its small size--the island is about 340 sq. km., with a population of roughly 100,000
people, and a GNP per capita of US$ 3,170 in 1998. In addition, its mountainous terrain and low
population densities make the cost of providing, maintaining and repairing economic and social
infrastructure high. In order to minimize the adverse impacts of disasters on economic activity and to
protect communities, the government has made its top policy priority the strengthening of the institutions
responsible for managing natural disaster situations.
Tourism andAgriculture. Tourism has become the most important foreign exchange earning sector in
Grenada, with tourist arrivals showing sturdy growth of 6.3% in 1998. Natural disasters can, however,
have a devastating impact on the tourism industry since tourists are generally wary about visiting a country
that has been struck by a hurricane or tropical storm. In addition, it takes time to rehabilitate the
infrastructure needed to serve the tourism industry. However, most hotels have already
protection/evacuation plans and emergency procedures, and are-usually the most proactive in repairing their
facilities after hurricanes. Agriculture is also vulnerable to natural hazards because of its dependence on
foreign trade and since it continues to play an important role in the island's economic wealth. Although
declining in total output, agriculture still represented about 9% of GDP in 1998, and exports from the
agricultural industry--particularly nutmeg and mace--are an important source of revenue for Grenada.
Roughly 60% of the country's nutmeg exports are processed to the north of Grand Mal Bay on the western
side of the island, and the other 40% is processed on the eastern side. The harbor from which the exports
are transported is located to the south of Grand Mal Bay at the capital, St. Georges, and there is only one
access road (the western coast road) that connects the agricultural processing zones with the harbor. Any
disruptions due to damages to the road would therefore result in serious losses to agricultural producers,
especially if damages are severe and repairs are not immediate.
Roads, Transport, and Coastal Areas. The transport and communication networks are increasingly vital
to Grenada in terms of transporting both merchandise and people. However, the country's physical
- 6 -



infrastructure is particularly vulnerable, as witnessed by the damage caused by the storm surges of
Hurricane Lenny in November 1999. Many populated areas are also vulnerable to recurrent disasters such
as landslides and floods, which not only threaten lives, but also have a significant negative impact on road
conditions and the road network, thereby causing disruptions in road transport, and eventually hampering
economic activities. Selective strengthening of roads and bridges in key sections of the network is needed
to help minimize this disruption.
There are three major routes in Grenada that fortn the backbone of the strategic highway network, namely
the Western Coast Main Road, Eastern Coast Main Road and Grand Etang Road. Both the Western and
Eastern Coast Main Roads are coastal over large extents of their length, with the Western having a greater
length of road adjacent to the sea. In addition to connecting important production centers with the capital,
the western coast road also serves as the only means of access to employment for the population living to
the north of St. Georges. To the north of the capital is also located an important fuel depot (the Texaco
terminal), which also supplies the airport. This makes this section of the road, between St. Georges and
Grand Mal Bay, a critical lifeline for the functioning of the island's economy. The Grand Mal Bay area is
also home to roughly 1,300 people, and is also one of the largest fishing villages on the island.
Not only is the government's ability to maintain and prevent breakdowns in the physical infrastructure
important, but so is its ability to repair critical facilities should they be damaged. Storm surges from
Hurricane Lenny caused damages to the Western Main Coast Road between St. Georges and Gouyave Bay.
Damages caused at Grand Mal Bay/Fontenoy, especially, disrupted transport between the Texaco fuel
depot to the north of St. Georges and the southern parts of the island and resulted in a week-long shortage
of gasoline in the gas stations in those areas. As no storage capacity exists at the international airport, air
transport services were seriously constrained at this critical time when external aid was also most needed.
After Hurricane Lenny, temporary reinstatement works have been carried out to re-establish the circulation
along the West coast, but the works done so far need urgent reinforcement to avoid future disruptions.
Shelters. The Government of Grenada (GoG) has identified the existence of safe and hurricane-resistant
shelters as key to disaster management. Shelters are currently not hurricane resistant and not adequately
managed. Some populations, particularly in the poorest and most vulnerable areas, do not have access to
any structurally sound public buildings that could serve as shelters. There is also a lack of clear guidelines
with regard to shelter management, no regular training for shelter managers, and they are also poorly
equipped for effective functioning during an emergency (i.e. lack of generators, water supply, etc.). In
addition, the shelter managers tend to be school principals, who may not reside within the community where
the shelter is located. There is thus a clear need to improve existing shelters and/or construct shelters in
poorest and most exposed areas, and also to strengthen shelter management.
Community Involvement in Disaster Management. Currently, fifteen District Disaster Committees exist
at the local level, but they are purely voluntary and do not coordinate adequately with local level
government structures for disaster management (e.g. the local level health disaster team or the coast guard).
They are not well trained, have weak mobilization capacity to handle emergencies, and are not properly
equipped to effectively deal with emergency situations. The District Disaster Committees also tend to act
as "relief' committees rather than committees that can play an active role in disaster preparedness and
mitigation. There is thus a need to restructure these committees, institutionalize them, and facilitate better
cooperation between them and local government structures.
Public Sector Capacity. Expertise in the public sector is generally very limited with regard to disaster
management, in spite of the existence of a dedicated disaster management agency, namely the National
Emergency Relief Organization (NERO). NERO is currently understaffed with only one professional staff,
- 7 -



the National Disaster Coordinator (NDC), and two non-professional office administrators. The lack of
capacity within Grenada's public-sector institutions is also reflected by the fact that: (i) there is very little
planning for disaster investments and a lack of proactive efforts to improve preparedness measures; (ii) the
national disaster plan dates back to 1985, making it operationally outdated, and it has no legal authority;
(iii) disaster emergency procedures are not regularly tested; (iv) there is little collaboration between all
stakeholders, and for all to be closely associated with emergency measures (e.g. disaster committees,
community leaders and organizations); (v) there are no real regulations to prepare and/or enforce zoning
and the new building codes; and (vi) there is no effective early warning and emergency communications
system.
Government Strategies. The govemmenfs strategy to strengthen disaster management capacity is to adopt
and implement institutional measures aimed at improving preparation for and response to disaster
emergencies, increase staffing in concerned agencies, implement a comprehensive training program, and put
in place sustainable procedures to ensure quick response in case of natural disasters. The main thrusts of
the government's strategy are to:
*   strengthen the human resource capacity of NERO through additional professional staff financed by
Government as permanent positions, and improved disaster planning and operational emergency
procedures;
* institutionalize disaster management into mainstream government functions, in particular through
specialized technical training for NERO and all concerned branches of government, as well as other
agencies, the private sector and communities;
*   sensitize communities to disaster preparedness and mitigation to demonstrate the effectiveness of
properly organized committees representing all sectors of the community such as churches, schools, the
business community, etc.;
-   establish a full-fledged National Hazard Mitigation Council (NHMC) to serve as an inter-ministerial
body consisting of a broad representation of concerned ministries and agencies, the private sector, and
NGOs;
-   increase investments in mitigation and prevention measures; and
*   designate and renovate the NERO building that houses the national Emergency Operations Center
(EOC) and also serves as the National Disaster Office (NDO).
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The government's key priority areas are the strengthening of the institutional capacity of disaster
management agencies, the construction of priority sea defenses, and the protection of the population
through a program of retrofitting shelters. The project will thus support two types of strategic activities: (i)
strengthening disaster management capacity through institutional development and capacity-building
measures, including a comprehensive training program available to staff involved with disaster
management in all concerned agencies, and support to community involvement in disaster preparedness,
mitigation and response; and (ii) preventive physical mitigation.
The strengthening of disaster management capacity aims at addressing capacity issues and improving the
country's preparedness and response to natural disasters. The focus will be to srengthen the principal
government agency dealing with disasters, NERO, through focused technical assistance, but also to
implement a comprehensive training program open to Government staff and community leaders dedicated
to disaster management. In addition, retrofitting the physical structure where NERO and the Emergency
Operations Center are located will improve the efficiency of operations before and during disasters. Setting
up an effective communications system between NERO, different agencies and communities with the
- 8 -



proper equipment and training is also a priority, as is setting up an Early Warning System through
strengthening weather monitoring and reporting functions of the Meteorological Office.
An important aspect of protecting populations is the retrofitting of shelters, which will ensure that the bulk
of the population (particularly the poor living in vulnerable homes) has access to safe accommodation
during and immediately following a hurricane or other emergency. Thus a number of shelters in
low-income and/or particularly vulnerable areas will be retrofitted and shelter management operations
improved. District Disaster Committees are at the core of the strategy to respond to and manage disasters
and emergencies at the community level, and therefore will be immediate beneficiaries of project activities
through training and equipment.
The preventive physical mitigation measures are intended to help maintain the smooth functioning of the
island during an emergency. The program that Government intends to start is first and foremost intended to
address the critical issue of maintaining access in an island which largely depends on road transport, and
protect key roads and bridges from storm surges and protect coastal areas where most of the population
lives. An important component is therefore the sea defense at Grand Mal Bay that will serve to protect an
important and currently very vulnerable segment of the West Coast Road. The section of the road at Grand
Mal Bay will be rehabilitated to repair the damages inflicted by Hurricane Lenny, and will ensure that the
link between agricultural producers in the north and the port in the south is maintained. It will also ensure
that access to the capital and important areas of employment is maintained for the population living to the
north, as well as maintain access between the fuel depot at Grand Mal Bay and the airport to the south of
St. Georges. The major civil works associated with the sea defense and road rehabilitation at Grand Mal
Bay are thus intended to help maintain the smooth functioning of the island during an emergency and
immediately following a natural disaster. In addition, providing metallic bridges, gabions and technical
assistance to the Ministry of Communications, Works and Public Utilities (MCWPU) is necessary to
improve the Ministry's ability to respond in an effective manner to repair damages to infrastructure when
disasters strike, which will also help in keeping the island functional during an emergency. This will also
enable the Ministry to conduct quality repair works immediately after the disaster.
-9-



4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
The detailed program description is provided in Section A. 1 of this document. The table below outlines the
triggers for additional investments in all countries participating in the APL program, and the triggers
required for APL 4 to be effective.
Loan Type        Triggers to activate loan
Subsequent        I. Satisfactory and on-time completion of physical investments within budget, and with
loans/credits,        adequate technical quality under APLI and APL2.
and/or            2. Evidence of adequate maintenance of infrastructure vulnerable to disasters.
supplementals     3. Fully staffed Offices of Disaster Preparedness (ODP), National Emergency
to APL1 and           Management Organization (NEMO), or National Emergency Relief Organization
APL2                  (NERO) as the case may be, with clear mandates and adequate Terms of Reference, and
(APL 3 to be          sufficient financial resources.
canceled)         4. A program of preparedness and mitigation activities at the national and community
levels, including a complete National Disaster Preparedness and Response Plan for
natural and man-made disasters.
5. An operational plan within ODP/NEMO/NERO to carry out training and other
activities related to disaster awareness, preparation and response at the community
level, including at schools and private businesses.
6. A fully staffed National Meteorological Office with a clear mandate, adequate Terms of
References, and sufficient financial resources to issue timely weather and flood
warnings, as well as an operational island-wide communications systems to transmit the
information to communities and businesses.
APL 4              1. Declaration of a local disaster emergency by Government, and approval by the Bank
after consultations with the intemational community.
2. Satisfactory implementation progress with APL 1 and/or APL 2, as the case may be.
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The APL 2 project will consist of two major components: (A) strengthening disaster management capacity,
aimed at improving Grenada's capacity to prepare for and respond to disaster emergencies; and (B)
preventive physical mitigation, aimed at minimizing damages caused by disasters through preventive
infrastructure investments and associated supervision services, as well as the necessary preliminary studies
to assess risks and damages, and prepare detailed designs for critical priorities to be financed subsequently.
It will also include a project management component to assist Government in discharging its overall
coordination, financial management, procurement, and reporting responsibilities.
Initially, as outlined in the original PAD prepared for APL 1, the program sought to differentiate and
support the funding of both institutional strengthening and capacity building. "Institutional strengthening"
- 10-



was defined as measures aimed at improving the regulatory framework as it applies to disaster planning
and mitigation (such as improving the regulatory framework, developing a national building code, disaster
insurance, hazard analysis and vulnerability mapping), and "strengthening disaster management capacity"
sought to strengthen the capacity of national institutions responsible for disaster preparedness, mitigation
and management (such as staffing, training, and equipment for disaster-related agencies). APL 2 has been
slightly restructured to focus primarily on strengthening disaster management capacity rather than on
institutional strengthening as defined above due a number of factors: (i) the general lack of preparation of
the related activities discussed for funding under the Bank project; (ii) the fact that other donors and
organizations in the region--which are better equipped to intervene in these areas compared to the Bank due
to their substantial experience in the region in these matters, and their ability to provide funding under more
adapted regional procedures--have expressed a willingness to continue financing such activities under the
framework provided by the APL program; (iii) the weak capacity of the country to implement and enforce
regulatory reforms, so that activities aimed at institutional reform such as mapping and zoning should be
pursued only after the govemment's enforcement capacity has been enhanced; and (iv) the need to
streamline the Bank projects to fit the assessment that the existing capacity within national institutions
responsible for disaster management is still fairly weak.
The first component of the project, therefore, will be called Strengthening Disaster Management Capacity
and will include four sub-components: 1) strengthening the National Emergency Relief Organization
(NERO), including inter alia rehabilitating the Emergency Operations Center (EOC), strengthening its
human resource capacity, elaborating/revising emergency procedures (including protection/evacuation
plans and emergency procedures), procuring emergency equipment, rescue tools and supplies, and
preparing a comprehensive disaster management training program open to other agencies and communities;
2) developing a country-wide early warning and emergency communications system, including technical
assistance and procuring specialized equipment; 3) implementing a shelter program, including training and
retrofitting selected public buildings; and 4) capacity-building measures for the Ministry of Works,
including training and procuring stocks of prefabricated metallic bridges and gabions.
The second component, Preventive Physical Mitigation, will include three sub-components: 1) sea defenses
to protect against storm surges and rehabilitation of exposed road sections, including (a) civil works at
Grand Mal Bay and associated supervision services, and (b) the feasibility and design of a prioritized sea
defense investment program; 2) a drainage and flood control feasibility study and the design of protection
works for flood-prone areas; and 3) a river training and slope protection feasibility study, and the design of
protection works for particularly vulnerable main roads.
Project management costs include the funding of: 1) the specialists to be recruited in the PCU (Assistant
Project Coordinator/Procurement Officer, Accountant, Administrative Assistant); 2) office equipment; 3)
separate technical and financial audits; and 4) operating expenditures.
- 11 -



Total costs for the projecfts components are listed below.
Bank financing is to be understood as the total under the IBRD loan and the IDA credit.
A. Strengthening Disaster            Other Public          4.12        34.9       3.64       36.1
Management Capacity.                 Sector
Management
B. Preventive Physical Mitigation    Other Non-sector      6.79        57.6       5.57       55.3
Specific
C. Project Management                Other Non-sector      0.83         7.0       0.81        8.0
Specific
Total Project Costs                      11.74        99.6      10.02       99.5
Front-end fee                       0.05        0.4       0.05         0.5
Total Financing Required                       11.79       100.0      10.07      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Institutional reforms and capacity building will be sought in the area of disaster preparedness, prevention
and mitigation, in particular through various capacity-building measures, namely: (i) enhancing the
capacity of NERO to perform its role effectively and in a timely manner, in particular through appropriate
staffing and a recognized authority to act; (ii) ensuring that the National Disaster Plan is updated and
related disaster management procedures are in place; (iii) formulating a national environmental protection
policy and guidelines, and strengthening the institutional capacity, in particular in the Ministry of Works
(MCWPU), to preserve the environment; and (iv) protecting and maintaining infrastructure facilities
through increased funding for maintenance, improved construction standards, better capacity to enforce
disaster mitigation regulations, and enhanced MCWPU capacity to quickly react during emergencies. The
overall program will also finance studies and other initiatives to enhance preparedness to manage future
emergency situations in the long-term, such as those related to hazard analysis, vulnerability mapping and
risk assessment; building legislation; and seismic and volcano monitoring, which would be funded by other
donors or under a next phase of the program.
Grenada is committed to reducing its vulnerability to natural disasters through further reforms and
restructuring actions, in particular regarding staffing and training, awareness and information, including
inter alia, to: (i) appoint a full-time National Disaster Coordinator (NDC) as a high-level civil servant with
the unique function of bringing diverse groups together to promote disaster mitigation, stimulate
preparedness and to coordinate relief operations; (ii) staff ODP with professional and permanent civil
servants; (iii) develop an appropriate institutional process to engage/mobilize all parts of society and
stakeholders in disaster preparedness and emergency management; (iv) regularly undertake disaster-related
training in order to improve emergency management skills; (v) draft and support laws and regulations to
strengthen national and community disaster awareness and protection; (vi) engage business and industry
resources to support public projects; (vii) stimulate the private sector to develop plans to protect their own
productive capacity; and (viii) improve the degree of preparation of MCWPU to respond to emergency
situations and manage disasters through quick removal of debris and repairs.
- 12 -



3. Benefits and target population:
The main benefits of the project would be to: (i) ensure that people can move quickly to safe areas (such as
shelter) when a disaster strikes, thanks to a rapid response system; (ii) protect assets through the
rehabilitation and retrofitting of infrastructure facilities to better withstand disasters; (iii) protect economic
activities by ensuring the constant opening of the critical lifeline facility (the Western Coast Main Road);
(iv) contribute to decreasing the cost of disaster management, response and rehabilitation; (v) facilitate
protecting the environment, and raise awareness and capacity in this regard; and (vi) increase the
effectiveness, timing and coordination of interventions during and following disasters.
The main beneficiaries will be the population at large who will benefit from the avoidance or minimization
of the disruption of economic activity when disasters strike due to prevention and mitigation works financed
through the project, or rapid rehabilitation/reconstruction efforts following a disaster. Local communities
will also benefit through the involvement of District Disaster Committees in disaster management in general
and in improved shelter management, which will ensure smoother transfer of people to safer areas during
emergencies. Government agencies, such as NERO, the planning ministries, and other implementing
agencies, especially the Ministry of Communications, Works, and Public Utilities (MCWPU), will benefit
from capacity building through training and technical assistance.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project Coordination and Management
A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) headed by a full-time Project Coordinator (PC) has been set up within
the Ministry of Finance and Planning to coordinate and manage the project, and will be responsible for
project implementation. The PCU will be responsible for managing the different aspects of the project,
coordinating implementing agencies, keeping accounts, and reporting to the World Bank. The PCU will
include on a full-time basis an Assistant Project Coordinator, an Accountant, and an administrative
assistant. The Assistant Project Coordinator will also assume the responsibility of Procurement Officer
and will be a fully qualified procurement and contract management specialist.
The preventive physical mitigation component will be implemented by the Ministry of Communications,
Works and Public Utilities (MCWPU). The shelters program will be implemented jointly by the Ministry
of Education and the Ministry of Community Development with assistance from MCWPU. NERO will be
the implementing agency for most of the components dealing with the strengthening of disaster management
capacity, and will monitor all other activities under this component that are managed by other agencies.
The implementing agencies will work under the auspices and direction of the PCU, and will provide
progress reports to the PCU on a monthly basis. The Procurement Officer in the PCU will handle the
procurement and contract management responsibilities for all components of the project on behalf of the
implementing agencies. The PCU will report on a quarterly basis to the World Bank, and an annual
performnance review will be conducted.
A National Hazard Mitigation Council has been established to serve as an advisory council to the Prime
Minister on all aspects of disaster preparedness and management. The committee consists of
representatives of relevant sector ministries involved in the program, as well as representatives from the
private sector and NGOs.
Financial Management, Accounting, and Auditing Arrangements
A Financial Management Assessment of the existing financial management procedures, accounting system
and administrative controls of the Ministry of Finance and Planning was carried out and cleared by the
World Bank in February 2000. To assist with financial management, the PCU will hire an internationally
- 13 -



qualified Accountant for the duration of the project. The PCU will maintain two separate accounts for
project incurred expenditures, one account for IBRD/IDA funds (Special Account) and one account for
Government's counterpart funds (Project Account). In accordance with the Bank's Loan Administrative
Change Initiative (LACI), the PCU will on a quarterly basis produce and submit to the World Bank a
Project Management Report (PMR), which allows for the simultaneous monitoring of financial, physical
and procurement activity of the project, while also serving as an application for disbursement from the
loan/credit account. PMRs will be due 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter.
The assessment of the capacity of the Office of the Auditor General to perform the annual independent
audit of the PCU highlighted its limited resources. It was therefore decided that the audit would be
contracted to an external accounting firm according to the Bank's procurement guidelines. The PCU will
ensure that an annual independent audit is carried out and completed by a qualified international auditing
firm, with a final report issued to the Bank no later than three months after the end of the fiscal year. The
hiring of an audit firm acceptable to the Bank was a condition of negotiations.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
This project forms the second phase of an APL for five OECS countries. The rationale for the entire APL
program is described in detail in the Project Appraisal Document for the APL 1 (Report No. 18645 LAC),
and the program's phasing is described in Section A. 1 of this document.
One alternative to help the country reduce its vulnerability to hurricanes, which was highlighted by
Hurricane Lenny in November 1999, would have been to focus the project on short-term priority measures
and mostly finance physical mitigation investments to repair past damages. This quasi ad-hoc approach
would have limited the assistance impact as it would not have addressed the key issues which are to
improve the country's preparedness to withstand and manage disasters over the long term through both
preventive mitigation investments and strengthening disaster management capacity.
A second alternative would have been to finance a more complex project, in particular including an
institutional strengthening component (as defined in Section C of this document and the original PAD for
the APL 1 phase) with such activities as (i) hazard analysis, vulnerability mapping and risk assessment,
building codes and zoning regulations; (ii) seismic and volcano monitoring; and/or (iii) disaster insurance.
The first two sets of items were not retained due to weak implementation capacity within the country, the
number of additional implementing agencies to coordinate which would have had to be involved, and a low
degree of preparation of related activities. In addition, a number of other organizations in the
region--which may be better equipped than the Bank to intervene in these fields due to their long experience
in the sub-region, and which have the capacity to finance regional activities and exchange best
practice--have indicated their willingness to finance these types of activities. Some related activities
financed by these other organizations are already on-going. Given the high cost of financing such
activities, retaining these under the present project could also have been premature as there currently are no
accompanying zoning regulations to enable Government to control land use, and capacity to enforce
building regulations is weak in general. Regarding disaster insurance, the Bank is currently in the process
of preparing a separate regional loan dealing with disaster insurance for the OECS countries.
A third alternative would have been to include in the project additional preventive mitigation investments,
such as the rehabilitation of river crossings or more sea defenses. This was not retained due to an already
fairly high cost for the large sea defenses works at Grand Mal Bay, the generally ill-prepared or
- 14 -



insufficiently justified proposals which lacked appropriate engineering studies, and the lack of related
environmental impact and economic analysis. In addition, the project is part of a larger program which
addresses all needs in a phased way and in coordination with other donors who have committed funds for
potential investments.
A fourth alternative would have been to prepare a larger infrastructure sector project based on up-front
policy reforms to address the need for restructuring a fairly inefficient public sector, increasing
infrastructure funding and cost recovery, and organizing adequate routine and periodic maintenance which
should be financed under regular Government budget. This would, however, have proved difficult in the
disaster management and preparedness context where the overarching objective of the project is to focus on
strengthening long-term disaster management capacity rather than just financing physical infrastructure, the
priority investments are targeted to prevent or mitigate the impact of disasters. Addressing all infrastrucure
sector issues would have resulted in too complex a project which could lose sight of the focus on capacity
building for disaster management.
The project was elaborated bearing in mind the need for a balance between capacity-building in disaster
management and preventive mitigation. A choice was therefore made to include two major components that
would both strengthen the country's institutional capacity to manage and respond to disasters, as well as
provide preventive physical mitigation measures. About 35% of project costs aim at strengthening the
capacity of the main agencies and organizations involved in disaster management (implementing a
comprehensive training program for the staff of all agencies concerned, including training District Disaster
Committees; focused technical assistance to assist NERO in improving its operational procedures; setting
up effective communications and early warning systems; improving shelter access and management for
communities; and strengthening the Ministry of Works' capacity to respond to disasters). Roughly 58% of
project costs regard preventive physical mitigation, mainly the strengthening of sea defenses and road
rehabilitation along the West Coast. Because the cost of sea defenses is high, parallel financing has been
sought with the Caribbean Development Bank for other critical areas along the West Coast. The remaining
project costs relate to project management.
Recognizing the need for a longer term approach to disaster management and prevention, the project will
set the foundation for future financing--under additional loans/credits as well as under other donors'
programs and Government funding--of priority needs once they have been properly assessed. This project
will finance a series of feasibility and design studies to define phased programs of sea defenses, drainage
and flood control, and river training and slope protection. These further initiatives will also provide
funding for additional support to long-terrn strengthening of disaster management capacity.
- 15 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                   (PSR) R:tin gs
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                    Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Improve the preparedness and response OECS Emergency Recovery         S             S
to natural disasters in five OECS  and Disaster Management
countries.                         Program (APL I)--1998.
Introduce pro-competitive reformns in   OECS: Telecommunications      S             S
telecommunications sector and increase Project-- 1998.
supply of informatics-related skills.
Protect the environment and reduce    OECS: Solid Waste               S             S
public health risk.                Management Project-- 1995.
Strengthen monitoring capacity &   GEF Planning for Adaption to       S             S
analysis of global climate change to    Global Climate Change
determine potential impact on coastal  Project--1997
areas; identify areas vulnerable to  (implemented by OAS/
adverse effects of global climate change CARICOM).
& sea level rise.
Other development agencies
USAID Office of Foreign Disaster   Institutional support to disaster
Assistance (OFDA).                 preparedness agencies opon a
regional basis
Caribbean Development Bank (CDB).  Financing of shelters and sea
defenses.
DFID                               Technical assistance for
disaster management
UNDP                               Technical assistance to
CDERA
CIDA                               Technical assistance for
disaster management
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 16 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Bank-wide experience of successful emergency programs and previous projects undertaken in the
Caribbean, including the APL 1 projects, and incorporated into this project are: (i) project simplification
with fewer components and implementing agencies to facilitate project coordination and implementation in
a weak institutional capacity context; (ii) early dialogue with government on necessary institutional reforms
with regard to disaster management and preparedness, and up-front strong government commitment as
evidenced by actions to be agreed before negotiations; (iii) longer and better preparation of project
components, and clear agreements between implementing agencies and the Bank; (iv) focus on
strengthening the capacity of existing institutions to effectively discharge their responsibilities with regard
to disaster management and preparedness; and (v) investing in capacity-building measures in this first
phase of the program for Grenada to increase the Borrower's ability to mitigate the effects of future
disasters and avoid ad-hoc requests for emergency assistance following disasters.
Specific lessons from APL 1 are mostly that: (i) preparation in the prevailing emergency situation resulted
in a certain number of ill-prepared proposals, delays during implementation to complete tender documents
and launch activities, and the need to restructure some components or sub-components; (ii) activities
earmarked for co-financing but with undefined donors resulted in the need for an increased effort during
implementation to coordinate with other donors, and seek those with a longer experience with certain
institutional strengthening issues and a better ability to provide more adapted regional funding; (iii) projects
which are very complex by nature (multi-sector and new area of assistance) could not be easily
implemented in a context of rather weak project management and administrative capacity; (iv) national
institutions responsible for disaster management are still too much in infancy to take on the management of
all the complex dimensions of project management and coordination of all concerned agencies; and (v) the
Bank was better placed to focus on long-term prevention (both institutional and physical investments) than
on short-term emergency measures, which other donors are often better organized to deliver.
While this phase will primarily build the institutional capacity of the country with regard to disaster
management and emergency response, its preparation has also highlighted weaknesses within various
specific government agencies to respond to and manage disasters that are fairly similar to those
above-captioned. This was very much accounted for in identifying the key investments and capacity
strenthening activities that the project has finally settled on. In addition, the importance of shelters during
an emergency has helped identify related assistance necessary for the use of shelters to be effective, general
experience with communications and early warning systems has helped restructure these very important
sub-components in more easily implementable activities, the lack of capacity to coordinate and manage the
projects has resulted in more focused technical assistance to NERO, and the general lack of managerial
capacity has helped in the choice to elaborate and implement a comprehensive training program for staff of
all concerned agencies, as well as for disaster managers and community committees.
This led the project team to streamline this project to focus primarily on capacity-building and preventive
physical mitigation. Better up-front coordination with donors allowed for a more focused approach to
co-financing and the agreement that a number of key activities such as in particular institutional
strengthening (regulatory framework, disaster planning, building code, disaster insurance, hazard analysis
and vulnerability mapping) would be financed by other donors within the APL framework.
Specifically, for the five OECS countries covered by this APL, the need for training is of utmost
importance to ensure rapid response and effective management of the situation during and immediately
following a natural disaster. Training in Bank procedures, such as procurement and financial management,
will prove vital to successful project implementation. Also, in building the country's institutional capacity
- 17 -



with regard to disaster management over time, emphasis is given to technical assistance in the form of
training to various government bodies, such as NERO, MCWPU, and the PCU staff, who are part of the
Ministry of Finance and Planning. This on-the-job training will build local capacity through actively
transferring relative knowledge to local agency staff from both within the country and internationally.
Also, Bank assistance through the provision of documents to aid in project preparation has proven to be
crucial.
Another important aspect given special attention was ensuring that the Borrower was committed to both the
short run implementation of the current project, as well as the long run sustainability of a disaster
management program. In terms of implementation, the coordination and management role of the PCU
vis-a-vis the other government agencies (such as MCWPU) responsible for executing the various project
components, was clearly spelled out to avoid conflicts during project implementation. The PCU also
needed a clear mandate enabling it to coordinate various other government agencies, and housing it within
the Ministry of Finance and Planning aided this process.
For disaster management and response, the role and legal authority of NERO has to be clearly defined, and
its existence has to be institutionalized and backed by Government, if it is to act effectively during an
emergency. In addition, the response at the local level is critical and community involvement via the
district disaster committees has been incorporated into the project design. Again, training for both NERO
staff, the district disaster committees and communities in disaster management and response is critical. In
order to ensure that the shelters are properly utilized and accessible during an emergency, the project has
emphasized the need for shelter managers to be selected from, and preferably living in, the local community
where the shelter is housed.
Inadequate maintenance of physical infrastructure has also been a key issue in increasing the vulnerability
of infrastructure facilities, as was witnessed by the damages caused by storm surges associated with
Hurricane Lenny. The borrower will submit to the Bank, prior to each annual review, an O&M plan and
budget for all relevant physical components financed under the project.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Grenada has indicated a strong interest in participating in the program and Government is currently giving
a high profile to disaster management. This commitment was enhanced following on the devastating impact
of Hurricane Lenny in November 1999. The program has strong support from senior officials in the
government, as witnessed by the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, and the Minister of Works
meeting with Bank officials during project preparation. In addition, the PCU has been very efficient in
preparing the project for appraisal, through effective and proactive coordination of various government
agencies. The strong government commitment, along with the participation and cooperation of numerous
high-level officials will be critical for the smooth implementation of this multi-sector project.
The Government has taken a number of other steps that demonstrate its commitment to the project and its
principles. In the past, the main government agency responsible for disaster management, NERO, was
staffed by only one professional, the National Disaster Coordinator and two administrative staff. The
Government has since hired two additional professional staff for NERO (Deputy Disaster Coordinator and
Technical Specialist). The National Hazard Mitigation Council (NHMC) has also been established, a draft
Shelter Policy has been submitted to Cabinet for approval. Other aspects of project preparation are well
advanced, with TORs for a number of consultancies ready, preliminary engineering for the civil works
complete, bill of quantities for shelters and for the retrofitting of the Emergency Operations Center (EOC)
being reviewed, etc.
- 18-



5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Disaster Mitigation Experience. The Bank has gained experience, particularly over the last five years, in
preparing a number of emergency disaster mitigation projects, including for floods, cyclones, and El Nino
effects throughout the Latin America and Caribbean Region, as well as in other developing countries
outside this region. The lessons and best practices from these experiences are being applied to this project.
The project team was provided advice on disaster management issues through the Bank's Disaster
Management Facility (DMF).
Regional OECS Projects. The Bank has already worked on a number of regional projects for the
OECS/CARICOM countries and has established strong working relationships, as well as experience in
coordinating regional efforts.
External Expert Advice. The project team from the Bank liaised with seconded staff from the U.S.
Federal Emergency Management Agency and National Weather Service. The Bank team also drew upon
the experience of the Organization of American States (OAS) and the USAID Office of Foreign Disaster
Assistance (OFDA) in practical, operational and state-of-the-art approaches to emergency management.
Donor Coordination. The project has been designed in collaboration with donors and other intemational
organizations, in particular the CDB, OAS and USAID/OFDA. The Dutch trust fund was used to finance
the use of consultants during project preparation.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
_ Cost benefit    NPV=-US$21.55 million; ERR = 29.7 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
C) Other (specify)
Given the non-revenue generating nature of the project, benefits are estimated based on expected damages
averted due to the investments pursued in this project. Expected benefits are a combination of physical
losses avoided, and the costs of lost economic activity and disruptions in social welfare minimized. The
analysis includes the costs and expected benefits of the physical mitigation measures (sea defenses and road
rehabilitation comprising roughly 64% of costs), and strengthening disaster management capacity measures
(shelters retrofitting and strengthening various agencies comprising the remaining 36%). The economic
analysis is described in greater detail in Annex 4.
The NPV and ERR shown above is for the base-case scenario, which assumes (i) that the objective
probability of a major hurricane striking Grenada is at least 10% per year (this is the lower bound of the
probability range estimated by the U.S. National Ocean and Atmospheric Administration), and (ii) that the
minimum damage averted due to the project's investments equals a 10% value of GDP (a tropical storm in
1975 caused damages of roughly 20% of GDP). In Annex 4 the expected benefits are also subjected to
sensitivity analysis by varying the probability of a hurricane striking the island and simultaneously varying
the value of damages averted (as a percent of GDP).
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
This analysis is not applicable, since this is a non-revenue generating project.
- 19 -



Fiscal Impact:
The fiscal impact is expected to be limited, with governrment counterpart funding amounting to less than
1% of government's expected budget (of both revenue and expenditure) per year during construction, and a
negligible amount in post-project years. The effect on the countiy's debt position is also expected to be
minimal given the IBRD/IDA blend nature of the financing.
3. Technical:
Sea defense design and country needs: The technical design of the sea defense at Grand Mal Bay is based
on existing sea defenses located in the North Western part of the island, which withstood the storm surges
associated with Hurricane Lenny in November 1999. The proposed sea defense at Grand Mal Bay aims at
securing the provision of energy to the island's capital St. Georges and the airport. The project will thus
allow for an all-weather link between the oil depot located at Grand Mal Bay and the power station located
in St. Georges.
Shelters design and standards: The shelters are designed based on technical standards compatible with
other OECS countries, especially the specification established under APL 1. The technical design of the
rehabilitation and renovation of the existing shelters uses international standards, in terms of materials and
structures resistant to hurricanes. The renovation also takes into consideration the minimum requirements
needed for the wellbeing of the tenants. The selection of the shelters to be retrofitted prioritizes areas with
high concentrations of low-income residents and areas vulnerable to disaster, taking into consideration the
costs of the works to be undertaken.
Reliability of the cost estimates: The project cost estimates are based on detailed engineering cost
breakdown and results of past bidding processes carried out for similar works in the island during the last
five years.
With regard to the capacity of the local construction industry to carry out infrastructure works, two-thirds
of the larger construction firms have the capacity to take on contracts over US$ 1 million. There are many
small local contractors able to carry out maintenance works, building construction and repairs. There are
thus enough contractors able to handle the scope and quantity of works to be implemented under the
proposed Bank-financed project, except for the sea defenses contract, which will fall under ICB and should
be carried out by foreign contractors.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
Capacity to handle complex and large projects is generally weak in Government. This is mostly due to
under-staffing in a number of agencies, the lack of staff experienced in project management at all levels,
and lack of well-defined mechanisms and procedures. This is particularly true with regard to donor-funded
projects, except within the Ministry of Finance and Planning (MFP) and the Ministry of Education (ME).
It was therefore agreed that a PCU will be established to coordinate the project and that staff would be
hired on contract to assist with project management (see below). With regard to community capacity
building to manage and respond to disasters, the roles of district disaster coordinators will need to be
strengthened.
b. Project management:
-20 -



Both NERO and line ministries are stretched too thin to effectively manage the project, and are also
constrained by their current staffing and organizational structures. Capacity-building with regard to
project management is thus of the essence, but difficult to achieve due to the small size of the economy,
which cannot easily sustain the necessary critical mass of expertise in Government services. The PCU will
therefore hire a procurement officer and an accountant for project management purposes. NERO staff will
also be strengthened by two additional professional positions, both of which will be civil servant positions.
Procurement and the contracting of contractors, suppliers, and consulting firms will follow World Bank
guidelines. The PCU will be responsible for procurement and management of contracts, while the
implementing agencies will provide input into the preparation of tender documents, TORs for
consultancies, lists and specifications for goods, as well as the day to day supervision of the work of
consultants and other implementation issues (the respective roles and responsibilities of the PCU vis-a-vis
the implementing agencies are provided in the Project Implementation Manual). The publication of the
General Procurement Notice (GPN) will take place before effectiveness, and advertisements of Requests for
Proposals (RFP) and Special Procurement Notices (SPN)--if required--will be published in Development
Business and national newspapers respectively for studies estimated to cost over US$ 200,000 and all ICB
works. The detailed design and environmental impact assessment for the sea defense works has been
carried out in-house with the assistance of consultants. Advanced Procurement has taken place for the
recruitment of the PCU staff and the auditors and retroactive financing will be used to cover the relevant
expenses. Retroactive financing will also be used to cover expenditures related to the procurement of office
equipment for implementing agencies and the PCU. Total retroactive financing will not exceed
US$250,000 equivalent. A Procurement Assessment was carried out and approved by the Banks Regional
Procurement Advisor in February 2000.
5. Social:
No social and resettlement issues associated with the civil works or other project components have been
identified. The project is expected to have a positive social impact because a majority of the components
would restore and retrofit basic infrastructure such as sea defenses, roads, and schools, infrastructure that
is all used on a day-to-day basis by the general population. The project will benefit communities by
strengthening the capacities of the agencies that are in charge of warning citizens of impending disasters
and improving their ability to manage the situation efficiently and effectively during and after such
emergencies.
The project will also assist in developing a training program in disaster management activities for the
disaster committees and communities. Such training will include the functions of a District Disaster
Committee, surviving a disaster, and specialized training like emergency search and rescue, donations
management, etc. In subsequent years and phases of the program, additional disaster committees would
also be provided with similar training. The training program will also include community-level training and
other activities to promote community participation in disaster preparedness and mitigation. As a part of
this effort, the project will finance the production of training and education materials, including pamphlets
for public distribution through the District Disaster Coordinators and public centers like post offices,
community centers, churches and major employers.
6. Environmental assessment:               Environment Category: B (Partial Assessment)
Key sections of the coastline of the island have been retreating in association with rises in sea level and
increasing frequency of storms, trends which are predicted to continue. Because of the inland topography,
coastal areas are vital to the country's economy as they are the locus for major population centers and
highways.
- 21 -



The Government has, as a result, prioritized the protection of key sections of the western coastline. In an
effort to mitigate these problems, the project proposes to fund major civil works in one critical location (sea
defenses at Grand Mal Bay). A local consultant has carried out an Environmental Impact Assessment
(EIA), including the definition of mitigation measures for the sea defense investment (document dated
February 2000). The environmental issues have been identified by the EIA as not major, although issues
with quanrying and the protection of a dove sanctuary situated 5 miles away have been raised. As a result,
a condition will stipulate that no quarrying is to take place in Perseverance Estate (which contains a dove
sanctuary), and a supplemental environmental assessment and materials investigation study will be carried
out prior to issuing the tender documents for sea defense works at Grand Mal Bay with the objective of
identifying appropriate quarry sites. In addition, Government indicated that it has already secured funds to
finance consultants to review the design and supervise the works (TORs have been submitted to the Bank
for its review).
Several recent reports (port rehabilitation and road rehabilitation) highlight the fact that EIAs are not
required in Grenada by legislation, but are routinely requested by the Land Development Control Authority
(LDCA) for large projects. Several attempts were made in the past to introduce various legal documents
for land-use regulation and environmental management in Grenada. Currently the Government of Grenada
(GoG) is reviewing legislation with regard to environmental management and is preparing the National
Physical Development Plan, representing a concerted effort to utilize Grenada land resources in an
organized way. Assistance will also be provided to GoG under this project for the strengthening of its
capacity in environmental management. Assistance will, in particular, be provided through reviewing
environmental legislation and developing EIA standards regarding disaster mitigation and preparedness,
and providing training to MCWPU staff in carrying out environmental assessments.
The project will also finance three studies to define programs of preventive disaster mitigation investments
with regard to i) coastal zone management, ii) drainage and flood control, and iii) river training and slope
protection. The TORs for these studies will be reviewed to include appropriate environmental requirements
to be accounted for in the design of the future civil works, and make recommendations as to the type of
mitigation measures which should be carried out as part of the proposed investments.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
NERO is the primary stakeholder, and has been involved in project design, and also contributed in
preparing TORs, and helped to identify communications gaps and needs regarding equipment and supplies.
The MCWPU has been integrally involved in the civil works components, preparing designs, TORs and
BOQs. The Meteorological Office has been involved in identifying their own needs, and the Ministry of
Education and of Community Development was involved in the preparation of the shelter program.
The project will involve communities directly through:
*  District Disaster Committees, consisting of community volunteers, which will be revived and given
training and equipment, including communications equipment, such as hand held radios.
*   The new Shelter Policy will strive to ensure that shelter managers are from the communities (as
opposed to defacto school principals).
* Strengthening the communications systems will ensure improved communication and access to warn
communities of impending emergencies and enable improved management of a disaster situation at the
community level.
- 22 -



* NERO procedures will be reviewed to focus more on reaching out and consulting with communities.
The actual review of the procedures will also be carried out in consultation with communities.
b. Other key stakeholders:
International donors, such as CDB, OFDA, and DFID, have also aided in the project design process, and
parallel financing for a number of components have been agreed upon. Other stakeholders include the
private sector and NGOs through their representation on the National Hazard Mitigation Council (NHMC).
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Preventive Physical Mitigation. Inadequate maintenance has been a key issue in the lack of sustainability
of infrastructure, as was witnessed by the damages caused during the storm surges associated with
Hurricane Lenny. In accordance with Section 9.01 of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements, each relevant sector ministry will, prior to annual reviews, prepare and submit to
the Bank for review and approval an O&M plan and budget for all relevant physical components financed
under the project. Although capacity exists among local contractors, there are still some key risks as to the
ability of the local construction industry to carry out the smaller civil works appropriately (the large civil
works will be an international bid) to ensure that adequate technical standards are maintained.
Strengthening Disaster Management Capacity. From a project point of view, both NERO and the line
ministries are stretched too thin to manage the project and/or project components as they are currently
staffed and organized. The assessment of procurement and contract monitoring capacity, as well as
financial management capacity, in line ministries exhibit weaknesses. Besides some existing capacity in the
Ministry of Communications, Works, and Public Utilities (MCWPU), and the Ministry of Education due to
the Bank-financed Basic Education Project, little procurement capacity exists. The project will provide
assistance to NERO in preparing for and managing emergency situations, and support to Government via
the PCU on procurement and project management.
To ensure sustainability in the long run, the project will seek government commitment to staffing NERO
and increasing financial resources to ensure its long-term viability after the project is completed (through
requiring two additional staff positions financed by the government in NERO). The bulk of the assistance
provided to these agencies from project resources will be in setting up systems for response activities, as
well as for equipment and training. This important "setting-up" first phase will be followed by further
support for longer-term institutional reforms in disaster preparedness and management through possible
additional loans/credits or other donor financing.
- 23 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating             Risk MKigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
NERO has insufficient authority to          H        Appropriate staffing of NERO and the adoption
assume leadership role during an                     of new emergency management procedures.
emergency, and EOC is operational.
Emergency and communications               M         Government budget for maintenance of
equipment is neither maintained nor                  equipment and facilities.
adequately used.
People are unable to access shelters       M         Community leaders' involvement and
during an emergency.                                 commitment, and access to roads kept open.
Physical works are completed at             S        Adoption of appropriate design standards and
technically inadequate standards.                    construction regulations.
Lack of maintenance of key physical        H         Adequate budget for O&M.
infrastructure by Government.                        Monitoring of human resources by Government.
From Components to Outputs
Lack of resources devoted to staffing       S        Government-indicated commitment to hire
NERO.                                                additional professional staff in NERO, and
technical assistance from project.
Communities are unwilling and unable to    M         Community training programs and assistance to
take actions and mobilize themselves                 district disaster committees.
during an emergency.                                 Participation in procedures and drills.
Local construction industry has limited    M         Improved and standerdized design, and
capacity to do retrofitting.                         supervision of small civil works by consultants.
MCWPU has no emergency response             S        Equipment and training provided
teams in place.
MCWPU has limited capacity to               S        Technical audits and recruitment of consultants
supervise contractors                                for supervision.
Overall Risk Rating                         s
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
*   The Implementation Manual has been issued by the Borrower
*   The Project Account has been opened by the Borrower with an initial amount of at least US$850,000
equivalent
- 24 -



2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Additional financial covenant:
*   The Borrower shall deposit into the Project Account the balance of counterpart funding (US$865,000
equivalent) required for the project one year following project effectiveness.
Environmental Covenants:
*   The Borrower shall take all mitigation measures set forth in the Environmental Impact Assessment
report prepared for the Project dated February 2000
*  No quarrying or any other type of work will be carried out in Perseverance Estate
*  No invitations to bid for sea defense works in Grand Mal Bay shall be issued unless the supplemental
environmental study has been carried out in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and the
recommendations of such study have been included in the bidding documents for such works.
H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
0 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
El 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
El 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
,/ternrd A. Becq                   D      M. Leipziger                        alan    ulos
Team Leader                      Sector Manager/Dir   r             Cou  ry Manager/Director
- 25 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
GRENADA: Grenada Emergency Recovery & Disaster Management Project
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Strengthen infrastructure and  Social and economic    Data on growth, income, and  Macroeconomic policy
safeguard the environment.   disruptions following a natural socio-economic indicators.    conducive to growth.
disaster.
Program Purpose:           End-of-Program Indicators:  Program reports:          (from Purpose to Goal)
Ensure that all five       APL 1: Reconstruction and   World Bank project        All countries have a stable
participating OECS member  rehabilitation of          preparation and quality    economic and political
nations have the ability to    infrastructure, and support    assurance mechanism.  environment.
adequately respond to natural disaster mitigation
disasters.                investments in St. Kitts &
Nevis, St. Lucia and
Dominica.
APL 2: This second phase
brings Grenada and St.
Vincent & the Grenadines)
into the program. The
activities supported will be the
same as in APL 1, focusing on
strengthening emergency
preparedness and response
systems.
Provide additional investment APL 3: Demonstration of: (i)                       Continued government
to strengthen both physical   satisfactory completion of                         commitment to disaster
infrastructure and institutional APL 1 &2 investments; (ii)                      management.
capacity building.         continued govermment
commitment to disaster
management policies as
demnonstrated by effective
enforcement of key policies;
(iii) adequate maintenance of
infrastructure particularly
vulnerable to disasters.
Establish contingency credit  APL 4: Contingency fund for                        Donor declaration of an
facility for participating  use when severe natural                              emergency and effective donor
country to access in the event disaster strikes during the                       coordination.
of a severe natural disaster    program period. APL 4
emergency.                triggered by: (i) declaration of
disaster emergency by govt. at
any time during program
period; (ii) evidence that govt.
is committed to implementing
disaster mitigation policies.
- 26 -



Key Pwformance
Hberarchy of 0bjEctives          Indica trs             itor fin    Evalkuation    Critical Assumpfions
Project Development       Outcome / Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Purpose)
Objective:                Indicators:
Strengthen Grenada's      Operational emergency      Monthly implementation     Effective coordination among
resilience, preparedness, and  procedures and mobilization   progress reports from each    government agencies.
ability to respond to natural   guidelines in place as per    implementing agency to PCU.
disasters.                international standards by July
2001.
Improved reporting of weather PMRs, mission reports of
information by the        CMO or other equivalent
Meteorological office     organization
NERO--a) with regularity (at
least once daily); and b)
quality (verified by missions
of the Caribbean
Meteorological Organization).
Enhanced ability at NERO to  NERO reports
accurately analyze incoming
information and data on   World Bank missions, MTR,
emergencies and serve as a    and annual reviews.
single "clearing house" for
early warning information and
dissemination (as evidenced
by timely decision making, the
triggering of emergency
procedures and timely
dissemination of warnings by
NERO to populations at risk).
Increased number of people   Beneficiary surveys.
serviced by adequate shelters
due to the retrofitting program
Strengthened capacity in
Ministry of Works to carry out
EIAs and works during
emergencies.
- 27 -



Output from each           Output Indicators:          Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. NERO capable of         1. I National Disaster      1.1 Monthly implementation   1.1 NERO has sufficient
effectively managing disaster  Coordinator (NDC) position   progress reports from each    authority to assume leadership
situations.                filled by a full-time permanent implementing agency to PCU. role during an emergency.
civil servant; at least 2                              1.2 EOC is operational.
additional professional staff (a                       1.3 Emergency equipment is
Deputy Coordinator and a                               effectively stored, monitored
Technical/Data Specialist) in                          and properly distributed
NERO by December 2000.                                 during an emergency.
1.2 National Hazard
Mitigation Council (NHMC)
with defined membership by
August 2000.
1.3 At least one training
course carried out for high
level govt officials in
managing emergencies.
2. Country-wide early      2.1 Adequately equipped and  2.1 PCU monitoring and    2.1 Early warning and
warning and emergency      staffed Meteorological Office  reporting.              communications equipment is
communications system      with complete early warning                            maintained and used
operational.               system.                                                adequately.
2.2 At least 72-hour advance
warning from Met Office to
NERO of impending tropical
events.
2.3 Number of District
Disaster Coordinators
reached, and reduced response
time of those coordinators to
an emergency.
3. Functional shelters.    3.1 Number of shelters                                 3.1 People are able to access
retrofitted.                                           shelters during an emergency.
3.2 At least one shelter
manager per shelter trained
and in place.
- 28 -



4. MCWPU able to respond   4.1 Dedicated unit in                                4.1 Physical works are
quickly to repair infrastructure MCWPU capable of erecting                      completed at technically
following a disaster.     on-site metallic bridges of a                         adequate standards.
6m span in one day.
4.2 Training MCWPU in
canrying out EIAs and
manage/monitor mitigation
measures.
4.2 No more than one day of
interruption to traffic on
rehabilitated roads due to
weather conditions.
5. Improved and maintain   5.1 Sea defenses constructed                         5.1 Maintenance of key
physical infrastructure.  and road rehabilitated at                             physical infrastructure by
Grand Mal Bay.                                       Government.
6. Feasibility studies carried  6.1. Recommendations of                         6.1 Follow-up investments
out.                      studies financed by the project                       and/or adoption of
reviewed by Government                               recommendations.
before the end of 2001 and
approved recommendations
implemented by the end of
2002.
- 29 -



Project Components       Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                          Outputs)
NERO strengthening.       US$ 0.901 million         Monthly implementation    Governiment commitment and
progress reports from each   resources devoted to staffing
implementing agency to PCU. NERO.
Emergency communications  US$ 0.288 million         Quarterly reports from PCU to Commnunities are willing and
and early warning                                   the Bank.                 able to take actions and
mobilize themselves during an
emergency.
Shelters program          US$ 2.317 million                                   Local construction industry
has capacity to do retrofitting.
Strengthening MCWPU       US$ 0.610 million                                   MCWPU has emergency
capacity                                                                      response teams in place and is
able to monitor environmental
measures.
Sea defense and road      US$ 6.353 million                                   MCWPU has limited capacity
rehabilitation                                                                to supervise contractors.
Slope protection and river    US$ 0.218 million
training
Drainage and flood control   US$ 0.218 million
Project management        US$ 0.831 million
- 30 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
GRENADA: Grenada Emergency Recovery & Disaster Management Project
By Component:
Project Component I - US$4.12 million
A. StrenLthenine Disaster Management Capacity
The strengthening of disaster management capacity component will finance: (a) strengthening the National
Emergency Relief Organization (NERO); (b) developing a country-wide early warning and emergency
communications system; (c) implementing a shelter program; and (d) capacity-building measures for the
Ministry of Communications, Works and Public Utilities.
1. Strengthening NERO
In order to fulfill its mandate, NERO needs, first and foremost, to be adequately staffed. The Government
has created two additional professional staff positions in NERO, that of a Deputy Disaster Coordinator and
a Technical/Data specialist, with TORs acceptable to the Bank. Both positions will be civil servant
positions and financed by the Government. In addition, the project will finance the following activities
under this sub-component: (i) technical assistance to review the National Disaster Plan and improve
disaster management procedures; (ii) rehabilitation and expansion of the EOC building; (iii) purchase of
equipment and supplies to improve the day-to-day functioning of NERO, as well its activities during an
emergency; and (iv) training at various levels for NERO staff and other related agencies, and public
awareness activities.
(a) Inproving Disaster Management Procedures
The project will finance technical assistance to update the 1985 National Disaster Plan with particular
attention to: (i) streamlining the procedures and conditions under which both a local and full national state
of emergency are called; (ii) reviewing NERO's activities; (iii) preparing operational procedures to guide
NERO and other government agencies critical to effective disaster management; (iv) review the structure,
roles and responsibilities of District Disaster Committees; and (v) consolidating recommendations into a
revised National Disaster Plan. The consultancy will include preparation of draft legislation to formalize
NERO as an independent government agency, responsible to the Prime Minister's office.
The preparation of hazard maps accurately identifying areas that are particularly vulnerable to natural
hazards is an important activity, but an expensive one, and one that would be futile unless there is
accompanying land use and zoning regulation that would enable the government to control land use. In this
first phase of the APL therefore, the consultant(s) financed to review the National Disaster Plan and
legislation surrounding disaster management will also prepare a simple draft Land Use/Zoning Code and
the procedures to enforce it. This will ensure that once hazard maps are developed (financed either by the
government and/or other donors such as the OAS of CDERA), they can be immediately useful.
(b) Rehabilitation and Expansion of the Emergency Operations Center (EOC)
The EOC building at Fort Frederick must serve multiple functions as: (i) a base for NERO's administrative
activities; (ii) a training center; (iii) a national command and emergency communications center in times of
emergency; and (iv) a storage center for emergency equipment and supplies. The building is presently
- 31 -



inadequate to serve these functions and requires expansion (upwards of 50 people may need to work there
in case of an emergency) and rehabilitation to make the existing structure weather-proof and the site secure.
The project will therefore finance: (i) building repairs; (ii) conversion of currently under-used areas of the
building to workrooms; (iii) minor building extensions including the installation of a communications
tower; (iv) installation of central air-conditioning and adequate wiring and power and telephone outlets; and
(v) a security system.
(c) Equipment and Supplies for NERO
The project will finance equipment and supplies to ensure that: (i) NERO can function effectively in its
daily operations; (ii) the EOC can effectively coordinate information and make decisions during an
emergency; and (iii) local disaster shelters will have access to basic supplies and equipment. The
comprehensive list includes office equipment, furniture, training equipment and emergency supplies
(portable generators, emergency lighting, plastic sheeting, emergency rescue tools, etc.). Emergency
supplies for shelters will be stored at the EOC and distributed to shelters prior to an emergency.
(d) Training and Public Awareness Program
The project will finance a comprehensive Training Program for disaster preparedness and management,
which will benefit NERO staff, District Disaster Committees/communities, shelter managers, key GoG
officials, selected volunteer amateur radio and CB operators, construction firms, building inspectors and
the PCU staff. A consultant will be hired to prepare a training needs assessment identifying specific people
to be trained and the training to be financed. It is envisaged that the modes of training offered will range
from off-the shelf training/workshops by regional and international agencies (offered in-country), to
specialized courses, and conferences, seminars and study tours. An annual projection of training programs
will then be prepared by NERO and the PCU and submitted to the Bank each year for a "no objection". As
part of the training program, emergency drills (i.e. full emergency simulation exercises) conducted by
regional agencies such as CDERA will also be carried out to test NERO's entire emergency response and
management system. These drills will also be used as a monitoring tool to evaluate the impact of the
project on Grenada's disaster management capacity. Maximum advantage will be taken of regional training
programs as well as free training offered by some agencies.
NERO has submitted to the Government a proposal for the restructuring/formalization of the District
Disaster Committees on a pilot basis. The project will support this process by focusing initial training on
these pilot committees in disaster management activities such as the functions of a District Disaster
Committee, surviving a disaster, and specialized training like emergency search and rescue, donations
management, etc. In subsequent years, other disaster committees would also be provided with similar
training. The training program will also include community-level training and other activities to promote
community participation in disaster preparedness and mitigation. As a part of this effort, the project will
finance the production of training and education materials, including pamphlets for public distribution
through the District Disaster Coordinators and public centers like post offices, community centers,
churches and major employers.
2. Emergency Communications and Early Waming
Effective management of impending disasters requires a comprehensive system where the right agencies
(especially NERO) receive data, information, and weather observations/forecasts in a timely manner, and
then are able to communicate decisions, actions and warnings to all stakeholders, particularly the public.
This sub-component therefore covers (i) assistance in developing a communication system, and (ii) support
- 32 -



to the Meteorological Office which is responsible for forecasting weather patterns. To advance the early
warning aspect of emergency management, the TOR of the feasibility study for flood protection, which is a
separate sub-component (see below), will include the determination of the numbers and location of the
population at risk.
(a) Emergency Communications System
To facilitate NERO's capacity to receive and transmit data and information and communicate effectively
with all stakeholders, particularly during and after an emergency, the project will equip the EOC with HF,
VHF, CB and satellite radio communications equipment, with associated power supplies, programmers,
cables, connectors, antennas, feeders, etc. The EOC will be equipped for the safe storage and operations of
the equipment (including construction of simple towers for antennas), and will also have dedicated fax and
phone lines and a computer/printer in the Communications Room. Equipment procured for an emergency
communications site in Carriacou will be stored at the EOC until an appropriate site has been located with
a site manager identified and trained in using the equipment (this should be the appropriate communications
sub-committee member from Carriacou).
(b) Early Warning
The project will strengthen the Meteorological Office in light of the critical role it plays in observing and
forecasting weather patterns within the country. In particular, the project will finance: (i) technical
assistance to assist the Met Office in preparing specifications for the required equipment and for siting
them; (ii) procurement of equipment including two weather observation stations, a psychrometer and
computers, printers and software; and (iii) training for Met Office staff in meteorology. The Caribbean
Meteorological Organization (CMO), the Caribbean Meteorological and Hydrological Institute (CMHlI)
provide free technical assistance to their member countries and will be called upon to provide the technical
assistance. The only cost associated with this would be travel and per diem for the consultants involved.
Government will make arrangements with one of these institutions or other similar institutions to monitor
on an annual basis progress with improving Grenada's early warning capacity.
Training for Met staff will be provided in equipment operations and maintenance and in operational
meteorology to maximize the information from new technology and to minimize error of misinterpretation
of observational data. The World Meteorological Organization (WMO) is responsible for international
coordination in meteorology and provides various specialized training in meteorology to its member
countries, often at nominal or no cost. Grenada is currently not a member, primarily due to the annual
membership fee of US$ 8,000. Grenada should, however, seek to become a member of the WMO, as this
would, among other benefits, enable the Government to take advantage of WMO services, particularly
training, at a much reduced cost. Other training in meteorology will be provided by agencies such as the
Caribbean Meteorological Institute, and the cost of training could be significantly lower if Grenada joined
the WMO.
3. Shelter Program
Due to the critical need to retrofit some shelters, particularly for low income populations living in highly
vulnerable areas, the Government has specifically requested the Bank to consider the financing of some
high priority shelters, despite the absence of a comprehensive program. This component will thus finance a
program to retrofit high priority shelters, and seek to help GoG develop a National Shelter Program that
would identify all the shelter needs of the country and plan a phased approach to financing the needs. The
component will also finance the design and construction of a prototype multi-purpose shelter in a priority
- 33 -



area (poor and most exposed population where a structurally sound public building does not exist). A
National Shelter Policy (reviewed by the Bank) has already been submitted to Cabinet for approval and will
be ratified during the initial stages of the project. The project will also finance the development of a shelter
management and maintenance manual. The Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Communications,
Works and Public Utilities (MCWPU) are responsible for preparation and implementation of the
component with the assistance of NERO and input from the Ministry of Community Development (for the
retrofitting of community centers).
4. Strengthening MCWPU Capacity
The project will finance MCWPU capacity-building in disaster management response, and to carry out
emergency repairs to re-establish accesses after disaster through the procurement of built-on-site metallic
bridges. This will involve supplying the MCWPU with a stock of prefabricated metallic components (70
meters of double-single type, enough to erect three 10/15 meter-span bridges and covering the longest 30
meters span bridge) with launching equipment, as well as training of one maintenance crew and the
purchase of assembly manuals. In addition, a stock of gabion baskets to protect piers and abutments will
also be financed under the project.
The project will also assist MCWPU in strengthening its capacity to carry out environmental assessment
and to monitor mitigation measures, through technical assistance and training. In particular, the
sub-component will assist in formulating TORs for an Environmental Unit, determining staffing and
training needs, and defining the organizational and administrative relationships within the Ministry and with
each of the other GoG relevant agencies.
Project Component 2 - US$6.79 million
B. Preventive Phvsical Mitieation
In order to take into account the effects of the tidal surge arising from Hurricane Lenny in November 1999,
the physical mitigation measures with regard to areas at risk were reassessed. Given the degree of damage
caused by the tidal surge and the impact on the country as a whole, GoG indicated that an adequate sea
defense system is of prime importance to ensure key access to critical lifeline services such as road
transport, power generation, gasoline stocks, and health centers and hospitals. The Western Coast Main
Road south of Gouyave, in particular, was identified as critical to maintaining the operation of lifeline
facilities and access of the population. It was thus agreed with GoG that physical mitigation investments
will be limited during this first phase of the program to priority sea defenses and road rehabilitation at
Grand Mal Bay, in order to avoid critical damages to the Western Coast Main Road.
The physical mitigation component includes: (a) sea defenses to protect against storm surges and
rehabilitation of exposed road sections, including (i) civil works at Grand Mal Bay and associated
supervision services, and (ii) the feasibility and design of a prioritized sea defense investment program on
both islands of Grenada and Carriacou; (b) drainage and flood control, consisting of the feasibility and d
etailed engineering design of protection works for flood-prone areas and particularly vulnerable main roads;
and (c) river training and slope protection, consisting of the feasibility and detailed engineering design of
river training & slope protection civil works.
1. Sea Defenses and Road Rehabilitation
Since 1970, an erosion trend has become apparent along the coastline of Grenada, with the coastline
- 34 -



retreating and sea levels rising to the point where certain sections of the road are on the verge of collapsing.
This situation constitutes a major hazard as it would cause severe disruptions to the strategic highway
network. The project will finance: (i) the construction of one kilometer of sea wall and the reinstatement of
the adjacent roads along the Western Coast Main Road at Grand Mal Bay; (ii) a supplemental EIA and
materials investigation study for the above captioned works; and (iii) the updating of an existing coastal
protection and sea defenses study carried out in 1994 by DIWI Consult GmbH in association with
Engineering Partnership, taking into account recent changes in the weather pattern climate in Grenada,
including the storm surges of November 1999 associated with Hurricane Lenny.
The minor environmental issue of quarrying at the nearby dove sanctuary of Perseverance Estate is being
dealt with in three separate legal covenants which i) require the Government to take all mitigation measures
set forth in the Environmental Impact Assessment report prepared for the Project dated February 2000; ii)
prohibit quarrying in Perseverance Estate; and iii) require that the supplemental environmental study has
been carried out in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and the recommendations of such study have been
included in the bidding documents for teh Grand Mal Bay works. The risk of inadequate operations and
maintenance for the civil works will be dealt with by requiring each relevant sector ministry to prepare and
submit to the Bank for review and approval an O&M plan and budget for all relevant physical components
financed under the project prior to each annual review of the project.
2. Slope Protection and River Training
The sub-component includes an engineering feasibility study in the vicinity of all the island main roads with
regard to slope protection, river training and flood risks, and aims at increasing MCWPU's knowledge of
landslide, subsidence and flood hazards, and defining possible technical solutions (including road
realignment where needed) to mitigate the impacts of heavy rains associated with the rainy and hurricane
seasons, directly through landslides and indirectly through floods. This will compensate in a more
pragmatic way for the postponement of the hazard mapping/risk analysis sub-component by providing
assistance to mapping flood-prone areas, determining the impact on the population at risk, assessing water
and electricity infrastructure at risk, carrying out an economic evaluation of the resources and
infrastructure at risk, and producing hazard/vulnerability maps and reports to document the analysis for all
three islands--Grenada, Carriacou and Petit Martinique. Civil works would be financed through a
subsequent loan/credit or by other donors as neither a detailed design nor EIA have yet been prepared.
3. Drainage and Flood Control
The project will finance a detailed study, including detailed design and ETA, to fine tune the
recommendations of a previous study for civil works required to improve drainage and better control
flooding at the Tanteen and Grand Anse areas of St. Georges and Grenville. Civil works would be
financed through a subsequent loan/credit or by other donors as neither a detailed design nor EIA have yet
been prepared.
Project Component 3 - US$ 0.83 million
C. Proiect Management
This component is aimed at assisting Government in meeting its project management obligations through:
(i) the appointment of the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU), headed by a full-time Project Coordinator
- 35 -



(PC), and including an Assistant Project Coordinator/Procurement Officer, an Accountant, and an
Administrative Assistant (last three to be hired under the loan/credit proceeds for the duration of the
project). This component will also provide financing for office equipment and other operating expenditures
for the PCU, as well as for a technical audit to verify the quality of the sea defense works at Grand Mal
Bay, and for financial audits of the entire project every fiscal year.
- 36 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
GRENADA: Grenada Emergency Recovery & Disaster Management Project
Project Costs by Component (US$ '000)
- 37 -



% Foreign % Total
Local  Foreian   Total   Exchanne  Base Costs
A. Strengthening Disaster Management Capacity
1. NERO Strengthening
Disaster management procedures                         10.0    90.0   100.0          90            1
EOC                                                    98.0   242.0   340.0          71            3
Equipment and Supplies for NERO                       65.0    65.0   130.0           50            1
Training                                               25.0   225.0   250.0          90            2
Subtotal NERO Strengthening                             198.0   622.0   820.0          76            8
2. Emergency Communications & Early Warning
Emergency communications system                         2.0   198.0   200.0          99            2
Early Warning System                                    1.5    73.5    75.0          98            1
Subtotal Emergency Communications & Early Warning         3.5   271.5   275.0          99            3
3. Shelters Program
Shelters Retrofitting and Construction of Prototype   525.0  1,225.0  1,750.0        70           17
Design & Supervision of Works                         20.0   180.0   200.0           90            2
Technical Assistance for Comprehensive Shelter Program  3.0    27.0    30.0          90
Subtotal Shelters Program                               548.0  1,432.0  1,980.0        72           19
4. Strengthening MCWPU Capacity
Metallic Bridges & Gabions                               -   450.0   450.0          100           4
TA & Training for Disaster Mngt, EIA & Monitoring Capacity  13.0   117.0   130.0     90            1
Subtotal Strengthening MCWPU Capacity                    13.0   567.0   580.0          98            6
Subtotal Strengthening Disaster Management Capacity        762.5  2,892.5  3,655.0        79           36
B. Preventive Physical Mitigation
1. Sea Defenses & Road Rehabilitation
Grand Mal Bay Sea Defense & Road Rehabilitation     1,539.0  3,611.0  5,150.0        70           50
Sea Defense Studies                                    25.0   225.0   250.0          90            2
Subtotal Sea Defenses & Road Rehabilitation            1,564.0  3,836.0  5,400.0       71           53
2. Slope Protection and River Training                   21.0   189.0   210.0          90            2
3. Drainage & Flood Control                              21.0    189.0   210.0         90            2
Subtotal Preventive Physical Mitigation                   1,606.0  4,214.0  5,820.0       72           57
C. Project management
1. PCU staff                                             40.0   360.0   400.0          90            4
2. PCU training                                           3.0    27.0    30.0          90             -
3. Office Equipment                                      27.5    27.5    55.0          50            1
4. Vehicles                                                 -    90.0    90.0          100           1
5. Technical Audits                                       5.0    45.0    50.0          90             -
6. Financial Audits                                      11.0    99.0    110.0         90            1
7. Operating Expenditures                                 3.0    27.0    30.0          90             -
8. Communications services                               15.0        -     15.0          -            -
Subtotal Project management                                104.5   675.5   780.0          87            8
2,473.0  7,782.0 10,255.0       76          100
Physical Contingencies                                  214.5   500.5   715.0          70            7
Price Contingencies                                     278.0   487.2   765.2          64            7
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                       2,965.5  8,769.7 11,735.2       75          114
NERO: National Emergency Relief Organization
MCWPU: Ministry of Communications, Works and Public UtilitieS8 _



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
GRENADA: Grenada Emergency Recovery & Disaster Management Project
The economic rationale for disaster management and mitigation is based on the premise that improved
recuperative capacity of the economy will lower any adverse longer term impacts on the country's economic
growth trajectory. The costs of disasters can be broken down into two parts, firstly the opportunity cost of
not being able to safeguard the population and their property, and secondly the opportunity cost of lost
economic activity, especially if damages to physical infrastructure leads to prolonged disruptions in
economic activity.
The analysis below examines the sensitivity of the expected net economic benefits for the APL 2 phase of
the project in Grenada. Expected benefits are adjusted using a combination of the probability of a
hurricane striking the island, and the damage averted (expressed as a percent of GDP) due to the mitigating
investments and strengthening disaster management capacity measures implemented. Vulnerability can
thus be defined as both the frequency at which a particular disaster (hurricane) occurs and the impact it has
on the country (i.e. its severity). The effects of severity can be partially offset by mitigation measures
aimed at limiting damages and improving response times once a disaster strikes.
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The project's investment costs and expected benefits are calculated over a twenty year period. These costs
and expected benefits are summarized in Table A4. 1 below. The benefits are adjusted by the probability of
a hurricane striking Grenada, which in the base case is assumed to be 10%; that is, the lower bound as
calculated by the U.S. National Ocean and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), which estimates the
mean probability of a hurricane striking Grenada in any given year to be in the range of 10%-25%.
As for damages averted, this variable is largely unknown, since no extensive and consistent historic data set
is available on damages averted due to mitigation measures. Data on damages caused by hurricanes in
Grenada specifically is also limited, as is data on the damages caused by the annual storm surges that affect
the country. The only estimate available for Grenada is from the November 1975 tropical storm that
caused damages valued at roughly 20% of GDP.
In the base case, the assumption is that on average the investments from the project can avert (save) a value
equal to 10% of GDP, that would otherwise have been destroyed by a major hurricane (or that could result
from damages caused by storm surges). The sensitivity analysis below, though, assumes various values for
damages averted as a percent of GDP, and both the NPV and EIRR are also subjected to sensitivity tests in
order to see how their values change due to variations in the probability of a hurricane and the damages
averted due to mitigation investtnents.
The probability of a hurricane striking the island is harder to quantify and sensitivity tests are performed in
order to see what the lower bound may be for a probability of a hurricane hitting the island in order for the
NPV to be greater than zero, i.e. for the project to be economically viable. While Table A4. 1 above shows
both gross and expected benefits (as adjusted by the probability a hurricane striking Grenada), the latter is
the correct variable to use in calculating the net present value (NPV) and when comparing investment costs
with "true" benefits.
- 39 -



TABLE A4.1
COSTS AND BENEFITS (US$ millions)
Investment (yrs 1-4)          Operations & Maintenance, Depreciation (yrs 4-20)
2000     2001      2002     2003      2004      2005     2010      2015     2019
Costs
Institutional Strengthening         0.000     2.487    1.224     0.444    0.491     0.500     0.552    0.610     0.660
NERO Strengthening                  0.000     0.717    0.152     0.056    0.094     0.096     0.106    0.117     0.127
Communications                      0.000     0.261    0.027     0.027     0.028    0.028     0.031    0.034     0.037
Shelters                            0.000     0.985    0.992     0.302     0.308    0.315     0.347    0.384     0.415
Ministry of Works                   0.000     0.523    0.054     0.059     0.060    0.061     0.068    0.075     0.081
Physical Mitigation                 0.213     2.771    4.478     1.078     1.100    1.122     1.238     1.367    1.480
Sea Defense & Road Rehabilitation   0.071     2.498    4.478     1.078     1.100    1.122     1.238     1.367    1.480
Feasibility Studies                 0.142     0.273    0.000     0.000     0.000    0.000     0.000    0.000     0.000
ProjectManagement                   0.071     0.136    0.211     0.101     0.000    0.000     0.000    0.000     0.000
Total Costs                         0.285    5.393     5.913     1.623     1.590    1.622     1.791     1.977    2.140
Benefits (averted costs)
Institutional Strengthening         0.000     2.487    1.224     0.444    0.491     0.500     0.552    0.610     0.660
Physical Mitigation                 0.000     1.000    4.095   43.436   46.077   48.879    65.658    88.198   111.684
Project Management                  0.071     0.136    0.211     0.101    0.000     0.000     0.000    0.000     0.000
Total Benefits (Unadjusted)         0.071     3.623    5.530   43.981    46.568   49.379    66.211    88.807   112.344
Expected Benefits (Baseline)        0.007     0.362    0.553     4.398    4.657     4.938     6.621    8.881    11.234
Expected Net Benefits              -0.277    -5.031    -5.360    2.775    3.067     3.316     4.830    6.903     9.094
Main Assumptions:
The main thrust of the economic analysis is to compare the cost of physical mitigation-for both
strengthening disaster management capacity and infrastructure rehabilitation-with the present and future
costs averted (imputed benefits) from pursuing such investments. The project's costs are defined as the
direct investment costs associated with the project and the future operations and maintenance costs plus
depreciation of the physical assets. The imputed benefits will be defined as the future costs foregone (or
saved), which is also tantamount to the opportunity cost of not undertaking the mitigating investments. A
discount rate of 10% will be applied to the costs and the benefits in order to calculate the net present value
(NPV) and economic internal rate of return (EIRR) for the project as a whole. For the project's purposes,
the NPV calculations are more important, since a zero NPV will yield a positive EIRR, and the economic
analysis is generally more concerned with a positive NPV for the project.
As for damages averted, this variable is largely unknown, since we have no historic data on damages
averted due to mitigation measures. Data on damages caused by hurricanes are also limited, as is data on
the damages caused by the annual storm surges that affect Grenada. In fact, the only major disaster-related
observation available for Grenada is from the November 1975 tropical storm that struck the island, where
it was estimated that 20% of GDP was destroyed. More recently, in November 1999, the island suffered
damages from Hurricane Lenny, although the full extent of these darnages have not yet been assessed. In
the analysis below, we will assume various values for damages averted as a percent of GDP. In the base
case, however, the assumption is that on average the investments from the project can avert (save) at least
- 40 -



10% of GDP that would otherwise have been destroyed by a major hurricane or that could result from
damages caused by storm surges.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
The analysis below examines the sensitivity of the expected net economic benefits for the project. Expected
benefits are adjusted using a combination of the probability of a hurricane striking the island, and the
damage averted (expressed as a percent of GDP) due to the mitigating investments and the strengthening of
disaster management capacity measures. Table A4.2 shows the results from the univariate sensitivity
analysis, which allows the probability of a hurricane to vary, while assuming that the value of damages
averted remain constant at 10% of GDP.
TABLE A4.2
Prob. of     Expected
Hurricane        NPV
1%          -17.435
2%          -13.103
5%           -0.108
6%            4.223
10%          21.550
15%          43.208
20%          64.867
25%          86.525
30%          108.183
40%          151.500
At a probability of 6% for a hurricane, the project becomes economically viable (NPV > 0). The
probability distribution of hurricanes striking the island is then juxtaposed against the value of expected
damages averted (costs saved). Table A4.3 summarizes the results of the bivariate sensitivity analysis
(covarying both the probability of a hurricane and the damages averted).
From this analysis it can be seen that there are two objective "minimal hurdle rates"for this project: first, a
probability of 6% for a hurricane with damages of at least 9% averted, or a probability of 9% for a
hurricane with damages of at least 6% averted. In other words, if either of these values fall below their
respective "minimum hurdle rates" it would not be economically justifiable to pursue the mitigating
investments. Thus, the results of the sensitivity analysis helps to establish a baseline under which it would
be economically viable to pursue the project. In reality, the probability of a hurricane is unknown and
changes in global weather patterns suggests perhaps an increasing occurrence (hence higher probability) of
tropical storms. However, given that the data from NOAA show that the probability range for a hurricane
striking Grenada in any given year has a lower bound of roughly 10%, we can assume that this project
becomes economicaly viable when damages averted equals at least 5% of GDP.
The data in Table A4.3 shows the "objective" minimum hurdle rates for the joint events as a probability for
a hurricane at 5% per year and damages averted at 10% of GDP. However, given the observed lower
bound of a probability of a hurricane of roughly 10%, the "minimum" damages that need to be averted for
this project to become economically viable, albeit that the NPV is barely positive, becomes 5% of GDP.
Data gathered in other Caribbean island, most notably the observation from the 1975 tropical storm that
destroyed 20% of GDP in 1975, suggests that an assumption for the base case of damages averted of 10%
of GDP would be a reasonable assumption.
-41 -



TABLE A4.3
Prob. of                                       Percent Damage Averted
Hurricane       1%        2%        5%        6%        9%      10%       15%       20%       25%       30%
1 %       -21.260   -20.835   -19.560   -19.135   -17.860   -17.435   -15.310   -13.185   -11.060    -8.935
2%        -20.753   -19.903   -17.353   -16.503   -13.953   -13.103    -8.853    -4.604    -0.354   3.896
5%        -19.232   -17.107   -10.733    -8.608    -2.233    -0.108    10.516    21.141    31.765    42.389
6%        -18.725   -16.175    -8.526    -5.976    1.674     4.223    16.973    29.722    42.471    55.221
9%        -17.205   -13.380    -1.905    1.919    13.394    17.218    36.342    55.466    74.590    93.714
10%       -16.698   -12.448     0.301    4.551    17.300    21.550    42.799    64.048    85.296   106.545
15%       -14.163    -7.789    11.335    17.710    36.834    43.208    75.082   106.955   138.828   170.701
20%       -11.629    -3.129    22.369    30.869    56.367    64.867   107.364   149.862   192.360   234.857
25%        -9.095     1.530    33.403    44.027    75.901    86.525   139.647   192.769   245.891.  299.013
30%        -6.560     6.189    44.437    57.186    95.434   108.183   171.930   235.676   299.423   363.169
The next step is to calculate the NPV and EIRR using the the minimum hurdle rate (probability = 10%,
damages averted = 5%), and the baseline scenario (probability = 10%, damages averted = 10%). The
results for the minimum hurdle rates calculations are summarized in Table A4.4 below, along with the base
case, which uses the lower 10% bound of the historic probability distribution of a hurricane striking
Grenada.
TABLE A4.4
NET ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND RETURN
Economic Analysis
Investment (yrs 1-4)        Operations & Maintenance, Depreciation (yrs 4-20)
2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2010    2015    2019
Minimum Hurdle Rate
Total Costs                        0.285    5.393    5.913    1.623    1.590    1.622    1.791    1.977    2.140
Expected Total Benefits            0.007    0.362    0.348    2.226    2.353    2.494    3.338    4.471   5.650
Expected Net Benefits (ENB)       -0.277   -5.031   -5.565    0.603    0.763    0.872    1.547    2.494    3.510
PV (ENB)                          -0.277   -4.574   -4.599    0.453    0.521    0.541    0.597    0.597    0.574
Cumulative PV(ENB)                -0.277   -4.851   -9.450   -8.997   -8.476   -7.934   -5.034   -2.034    0.301
NPV (of Expected Benefits)  $     0.301
Economic IRR                       10.4%
Baseline
Total Costs                        0.285    5.393    5.913    1.623    1.590    1.622    1.791    1.977    2.140
Expected Total Benefits            0.007    0.362    0.553    4.398    4.657    4.938    6.621    8.881   11.234
Expected Net Benefits (ENB)       -0.277   -5.031   -5.360    2.775    3.067    3.316    4.830    6.903   11.234
PV (ENB)                          -0.277   -4.574   -4.430    2.085    2.094    2.059    1.862    1.653    1.487
Cumulative PV(ENB)                -0.277   -4.851   -9.281   -7.196   -5.101   -3.042    6.672   15.355   21 .550
NPV (Expected Benefits)    $    21.550
Economic IRR                      29.7%
While the probability of a hurricane is going to vary by year, and the damages caused will depend on the
strength of the hurricanes, the actual values will most likely exceed the minimum hurdle rates we have
calculated, which at best are very conservative assumptions.
- 42 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
GRENADA: Grenada Emergency Recovery & Disaster Management Project
Project Components by Year (Including Contingencies)
(in US$)
- 43 -






2000     2001      2002     2003     Total
A. Strengthening Disaster Management Capacity
1. NERO Strengthening
a. Disaster Management Procedures                                73,397    32,464       0    105,861
b. Emergency Operations Center
Civil Works                                                 324,845         0       0    324,845
Design & Supervision                                         41,941         0       0     41,941
Generator                                                    21,217         0       0     21,217
Subtotal Emergency Operations Center                            388,003         0       0    388,003
c. Equipment and Supplies for NERO                              137,911         0       0    137,911
d. Training
Training Needs Analysis                                      20,971         0       0     20,971
Training and Public Awareness                                73,397   119,035  55,843    248,275
Subtotal Training                                                94,368   119,035  55,843    269,246
Subtotal NERO Strengthening                                        693,678   151,499  55,843    901,021
2. Emergency Communications & Early Warning
a. Emergency Communications System
Technical assistance                                         20,971         0       0     20,971
Equipement                                                  188,181         0       0    188,181
Subtotal Emergency Communications System                        209,152         0       0    209,152
b. Early Warning System
Equipment                                                    62,727         0       0      62,727
Technical Assistance                                         15,728         0       0     15,728
Subtotal Early Warning System                                    78,455         0       0     78,455
Subtotal Emergency Communications & Early Warning                  287,607        0        0    287,607
3. Shelters Program
a. Shelter Retrofitting and Construction of Prototype           870,119  1,202,067      0  2,072,186
b. Design and Supervision of Works                              104,853   108,214       0    213,067
c. Technical Assistance for Comprehensive Shelter Program        31,456         0       0     31,456
Subtotal Shelters Program                                        1,006,428  1,310,281      0  2,316,709
4. Strengthening MCWPU capacity
a. Metallic Bridges and Gabions                                 470,453         0       0    470,453
b. TA & Training for Disaster Mngt, EIA & Monitoring Capacity    52,427    54,107  33,506    140,039
Subtotal Strengthening MCWPU capacity                              522,879    54,107  33,506    610,492
Subtotal Strengthening Disaster Management Capacity                  2,510,592 1,515,887  89,349  4,115,828
B. Preventive Physical Mitigation
1. Sea Defenses & Road Rehabilitation
a. Grand Mal Bay Sea Defense & Road Rehabilitation             2,575,553 3,485,994      0  6,061,547
b. Supplemental EIA and Materials Study for Grand Mal Bay        31,456         0       0     31,456
c. Sea Defenses Studies                                71,120   188,735         0       0    259,855
Subtotal Sea Defenses & Road Rehabilitation               71,120 2,795,744 3,485,994       0  6,352,859
2. Slope Protection & River Training                      71,120   146,794         0       0    217,914
3. Drainage and Flood Control                             71,120   146,794         0       0    217,914
Subtotal Preventive Physical Mitigation                      213,360 3,089,333  3,485,994     0  6,788,687
C. Project Management
PCU Staff                                                 71,120   136,309   140,678  78,180    426,287
PCU Training                                                        31,456         0       0     31,456
Office Equipment                                          40,800         0    16,552       0     57,352
Vehicles                                                  60,900    31,364         0       0     92,264
Technical Audits                                                         0    54,107       0     54,107
Financial Audits                                                    31,456    32,464  55,843    119,763
Operating Expenditures                                              10,485    10,821   11,169    32,475
Communications services                                              5,381     5,650   5,933     16,964
Subtotal Project Management                                  172,820   246,451   260,272 151,125    830,668
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                          386,180 5,846,375  5,262,154 240,474 '11,735,183
NERO: National Emergency Relief Organization
MCWPU: Ministry of Communications, Works and Public Ublities  _ 45 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
GRENADA: Grenada Emergency Recovery & Disaster Management Project
Procurement
A. Procurement Arraneements
Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with World Bank "Guidelines:
Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published in January 1995 (revised January/August
1996, September 1997 and January 1999); and "Guidelines. Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers" published in January 1997 (revised in September 1997 and January 1999), and
the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement.
1) Procurement methods
The methods to be used for the procurement described below, and the estimated amounts for each method,
are summarized in Table A. The threshold contract values for the use of each method are fixed in Table B.
Civil Works: The civil works under the project consist of the construction of sea defenses, the retrofitting of
selected shelters, and the rehabilitation and extension of the Emergency Operations Center of the National
Emergency Relief Organization (NERO) totaling US$ 8.459 million equivalent. The larger sea defenses
and road construction contracts will be procured following International Competitive Bidding procedures
(ICB), using Bank-issued Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs). Given the expected size of the works,
there is, no need for a pre-qualification of contractors under ICB but international advertisement of the
project will be done through a Special Procurement Notice (SPN). Contracts estimated to cost less than
US$ 0.5 million equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$ 2,218 million, may be procured
using National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures, using standard bidding documents agreed in
advance with the Bank. These NCB tenders include shelter retrofitting works that will be packaged in three
contracts, and the EOC rehabilitation and extension to be tendered under one contract.
Goods and Equipment: Goods procured under this project, totaling US$ 1.047 million equivalent, would
include vehicles; office furniture; computer and office equipment; communications equipment and
meteorological equipment; emergency equipment and supplies, rescue tools, and sundry items; and metallic
bridges components and gabions. To the extent possible, contracts for these goods will be grouped into
bidding packages of more than US$ 100,000 equivalent and procured following International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) procedures, using Bank-issued Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs). This concerns two
major packages accounting for almost 75 % of the value of the goods to be procured: one for metallic
bridges (and its launching system) and gabions for the Ministry of Communications, Works and Public
Utilities (MCWPU), and one regrouping various technological equipment in three lots (computers and
office equipment, communications equipment, and meteorological equipment).
Contracts for goods which cannot be grouped into larger bidding packages are estimated to be procured in
packages valued at less than US$ 25,000 each. They may be procured using international or local
shopping procedures up to an aggregate amount of US$ 212,000 based on a model Request for Quotations
satisfactory to the Bank. International shopping procedures will be used for the procurement of emergency
equipment and supplies, rescue tools, and sundry items, in packages estimated to cost less than US$ 25,000
individually up to an aggregate amount of US$ 125,000. Local shopping procedures will be used for the
procurement of office furniture, stationary/office supplies, and limited emergency equipment and supplies
- 46 -



in packages estimated to cost less than US$ 25,000 up to an aggregate amount of US$ 87,000.
Procuremnnt of vehicles estimated to cost less than US$ 35,000 up to an aggregate amount of US$ 93,000
will be procured through UNDP's Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office (IAPSO).
Consultants' Services: Consulting services will be contracted under this project in the following areas of
expertise: coastal protection and shore management; flood control, slope protection and river training
engineering; institutional development and disaster management; works supervision; and project
management. These services are estimated to cost US$ 2.197 million equivalent and would be procured
using the Bank's standard guidelines.
Firms
All contracts for firms would be procured using Quality Cost Based Selection (QCBS) and Selection Based
on Consultants' Qualifications (CQ) procedures. Tenders for the studies and design/supervision
consultancies (including both design and supervision phases in each bid) will be issued using the QCBS
procedure. Short-lists will be prepared based on expressions of interests following the publication of the
General Procurement Notice (GPN), and advertisement published in the Development Business and
national newspapers for studies estimated to cost over US$200,000. The CQ procedure will be used up to
a ceiling amounf of US$ 260,000 for: (i) training contracts estimated to cost less than US$50,000; and (ii)
the recruitment of a consulting firm to carry out the supplemental environmental and materials investigation
study for the Grand Mal Bay Sea Defense works under a contract estimated to cost US$ 30,000.
Time-based contracts will be used for all assignments, except for the auditors who will be paid on the basis
of a lump-sum contract.
Individuals
Specialized advisory services would be provided by individual consultants selected by comparison of
qualifications of three candidates and hired in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3
of the Consultant Guidelines, for contracts estimated to cost less than US$35,000 up to an aggregate
amount of US$ 450,000. Terms of reference will in all cases be reviewed by the Bank.
Operating expenditures: Sundry items and stationary/office supplies would be financed by the project and
would be procured using the local shopping procedure. Other expenditures consisting of various
communications services in an amount estimated at US$ 5,000 yearly are to be directly paid for by
Government and procured according to its regular procedures. The Project will finance approximately US$
10,000 during each year of implementation.
2) Prior review thresholds
The proposed thresholds for prior review are based on the procurement capacity assessment of the project
implementing unit and are summarized in Table B. In addition to this prior review of individual
procurement actions, the plan and budget for the PCU operating expenditures will be reviewed and
approved by the Bank annually.
Two copies of each signed contract should be sent to the Bank prior to making disbursements against these
contracts. The first two contracts using international shopping procedures, the first two contracts using
local shopping procedures, and the first contract using the IAPSO procedure from UN agencies will require
prior review. Thereafter, only the first contract using international shopping procedures and the first using
local shopping procedures each year will require prior review. All consultants' services using firms will
require prior review by the Bank. All consultants' services using individuals with an estimated cost greater
than US$ 35,000 will require prior review. All consultants' services using individuals with an estimated
-47 -



cost greater than $20,000 and lower than US$ 35,000 will require prior review of the TORs, the
consultant's qualifications and the terms of contract. All other consultants' services (under $20,000) will be
procured after prior review of TORs.
B. Assessment of the agency's capacity to implement procurement
Procurement activities will be carried out by the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in close coordination
with the various implementing agencies. The PCU will be headed by a Project Coordinator, and include an
Assistant Project Coordinator/Procurement Officer, an Accountant, and an Administrative Assistant. The
Implementation Manual (Project Operational Manual) will include, in addition to the procurement
procedures, the Standard Bidding Documents to be used for each procurement method, as well as model
contracts for goods to be procured under the shopping or IAPSO procedures (among a number of other
items related to project management).
An assessment of the capacity of the Government to implement procurement actions for the project has
been carried out during the pre-appraisal mission of the (report dated February 7, 2000 in project files) and
was approved by the Regional Procurement Adviser on February 18, 2000, with an overall level of risk
assessed as average. The implementation and procurement plan prepared by the PCU during the
preparation stage will be agreed during negotiations, revised by the PCU after effectiveness, and thereafter
sent to project files.
The risks identified in the assessment include: (i) Government staff inexperienced in procurement and
contract management; (ii) slow procurement process currently found in the sub-region; and (iii) the need to
establish procurement filing and contract management procedures for the project. The PCU will recruit the
above-captioned procurement officer before negotiations, and thereafter establish a monitoring system to
maintain control of the procurement actions.
C. Procurement Plan
The Borrower developed a procurement plan for project implementation which provided the basis for the
aggregate amounts for the procurement methods (per Table A). This plan is in the project files. At the
beginning of each calendar year, the Borrower will update the Procurement Plan with a detailed
procurement schedule for the coming year.
D. Frequency of Procurement Supervision
In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from the Bank Headquarters, a full supervision
mission will visit field sites to carry out a post review of contract and procurement actions every 12
months. Based on the overall risk assessment (average) and the limited number of civil works involved, the
post-review field analysis should cover all major investments (mitigation measures), and a sample of not
less than I in 3 shelters contracts. A Bank project supervision plan is in the project files.
-48 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
_  in US$ thousands equivalent)
Expenditure Cateaorv                           Procurement Method                                              .
International        National
Competitive    Comptitivo
Biddina            iiddinn           Oter         N.B.F.       Tobl
Project Costs
(1) Works                                    6,061.5             2,397.0                -          -      8,458.6
(4,549.3)          (2,217.6)                -               (6,766.9)
(2) Goods a)                                    758.6                    -        271.5        17.0       1,047.1
(758.6)                    .      (271.5)           '    (1,030.1)
(3) Consultants'Services b)                                              -      2,197.1                   2,197.1
-    (2,197.1)                 (2,197.1)
(4) Operating Expenditures C)                                                       32.5           -          32.5
(26.0)                   (26.0)
Total Project Costs                           6,820.2            2,397.0        2,501.0        17.0      11,735.2
.______________________                (5.307.9)          (2.217.6)    (2.494.51              -   11.20.
Figurs in parentasis are the amounts to be fnancd by the Bank loanlDA  redit
a) Irnterationsa shopping for emgency equipment an supplies; Naonal hoppin for oia furniture and equipment;
From UN Agencies (IAPSO) for vehicles
bi Consultnts Serices in Table Al
c) National Shoting for supplies and sundry items
Note: N.8.F. =Not Bank-financed (inrclud    mnts procured under paalle Ico-fi    proedures,
consultanes under trust furds, any reServed procurement. end any other miscellaneous items).
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
________________                            (in US$ thousands equivalnt)_
Consultant Services                                      Selection Method                                        Total Cost
Exoenditure Catsaorv                                                               .                      finc. contnaencleai
OCRs QBS    SFB LCS   CO                         Other    N.B.F.
I. Firms                              1487                             260                                                     1747
(training & Grand Mal Bay EIA study)
IL Individuals                                                                             450                                  450
_________________                             (PCU & various)
Total                                 1487                             260                 450                                 2197
OCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
08S = Quality-based Selection
SF8 = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Coat Selection
CO   = Selection Based on ConsultantW QualHfications
N.B.F. * Not Bank-financed.
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants GuidelIes), Commera Practices, etc.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be fiancod by the Bank loan.
-49 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure             Contract Value        Procurement                Contracts Subject to
Category                 (Threshold)            Method                      Prior Review
(USS '000)                                      (USS millions)
I. Consultants
Firms                   50 or more             QCBS                            All
<50                  CQ                            All
Individuals               20<35       See Section V of Guidelines  Review of TORs, contracts, and CVs
< 20       See Section V of Guidelines      Review of TORs only
II. Works                 500 or more             ICB                            All
<500                 NCB                           All
Ill. Goods                100 or more             ICB                            All
<25         International Shopping           First 2 contracts
Then First per year
<25           National Shopping              First 2 contracts
Then First per year
<35       From UN Agencies tIAPSO)             First contract
Total value of contracts
subject to prior review     90%
- 50 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loantcredit proceeds (Table C)
A US$5.06 million loan and a US$5.01 million credit will be extended to Grenada in support of the
US$11.79 million (including contingencies and front-end-fee) program of activities described in Annex 2.
This project forms part of the second phase (APL2) of an APL that covers five OECS countries for a total
of US$ 54.89 million to be disbursed in four phases. The arrangements and descriptions described here
apply to this particular part of APL2 which is for Grenada. The closing date for this project will be May
15, 2004. The allocation of loan proceeds for this project is presented in Table C below.
Allocation of Loan Proceeds (US$ thousands)
Loan   Credit
Total    %
I. Civil Works           5,720.0   80.0  2,860.0  2,860.0
II. Goods               1,000.0  100.0   500.0   500.0
111. Consultants        2,075.0  100.0  1,037.4  1,037.4
IV. Operating Expenses     24.0   80.0   12.0   12.0
V. Loan Fee                50.6  100.0   50.6
VI. Unallocated          1,201.0  100.0   600.0   600.0
Total                   10.070.6       5.060.0  5.010.1
Retroactive Financing
It was agreed that retroactive financing would cover expenditures with regard to certain goods and services
acquired from July 1, 2000, up to the date of signing of the Loan and Credit Agreement for a maximum of
SDR 115,000 (US$150,000 equivalent). These services and goods will be procured in accordance with the
procurement provisions set forth in the Loan Agreement. They will cover the following: (i) fees of
consultants working for the PCU; (ii) office equipment, furniture and other miscellaneous start-up expenses
for the PCU; (iii) office equipment and furniture for NERO and the Meteorological Services; and (iv) the
supplemental environmental and materials investigation study for Grand Mal Bay.
Special Account and Flow of Funds
It was agreed that the project would operate two separate accounts: one US dollar Special Account with an
authorized allocation of US$1.5 million at the National Commercial Bank of Grenada, Ltd., on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the World Bank, from which payments will be made directly for all eligible
works, goods and services; and one Eastern Caribbean dollar account (for Government counterpart funds)
in the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank with an initial deposit of counterpart funds in the amount of
US$850,000 equivalent prior to project effectiveness, and a subsequent deposit of US$865,000 one year
after the effectiveness date.
For project activities undertaken under all components of the project, the PCU will procure the works,
goods and services as discussed in Annex 2 and defined in the Project Implementation Manual (PIM).
Disbursements from the Special Account will be made on the basis of the terms detailed in the Loan and
Credit Agreements and the PIM. Government counterpart funds will be used to finance the following
- 51 -



categories: 20% of civil works contracts and 20% of operating expenditures. Disbursements for services
for communications for the PCU that need to be contracted directly will be financed from counterpart funds
(100%) for up to US$5,000 per year, for a total of US$15,000.
The project agreed to use the Project Management Reports (PMRs) as the basis of disbursements and
reporting. The project decided to use the PMR from the outset of implementation and effectiveness,
thereby eliminating the need to change over from the traditional SOE, which would pose some difficulties
with the flow of funds to the project. The financial forecasts of the PMR, which are based on the
procurement plan and estimated six months of operating expenditures, would be delivered to the Bank no
later than 45 days after the end of a three month quarter (January 1 -March 31; April 1-June 30; July
1-September 30; and October 1-December 31).
Detailed supporting documentation, including certification, for expenditures will be kept by the PCU for at
least one fiscal year and submitted to the Bank. For all contracts requiring the Bank's prior review, full
documentation will accompany no-objection requests. Detailed documentation will be retained by the PCU
for inspection during supervision missions and for audit by external auditors acceptable to the Bank. The
auditors will audit the Special Account and Project Account annually, no more than 3 months after the end
of each fiscal year. For the documentation of government counterpart funds, it was realized that other
international projects had proceeded through stages of implementation without adequate funding by the
government. It was agreed that the PCU would submit a Project Account reconciliation along with Bank
statements with each submission of the PMR. This would enable the PCU and the Bank to verify that all
sources of funding were adequately based on the financial forecasts and project plans embodied in the
PMRs.
Assessment of Agency's Financial Management Capacity
An assessment of Agency's financial management capacity was conducted on site from January 17-21,
2000, by a Financial Management Officer, and in accordance with guideline OP/BP 10.02 and the Project
Financial Management Handbook dated February 1999. The objectives of the assessment were to determine
if the Project Management Unit has the capacity to properly manage and account for all project proceeds
and to produce timely, accurate and reliable project management reports for use by management and
submission to the World Bank.
On the basis of the assessment performed, the Financial Management Specialist concluded that, at this
time, the project does not yet meet the Bank's minimum financial management requirements (a 4-C
certification has been issued) due to a few outstanding items that will complete the financial management
preparation of the project. This shortcoming will be remedied by effectiveness and is noted in the action
plan shown below.
Detailed Action Plan for Financial Management
Activity                                        Completed by
1. Financial Procedures drafted                 October, 2000
2. Installation and customization of software   October, 2000
3. Draft formats of PMR                         October, 2000
-52 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
GRENADA: Grenada Emergency Recovery & Disaster Management Project
P_roje   ct ScPldule                                  ane                        Act: l
Time taken to prepare the project (2months) 
First Bank mission (identification)                                            01/21/99
Appraisal mission departure                      01/17/2000                    07/16/2000
Negotiations                                     06/12/2000                    08/16/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    11/15/2000
Prepared by:
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Specialiay
Bernard Becq*                      Team Leader, Sr. Operations Officer
Rumana Huque                       Co-Team Leader, Urban Specialist
Michel Audige                      Lead Port Operations Specialist
Arnaud Marie Guinard               Lead Urban Specialist
Rajeev Swami                       Financial Management Officer
Peter Ellis                        Economist
Mariangeles Sabella                Legal Counsel
Judith Morroy                      Procurement Analyst
John Pickard                       Consultant
Ana Daza                           Program Assistant
* procurement accredited staff
- 53 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
GRENADA: Grenada Emergency Recovery & Disaster Management Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Grenada Project Implementation Plan. *
B. Bank Staff Assessments
* World Bank BTOs and Aide Memoires. *
* Financial Management Assessment. *
* Procurement Assessment. *
* Capacity and institutional strengthening measures. *
C. Other
* Environmental Impact Assessment.
* Project Supervision Plan
*Including electronic files
-54 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
OECS COUNTRIES: Grenada Emergency Recovery & Disaster Management Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions          disbursements
Project ID     FY   Borrower                       Purpose                                      IBRD       IDA       Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
P062668        1999 OECS Countries            OECS EMERGENCY RECOV DISASTER MNGT                  14.07       5.38       0.00      16.34       1.05      0.00
P006970        1995 OECS Countries             OECS WASTE MGMNT                                    6.82       4.57       0.00      10.85      13.45      0.00
P035730        1998 OECS Countries            TELECOM REFORM                                       3.60       2.42       0.00       5.44       0.B9       0 00
Total:       24.49       12.37        0.00       32.63      15.39      0 00
- 55 -



OECS COUNTRIES
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                               IFC
FY Approval         Company                         Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
Total Portfolio:          0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                             Loan    Equity      Quasi     Partic
Total Pending Commitment:          0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
- 56 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
GRENADA: Grenada Emergency Recovery & Disaster Management Project
Latin    UDDer.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            America   middle.
Grenada   & Carib,   income       Developmentdiamond'
1998
Ponulalion mid-vear (millions)                         0.10        502       588                  Life expectancy
GNP oer cacita (Atlas method. USS)                    3.170      3,940     4.860
GNP (Atlas method. US$ billions)                       0 30      1 978      2 862
Aversao annual orowth. 1992-91
Poculatian (V.l                                         0 4        1 6        1.4
Labor force /%)                                                    2 3        2.0     GNP                               Gross
per                             primary
Moat recent estimate (latest vear available. 1992.98)                                 capita              /nrnllmnt
Povertv (9 of tDoulation below nationai oovertv line)
Urban nonulation (9 of total ooDulation)                 37         75        77
Life excoectancv at birth (vearsJ                        72         70        70
Infant mortalitv (oer 1.000 live births)                 24         32        27
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                ..         8                          Access to safe water
Access to safe water (9 Of DoDulation)                   S5         75        79
Illiteracv 16 o oDooulatlon aoe 15+)                       .        13        11
Gross orimarv enrollment (96 of school-aae ooou/.tionl    ..       113       108       ~       Grenada
Mate                                         .          ..                                   Upper-middle-income group
Female
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
t977     1987       1997      1898
Economic ratioe-
GOP IUSS billions)                            0.05     0.17       0.32       0.34
Gross domestic investment/GDP                 15 8      33 2      380        40.6                     rrade
Exoorts of ooods and services/GDP             50.6     48.0       40.2       37.9
Gross domestic savinas/GDP                     5.3      12.4      17.0       17.0
Gross national savinoslGDP                    13 9      17.3      24.8       24.2
Current account balance/GDP                    2.4    -13 6       -13 2     -16.5
Interest navments/GDP                          0.8       1.1       0.7                Domestic                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                                21.8      42 2      33.3       22.8     Savieg\
Total debt servicelexoorts                     2.1       6.1       5.9        6.0
Present value of debtUGDP                        -                25.2
Present value of debtl/eoorts                                     51.5
Indebtedness
1977-S7  1988-98     1997       1908   1999-03
(averaae annual arowth)
GDP                                   4.5      2.4       6.8       4.8          .               Grenada
GNP oer caoita                        4.3      2.0       6.0       4 5          .               Upper-middle-income group
Exoorts of aoods and services         3.4      1.7       4 1       -t.2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997      1998      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(96 of GDP)I2
Aariculture                                   27.1      18.7        81        8.4
Industrv                                      14.2      18.9      20.7       22.2 y0
Manufacturinn                                3.1       5.9        6.7       7.1      o
Services                                      58.7     62.4       71.2       69.4    -1a- /4
Private consumotion                           76.5      67.2      65.8       65.8    -20
General oovemment consumDtion                 18.2      20.4      17 2       17.2                     GDI    -'-GDP
Imoorts of aoods and services                 61.1     68.8       81 1      61.4
(averaoe annual arowthl                    1977-87  1988-98       1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Aoriculture                                    -0.7     -2.0      -0.9        2.4    30
Industrv                                       5.9       4.3       6 8       13.6    20
Manufacturing                                11.2      4.8        5.3      14.1     1
Services                                       5.3       3.2       4 2        4.0
Private consumotion                            3.7       2.7      10.0        4.8    -10      9
General government consumotion                 4.1      -0.2       9 1        4.8
Gross domestic investment                     11.9       3.4      12.3       12.1     2
Imoorts of goods and services                  5.1       1.9      12.5        5.3                   Exports    -'Irmports
Gross national oroduct                         4.3       2.3       66         5.3
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the countrv (in bold) comoared with its income-orouo averaoe. If data are missino. the diamond will
be incomolete.
- 57 -



Grenada
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                                1977     1987       1997      1998      Inflatfon (%)
(% change)                                                                              r
Consumer prices                                18.4     -0.9        4.7       4.8      4
Implicit GDP deflator                                    4 5        -0. 1     3.6
2
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                                  9 -          9     9      9_
Current revenue                                                    26.8      27.6    -2 -     vs                        97
Current budget balance                                              -0.3      0.2                    GOP deflator       CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                             -6.2     -6.6
TRADE
1977     1987       1997      1998
(USS millions)                                                                         Export and Import levels (USS mIillions)
Total exports (fob)                                       32         26        29      200
Cocoa                                                    4          2         .
Bananas                                                  4                           1so
Manufactures                                                       12        29
Total imports (cif)                                      103        174       197      100
Food                                                    24    38                     so 1        *11
Fuel and energy                                          5         14
Capital goods                                           21         45                 o
ExDort orice index (1995=1001                     .2   93   94   r,   gs   97   98
ImDort Drice index (1995=100)                                                                   * Exports      *Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                                 1977     1987       1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%
Exports of goods and services                    29       85        127       130       0
Importsofgoodsandservices                        33      121        193       211
Resource balance                                 -4      -35        -66       -81      -5
Net income                                        0       -7        -17       -17
Netcurrenttransfers                               5       19         41        41     -10
Current account balance                           1      -23        -42       -57     -15
Financing items (net)                            -1       26         49        59
Changes in net reserves                           0       -3         -7        -2    -20
Memo:
Reserves includino oold 1USS millions)
Conversion rate (DEC. local/USS)                2.7       2.7        2.7      2 7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987       1997      1998
(USS millions)                                                                         Composition of total debt, 1998 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed             12       71        105        78
IBRD                                            0        0          0         1
IDA                                            0         3          7         8
Total debt service                                1        5          9         9              F 5
IBRD                                            0        0          0         0
IDA                                            0         0          0         0
Compositon of net resource flows
Official grants                                 1        8          4
Official creditors                              2        9         -2        -3           E :25
Private creditors                               0       -1         -1        -1                                     D 32
Foreign direct investment                       0       15         22
Portfolio equity
World Bank program
Commitments                                     0        0          0         0      A - IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                   0        1          0         1      B - IDA   D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                            0        0          0         0      C - IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                       0        1          0         1
Interest payments                               0        0          0         0
Net transfers                                   0        1          0         1
Development Economics                                                                                                      9/9/99
- 58 -



