Report No. PID8708
Project Name                     Grenada-Grenada OECS Emergency (@) ...
Recovery Disaster Management Program
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                           Other Public Sector Management;
Non-Sector Specific
Project ID                       GDPE69922
Borrower(s)                      GRENADA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND PLANNING,
NERO, MCWPU, MET OFFICE
The Carenage, St George, Grenada
Contact Person: Mervin Haynes
Tel: 473 440 2214
Fax: 473 440 4115
Email: mhgene@hotmail.com
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                October 17, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         July 17, 2000
Projected Board Date             October 17, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
Grenada is very vulnerable to natural disasters stemming primarily from
hurricanes, floods and storm surges. During the last century, Grenada was
struck by three hurricanes and experienced one major flood, and each year,
it is subject to storm surges that batter its coastline. As recently as
November 1999, the country was devastated by storm surges caused by
Hurricane Lenny. The repercussions of disasters on Grenada and its
economy can be severe, evidenced by the hurricane of 1975 which incurred
damages of roughly 20t of GDP.   The devastation associated with the impact
of these hazards also often overwhelms local emergency systems resulting
in the need for massive external assistance. Grenada faces special
challenges due to its small size--the island is about 340 sq. km., with a
population of roughly 100,000 people, and a GNP per capita of US$ 3,170 in
1998. In addition, its mountainous terrain and low population densities
make the cost of providing, maintaining and repairing economic and social
infrastructure high. In order to minimize the adverse impacts of
disasters on economic activity and to protect communities, the government
has made its top policy priority the strengthening of the institutions
responsible for managing natural disaster situations. Tourism and
Agriculture. Tourism has become the most important foreign exchange
earning sector in Grenada, with tourist arrivals showing sturdy growth of
6.39 in 1998.  Natural disasters can, however, have a devastating impact
on the tourism industry since tourists are generally wary about visiting a
country that has been struck by a hurricane or tropical storm. In
addition, it takes time to rehabilitate the infrastructure needed to serve
the tourism industry. However, most hotels have already
protection/evacuation plans and emergency procedures, and are usually the
most proactive in repairing their facilities after hurricanes.



Agriculture is also vulnerable to natural hazards because of its
dependence on foreign trade and since it continues to play an important
role in the island's economic wealth. Although declining in total output,
agriculture still represented about 9t of GDP in 1998, and exports from
the agricultural industry--particularly nutmeg and mace--are an important
source of revenue for Grenada.   Roughly 60t of the country's nutmeg
exports are processed to the north of Grand Mal Bay on the western side of
the island, and the other 40t is processed on the eastern side.    The
harbor from which the exports are transported is located to the south of
Grand Mal Bay at the capital, St. Georges, and there is only one access
road (the western coast road) that connects the agricultural processing
zones with the harbor. Any disruptions due to damages to the road would
therefore result in serious losses to agricultural producers, especially
if damages are severe and repairs are not immediate. Roads, Transport, and
Coastal Areas. The transport and communication networks are increasingly
vital to Grenada in terms of transporting both merchandise and people.
However, the country's physical infrastructure is particularly vulnerable,
as witnessed by the damage caused by the storm surges of Hurricane Lenny
in November 1999. Many populated areas are also vulnerable to recurrent
disasters such as landslides and floods, which not only threaten lives,
but also have a significant negative impact on road conditions and the
road network, thereby causing disruptions in road transport, and
eventually hampering economic activities. Selective strengthening of
roads and bridges in key sections of the network is needed to help
minimize this disruption. There are three major routes in Grenada that
form the backbone of the strategic highway network, namely the Western
Coast Main Road, Eastern Coast Main Road and Grand Etang Road. Both the
Western and Eastern Coast Main Roads are coastal over large extents of
their length, with the Western having a greater length of road adjacent to
the sea. In addition to connecting important production centers with the
capital, the western coast road also serves as the only means of access to
employment for the population living to the north of St. Georges. To the
north of the capital is also located an important fuel depot (the Texaco
terminal), which also supplies the airport. This makes this section of
the road, between St. Georges and Grand Mal Bay, a critical lifeline for
the functioning of the island's economy. The Grand Mal Bay area is also
home to roughly 1,300 people, and is also one of the largest fishing
villages on the island.Not only is the government's ability to maintain
and prevent breakdowns in the physical infrastructure important, but so is
its ability to repair critical facilities should they be damaged. Storm
surges from Hurricane Lenny caused damages to the Western Main Coast Road
between St. Georges and Gouyave Bay. Damages caused at Grand Mal
Bay/Fontenoy, especially, disrupted transport between the Texaco fuel
depot to the north of St. Georges and the southern parts of the island and
resulted in a week-long shortage of gasoline in the gas stations in those
areas. As no storage capacity exists at the international airport, air
transport services were seriously constrained at this critical time when
external aid was also most needed. After Hurricane Lenny, temporary
reinstatement works have been carried out to re-establish the circulation
along the West coast, but the works done so far need urgent reinforcement
to avoid future disruptions. Shelters. The Government of Grenada (GoG)
has identified the existence of safe and hurricane-resistant shelters as
key to disaster management. Shelters are currently not hurricane
resistant and not adequately managed. There is a lack of clear guidelines
with regard to shelter management, no regular training for shelter
- 2-



managers, and they are also poorly equipped for effective functioning
during an emergency (i.e. lack of generators, water supply, etc.). In
addition, the shelter managers also tend to be school principles, who may
not reside within the community where the shelter is located. There is
thus a clear need to improve not only the shelters themselves but also
strengthen their management and operations.Community Involvement in
Disaster Management. Currently, fifteen District Disaster Committees
exist at the local level, but they are purely voluntary and do not
coordinate with any of the local level government structures for disaster
management (e.g. the local level health disaster team or the coast
guard). They are not well trained, have weak mobilization capacity to
handle emergencies, and are not properly equipped to effectively deal with
emergency situations. The District Disaster Committees also tend to act
as "relief" committees rather than committees that can play an active role
in disaster preparedness and mitigation. There is thus a need to
restructure these committees, institutionalize them, and facilitate better
cooperation between them and local government structures.Public Sector
Capacity. Expertise in the public sector is generally very limited with
regard to disaster management, in spite of the existence of a dedicated
disaster management agency, namely the National Emergency Relief
Organization (NERO). NERO is currently understaffed with only one
professional staff, the National Disaster Coordinator (NDC), and two
non-professional office administrators. The lack of capacity within
Grenada's public-sector institutions is also reflected by the fact that:
(i) there is very little planning for disaster investments and a lack of
proactive efforts to improve preparedness measures; (ii) the national
disaster plan dates back to 1985, making it operationally outdated, and it
has no legal authority; (iii) disaster emergency procedures are not
regularly tested; (iv) there is little collaboration between all
stakeholders, and for all to be closely associated with emergency measures
(e.g. disaster committees, community leaders and organizations); (v) there
are no real regulations to prepare and/or enforce zoning and the new
building codes; and (vi) there is no effective early warning and emergency
communications system.    Government Strategies.  The government's strategy
to strengthen disaster management capacity is to adopt and implement
institutional measures aimed at improving preparation for and response to
disaster emergencies, increase staffing in concerned agencies and
implement a comprehensive training program, and put in place sustainable
procedures to ensure quick response in case of natural disasters. The
main thrusts of the government's strategy are to:strengthen the human
resource capacity of NERO through additional professional staff financed
by Government as permanent positions, and improved disaster planning and
operational emergency procedures;institutionalize disaster management into
mainstream government functions, in particular through specialized
technical training for NERO and all concerned branches of government, as
well as other agencies, the private sector and communities;sensitize
communities to disaster preparedness and mitigation to demonstrate the
effectiveness of properly organized committees representing all sectors of
the community such as churches, schools, the business community,
etc.;review the current institutional location of NERO, and make a
decision regarding an eventual shift to the Prime Minister's office or the
Ministry of Finance;establish a full-fledged National Hazard Mitigation
Council (NHMC) to serve as an inter-ministerial body consisting of a broad
representation of concerned ministries and agencies, the private sector,
and NGOs; increase investments in mitigation and prevention measures;
-3 -



anddesignate and renovate the NERO building that houses the national
Emergency Operations Center (EOC) and also serves as the National Disaster
Office (NDO).
2. Objectives
The primary development objective of the this phase of the APL for Grenada
(hereafter referred to as "the project") is to strengthen Grenada's
resilience, preparedness, and ability to respond to the effects of natural
disasters.This objective will be achieved by:strengthening the country's
institutional structures;building the capacity of the National Emergency
Relief Organization (NERO) and other concerned public agencies to perform
their respective responsibilities more effectively during a
crisis;implementing physical mitigation, retrofitting and prevention
measures to protect key infrastructure and lifeline facilities before
disasters strike; retrofitting shelters to improve the safety of the
poorer populations; improving natural resource management; andpromoting
community involvement through organizing, training and equipping community
disaster committees in disaster preparedness and mitigation, and enhancing
their role in disaster preparedness and recovery operations.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Disaster Mitigation Experience. The Bank has gained experience,
particularly over the last five years, in preparing a number of emergency
disaster mitigation projects, including for floods, cyclones, and El Nino
effects throughout the Latin America and Caribbean Region, as well as in
other developing countries outside this region. The lessons and best
practices from these experiences are being applied to this
project.Regional OECS Projects. The Bank has already worked on a number
of regional projects for the OECS/CARICOM countries and has established
strong working relationships, as well as experience in coordinating
regional efforts.External Expert Advice. Through the Bank's Disaster
Management Facility (DMF), the project team from the Bank includes staff
from the U.S. National Weather Service, and the U.S. Federal Emergency
Management Agency, which provide practical, operational and
state-of-the-art approaches to emergency management. The team is also
drawing upon the experience of the Organization of American States (OAS),
and USAID/OFDA in these areas.Donor Coordination. The project has been
designed in collaboration with donors and other international
organizations, in particular the CDB, OAS and USAID/OFDA. The Dutch trust
fund was used to finance the use of consultants during project
preparation.
4. Description
The APL 2 project will consist of two major components: A. strengthening
disaster management capacity, aimed at improving Grenada's capacity to
prepare for and respond to disaster emergencies; and B. preventive
physical mitigation, aimed at minimizing damages caused by disasters
through preventive infrastructure investments and associated supervision
services, as well as the necessary preliminary studies to assess risks and
damages, and prepare detailed designs for critical priorities to be
financed subsequently. It will also include a project management
component to assit Government in discharging its overall coordination,
financial management, procurement, and reporting
responsibilities.Initially, as outlined in the original PAD prepared for
APL 1 the program sought to differentiate and support the funding of both
- 4 -



institutional strengthening and capacity building. Institutional
strengthening was defined as measures aimed at improving the regulatory
framework as it applies to disaster planning and mitigation (such as
improving the regulatory framework, developing a national building code,
disaster insurance, hazard analysis and vulnerability mapping), and
strengthening disaster management capacity sought to strengthen the
capacity of national institutions responsible for disaster preparedness,
mitigation and management (such as staffing, training, and equipment for
disaster-related agencies). APL 2 has been slightly restructured to focus
primarily on strengthening disaster management capacity rather than on
institutional strengthening as defined above due a number of factors: (i)
the general lack of preparation of the related activities discussed for
funding under the Bank project; (ii) the fact that other donors and
organizations in the region --which are better equipped to intervene in
these areas compared to the Bank due to their substantial experience in
the region in these matters and ability to provide funding under more
adapted regional procedures-- have expressed a willingness to continue
financing such activities under the framework provided by the APL program;
(iii) the weak country's ability to implement and enforce regulatory
reforms, so that activities aimed at institutional reform such as mapping
and zoning should be pursued only after the government's enforcement
capacity has been enhanced; and (iv) the need to streamline the Bank
projects to fit the assessment that the existing capacity within national
institutions responsible for disaster management is still fairly weak.The
strengthening disaster management capacity component includes 4
sub-components: 1. strengthening the National Emergency Relief
Organization (NERO), including inter alia rehabilitating the Emergency
Operations Center (EOC), strengthening its human resource capacity through
a comprehensive training program open to other agencies and communities,
elaborating/revising emergency proedures (including protection/evacuation
plans and emergency procedures for hotels), procuring emergency equipment,
rescue tools and supplies, and preparing a comprehensive disaster
management training program; 2. developing a country-wide early warning
and emergency communications system, including technical assistance and
procuring specialized equipment; 3. implementing a shelter program,
including training and retrofitting selected public buildings; and 4.
capacity-building measures for the Ministry of Works, including training
and procuring stocks of prefabricated metallic bridges and gabions. The
physical mitigation component includes 3 sub-components: 1. sea defenses
to protect against storm surges and rehabilitation of exposed road
sections, including (a) civil works at Grand Mal Bay and associated
supervision services, and (b) the feasibility and design of a prioritized
sea defense investment program; 2. a drainage and flood contro feasibility
study and the design of protection works for flood-prone areas; and 3. a
river training and slope protection feasibility study, and the design of
protection works for particularly vulnerable main roads.The project
management component includes the funding of : 1. the specialists to be
recruited in the PCU (Assistant Project Coordinator/Procurement Officer,
Accountant, Administrative Assistant); 2. office equipment; 3. separate
technical and financial audits; and 4. operating expenditures.Total costs
for the project's components are listed below (the front-end fee will be
determined at negotiations).
A. Strengthening Disaster Management Capacity.
B. Preventive Physical Mitigation
C. Project Management
-5-



5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT 1.7
IBRD 5.06
IDA 5.01
Total Project Cost 11.77
6. Implementation
Project Coordination and ManagementA Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
headed by a full-time Project Coordinator (PC) has been set up within the
Ministry of Finance and Planning to coordinate and manage the project, and
will be responsible for project implementation. The PCU will be
responsible for managing the different aspects of the project,
coordinating implementing agencies, keeping accounts, and reporting to the
World Bank. The PCU will also hire on a full-time basis an Assistant
Project Coordinator, an Accountant, and an administrative assistant. The
Assistant Project Coordinatorwill also assume the responsibility of
Procurement Officer, and will be a fully qualified procurement and
contract management specialist.A National Hazard Mitigation Council will
be established to serve as a steering committee to coordinate country-wide
policy issues, approve the selection of priority investments, and help
ensure compliance with government commitments. The committee would
consist of representatives of relevant sector ministries involved in the
program, as well as representatives from the private sector and NGOs.The
preventive physical mitigation component will be implemented by the
Ministry of Communications, Works and Public Utilities (MCWPU). The
shelters program will be implemented jointly by the Ministry of Education
and the Ministry of Community Development with assistance from MCWPU.
NERO will be the implementing agency for most of the components dealing
with the strengthening of disaster management capacity, and will monitor
all other activities under this component that are managed by other
agencies. The implementing agencies will work under the auspices of the
PCU, and will provide progress reports to the PCU on a monthly basis. The
PCU will in turn report on a bi-annual basis to the World Bank, and an
annual performance review will be conducted.Financial Management,
Accounting, and Auditing ArrangementsA Financial Management Assessment of
the existing financial management procedures, accounting system and
administrative controls of the Ministry of Finance and Planning was
carried out and cleared by the World Bank in February 2000. To assist
with financial management, the PCU will hire an internationally qualified
Accountant for the duration of the project. The PCU will maintain two
separate accounts for project incurred expenditures, one account for
IBRD/IDA funds (Special Account) and one account for Government's
counterpart funds (Project Account). In accordance with the Bank's Loan
Administrative Change Initiative (LACI), the PCU will on a quarterly basis
produce and submit to the World Bank a Project Management Report (PMR),
which allows for the simultaneous monitoring of financial, physical and
procurement activity of the project, while also serving as an application
for disbursement from the loan/credit account. The assessment of the
capacity of the Office of the Auditor General to perform the annual
independent audit of the PCU highlighted its limited resources. It was
therefore decided that the audit would be contracted to an external
accounting firm according to the Bank's procurement guidelines. The PCU
will ensure that an annual independent audit is carried out and completed
by a qualified international auditing firm, with a final report issued to
- 6-



the Bank no later than 6 months after the end of the fiscal year. The
hiring of an audit firm acceptable to the Bank was a condition of
negotiations.
7. Sustainability
Preventive Physical Mitigation. Inadequate maintenance has been a key
issue in the lack of sustainability of infrastructure, as was witnessed by
the damages caused during the storm surges associated with Hurricane
Lenny. For each of the physical investment components of the project
therefore, a legal covenant will stipulate that, prior to annual reviews,
each relevant sector ministry will prepare and submit to the Bank for
review and approval an O&M plan and budget for all relevant physical
components financed under the project. Although capacity exists among
local contractors, there are still some key risks as to the ability of the
local construction industry to carry out the smaller civil works
appropriately (the large civil works will be an international bid) to
ensure that adequate technical standards are maintained.Strengthening
Disaster Management Capacity. From a project point of view, both NERO and
the line ministries are stretched too thin to manage the project and/or
project components as they are currently staffed and organized. The
assessment of procurement and contract monitoring capacity, as well as
financial management capacity, in line ministries exhibit weaknesses.
Besides some existing capacity in the Ministry of Communications, Works,
and Public Utilities (MCWPU), and the Ministry of Education due to the
Bank-financed Basic Education Project, little procurement capacity
exists. The project will provide assistance to NERO in preparing for and
managing emergency situations, and support to Government via the PCU on
procurement and project management.To ensure sustainability in the long
run, the project will seek government commitment to staffing NERO and
increasing financial resources to ensure its long-term viability after the
project is completed (through requiring two additional staff positions
financed by the government in NERO). The bulk of the assistance provided
to these agencies from project resources will be in setting up systems for
response activities, as well as for equipment and training. This
important "setting-up" first phase will be followed by further support for
longer-term institutional reforms in disaster preparedness and management
through APL 3.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Bank-wide experience of successful emergency programs and previous
projects undertaken in the Caribbean, including the APL1 projects, and
incorporated into this project are: (i) project simplification with fewer
components and implementing agencies to facilitate project coordination
and implementation in a weak institutional capacity context; (ii) early
dialogue with government on necessary institutional reforms with regard to
disaster management and preparedness, and up-front strong government
commitment as evidenced by actions to be agreed before negotiations; (iii)
longer and better preparation of project components, and clear agreements
between implementing agencies and the Bank; (iv) focus on strengthening
the capacity of existing institutions to effectively discharge their
responsibilities with regard to disaster management and preparedness; and
(v) investing in capacity-building measures in this first phase of the
program for Grenada to increase the Borrower's ability to mitigate the
effects of future disasters and avoid ad-hoc requests for emergency
assistance following disasters.Specific lessons from APL1 are mostly that:
- 7 -



(i) preparation in the prevailing emergency situation resulted in a
certain number of ill-prepared proposals, delays during implementation to
complete tender documents and launch activities, and the need to
restructure some components or sub-components; (ii) activities earmarked
for co-financing but with undefined donors resulted in the need for an
increased effort during implementation to coordinate with other donors,
and seek those with a longer experience with certain institutional
strengthening issues and a better ability to provide more adapted regional
funding; (iii) projects which are very complex by nature (multi-sector and
new area of assistance) could not be easily implemented in a context of
rather weak project management and administrative capacity; (iv) national
institutions responsible for disaster management are still too much in
infancy to take on the management of all the complex dimensions of project
management and coordination of all concerned agencies; and (v) the Bank
was better placed to focus on long-term prevention (both institutional and
physical investments) than on short-term emergency measures, which other
donors are often better organized to deliver.While this phase will
primarily build the institutional capacity of the country with regard to
disaster management and emergency response, its preparation has also
highlighted weaknesses within various specific government agencies to
respond to and manage disasters that are fairly similar to those
above-captioned. This was very much accounted for in identifying the key
investments and capacity strenthening activities that the project has
finally settled on. In addition, the importance of shelters during an
emergency has helped identify related assistance necessary for the use of
shelters to be effective, general experience with communications and early
warning systems has helped restructure these very important sub-components
in more easily implementable activities, the lack of capacity to
coordinate and manage the projects has resulted in more focused technical
assistance to NERO, and the general lack of managerial capacity has helped
in the choice to elaborate and implement a comprtehensive training program
for staff of all concerned agencies, as well as for disaster managers and
community committees.This led to streamline the Bank-financed projects to
focus primarily on capacity-building and preventive physical mitigation.
Better up-front coordination with donors allowed a more focused approach
to co-financing and the agreement that a number of key activities such as
in particular institutional strengthening (regulatory framework, disaster
planning, building code, disaster insurance, hazard analysis and
vulnerability mapping) would be financed by other donors within the APL
framework.Specifically, for the five OECS countries covered by this APL,
including Grenada, the need for training is of utmost importance to ensure
rapid response and effective management of the situation during and
immediately following a natural disaster. Training in Bank procedures,
such as procurement and financial management, will prove vital to
successful project implementation. Also, in building the country's
institutional capacity with regard to disaster management over time,
emphasis is given to technical assistance in the form of training to
various government bodies, such as NERO, MCWPU, and the PCU staff, who are
part of the Ministry of Finance and Planning. This on-the-job training
will build local capacity through actively transferring relative knowledge
to local agency staff from both within the country and internationally.
Also, Bank assistance through the provision of documents to aid in project
preparation has proven to be crucial. Another important aspect given
special attention was ensuring that the borrower was committed to both the
short run implementation of the current project, as well as the long run
- 8 -



sustainability of a disaster management program. In terms of
implementation, the coordination and management role of the PCU vis-a-vis
the other government agencies (such as MCWPU) responsible for executing
the various project components, was clearly spelled out to avoid conflicts
later on during project implementation. The PCU also needed a clear
mandate enabling it to coordinate various other government agencies, and
housing it within the Ministry of Finance and Planning aided this
process.For disaster management and response, the role and legal authority
of NERO has to be clearly defined, and its existence has to be
institutionalized and backed by Government, if it is to act effectively
during an emergency. In addition, the response at the local level is also
critical and community involvement via the district disaster committees
has been incorporated into the project design. Again, training for both
NERO staff, the district disaster committees and communities in disaster
management and response is critical. In order to ensure that the shelters
are properly utilized and accessible during an emergency, the project has
emphasized the need for shelter managers to be selected from, and
preferably living in, the local community where the shelter is
housed.Inadequate maintenance of physical infrastructure has also been a
key issue in increasing the vulnerability of infrastructure facilities, as
was witnessed by the damages caused by storm surges associated with
Hurricane Lenny. Therefore, a Legal Covenant will be included that will
require that prior to each annual review, each relevant sector ministry
will prepare and submit to the Bank for review and approval its O&M plan
and budget for all relevant physical components financed under the
project.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        Key sections of the coastline of the island have
been retreating in association with rises in sea level and increasing
frequency of storms, trends which are predicted to continue. Because of
the inland topography, coastal areas are vital to the country's economy as
they are the locus for major population centers and highways.The
Government has, as result, prioritized the protection of key sections of
the western coastline. In an effort to mitigate these problems, the
project proposes to fund major civil works in one critical location (sea
defenses at Grand Mal Bay). A local consultant has carried out an
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), including the definition of
mitigation measures for the sea defense investment. The environmental
issues have been identified by the EIA as not major, although issues with
quarrying and the protection of a dove sanctuary situated 5 miles away
have been raised. As a result, a Legal Covenant will stipulate that no
quarrying is to take place in the neighboring Perseverance Estate (a dove
sanctuary), specify how and when quarries and borrow pits should be
identified, and make a provision that the satisfactory review of the
tender document (specifying authorized quarry sites) will be a condition
for disbursements under category la of civil works (Grand Mal Bay). In
addition the project will finance the recruitment of consultants to review
the design and supervise the works (TORs have been submitted to the Bank
for its review of the environmental requirements).Several recent reports
(port rehabilitation and road rehabilitation) highlight the fact that EIAs
are not required in Grenada by legislation, but are routinely requested by
the Land Development Control Authority (LDCA) for large projects. Several
- 9-



attempts were made in the past to introduce various legal documents for
land-use regulation and environmental management in Grenada. Currently
the Government of Grenada (GoG) is reviewing legislation with regard to
environmental management and is preparing the National Physical
Development Plan, representing a concerted effort to utilize Grenada land
resources in an organized way. Assistance will also be provided to GoG
under this project for the strengthening of its capacity in environmental
management. Assistance will, in particular, be provided through reviewing
environmental legislation and developing EIA standards regarding disaster
mitigation and preparedness, and providing training to MCWPU staff in
carrying out environmental assessments.The project will also finance three
studies to define programs of preventive disaster mitigation investments
with regard to i) coastal zone management, ii) drainage and flood control,
and iii) river training and slope protection. The TORs for these studies
will be reviewed to include appropriate environmental requirements to be
accounted for in the design of the future civil works, and make
recommendations as to the type of mitigation measures which should be
carried out as part of the proposed investments.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Bernard A. Becq
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending October
20, 2000.
- 10 -



