MMnb fw hU Ni_tan Dev S_ 
~a   _ G CICULTh%AL
Niii'qil, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LNVtIVOF NRA
Environmental Assessment
of the
Mozambique National Water Development
Project
Prepared by
NORAGRIC
Centre for International Environment and Development Studies
Agricultural University of Norway
P.O. Box 5001
N-1432 As
Norway
for
The World Bank
Washington, DC, USA
and
Direcgao Nacional de Aguas
Maputo, Mogambique
July 1996
(Second Edition August 1997)
ASICULTUBAI UNIVEBSffY If NOWAY



-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
it



i
CONTENTS
List of Figures                                                      iv
Abbreviations and Acronyms                                            v
Executive Summary                                                    vii
1.  Introduction                                                       1
1.1  Overview of the Project                                      1
1.2  Scope of the Environmental Assessment                        4
1.2.1  Construction Activities                               4
1.2.2 Resettlement                                           4
1.2.3  Public Consultation                                   5
1.2.4 Urban Sanitation                                       6
1.2.5  Water Quantity Management                             6
1.3  Study Area                                                   7
1.4  Structure of the Report                                      8
2.  Policy, Legal and Institutional Framework                          9
2.1  National Water Policy                                        9
2.2  Water Legislation                                           10
2.2.1  The Water Act                                        10
2.2.2  The Land Act                                         11
2.2.3  The Municipality Act                                 12
2.2.4 The Proposed Environmental Act and EIA Regulations    12
2.3  Institutional Framework                                     13
2.3.1 National Water Council                                14
2.3.2 National Directorate of Water                         14
2.3.3  Regional Water Administrations                       14
2.3.4 Water Companies                                       15
3.  National Environmental Setting                                    17
3.1  Biophysical Resource Base                                   17
3.2  Enviromnental Quality                                       19
3.3  Biophysical Resource Use                                    19
3.4  Socio-Economic Environment                                  19
4.  Assessment of Urban and Peri-Urban Water Supply                   21
4.1  Introduction                                                21
4.2  Issues Common to All Cities/Towns                           21
4.2.1  Public Taps, House and Yard Connections, and Sanitation  21
4.2.2 Beneficiary Involvement in the Location, Planning and
Design of New Distribution Systems                    22
4.2.3  Routing of Distribution Systems                      23
4.2.4  Sewage and Waste Water Ccllection and Treatment      23
4.2.5  Impacts on Aquatic Life                              24
4.2.6  Socio-Economic Dimensions                            24



ii
4.3' Maputo                                                       26
4.3.1  Existing Water Systems                                26
4.3.2  Current Environmental Situation                       30
4.3.3  Project Description                                   31
4.3.4  Environmental Assessment of the NWDP                  32
4.3.5  Analysis of Alternatives                              35
4.3.6  Summary of Recommendations                            36
4.4  Beira                                                        37
4.4.1  Existing Water Systems                                37
4.4.2  Current Environmental Situation                       40
4.4.3  Project Description                                   41
4.4.4  Environmental Assessment of the NWDP                  42
4.4.5  Analysis of Alternatives                              45
4.4.6  Summary of Recommendations                            45
4.5  Quelimane                                                    47
4.5.1  Existing Water Systems                                47
4.5.2  Current Environmental Situation                       49
4.5.3  Project Descziption                                   50
4.5.4  Environmental Assessment of the NWDP                  51
4.5.5  Analysis of Altematives                               54
4.5.6  Summary of Recommnendations                           55
4.6  Nampula                                                      57
4.6.1  Existing Water Systems                                57
4.6.2  Current Environmental Situation                       60
4.6.3  Project Description                                   62
4.6.4  Environmental Assessment of the NWDP                  63
4.6.5  Analysis of Altematives                               66
4.6.6  Summary of Recommendations                            67
4.7  Pemba                                                        69
4.7.1  Existing Water Systems                                69
4.7.2  Current Envirommental Situation                       71
4.7.3  Project Description                                   73
4.7.4  Environmental Assessment of the NWDP                  74
4.7.5  Analysis of Alternatives                              76
4.7.6 Summary of Recommendations                             77
5.  Assessment of Rural Water and Sanitation                           79
5.1  Current Condition of Rural Water and Sanitation              79
5.2  Project Description                                          79
5.3  Recommendations on Enviromnental Issues                      80
5.4  Summary of Recommendations                                   81
6. Asessment of Water Resources Management                             83
6.1  Introduction                                                 83
6.2  Management Development Plan for ARA-Sul                      84
6.2.1  Introduction                                          84
6.2.2  Environmental Concerns Associated with Urban Water Supply   84
6.2.3  Comments on the Terms of Reference                    85



6.3  Corumana Dam Completion Works                               86
6.3.1  Introduction                                         86
6.3.2  Comments on the Terms of Reference                   87
6.4  Strengthening of Management of Shared Water Resources       87
6.4.1  Introduction                                         87
6.4.2  Environmental Concems Associated with Urban Water Supply   88
6.4.3  Comments on the Terms of Reference                   88
6.5  Joint Incomati Study -- Supplementary Work in Mozambique    89
6.5.1  Introduction                                         89
6.5.2  Environmental Concerns Associated with Urban Water Supply   89
6.5.3  Comments on the Terms of Reference                    89
7.  Environmental Management Plan                                     91
7.1  Introduction                                                91
7.2  Location, Planning and Design                               91
7.2.1  Refurbishment/Expansion of Existing Treatment Plants  91
7.2.2  Distribution Systems                                 91
7.3  Construction                                                92
7.3.1  Water Sources and Treatment Plants                   92
7.3.2 Transmission and Storage                              92
7.3.3  Distribution Systems                                 93
7.4  Operation                                                   93
7.4.1  Water Sources and Treatment Plants                   93
7.4.2 Transmission and Storage                              93
7.4.3  Distribution Systems                                 93
7.5  Resettlement                                                94
7.6  Environmental Monitoring and Management                     96
7.7  Environmental Awareness-Building and Training               97
References                                                            99
Appendices
A.  Inception Report and Terms of Reference                          103
B.  Economic Analysis                                                123
C.  Team Members, Work Schedule and Division of Tasks                137
D.  People/Organizations Consulted                                   139
E.  Public Display and Consultations - Summary Report                142



iv
LIST OF FIGURES
1.1  Mozambique                                                          2
4.1  The Maputo Region                                                   27
4.2  The Maputo Water System                                             28
4.3  Project Investments in Maputo                                       33
4.4  The Beira Water System                                              38
4.5  Project Investments in Beira                                        42
4.6  The Quelimane Water System                                          48
4.7  Project Investments in Quelimane                                    52
4.8  The Nampula Water System                                            58
4.9  Project Investments in Nampula                                      63
4.10 The Pemba Water System                                              70
4.11 Project Investments in Pemba                                        74



v
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AdM             Aguas de Maputo
AdN.            Aguas de Nampula
AdP             Aguas de Pemba
AdQ             Aguas de Quelimane
ARA             Regional Water Administration (Administra,co Regional de Aguas)
BA              Beneficiary Assessment
CAB             Companhia de Aguas de Beira
DAS             Department of Water and Sanitation (Departamento da Agua
e Saneamiento)
DNA             National Directorate of Water (Direc9ao Nacional de Aguas)
EA              Environmental Assessment
EDM             Electricity Company of Mozambique (Electricidade de
Mocambique)
EIA             Environmental Impact Analysis
FiNNIDA         Finnish Intemational Development Agency
GoM             Government of Moz,ambique
4                   HC               House connection
MICOA           Ministry for Coordination of Environmental Actions (Ministerio
Para a Coordena,co da Ac,cao Ambiental)
MISAU           Ministry of Health (Minist6rio do Sadde)
MOPH            Ministry of Public Works and Housing (Ministerio das Obras
Publicas e Habita9ao)
Mt              Metical (local currency)
NGO             Non-governmental organization
NWDP            National Water Development Project (new project title)
NWRMDP          National Water Resources Management and Development Project
O&M             Operation and maintenance
PRONAR          National Program for Rural Water Supply (Programa Nacional dos
Aguas Rurais)
PT              Public tap (standpost)
SUPRA           Regional water construction unit
TOR              Terms of reference
WB              The World Bank
WHO             The World Health Organization of the United Nations
YC              Yard connection



vi
l



Executive Summary vii
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
The USD 125 million Mozambique National Water Development Project
(NWDP) (previously named: Mozambique National Water Resources Management and
Development Project) will be funded by the World Bank and executed by the
Government of Mozambique, in support of the implementation of the Mozambique
National Water Policy. It will commence in 1997 or early 1998 and have three main
components, plus support to capacity-building within Mozambique to successfully
implement them:
1. Urban and Peri-Urban Water Supply which will rehabilitate and extend the water
supply systems with some complementary investments in sanitary systems in five
cities -- Maputo, Beira, Quelimane, Nampula and Pemba -- incorporating an
investment program for each city, allocations to support management contracts, and
management development for seven other cities;
2. Rural Water and Sanitation consisting of improvement and rehabilitation of small
piped water and sanitation systems on a pilot basis in rural towns; and
3. Water Resources Management incorporating four sub-projects:
3 Management Development Plan for ARA-Sul
e. Corumana Dam Completion Works
* Strengthening of Management of Shared Water Resources
3 Joint Incomati Study -- Supplementary Work in Mozambique
In addition, allocations are proposed for capacity development and technical
assistance (project implementation unit), planning and strategy development studies in
urban and rural water supply and sanitation, and project implementation.
The NWDP was classified by the Bank as a Category B project. This EA report
was prepared in accordance with Bank EA practices, relevant guidance from the Bank's
OD 4.01, and terms of reference (TOR) provided by the Bank. As an initial step, a
scoping exercise was carried out and resulted in an Inception Report which modified the
TOR somewhat. The Inception Report was approved in principle by the Bank with
substantial comments on the key issues of public consultation, and pollution and
environmental health problems related to sanitation. These issues were clarified and the
EA proceeded on the basis of the Inception Report.
After the draft final EA report was presented, and during the Staff Appraisal
process, the Bank expanded the scope of the project to include investments in
complementary sanitary systems and development of sewerage rehabilitation plans for
implementation under an upcoming Urban Environmental Management Project. The
Team did not have access to any documentation on these issues during the work on the
EA study. The final EA report therefor reflects this new positive development of the
project only to the degree specific Bank comments (Shepherd 1996b) refer to the new
components of the project. The EA report is basically prepared in reference to the
project description as outlined in the Aide Memoire of 1 March 1996 (WB 1996b).



viii Executive Summary
Concerning public consultation during the EA study, it was found that project
components likely to be of direct concem to the public were not sufficiently defined to
make consultation productive at the time of the field work. It was therefore determined
to leave such consultation to the Beneficiary Assessment (BA) and to detailed project
design. Comments to the TOR for the BA were offered by the EA team at the
commencement of that study both in writing to the Bank and in meetings with the BA
team. These and recommendations on further consultation are contained in this report.
However, in consultation with DNA, the Bank later decided that the main
findings and recommendations of the EA report should be presented at public displays.
The Team Leader was engaged to assist DNA, and displays with posters and public
consultations/debates were arranged in the five cities during March - April 1997. A
book for written comments was made available to the public during the displays.
The general public in Mozambique is not yet used to this kind of participatory
approaches and the display was generally found to be too technically oriented to attract
the interest of the general public. The initiative was welcomed, however, and received
wide coverage on national television, radio and in the press. A summary report on the
exercise is contained in Appendix E of this 2nd edition of the EA report. It is
recommended that an appraisal is made of the experiences from the public display and
consultation. This may provide valuable information for planning of later, similar
exercises.
As initially planned, the NWDP would substantially increase water supplies to
urban and peri-urban areas of Mozambique without, at the same time, improving
currently inadequate sewage and waste water collection, treatment and disposal. As
mentioned above, some complementary sanitary solutions are now incorporated, and
another Bank project expected to begin in 1999, the Urban Environmental Management
Project (UEMP) will address these sanitation and other urban environmental
management needs. The situation however, still raises justifiable concerns for
exacerbating pollution and environmental health problems until the second project is
implemented, or if it is delayed. At the commencement of the study it was determined
that this EA would not address sanitation, pollution and environmental health issues in
the detail required if the NWDP were considered in isolation. However, it does offer
substantial recommendations on how they can be dealt with.
Water resources management, development and supply is a priority policy issue
for Mozambique and in 1995 the Council of Ministers passed a resolution on a
comprehensive National Water Policy. The key water policies, together with central
legislation of relevance to water -- the Water, Land and Municipality Acts and the
proposed Environmental Act with EIA regulations -- and the evolving institutional
framework constitute a basic reference framework for this EA study. For example, the
environmental monitoring and management plan recommended in this report relates to
the legal and institutional framework.
This executive summary concentrates on recommendations to address significant
environmental issues for each component or sub-project of the NWDP. With a possible
exception for the policy issue with regard to the project's apparent priority on the



Executive Summary  ix
provision of house connections, the EA study did not come up with issues of the NWDP
of such potential environmental significance that they would lead to redefinition or
rethinking of major components of the project.
Issues Common to the Five Cities
Issues common to the five cities relate to the water distribution system, potential
resettlement, and the design of future sewage and waste water collection and treatment
systems. It is recommended as a guiding principle that house connections should not be
provided unless and until appropriate and adequatefacilities are available to handle
water- and excreta-related waste. Consequently, the NWDP should switch from
providing house connections to providing, as a first priority, public taps and, as a
secondpriority yard connections. The key arguments for this revised strategy are that
house connections generate substantial waste water and without, as yet, a proper
functioning sanitation system, the already problematic urban sanitation situation in all
cities will be exacerbated and lead to significant increases in water pollution and
environmental health problems. Giving priority to public taps will also represent a
better fit between supply and demand, improve prospects for cost recovery; and provide
access to safe water for a larger share of the population at the same level of total cost or
total water consumption.
A strong particzpatory involvement of the beneficiaries during planning and
establishment of the water distribution systems is recommended. This is important to
respond to large variations among neighborhoods and towns, and the differences in
expectation and demand from various segments of the population involved in the NWDP,
and to building community support for the new water distribution and sanitation
arrangements. Consequently, the Beneficiary Assessment should be carried out in all
five cities and provide a set of design criteria tailored to each community to guide the
planning, design and implementation of the refurbished and/or expanded distribution
system, with the necessary flexibility needed to accommodate planning assumptions,
technical and economical concerns.
An incentive system should be established such that it does not pay to damage
water meters. Provisions for compensation and resettlement should be included in the
project plan and budget, and not be dependent on Government funding.
Regarding the future refurbishment and/or extension of sewage and waste water
collection and treatment systems in the five cities, preference should be given to the use
of waste stabilization ponds (oxidation ponds) providing sedimentation and biological
treatment. The waste stabilization ponds can for example be designed for reuse of
effluents in irrigation.
From a socio-economic point of view, there is no question that improvement and
expansion of water supply and distribution systems in urban and peri-urban areas meets
a real and urgent need, and will provide significant benefits. To enhance these benefits,
local companies and workers should be contracted to carry out project works in cities
outside Maputo instead of importing them from other parts of the country.



x Executive Summary
Maputo
Significant environmental issues for the Maputo water supply concem potential
conflicts over use of Umbeluzi River water, minimum flow requirements downstream of
the Maputo raw water intake, proposed future transfers of water from the Incomati
River, and monitoring and management of minimum cross-border flows from
Swaziland. It is recommended that hydrological monitoring at the intake and thorough
analysis of required minimum flows be carried out. The issue of minimum flows in the
Umbeluzi below the intake, and alternative use of water for irrigation, should be key
factors in the design of NWDP hydrological analyses. These analyses should include
analyses of the requirements for firm minimum flows from Swaziland andlor transfers
from the Incomati basin. These issues should also be addressed by the Incomati River
studies proposed under the Water Resources Management component of the NWDP. It
is vital that competing water demands, nationally and internationally, be reconciled
based upon both human and ecological requirements, and that feasibility studies into
alternative water sources include environmental assessments to evaluate the
environmental costs and benefits of each alternative.
Water quality downstream of the Maputo water treatment plant should be
monitored for contamination from the plant and, if required, safe disposal of plant
wastes should be provided into a lagoon or landfill.
Beira
Provided that appropriate restrictions are established and enforced on irrigation
withdrawals, and that minimum cross-border flows from Zimbabwe are established and
maintained, increased extraction of water for Beira will not cause any significant
environmental impact. DNA and/or the new ARA for the region should monitor water
demands on the Pfngu6 River and, should these demands plus water supply to Beira
indicate potential problems with maintaining minimum flows in the lower river, more
detailed hydrological analysis should be carried out to assist in resolving competing
water demands.
A final solution to solving the saline intrusion problem associated with Beira's
raw water intake has not as yet been determined. We believe that the best option is to
move the intake further upstream and provide a pipeline to the water treatment plant.
However, there are several options available and a thorough feasibility study should be
undertaken, considering all options, before settling on the final solution. Options
involving a weir in the Pfingu6 River will require a separate environmental assessment.
The existing treatment plants, particularly the newer one, should be rehabilitated,
and provide for safe disposal/discharge of sludge and backwash water.
Quelimane
Increased water abstraction from the Licuare River, without a regulating reservoir, will
further reduce flows with the risk of the downstream river bed remaining dry or with a
very low flow over prolonged periods during the dry season. This may cause adverse



Executive Summary xi
ecological impacts. Estimation of the storage volume of a proposed new reservoir (not
included in the NWDP) should in case include the eventual requirement for a minimum
flow downstream of the town intake. An enviromnental assessment should be carried
out for the proposed dam if further planning is initiated.
The proposed weir across the Licuare River should be omitted if possible.
Planning for increased treatment capacity must include provisions for safe disposal/
discharge of sludge and backwash water. The proposed new transmission main from the
treatment plant to town will, in conjunction with expansion and upgrading of the road (a
World Bank project), cause significant environmental effects, in particular to farming
families living along the road. Planning and construction of the new pipeline should be
closely coordinated with road planning and a detailed study should be conducted to set
the final pipeline alignment and identify resettlement requirements. The old
transmission main should be abandoned and the new pipeline equipped with branches to
supply adjacent settlements.
Nampula
Environmental impacts from increased water abstraction from the Monapo River will
probably be minor. However, further investigations will be required to cQnfirm current
flows, to determine the feasibility of greater abstractions, both with the current supply
arrangements and with the proposed second dam, and to assess the need for maintaining
a minimum flow downstream of the dam. The second dam (not included in the NWDP)
should in case planning is initiated, be subject to an environmental assessment.
Concerning the treatment plants and intakes at the Monapo reservoir, a pipeline
should be built from the treatment plants and along the mountain side track to carry
sludge and backwash water to the downstream side of the dam. The new reservoir
intake should be located as close as possible to the dam and as far as possible from the
existing leisure area. Chlorination should be shifted from the intermediate reservoirs
along the transmission main to the treatment plant.
Pemba
Significant environmental impacts are anticipated from the proposed extension of the
Metuge well field. The impacts relate to lowering of the ground water table, the
possibilities of salinity and effects on and from agriculture. The extension must be
based on thorough hydrogeological investigations and extensive monitoring of the water
table and draw-downs during test-pumping. The area immediately around the Metuge
well field should be declared a partially protected zone and new settlements close to the
wells should be prohibited. Resettlement of people presently living close to the wells
may be necessary.
The water supply situation in Pemba is becoming critical. Rehabilitation of the
Metuge well field, and reduction of demand through metering and leakage reduction is
extremely important.



xii Executive Summary
Rural Water and Sanitation
This component of the NWDP, allocated a lump sum of USD 5 million, is still being
developed and only an outline design document has been prepared which specifies small
piped water systems (SPS) on a pilot basis with complementary sanitation systems.
Specific villages/towns have not yet been identified for the SPS. None of the SPS
projects are expected to require a formal environmental assessment (category A) but,
depending on size, some may require environmental analysis.
This EA report lists a number of general environmental issues which could be of
concern and wZiich should be included in TORs for further investigation and assessment
by feasibility study teams for individual rural towns. Development of design criteria
based on inter alia what people can afford to pay for water should be included in the
feasibility studies, as should identification of external factors which may impede sound
development of individual schemes, such as lack of roads and electricity supplies.
Water Resources Management
This component of the NWDP is comprised of four sub-projects. A set of four
draft TOR was prepared by the Bank and DNA in March 1996. For each sub-project,
the issues which should be addressed to obtain environmentally sustainable
development of the water systems with which each is concemed were assessed,
including some raised by the city-based assessments. The issues which can and should
be addressed by the NWDP are:
1. The minimum flows required downstream of the Maputo water intakes to control
salinity intrusion and protect other ecological functions;
2. Proposed future transfers of water from the Incomati to the Umbeluzi River to
augment Maputo raw water supplies; and
3. Monitoring and management of the minimum cross-border flows being delivered
from Swaziland and Zimbabwe.
Specific comments were provided on each TOR as to how it should be modified
to strengthen NWDP response to these issues and, more generally, to incorporate
environmental management perspectives into the many elements of the sub-projects.
Resettlement
Implementation of the Urban Water component of the NWDP will, in some places,
require limited amounts of resettlement. There are established procedures for
expropriations and forced resettlements in the Land Act of 1979. The City of Maputo
has reportedly developed and implemented a functional system for resettlements. As
well, the Bank's Operational Directive 4.30 provides specific guidance on resettlement.
In Mozambican practice, the Municipality/City Council is responsible for conducting
negotiations and for providing new sites for settlements as well as necessary logistics
for moving people and movables. Resettled families are to be issued titles for the new
dwellings or homesteads. The respective implementing agency must bear all costs
involved. It is recommended that the implementing agencies conduct separate studies



ZAVULUVG OU.ULLuuy  J%A"
on the resettlement requirements for each project and prepare detailed plans for carrying
them out. Outline procedures for doing so are included in this report.
I It is strongly recommended that funds to cover resettlement and compensation
costs be included in the NWDP project loan.
Environmental Monitoring and Management
General requirements for environmental monitoring and management of the Urban
Water Supply component of the NWDP are specified during the location, planning,
design, construction and operation of project facilities. All should be implemented by
the private operators who will take over the city water companies, under the monitoring
and direction of the DNA Project Unit (and the provincial MOPH/ SUPRA). The
construction requirements should be incorporated into the construction contracts and the
operation requirements should be incorporated into O&M manuals and staff training
programs.
Monitoring requirements are specified to be carried out as an integral part of the
regular monitoring and reporting procedures for the various components of the project.
Identified institutions are the Bank supervisory missions, the DNA Project Unit with its
provincial administrations and/or SUPRAs, the water company managements, the
Ministry of Health and its laboratories, and MICOA. Monitoring of water use is an
integral part of the mandate of ARA-Sul and the other ARAs to be established in the
future. Municipal councils will also play a role in environmental monitoring in the
future when their responsibilities are defined and their new administrations are
functioning.
Environmental Awareness-Building and Training
Few training needs will be required beyond those embodied in the capacity-building
elements of the NWDP. Training will be required for personnel of DNA (and provincial
MOPH/ SUPRA), MICOA, private-sector water company management and operational
staff, and later municipal council staff, to monitor and supervise environmental
perfonnance during construction of new and refurbished works being funded by the
project. The DNA Project Unit should conduct a workshop for key persomel of these
institutions on the recommendations of the EA report and how they should be
implemented.
The water companies should make their management, supervisory and field staff
aware of environmental provisions of construction contracts. Field staff should be
trained alternative practices for dealing with enviromnental concerns on-site.



I



Introduction  I
1.      INTRODUCTION
1.1      Overview of the Project
To support the implementation of the Government of Mozambique's (GoM) National
Water Policy, the National Water Development Project (NWDP) to be funded by the
World Bank (WB or the Bank) will assist government efforts to improve the
management of water resources and increase the quality, reliability and coverage of
urban and rural water supply services. The immediate goals (World Bank 1996a) are:
i)  To improve the policy and institutional framework for the management of water
resources and the provision of water services;
ii)  To restore deteriorating infrastructure and increase coverage to progressively
provide access to safe water for an increasing proportion of the population; and
iii) To strengthen the ability of government institutions to plan, coordinate and
monitor the delivery of water supply services.
The project will have three components, plus support to capacity-building within
Mozambique to successfully implement them:
i)   Urban Wate
The project will rehabilitate and extend the water supply systems with some initial
sanitation works in five cities (Figure 1.1) -- Maputo, Beira, Quelimane, Nampula
and Pemba. In the initial years, priority will be given to rehabilitating existing
headworks and distribution systems, and to bringing operations, maintenance and
administration under control. Later years will bring the planning and extension of
*service delivery and preparatory activities for coping with the increased volumes
of wastewater that will ensue.
ii)  Rural Water and Sanitation
Funds will be made available for the improvement and rehabilitation of rural and
small town water supply, treatment and distribution systems, with complementary
sanitation solutions.
iii) Water Resources Management
The project will support the strengthening of water resources management both
within Mozambique and with respect to international waters. Funding will be
directed toward institutional development, river basin studies (local and
intemational) and priority investment in bulk water supply (i.e. the Corurnana
Dam).
The project will be implemented under the oversight of the Ministry of Public
Works and Housing (Minist6rio das Obras Puiblicas e Habitagio, MOPH) with
associated water companies also playing major roles. The actual design, construction,
operation and maintenance of all existing, upgraded and new



2   Introduction
Figure 1.1: Mozambique
... .........  .....~.-..~
Nampula
.........
....... .. ~~~           ~        ~       A 



Introduction  3
facilities will be carried out by private operators who will act autonomously but be
accountable to the Govenmment for the cost-effective provision of services. As the
responsible govenmment authority, the National Water Directorate (Direccao Nacional
de Aguas, DNA) will develop a new role in regulating and monitoring the performance
of the private sector operator(s). Local communities will be consulted in the early
stages of the project to promote local involvement in the design and execution of project
sub-components. The project may also involve non-governmental organizations in the
implementation of the peri-urban, rural and small town schemes.
The project is expected to begin in 1997 or early 1998 and extend for five years.
The NWDP was originally designed not to involve any capital investments in
drainage, sanitation, sewerage and waste water treatment in the five cities. However, it
is part of a much larger country assistance strategy being implemented in Mozambique
by the Bank (WB 1995). Specifically, the project is expected to overlap with the Urban
Environmental Management Project (UEMP) which will address drainage, sanitation
and other urban needs and begin in 1999 (Shepherd 1996a). The Bank has also later
incorporated the following components in NWDP: (i) finance of cleaning and inspection
of the cities' existing sewerage networks and development of sewerage rehabilitation
plans for implementation under the UEMP; (ii) a fund for complementary, low-cost
-sanitation in areas where the water distribution network is to be rehabilitated/extended
but where such facilities are lacking; and (iii) adequate draining facilities for all
rehabilitated and new connections to the water distribution network (Shepherd 1996b).
Moreover, GoM is considering to prepare a four-year program (DHV 1995) which
may comprise institutional strengthening for environmental management within GoM;
the development of a master plan for sanitation, drainage and environment in 13 cities,
including the five incorporated in this project; and the development of a coastal zone
environmental management plan. Because of the close relationship between the water
supply aspects of this Bank project, the sanitation aspects of the second Bank project
and the proposed new four-year GoM program, this Bank project will include, at the
request of the GoM, provisions for coordination of the three initiatives to ensure that a
holistic, integrated result is obtained in the management of urban water services in the
five cities (Shepherd 1996a).
Project details relevant to carrying out the environmental assessment are presented
in Sections 4, 5 and 6 along with the assessment of associated environmental issues.
Project details for each of the five cities were drawn from the "Provincial Towns Water
Sector Study" prepared by DHV Consultants BV (DHV 1994) and from information
from the Bank on their proposed investments (e.g. WB 1996b). DHV's water demand
projections were based on population growth rates drawn from goveanment data, targets
for the volume and type of supply and distribution set by the GoM, and anticipated
reductions over time in the amounts of unaccounted-for water in each municipal system.
Possible changes in the water tariff structure were not considered by DHV. This is a task
for the ongoing Beneficiary Assessment study.



4  Introduction
1.2      Scope of the Environmental Assessment
The NWDP is classified as Category B by the World Bank for the purposes of
environmental assessment (EA), and this EA report was prepared in accordance with
World Bank practices for such projects. Specifically, comprehensive terms of reference
for the study were prepared by the Bank (Appendix A) and then refined by the EA
consultant in-country. The results of this "scoping" work were embodied in an
Inception Report (Appendix A) to the Bank and DNA, and the EA proceeded on the
basis of the information and analyses in that report, after substantial comments offered
by the Bank on issues of public consultation, and pollution and environmental health
problems related to sanitation were discussed and the issues clarified.
1.2.1    Construction Activities
By far the largest component of the project will be rehabilitation or upgrading of
existing water supply facilities involving no disturbances of new sites. Existing project
sites were examined for environmentally sensitive aspects but it is expected that most
environmental protection requirements during construction can be adequately managed
using standard, general construction contract requirements (e.g. for trench openings,
erosion control, dust suppression) coupled with supervision and monitoring. These
general environmental requirements were developed during the EA and form part of the
environmental management plan (Section 7). Thus, most activities for the rehabilitation
or upgrading of existing facilities were not analyzed in detail in the EA. Sensitive
aspects of particular existing sites/routes (e.g. resettlement) were addressed with site-
specific recommendations and construction contract requirements. Known new
sites/routes were examined and specific siting and construction management
recommendations made.
1.2.2    Resettlement
The project will involve relatively little resettlement. It might occur, for example, in:
*  the siting of new works (e.g. new storage tanks, expanded distribution systems);
*  the upgrading of existing works where people have settled in working areas (e.g.
main transmission lines);
*  the construction of new transmission mains (e.g. Quelimane); and
*  the construction of new dams in Nampula, Quelinane (not part of NWDP) and
establishment of partially protected zones (e.g. Pemba).
Known locations of new project works and possible restricted areas were surveyed
and resettlement estimates and strategies were prepared based, in part, on consultations
with officials and individuals or groups which may be affected. Where locations were
not known, the potential need for resettlement was identified for future study. In either
case, resettlement policy, principles and guidelines were recommended to guide the
preparation of separate resettlement plans.



Introduction  5
1.2.3    Public Consultation
The World Bank's OD 4.01 (paragraph 19) specifies that EA studies include
consultation with affected groups and local NGOs "to understand both the nature and
extent of any social or environmental impact and the acceptability of proposed
mitigatory measures, particularly to affected groups". On this project, the major project
components likely to be of concern to the public are the introduction of new tariffs for
water, the extension of distribution networks and, perhaps, the linkages between
increased water supply and improved drainage, sanitation and waste water collection
and treatment works. None of these components were sufficiently defined to be
adequately considered in the EA at the time the EA was carried out. Moreover, the first
two are the focus of the major Beneficiary Assessment (BA) being undertaken as part of
project preparation by the Bank. Thus, the EA did not consult the public on these issues,
but recommends means for the BA to address them. The EA team did provide advice to
the Bank on the TOR for the BA study.
The final draft report was presented to the DNA and World Bank in June 1996.
The Team Leader was later engaged by the Bank to assist DNA in preparing public
displays and consultations on the EA Report's main findings and recommendations.
Public displays were arranged in the five cities during March - April 1997. A report on
the exercise, approved by DNA, was prepared in June the same year. A summary of this
report is attached as Appendix E of this 2nd edition of the Report.
It is envisaged that the BA and subsequent community consultation will identify
priority areas for extension of the distribution networks and that levels of service, the
location of facilities and the need for complementary sanitary initiatives will be agreed
in consultation with the communities (Shepherd 1996b). The consultative work on the
BA should incorporate public education on the costs public taps, yard connections and
house connections, the number of people they can serve and the health consequences of
improving water supply without parallel improvements in sanitation, so that potential
beneficiaries are able to make informed comments and choices. It is important that all
sectors of the pei-urban societies are being adequately heard.
Consultation about potential drainage and sanitation concerns are also discussed
below. Another issue which may concern the public is the potential need to resettle
people from project work areas and eventual partially protected areas. This issue was
discussed above.
The planned introduction by the NWDP of foreign management of the water
companies may also be of public concem. It is recommended that the issue is subjected
to public consultations before contracts are signed. Proposed management arrangements
should be advertised in the media (radio/newspapers) and exhibited for public review
and written comments, and public meetings should be conducted in each city. The issue
should also be incorporated in the BA work, to ensure that the poorer, uneducated
segments of the population are also heard.



6  Introduction
1.2.4    Urban Sanitation
As discussed earlier (see section 1.1), this water supply project originally contained no
investments in urban drainage, sanitation or waste water treatment. It is, however, part
of a much larger country assistance strategy being implemented in Mozambique by the
Bank which will include such investments in a project which will overlap with this one.
Clearly, increasing urban water supply without making complementary improvements
to drainage, sewerage and waste water treatment is a prescription for substantial
negative effects on pollution levels and human health. An EA of such a project would
have to assess these effects very thoroughly.
However, because this water supply project will be closely linked to a second
program of investment in drainage, sewerage and waste water treatment works, this EA
has omitted detailed assessment of urban pollution and environmental health effects.
The EA does consider what monitoring ofpollution and health indicators will be
required both to identify impacts and design mitigation measures should the second
project not proceed, and to provide information for the planning of that project. The
EA of the second sanitation project should include an assessment of health and
pollution effects.
This is a significant scoping feature which assumes a firm commitment by both
the Bank and the Government of Mozambique to the timely implementation of the
second project. Proceeding with this water supply project, as proposed in the feasibility
studies, in the absence of such commitment could result in substantial negative impacts
on pollution and urban environmental health.
1.2.5    Water Quantity Management
The project is intended to bring new water supplies to urban, peri-urban and rural town
areas and it is thus expected that demands on both surface and ground water resources
will be increased. In addition to the supply of potable water, other demands and values
associated with water resources may be affected if urban water withdrawals are
significant enough. These include:
Irrigation:       Reductions to the availability of irrigation water can have
consequent effects on agricultural production, land use and socio-
economic factors.
Waste dispersion:   Flow reductions in rivers can leave less flow to carry away and
disperse, for example, agricultural chemicals, urban waste water
and silt with consequent downstream effects on water quality and
dependent water uses such as domestic water supply, tourism and
fisheries.
Salt intrusion:   Reduced river flows can result in more extensive upstream
intrusion of salt water and consequent effects on aquatic life and
water suitability for irrigation and urban water supply. Ground
water withdrawals can similarly cause saline intrusion and



Introduction  7
consequent reductions in water quality for human use and
agriculture.
Ecological functions: Reduced flows in rivers, along with consequent water quality
changes, can affect aquatic environments. Ground water
abstraction can lower water tables and have consequent
ecological effects.
It was important during this EA to try to forecast and quantify the downstream and
ground water effects of increased water withdrawals precipitated by the project. At the
same time, hydrological and hydrogeological data are sparse in Mozambique, and it was
not possible to estimate these effects to the degree desired. The project includes
substantial components of monitoring and research on specific water systems and of
development of water resources management capacity. Where the EA could not
realistically forecast the effects of water withdrawals, recommendations were made for
focusing these research and management efforts, in part, on (1) quantifying available
water, (2) analyzing the socio-economic and environmental trade-offs between
competing water uses, and (3) developing measures for managing the environmental
effects of water abstraction for human use (e.g. setting minimum river flows to keep
downstream effects within acceptable limits).
More generally, the TOR specify that the EA "assess the mechanisms proposed by
which Mozambique is to seek to increase its security of supply from international river
basins" (Page 1, Section 2). This is a very "big" question relating to the capacity of
Mozambique to both understand and manage its water resources (which the project is
intended to strengthen), and to its ability to negotiate and ensure compliance with
international water basin management agreements. NORAGRIC feels that a thorough
assessment of this matter is possible only within the broader mandate of an eventual
sectoral EA of the entire water sector in the country. Nonetheless, the issues which
need to be addressed in such a sectoral EA, and in securing water supplies from these
basins, were identified during this project EA. These results should be used in
conducting such a sectoral EA and/or as suggestions for detailing the capacity building
elements of this project for water resources management in intemational river basins
(Section 6).
1.3 Study Area
The geographic areas for the EA are those specified in the TOR and as modified
according to the inception report (Appendix A). The areas were:
i)  the five cities -- Maputo, Beira, Quelimane, Nampula and Pemba -- that will be the
focus of the urban water supply investments, their water intake areas and the main
catchment and/or ground water systems (including their recharge areas) which
supply them;
ii) the Cormuna Dam; and



8  Introduction
iii) the limited number of rural towns, to be identified later, for which piped water
supply systems will be upgraded andlor rehabilitated.
1.4 Structure of the Report
Following this introduction is a review of the policy, legal and administrative
framework in Mozambique which governs the management of water resources and
environmental assessment (Section 2). In Section 3 is a brief overview of the national
environmental setting for the NWDP.
Section 4 presents the environmental assessment of the water supply proposals for
the five cities included in the NWDP - Maputo, Beira, Quelimane, Nampula and
Pemba. It begins with a discussion of issues common to the five cities. Each city
program is then considered in turn; the assessment recommendations summarized at the
end of each city sub-section.
Sections 5 and 6 present the assessments of the Rural Water and Sanitation, and
the Water Resources Management components of the NWDP.
An environmental management plan for the NWDP is then presented in Section 7.
Relevant references used are listed at the end of the main report.
Four appendices complete the report. The first is comprised of the Inception
Report and terms of reference which established the scope of the assessment. An
economic analysis of aspects of the NWDP is presented in the second appendix. The
third.appentdix identifies the EA team members and outlines the EA work schedule and
division of tasks among the team members. The people and organizations consulted
during the study are listed in the final appendix.



Policy, Legal and Institutional Framework 9
2.    POLICY, LEGAL AND INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
2.1   National Water Policy
In 1995 the GoM approved a new National Water Policy (resolution of the Council of
Ministers 7/95, 8 August). The resolution established the following principal policies
with regard to water:
*  Satisfaction of basic needs with regard to water supply and sanitation is a high
priority, in particular to rural, low income groups.
*  Demand driven provision of services with active participation of beneficiaries at
relevant stages of planning, implementation, management of operation and
maintenance.
*  Price of water should reflect its economic value, and eventually cover the cost of
supply.
*  Water resources management shall be decentralized to autonomous catchment
(basin) authorities. Provision of water supply and sanitation services shall likewise
be decentralized to local autonomous agencies which should become financially
self-sufficient.
3  The role of the Government will be changed to one of setting priorities, directions,
definition of minimum levels of service, information dissemination and stimulation,
and regulation of service activities.
*  The sector policy on water resources management will be integrated with policies
for local administration, health, agriculture, industry and finances.
-  Investment policies shall balance economic development with poverty alleviation
and public health improvement.
*  Institutional capacity of the sector shall be strengthened and expanded to involve
beneficiaries, NGOs and private organizations, i.e. decentralized management and
training. The new role of the Government, as outlined above, will be strengthened
through capacity building and human resources development.
*  Private sector participation in water resources development, supply and sanitation
services will be promoted by the GoM.
The water policy document states that urban water supplies shall be provided by
autonomous entities, and that a tariff reform shall allow for recovery of operational and
maintenance costs and later on contribute to future investments. However,
infrastructure development and investments will in the foreseeable future remain the
responsibility of the State.
Provision of basic water supply to low income groups in pei-urban areas is one
of the main objectives of the water policy. Public participation through standpost
committees is envisaged and cross subsidies in the tariff structure shall ensure that
poorer groups can afford water.



10 Policy, Legal and Institutional Framework
2.2   Water Legislation
A number of acts and resolutions regulates various aspects of water resources
management and water use in Mozambique. The following presentation concentrates on
key legislative issues.
2.2.1 The Water Act
The Water Act (Law 16/91) establishes in its first two articles that the right to use water
resources shall be subject to a guarantee of preservation and management in accordance
with national interests. Water resources are defined as inland waters and their basins,
and ground water with or without surface springs. This constitutes what is designated as
the public water domain. National interests are not further defined.
The main objectives of the Act are to define a general framework for
management of the water resources, define users rights and ultimately the institutional
control and monitoring of water use. Water is the property of the State according to the
Act, and the public may be granted rights to the use of water. The Act has, however, not
been supplemenited with appropriate regulatory statutes, neither has the Act yet been
amended to comply with the new national water policy.
The Water Act envisages a Water Master Plan to be prepared for water resources
management. This plan is supposed to guarantee sustainable use, environmental
protection and water quality, but the planning work has not yet started.
Water for human consumption has priority over other uses of water. Monitoring
and control of water quality is vested with the Ministry of Health (MISAU). The
Ministry should:
* Establish control systems and procedures;
* Set bacteriological, physical and chemical standards for drinking water;
* Establish appropriate treatment procedures;
* Apply special protection measures; and
* Carry out sanitary control of water system workers.
No standards for drinking water or environmental standards have, however, been
established in reference to the Water Act. In practice MISAU applies a somewhat
liberalized set of standards in reference to the standards issued by WHO. Water samples
are tested in provincial laboratories and the test results regularly sent to the water
companies and MISAUs Directorate of Hygiene. Only microbiological testing is
carried out; the samples are not screened for chemical contents. Apart from preparing
the test reports, it is not known what kind of actions the Ministry or the water companies
take on the reports.
The Act stipulates that standards for installations and equipment should also be
established by statutory regulation. This regulation is still not in place, and in practice it



Policy, Legal and Institutional Framework  II
is up to the donors and their expatriate consultants to set-standards on a project to
project basis. Both the Bank and GoM should be concerned about the standards issue,
and ensure that necessary regulation is in place before contracts are negotiated with
private water company operators.
There is also no effective regulation in place with regard to sanitation, waste
water or solid waste. This mean in practical terms that there is no legal instrument
under the Water Act that may be applied and enforced to prevent water pollution. The
Act stipulates, however, that MOPH is responsible for the authorization of any disposal
systems. The provincial administration, apart from the Department of Health, has no
responsibility or authority with regard to sanitation and prevention of pollution.
The Act establishes as well the polluter shall pay principle. No cases are known
where this principle has been enforced.
The Act stipulates that water projects shall be subjected to social, economic and
environmental analysis at the expense of the project owner. However, no regulations
are yet in force with regard to the necessary analyses stipulated by the Act and, as far as
the EA team could determine, no water supply or sanitation project in Mozambique has
been subjected to specific environmental analysis prior to implementation and
construction. The present project appears to be the first one, with the possible exception
of internal EAs carried out by donors during project preparations.
2.2.2 The Land Act
In relation to water, the Land Act defines as partially protected areas those areas needed
for protection and conservation of water resources for the safety of the public (Law 6/79
3 July, with decree 16/87 15 July). Rivers and catchment areas for intake installations
for urban water supply, areas surrounding boreholes and natural springs may thus be
considered as partially protected zones. The same applies to ground water and areas
which might be subjected to flooding. The water policy resolution states that ground
water areas shall be declared as protected zones if they become endangered by overuse.
However, enforcement of the legislation is dependent on specific decrees
defining borders and restrictions to be applied for partially protected areas, conditions
for their use and clarification of responsible management bodies and mechanisms for
protection and conservation. Decrees to this effect shall be published and the area
demarcated. The entity responsible for establishing a protected area shall bear the costs
involved regarding publication and enforcement of the legislation. The entity shall also
bear the costs of compensations and necessary resettlements.
The Water Act defines some of the conditions and restrictions applicable to
partially protected areas, i.e. with regard to animal husbandry, irrigation and modem
agriculture (use of fertilizers and pesticides), and settlements.
With regard to compensation, the Land Act recognizes such rights only in the
case where the incumbent has title to the land and if he has made investments that



12 Policy, Legal and Institutional Framework
cannot be moved. There are few smallholders who have any registered rights under the
Act. The practice is, however, to recognize land rights regardless of titles. Titles will
normally be issued for new land given in exchange to smallholders in cases of forced
resettlements. The municipality councils are responsible for the administration of
resettlement and compensation cases.
A new Land Act is presently being discussed by the legislative, and the question
of recognizing traditional rights in the law and other issues have stirred controversy.
The donors have engaged themselves in the debate and the outcome was not clear at the
time of this report. There is, however, no specific and commonly accepted concepts of
what are traditional land rights. In certain areas rights may be linked to the use of trees,
not the land or soil the trees grow in. If traditional land rights are to be recognized by
the new law, appropriate definitions must be incorporated.
2.2.3 The Municipality Act
A recently approved Municipality Act (Law 3/94) decentralizes the responsibility of,
inter alia, water supply and environmental protection to the municipality councils. The
Act further stipulates that water companies should be subordinated the respective
municipality councils, but no furither statutory regulations have been issued. The Act
has not yet been implemented. City and municipality councils are still regarded as the
extended arms of the central state administration, and a political controversy over
organization and implementation of local elections has led to postponement of direct
elections to municipality councils.
In the case of this project, the Bank and GoM have agreed that DNA shall
supervise directly the introduction of private management contracts for the five relevant
water companies.
2.2.4 The Proposed Environmental Act and EIA Regulations
Traditional Mozambican culture has certain perceptions related to the preservation of
natural resources but Portuguese culture, which has influenced the administrative
establishment of the Mozambican state for centuries, contains very few references to
conservation and protection. This is contrary to, for instance, the British culture which
for decades has influenced environmental strategies and policies in the previous British
colonies in Africa. Policy issues like sustainable environmental development,
conservation and natural resources management, were recently brought on the
development assistance agenda by international organizations and certain donor
countries. As a result, most developing countries already have, or are in the process of
preparing national environmental action plans and environmental legislation.
And thus, despite the lack of an environmental conservation culture in
Mozambique, a new Enviromnental Act is presently being debated by the legislative. It
is a general law and does not define any analysis criteria or offer any environmental
standards. It does, however, establish an universal principle of EIA studies. It is



Policy, Legal and Institutional Framework  13
envisaged that the Ministry for Co-ordination of Environmental Affairs (MICOA) will
co-ordinate the work of the various ministries on statutory regulation. Draft EIA
regulations are presently being prepared by a working group. If approved, the statutory
regulation will establish procedures for the preparation and review of EIAs, as well as
criteria for definitions and degree of detail, public participation mechanisms and
standards to be used.
The probable procedures to be established for EIA on projects defined under the
regulation are:
* Pre-screening of projects by MICOA (4 alternative categories).
*  Project specific TORs for EIA to be issued by MICOA in co-operation with the
relevant line ministry as a directive to the applicant.
*  The EIA will be carried out by the applicant.
* MICOA will do an EA review, with participation of other involved ministries and
institutions.
*  MICOA will eventually issue the enviromnental license on four levels, with
monitoring procedural guidelines attached.
*  The EIA and the MICOA EA will be published, not the technical reviews.
*  The project owner shall carry out environmental monitoring and report to MICOA
a and the relevant sector ministry in accordance with the guidelines.
* MICOA will carry out ad hoc inspections and provide feedback to the project owner
on the inspection and monitoring reports.
Introduction and follow up on the Environmental Act and the EIAs will need
support from the donor community. A number of donors are already, or want to,
support MICOA and its activities. MICOA will thus, probably with Dutch support,
develop a Center for Environmental Monitoring.
2.3   Institutional Framework
The field report from the Bank project preparatory mission 5-22 June 1995 (WB 1995)
offers an overview of the legal and institutional framework for water resources
management and water supply, and this will not be repeated in detail here.
In brief, the institutional framework consists of the following institutions:
*  The National Water Council,
* National Directorate of Water (DNA) of Ministry of Public Works and Housing
(MOPH),
* International River Basin Committees,
*  Regional Water Administrations (ARA) with Basin Committees and Basin
Management Units,
*  Water Companies, and
*  The Irrigation Institute, irrigators, EDM, other users.



14 Policy, Legal and Institutional Framework
2.3.1 National Water Council
The National Water Council was created under the Water Act. It consists of the
Ministers of Agriculture, Industry and Energy, and Mineral Resources, the President of
the Institute for Rural Development and the National Director of Water. The new
Ministry for Co-ordination of Environmental Affairs is not yet formally represented on
the Council.
The Council shall ensure co-ordinated management of issues under the Act, and
shall also ensure participation of the public and compatibility of the enforcement of the
Act with national development priorities and the need for sustainable environmental
development.
2.3.2 National Directorate of Water
The National Directorate of Water (DNA) is under the MOPH, responsible for
administration of the national water policy, regulating and supervising.water operations,
maintaining a national database, and carrying out national planning.
DNA is divided into five departnents:
* Administration and Finance (DAF)
a Water Resources (DRH)
- Water and Sanitation (DAS)
-  Studies, Planning and Investments(DEP)
- National Rural Water Programme (PRONAR)
A separate unit for intemational rivers (Gabinete dos Rios Internacionais) is
being created within DNA. The organization and status of the unit are not yet finalized.
On the provincial level, DNA is represented by the Provincial MOPH with a
Water Departnent. Although the municipality councils, according to the Municipality
Act, have a role to play with regard to water supply and environmental management, it
is assumed that the provincial administration, as a representative of the central state, still
for some time will have a leading role in these issues, related to water supply.
2.3.3 Regional Water Administrations
The main managing bodies for water resources management are the Regional Water
Administrations (ARAs). ARA-Sul for the South (up to Save River basin) has been
created and is functioning. The other ARAs for the Centre, Zambeze, Centre/North and
North are still only paper creations (decree 26/91 14 November).



Policy, Legal and Institutional Framework  I5
The ARA-Sul competence encompasses:
*  Participate in the preparation, implementation and revision of river basin's
hydrological monitoring activities.
*  Administer and control water allocations.
*  Establish and maintain records of water resources and water users, as well as
introduce and charge water user fees.
*  License and grant concessions for the use of waters in the public sector, authorize
effluents, impose administrative obligations, inspect and monitor that the respective
conditions are fulfilled.
*  Approve and inspect hydraulic works.
*  Pernit and cancel licenses and concessions.
*  Design, construct, operate and maintain works.
*  Provide technical and advisory services to State institutions and public and private
entities and individuals.
*  Collect and maintain hydrological data for effective river basin management.
*  Resolve water use conflicts.
*  Act as a water control authority by enforcing corrective measures in cases of
unauthorized works, non-licensed water abstraction, or polluting operations.
*  Propose partially protected areas in reference to the Water and Land Acts.
*  Recognize traditional water use rights by registration of such rights.
For each river basin, Basin Committees are formed, with all stakeholders
represented. The Basin Committees relate to Basin Management Units under the ARA
administration. It is intended to also establish International River Basin Committees.
2.3.4- Water Companies
Entities responsible for providing water supply services in the cities are called water
companies. Except for Aguas de Maputo (AdM), the legal status of the other
companies, and their administrative and supervisory linkages, are unclear and vary from
one city to another.
Aguas de Maputo is a registered State enterprise, and is according to legislation
subordinated to the Maputo City Council. However, AdM operates with a high degree
of autonomy. New construction works, distribution networks etc. have to be approved
by the City Council, which is responsible for physical planning. Relations appear to be
functioning well.
In the other cities where the water companies are operating without proper
legislative connections, they are supervised by the provincial director of MOPH on
behalf of DNA. (Companhia de Agua de Beira is still legally a private company). The
companies report on water production, performance and billing. No system for
environmental reporting and monitoring is in place.
Water company management maintain they have no formal links with the
respective city councils, and relations are strained between water companies and city



16 Policy, Legal and Institutional Framework
councils in some of the cities. In Beira the two parties hardly talk to each other. In
Quelimane and Nampula there are also co-operation problems, while Agua de Pemba
and Pemba City Council seem to cooperate fairly well.
In the present situation with unclear legal and institutional relationships between
the centre, province and city/district, it is not likely that management contracts for water
companies would attract serious private companies without donor funding through the
central government. However, the proposed arrangement should be regarded as a
transitory one. Direct supervision could be transferred to the city councils in the future
when they are properly elected and the new administrations are functioning.



National Environmental Setting 17
3.    NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL SETTING
Biophysically, socially and economically, Mozambique has been strongly influenced by
many years of war which only ended in 1992, recent droughts and the consequent
migration of about one-third of the rural population from the countryside to urban
centres, peri-urban areas and transportation corridors. These factors have also meant
that the information base for environmental and natural resources management is
fragmented and unreliable. Thus, the discussion in this chapter, drawn from World
Bank (1993) and DNA (1994), should be considered indicative only.
Because of the war and depopulation of the countryside, rural areas are thought to
be in relatively good condition as agricultural land was left fallow and forestry and
mining activity declined sharply. At the same time, areas receiving war-induced
migration are suffering from deteriorating or lack of infrastructure, water pollution and
lack of sanitation, coastal erosion and localized deforestation where the carrying
capacity of the environment has been overwhelmed.
The following brief description of the national environmental setting is focused on
those aspects which are necessary to appreciate the effects of the proposed project.
3.1 Biophysical Resource Base
Mozambique's total area of almost 80 million ha is comprised of i) a coastal area and
90% of the region south of the Save River which averages 200 m above sea level (as.l.);
ii) a middle plateau north of the Save and westward into the Zambezi valley, 200-500 m
a.s.l.; iii) an upland plateau, mostly in the north, at 500-1000 m as.l.; and iv) a highland
and upland area along the Malawi and Zimbabwe borders. North of the Save, a well-
defined rainy season from November/December to March/April brings annual rainfall
averaging 1000-1400 mm and increasing to more than 2000 mm in mountainous areas.
South of the Save, the rainy season is irregular and unpredictable, often with long dry
periods. Average rainfall here is 600-800 mm, dropping to 400-600 mm inland and
reaching 800-1000 mm at the coast. Soils in the northeast and at higher altitudes are
largely fertile light clay and clay loams while, in the south and coastal plains, soils are
sandy except for the rich alluvial deposits of the major rivers and streams. Southern
areas are particularly subject to floods and salinization. The country's five agro-
ecological zones range from "specialized and diversified", mostly in the north with
favourable conditions for diversification of crops, to "extensive" in the south where
agriculture is limited to drought-resistant or irrigated crops. About 36 million ha, 45%
of the land area, are considered cultivable.
Mozambique's woodlands cover some 70% of the land area and are comprised of
broadleaf forests (about 48%), grassland with trees (21%) and mangroves (1%). Their
productivity is not known. There are also about 42,000 ha of plantation forest
established to provide fuelwood for urban and peri-urban areas but, reportedly, are
considered unattractive for that purpose and contribute little to alleviating pressure on



18 National Environmental Setting
natural vegetation. Natural forests are estimated to provide 85% of the country's total
energy consumption as firewood and charcoal.
Nearly half of Mozambique's surface water comes from rainfall within the
country. The balance comes from rivers draining the western mountains to the Indian
Ocean and mostly rising in neighbouring countries. The largest portion of surface water
is in the Zambezi River. Two of the international rivers provide water for the largest
two of the five cities adressed by the proposed project -- the Umbeluzi (Maputo) and the
Puingue (Beira). An agreement with Swaziland from 1976 regarding the Umbeluzi
states that Mozambique shall receive, at the border, a daily minimum inflow of 40% of
the measured inflow at two key hydrometric stations. No similar agreement exists with
Zimbabwe regarding the Pungue River. Though only a minor part of the Pungue
catchment area lies within Zimbabwe, it is estimated that 25% of the mean annual
runoff originates from that area.
The majority of rivers have a torrential regime with high flows during the rainy
season (November to March/April) and low flows during the dry season. Some are
completely dry during prolonged droughts. In the flatter areas of the coastal zone, salt
water intrusion is commonplace, especially in the dry season.
Useful and reliable hydrological data is scarce in Mozambique. The 260
hydrometric and 340 rainfall stations which existed in 1975 were severely depleted
during the war to 60 and 75, respectively, in 1990 (DNA 1994). Rebuilding of the
network increased those numbers to 73 and 83 by 1993 but is hampered by financial and
organizational constraints, lack of skilled personmel, low level of interest from donors,
and inaccessibility of rainfal stations and stream guages due to mines. As of 1984,
about 38% of the hydrometric stations and 10% of the rainfall stations had less than 10
years of records.
There are 13,000 km2 of inland water including the Cahora Bassa reservoir on the
Zambezi River, part of Lake Malawi (Lago Niassa) and 1,300 lakes. About 70% of the
rural population and some of the major urban centres rely solely on groundwater
supplies.
There are more than 2,500 km of coastline and about 68,300 km2 of continental
shelf. The shore, primarily soft dunes and sand, is subject to heavy sediment deposition.
A diversity of coastal ecosystems, including estuaries, wetlands, mangroves, coral reefs
and coastal lakes, play a crucial role in maintaining coastal and marine species,
particularly fish, in protecting the coast from wave action and erosion, and in reducing
flooding and erosion of river banks.
Mozambique's waters support a wide variety of marine and aquatic fauna - about
50 fish species were reported as endemic in 1950 and some coral reefs are reported to be
high in biodiversity. The country has five protected marine and coastal areas but
enforcement of protective legislation has been largely neglected.



National Environmental Setting  19
3.2 Environmental Quality
Data on air and water quality in Mozarnbique are scarce. A study on the environmental
aspects of the Pequenos Limbombos dam (1995) indicated water-bome chemicals
probably originating from pesticides and fertilizers used in agriculture and foresty
plantations in Swaziland. However, the key issues of monitoring and enforcement of
any agreements with riparian states will remain to be solved without the proper
institutional mechanisms in place.
Air pollution is not considered to be an environmental problem in Mozambique,
except from vehicle emissions in the main cities.
3.3 Biophysical Resource Use
Most of Mozambique north of the Save River has traditionally been under shifting slash
and bum cultivation; this should be sustainable for many years if current land use
patterns and low population density continue. South of the Save, however, farmers in
some densely populated areas have access to little or no fallow land. More than 3.3
million ha of cultivable land has irrigation potential but only about 3% is currently
irrigated.
Coastal and deep sea fishing play a central role in the Mozambican economy, are a
major source of foreign exchange and domestic nutrition, and provide a significant
source of coastal employment. Prawn and lobster contributed about 42% of fisheries
export earnings in 1990. With the exception of shrimp, current exploitation of fisheries
resources appears to be well below conservative estimates of sustainable yields. Most
animal protein consumed in the country, and more than 65% of the total fishery
production (including inland fisheries), are provided by small-scale and artisanal
fishermnen.
Fuelwood supplies some 85% of the country's domestic energy demand. Other
energy sources are underdeveloped due to economic stagnation and transport obstacles
during the war. In 1987, hydropower potential was estimated at 11,000 MW of which
20% had been exploited, primarily by the Cahora Bassa dam on the Zambezi River
(2,075 MW installed capacity). However, Mozambique consumes little power from this
damn (South Africa is the largest beneficiary) and imports nearly half of its electricity
from neighbouring countries.
3.4 Socio-Economic Environment
The present and near-future condition of Mozambique's environmental quality and
natural resource base are defined by the poverty and geographical distribution of the
population after 16 years of armed conflict. About 60% of the population is absolutely
poor; at 137, the IMR is among the highest in the world; and life expectancy at birth is
48 years for women and 45 years for men, both four years less than the average for Sub-
Saharan Africa. The war caused the destruction or abandonment of 31% of the



20 National Environmental Setting
country's, health centres and 45% of its schools. There are now an estimated 200,000
orphans in the country.
The curTent population is estimated to be 17-18 million, including refugees
returned from neighbouring countries, and growth is expected at about 2.7% per annum.
Most significantly, between 1980 and 1993 the combined effects of war and drought
resulted in a substantial increase in the proportion living in urban and peri-urban areas --
from 13% to 18% in the north, from 11% to 17% in the centre, and from 27% to 40% in
the south -- without a parallel increase in non-agricultural employment opportunities.
At the same time, urban infrastructure was designed for much smaller populations and
urban government capacity to meet the burgeoning service requirements of a fast
increasing population is seriously inadequate. Thus, in most urban areas, water supply
infrastructure, storm sewers and sanitation facilities are deteriorating, seriously deficient
and/or lacking. This, combined with widespread poverty, is having substantial
environmental and health impacts. Nearby fuelwood resources are disappearing and, in
many cities, cholera, hepatitis, typhoid, diarrhea and malaria are widespread with
consequent effects on morbidity and mortality.



Assessment of Urban and Peri-Urban Water Supply 21
4.    ASSESSMENT OF URBAN AND PERI-URBAN WATER SUPPLY
4.1 INTRODUCTION
The assessment of urban and peri-urban water supply is divided into several sections.
First of all, issues comnmon to all city programs are discussed (Section 4.2), and
recommendations made which pertain to all the city programs. Next, the five city
programs are analyzed separately (Section 4.3 through 4.7). Recommendations are
made as they are needed and then summarized for ease of reference. As appropriate,
each of the city assessments refers back to the common issues presented earlier and
forward to the recommended Environmental Management Plan presented in Section 7.
The Environmental Management Plan is a vital component of this assessment,
and of efforts to achieve an environmentally-sensitive completion of the NWDP. It
presents common approaches necessary to the location, planning and design of project
facilities; to their construction and operation; to compensating and resettling people
displaced by the project; and to training project participants in environmentally-
appropriate behaviour.
Thus, readers concemed with only one city will refer to the conmnon issues
material (Section 4.2), the material concerning that city (Section 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6 or
4.7), and the environmental management material (Section 7).
4.2 ISSUES COMMON TO ALL CITIES/TOWNS
4.2.1 Public Taps, House and Yard Connections, and Sanitation
Concerning the choices to be made among providing house connections, yard
connections and/or public taps while refurbishing and extending the distribution
networks, we strongly recommended as guiding principles that:
1. House connections should not be provided unless and until appropriate and
adequate facilities are available to handle water- and excreta-related waste; and
2. The NWDP switchfrom providing house connections to providing, as afirst
priority, public taps and, as a second priority, yard connections.
There are three key arguments for these strategic recommendations:
1. People with house connections tend to use considerably more water than people with
access to only yard conmections or public taps. Without adequate solutions to waste
water disposal in place, such high levels of water consumption will exacerbate current
sanitary problems in the communities. As is well known, not only are water supply
systems in the five cities in poor condition but so are the sewerage, drainage and
waste water treatment systems. The NWDP would as originally planned, increase
water supply without parallel sanitary improvements, though the latter now is



22 Assessment of Urban and Pen-Urban Water Supply
planned to be attended to in a closely-following project. Nonetheless, the potential
for increased risks to human health from water and excreta-related diseases due to
inadequate sanitation must not be ignored.
2. Urban household surveys have shown that as much as 90% of the urban population are
poor or ultra-poor. Thus, they have very limited purchasing power and will most
likely be unable to pay for the costs of house and, perhaps, yard connections.
Emphasizing public taps over yard and house connections will represent a better fit
between supply and demand, and will probably improve the prospects for cost
recovery. The Beneficiary Assessment study will intentionally clarify whether the cost
of sustainable standpost management will match the communities ability and
willingness to pay.
3. A larger share of the urban population will get access to safe water if the number of
public taps is increased and the plans for house and yard connections are reduced.
This implies fulfilrnent of basic needs for more people at the same level of total cost
or the sarne level of total water usage, and is in line with the national water policy.
4.2.2 Beneficiary Involvement in the Location, Planning and Design of New
Distribution Systems
We recommend strong participatory involvement of the beneficiaries during
planning and establishment of the distribution system. This is important because:
1. There is large variation among neighbourhoods and towns in terms of purchasing
power, current access to water, alternate sources of water, physical conditions,
community structure and organization, etc. The density and location of public taps
should thus be determined with inputs from the beneficiaries. This will result in a
better fit between demand and supply.
2. Involvement of the beneficiaries in this way will provide a higher degree of
identification and responsibility when it comes to establishing and implementing a
system for the physical and financial management of the water supply system. This is
likely to result in a more secure water supply and reduced operation and maintenance
costs.
3. Health and sanitation education may be provided at the same time by the relevant
health authorities and projects in collaboration with the present project.
We recommend that the Beneficiary Assessment (BA) to be carried out as part of
the Bank's NWDP preparatory work include such participatory involvement, and be
carried out in all-five urban/4eri-urban areas involved in the project. Furthermore, the
BA should produce a set of design criteria, tailored to each community, to guide the
planning, design and implementation of the refurbished/expanded distribution system.
These criteria should specijy, for example, the maximum number ofpeople/families served
by each connection: the maximum distance anyone would need to travel to a public tap,



Assessment of Urban and Peri-Urban Water Supply 23
how physical andfinancial management of the public taps should be conducted, the hours
of service, etc.
In this connection, we also recommend that an incentive system be established
such that it does not pay to damage water meters. The beneficiary assessment should also
investigate this issue.
4.2.3 Routing of Distribution Systems
Routing of the expanded distribution and reticulation system in urban and peri-urban
areas will probably lead to conflicts with existing houses and gardens, even if the
pipelines should mainly follow roads and foot-paths. Destruction of crops, depending
on the season, and some resettlement of families will likely be necessary. We
recommend that provisions for compensation and resettlement be included in the project
plan and budget, as discussed in more detail in Section 7, the Environmental
Management Plan.
4.2.4 Sewage and Waste Water Colection and Treatment
'Refurbishment and/or extension of the sewage and waste water systems for the five
cities have yet to be planned. It can only be assumed that they will be combined
systems for sewage and storm water, with overflow to storm water canals/pipelines
discharging to water courses or the sea during heavy rains. Where sewers already exists
or where their rehabilitation/extension proves preferable to alternative on-site
solutions, we recommend as a general guide that:
1. During the dry season, wastewaterfrom sewered areas should be transported
away from the city and to appropriate treatment facilities where available and
affordable, either through the reticulation system or through the regular emptying
of septic tanks.
2. Siting of the watercourse/sea outlets from treatment plants be based on hydrologicl
oceanographic investigations into their capacity to receive, disperse and naturally
purify the waste water.
3. Treatment, outlet requirements and eventual reuse of effluents be evaluated together
since the choice of sewage treatment methods will influence the outlet and reuse
requirements and vice versa.
4. Provided suitable land areas are available, preference should be given to the use of
waste stabilization ponds (oxidation ponds) providing sedimentation and biological
treatment, and with additional treatment required in case effluents will be reused.
5. Coarse grates, manually cleaned, be used to screen sewage and wastewater prior
to its entering thefirst pond. Overflow arrangements to stormwater channels
should be designed in such a way as not to allow passage of suspended andfloating
objects.
The above recommendations are based on existing situations as observed by the
Team in the five cities. They should become part of a phased strategy to be designed



24 Assessment of Urban and Peri-Urban Water Supply
with the long-term objective of eventually having full treatment of all sewered
wastewater and adequate reuse or disposal of the effluents.
4.2.5 Impacts on Aquatic Life
Little is presently known about the fish species and aquatic biodiversity in the rivers
affected by the NWDP, except that there are relatively few species living there. Species
may vary from one river to the other. From 20 to 33 species have been identified in
some rivers. One of the most knowledgeable people in Mozambique on freshwater
fisheries is of the view that there would be minimal effects on fish populations from the
type of water supply projects comprising the NWDP (Custodio Boane, UEM, pers.
comm.).
4.2.6 Socio-Economic Dimensions
There is no question that improvement and expansion of water supply and distribution
systems in urban and peri-urban areas meets a real and urgent need. Availability of
clean water contributes to people's health by reducing the risks of catching waterbome
diseases and to improving hygienic standards. On the other hand, increasing water
supply without at the same time improving sanitation facilities will, as mentioned
earlier, lead to increased health risks.
Water supply also has important economic impacts. Unreliable water supplies
from the water companies have led to illegal, secondary water markets where poorer
groups of the population pay much higher prices for water (up to 50,000 Mt/m3) than the
more well off with house connections and water tanks (up to 4,500 Mt/n3). This project
is intended to result in increased quantities of safe water reaching an increasing number
of families in more reliable supply systems and will probably lead to a reduction, if not
elimination, of secondary water markets with lower prices. This is unquestionably a
significant benefit which will be enhanced if the project emphasis is shifted to public
taps from house and yard connections, as recommended above.
Moreover, many industries and other enterprises depend on a reliable water
supply. The availability of water is an important factor in investment decisions. In the
case of Quelimane, Nampula and Pemba in particular, the unreliable water supply has
already discouraged new investors and reduced the profitability and number of
employees at existing enterprises. Thus, investments in these towns should be
substantially encouraged as a result of the project.
Project investments will require the involvement of a number of contractors and
various skilled and unskilled workers in Mozambique. Surveys of labour markets in the
cities indicate exceptionally high rates of unemployment and underemployment (DNE
1994). In all cities, companies exist which are capable of executing most of the
construction work for the rehabilitation and expansion of water systems. Moreover,
with the location of the capital and major centre of political and economic power in the
south of the country, people from the north feel certain resentments towards people from



Assessment of Urban and Peri-Urban Water Supply 25
the south. We strongly recommend that local companieS and workers be contracted to
carry out project works instead of importing them from other parts of the country (i.e.
Maputo). This will have several positive socio-economic impacts.
One of the main justifications for the project is the rapid growth of the urban (i.e.
peri-urban) population. One third of the rural population has moved into the cities in
recent years. Until 1992, this migration was primarily caused by the war. Today this
bias away from rural habitation seems to have become more permanent mainly due to
lack of infrastructure and the difficult economic conditions in rural areas, and to the
vicious cycle many urban peasants find themselves in. Although formal employment
opportunities in towns are hard to come by, the informal sector (petty trade and crime)
offers better income opportunities in urban than in rural areas. Migration and settlement
is costly, and people may thus be trapped in places from where they would otherwise
like to move.
The GoM's stated policy is to reverse the migration pattern and promote
resettlement in rural areas. The donor community is following suit with rural
investment programs, although presently on a limited scale. To give priority to
investments in urban and pen-urban areas, as the NWDP does, may seem to contradict
this policy. The picture is, however, more complicated, as there exist a complexity of
reasons for rural-urban migration, and for the difficulties in establishing a new urban-
rural migration pattem. Appendix B discusses some of these issues further.
The NWDP will have significant benefits in the urban and peri-urban areas of
Mozambique. This is undeniable. At the same time, investments in urban and peri-
urban areas should be complemented with investments in water supply systems and
other infrastructure in near-city areas having agncultural and other investment
potentialfor rural-based production (with market outlet potential). Such investments
will assist in encouraging people to relocate out of the major cities/towns. Through its
Rural Water and Sanitation component, the NWDP makes an important contribution to
this effort. Other initiatives should follow.



26 Assessment of Urban and Peri-Urban Water Supply
4.3 MAPUTO
4.3.1 Existing Water Systems
Institutional Framework and Other Projects. Maputo is the largest urban area and the
capital of the Republic of Mozambique. It is located on the south coast at Baia de
Maputo at the joint mouth of the Matola and the Umbeluzi Rivers (Figure 4.1). Water is
supplied by Aguas de Maputo (AdM), the only formally registered state water company
in Mozambique. By law, AdM is subject to supervision by the City Council but in
practice it is supervised by DNA since most new investments and other support is
donor-funded and channelled through DNA, and water tariffs are set by the central
Government.
Sewerage and storm and waste water systems are the responsibility of the
Council. However, the institutional entity designed to operate and maintain the
sewerage system, Sangest, has never been formed and the responsibility for sanitation
still rests with the Council's Works Department. There is no formal co-operation
between AdM and the Works Departnent but AdM is discussing extensions and
principles for water supply with the department, and the two institutions seem to be on
good tenns.
Through the years AdM has been supported by a number of projects. A Bank-
funded project to rehabilitate and extend the water distribution system is nearing
completion. As well, a number of projects supported by the Caisse Francaise de
Developpement have been completed, are on-going or are being negotiated (World
Bank 1996b). These include rehabilitating the intake and treatment facilities, upgrading
the clear water transmission mains, extending the distribution network, updating the
water master plan for Maputo, and institutional strengthening and technical support.
Water Source. Treatment. Transmission and Distribution. Raw water for Maputo is
pumped from above a weir on the Umbeluzi River near Boane about 30 km from the
city (Figure 4.2). Flows above the weir are regulated by the Pequenos Libombos Dam
about 10 km upstream, commissioned in 1988. The dam was designed to provide a
minimum regulated flow of approximately 9 m3/s in the river, to secure sufficient flow
at the intake, but the minimum discharge from the dam is currently set at 4 m3/s. The
dam and its operation, including sufficient flow in the river at the water intake, is the
responsibility of the newly-formed regional water administration of ARA-Sul. AdM
takes over responsibility for the water supply at the intake to the treatment plants. A
hydrological study of the Umbeluzi River basin is being undertaken by a French
consulting company under the French project mentioned above.
The raw water is treated in two plants, an old one just refurbished and a newer
one commissioned in 1991, having a combined capacity of 144,000 m3/d. Both plants
are functioning well but due to clear water transmission inadequacies, total production is
restricted to about 100,000 m3/d. However, the dosing systems are said not to be suited
for the low quality chemicals available in Mozambique, and batch dosing with HTH has
been required during frequent breakdowns. Sludge, back-wash water and sediments
from the treatment plants are discharged back to the river downstream of the weir.



Assessment of Urban and Peri-Urban Water Supply 27
Figure 41: The Maputo Region
Legend
o IntaeskPumping station
*Weil
D Treatment works
o Reservoir
* Dam site
,\/ Ralway
// Main Road
Transmission main
A   River
Remno Gar/a                                                     /
Arr.
. ...... .... .     



00
I~~~~~~l                                                        >
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
0   0         0     \  ~~~~~~machava  t/Si
i 2    g ~~~~~Mato  -                                                               |
Ca~~~~~~~~~~~
ou \  7             ,/  J  *  |Legend
(  Intake/Pumping station
*Well
ii Treatment works
o  Reservoir
*Dam site
// XaRallway
|\/ Main Road
Transmission main
River



Assessment of Urban and Peri-Urban Water Supply 29
A third.treatment plant, with a capacity of 72.000 m3/d, is presently in preliminary
design by a French consulting company under French funding. The consultancy also
includes a feasibility study for a possible raw water pipeline directly from the Pequenos
Libombos Dam to improve raw water quality. AdM indicated that this would probably
not be cost effective.
After treatment, water is pumped through twin transmission mains about 14 km
to the Matola distribution centre. From there, water is gravitated and/or boosted to
distribution centres at Machava, Chamanculo, Maxaquene and Alto Mae. The current
bottleneck in the transmission system is a broken down booster station at the Matola
distribution centre which limits transmission capacity to the 100,000 m3/d mentioned
above. Rehabilitation, or more probably the construction, of a new booster station and
upgrading of the transmission mains to the city are reported to be included in the
ongoing French-funded rehabilitation program.
The piped water supply system serves the city and peri-urban areas directly
bordering the city, as well as the suburbs of Matola and Machava between the water
treatment plant and Maputo city. More periphery areas on the outskirts of the city and
suburbs are not supplied by the system but rely on wells fitted with hand pumps. The
total number of domestic connections is some 58,000, assumed by DHV (1994) to be
3/4 house connections and 114 yard connections. The number of public taps is relatively
small, about 500 in the Greater Maputo area, almost all of them located in peri-urban
areas. The special Programa de Abastecimento de Agua aos Bairros Perifericos
(PAABP) was set up in 1984 to improve the water supply in the bairros. PAABP is now
a part of a nation-wide program, and PAABP (Maputo) is operated by AdM.
The Water Markcet. The local authority in the bairros has set the price of water at 100
Mt/20. litre bucket. The price charged at the standpost is thus eight times the official
AdM tariff for small consumers (5,000 Mt/r3 as against 600 Mt/r3). The higher prices
are paid by the poorest groups of the urban population. In bairros with more
pronounced water shortages, prices at the standposts are even higher (200 Mt/bucket).
In these bairros the pressure is low and water supply is often interrupted. Women fill
200 litre bins and sell water to their neighbours. Residents of the bairros should,
however, be able to register for obtaining water at a fixed rate of 3,000 Mt/month,
regardless of the quantity actually consumed. Residents also complain about the profits
made by the managers of the standposts and question where the profits end up. The
City Council, local authorities and AdM are meeting regularly to resolve current
problems and intend to formalize their cooperation with a contract.
In suburban areas such as Polana Canico a secondary water market has evolved.
Water is only supplied between 4:00 and 9:30 am. People will buy water from
neighbours who have a private connection at lower cost than that at standposts.
Typically a household of five will pay 5,000 Mt/month.
Sewerage Systems. A combined sewerage system for discharge of wastewater and
stormwater from Maputo city centre was constructed between 1948 and 1973, resulting
in a system totalling 100 km in length This combined storm water and sewerage system
discharges to the sea and the Infulene River. Another system separating sewage and



30 Assessment of Urban and Peri-Urban Water Supply
storm water was planned and implemented with Dutch assistance in the 1980s which
conveys most of the sewage parallel to the storm water system to lagoons in the Infulene
valley, west of the city Centre, and then to the river, which discharges into the shallow
Bay of Maputo. Sewage from the eastern part of town is pumped to this system, only
overflowing to the drainage system during heavy rains.
The lower part of town, the Baixa, has a combined system which discharges to the
harbour without treatment. The last investments in sewerage were made in 1990. Many
buildings in the city centre are not connected to the system because the internal
plumbing ends up below the sewer level. A large number of septic tanks with
soakaways are still in operation. Emptying of septic tanks is undertaken by the City
Council or by private contractors against payment. Contractors are expedient but
expensive. The Council has old equipment and little capacity, and it is thus difficult to
obtain their services.
4.3.2    Current Environmental Situation
Water Source. Treatment. Transmission and Distribution
4                  The field report from the Bank's 1995 project preparation mission (WB 1995) has an
outline of hydrological characteristics and potential conflicts with regard to the use of
water, and this will not be repeated here. A discussion of the environmental aspects of
water resources management is given in Section 4.3.4 below, and again in Section 6.
Since the construction of the Pequenos Libombos dam, the water source has
been reliable, allowing a minimum flow of 0.6 to 0.7 m3/s downstream of the intake for
the Maputo water supply. As mentioned earlier, an investigation is going on to establish
the real minimum flow which can be secured from the dam and below the intakes. The
minimum ecological water demand to control saline intrusion has been estimated at 16
Mm3/y or 0.5 m3/s.
Traces of chemical pollution have been found in the Umbeluzi waters, and a
1993 study (Chonguica 1995) indicated that fertilizers used upstream are inducing
eutrofication. Pesticides were also found. Traces of lead and cadmium were detected in
water from the Calchane river discharging into the Pequenos Libombos reservoir.
At the treatment plant, the tidal range in the river downstream of the weir is at
times up to 1 metre. Sludge and backwash water are discharged to the river below the
weir along with undissolved sediments from the lime saturators. This arrangement
results in large quantities of aluminium and calcium being mixed into highly turbid
water which is used for irrigation and supports fish -caught for consumption. This could
result in negative impacts on the aquatic environment and human health.
Water Quality Consumers and Health
The distribution system is said to supply clean water complying with WHO
requirements 80% of the time. However, water is supplied only a few hours a day, thus
leaving the system empty and non-pressurized most of the time. The prevailing sanitary
situation (sewerage, drainage) in the supply area is not good, and very bad in some areas



Assessment of Urban and Peri-Urban Water Supply 31
with flooding septic tanks which are not emptied and clogged soakaways. The situation
is particularly bad during heavy rains. Since water supply, particularly house
connections, creates waste water, the sanitary situation is such that there are high risks
of leakage of contaminants into the pipes through cracks, bad joints and during repairs.
This situation is probably the cause for the polluted water supplied 20% of the time, and
must be considered as a significant adverse effect of the present water supply system.
Accumulation of rain water occurs naturally in depressions that altemate with
the dunes in the pei-urban areas. These depression pools of residential waste and rain
water lead to the increase of the incidence of malaria in the rainy seasons. Previous
surveys indicate that also the ground water of some bairros is contaminated by nitrates
and is unsuitable for human consumption. The occurrence of waterborne diseases has
become more frequent in the Maputo area, such as an increase in the index of
conterminous diarrhoea, epidemics of cholera, and incidences of malaria.
Receiving W
Although a large part of the sewage produced in Maputo is piped and treated before
discharge to the bay, much is also not being treated, particularly during the wet season.
At times of heavy rain, the sewerage system overflows to the storm water system, streets
are flooded, and the sewage treatment facilities are overloaded. The bay and harbour of
Maputo are considered heavily polluted, a situation which must partly be considered an
adverse effect of water supply in combination with an inadequate sewerage system.
4.3.3    Project Description
SUpIp and Demand Proiections
The Provincial Towns Water Sector Study (DHV 1994) projected a population increase
for Greater Maputo to about 1.4 million in 1997, 1.7 million in 2002, and 2.7 million at
the end of the planning period, 2017. The entire population is expected to be supplied
from the main piped water supply as it is extended through the planning period, with
about 50% coverage in 1992 and 75 % in 2002. The percentage of house and yard
connections is projected to increase from about 30% today to 75% in 2017, and non-
domestic water consumption is expected to decrease from about 55% of domestic use to
about 30% during the planning period. Unaccounted-for water (UfW) would be reduced
from today's approximate 40% to a modest 20% early in the planning period. Based on
these assumptions, DHV (1994) projected that the average daily water demand in the
supply area will increase to about 132,000 m3/d in 1997, and to 439,000 m3/d in 2017,
all to be supplied by AdM.
Further, DHV (1994) estimated that a maximum of 240,000 m3/d can be
extracted from the Umbeluzi River. DHV concluded that supply from the Umbeluzi
River will become inadequate around 2006 and should then be augmented by diverting
water from the Incomati River near Moamba northwest of Maputo to the Umbeluzi via
the Matalha and Movene Rivers for 4 to 6 months a year. During the other 6 to 8
months, water should be drawn from the Pequenos Libombos reservoir. Alternatively
or additionally, new ground water sources could be developed north of Maputo between
Pateque and Manhica. Both options for additional water would require detailed
hydrological studies to determine their feasibility.



32 Assessment of Urban and Peri-Urban Water Supply
NWDP Investments
Project investrnents proposed by the Bank for Maputo (WB 1996b) are shown in Figure
4.3. In addition to hydrological studies to determine the feasibility of developing new
water sources from the Incomati River and/or ground water resources north of the city,
the project would repair, upgrade and/or extend the existing supply, treatment and
distribution system based entirely on raw water withdrawals from the Umbeluzi River.
Project activities on which this EA focuses, with a distinction between those
which may cause significant and minor effects, are:
Significant environmental effects:
* increase surface water abstraction from Umbeluzi River
Minor environmental effects:
* new intake and treatment plant
* extension of distribution network
4.3.4    Environmental Assessment of the NWDP
Location. Planning and Design: Water Source
-DHV carried out an investigation of the existing and the long tern potential water
resources for urban use and irrigation for the Greater Maputo area and the Umbeluzi-
Incomati River basins (DHV 1994, Maputo: Annex IV). Potential ground water
resources were also assessed and an economic evaluation of the potential use of (part of)
the resources for irrigation purposes was undertaken, outlining a number of possible
scenarios.
As mentioned in section 4.3.3, DHV estimated the maximum amount of water
which may be extracted from the Umbeluzi River by AdM to be 10,000 m3/h (88
Mm3/year), which corresponds to the projected demand in the year 2006. This assumes
a maximum consumption for irrigation purposes of 44 Mm3/year which corresponds to a
limit of slightly less than 4,000 ha of irrigated land. At present, the irrigated area is
reported to be in the range of 1,400 ha (of which only half is operational) whereas soil
surveys have indicated an irrigation potential of 10,600 ha in the upper Umbeluzi, 2,600
ha in the lower Umbeluzi (near Boane) and 11,000 ha along the Movene River (DHV
1994). When the use of the water resources for irrigation purposes in Swaziland
(presently 10,000 ha) are also included, it is very clear that there are competing demands
for water from the Umbeluzi River for irrigation and urban use in Maputo, and that
altemative sources must be developed to meet at least part of the future demand from
AdM.
The principal environmental concerns with regard to the use of water and the
water balance in the Umbeluzi basin relate to:
1. The minimum flow required downstream of the Maputo water intake to control
salinity intrusion and protect other ecological functions;
2. Proposed future transfers of water from the Incomati to the Umbeluzi River to
augment Maputo raw water supplies; and



Assessment of Urban and Peri-Urban Water Supply 33
3. Monitoring and management of the rninimum flow being delivered across the border
from Swaziland.
Figure 4.3:
Project Investments in Maputo
Hydrological          Set up monitoring program    XXX   XXX
investigations (1.01)  for Calichane and Movene
Rivers. Study joint use of
Umbeluzi and Incomati river
basins. Additional
hydrogeological
investigations for the
Pateque-Manhica area.
Leak reduction program   Repair/replace bulk meters.    XXX   XXX   XXX
(1.06)                Establish district metering.
Rehabilitate/replace 7,500
service connections and
replace 15,000 faulty meters.
4                                            Repair/replace 100 km of
distribution pipes. Upgrade
20 km of primary
distribution network.
Recover 10,000 illegal
connections.
New service connections Connect 13,500 HC,  1,000   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   Xxx
(1.07)                YC and 900 PT
New intake and        Construct new intake.                    xxx   XXX   xxx
treatment (2.01/2)    Install 3 pumps of 2,500
m3/h each. Construct new
treatment plant 96,000 m3/d
capacity.
Distribution (2.07)   Extend distribution network:             Xxx   XXX
Mahotas and other areas
From an environmental viewpoint, there are several dimensions to the question
of transfering water from the Incomati via the Movene to the Umbeluzi River. As with
the Umbeluzi, competing water demands on the Incomati River for irrigation and human
consumption, and maintaining a variety of downstream ecological functions, must be
considered. As well, the environmental consequences of increasing flows in the
Movene River, beyond what it and its riparian water dwellers and users have evolved to
handle, must be assessed.
Regarding minimum flows below the Maputo intake, the EA team was unable to
determiine on what basis the minimum ecological flow of 16 Mm3/y or 0.5 m3/s was
estimated. Moreover, this "ecological water demand" appears to be only for the control
of saline intrusion. The preservation of other ecological functions (e.g. dispersion and
natural purification of waste waters, including those from the Maputo water treatment



34 Assessment of Urban and Pen-Urban Water Supply
plants (see below); preservation of riparian habitats; flushing of suspended sediments
through the harbour) does not appear to have been included. It is vital that good
hydrological monitoring at the intake, and thorough analysis of minimumflows
required to meet domestic, industrial, irrigation and a variety of downstream
ecological demands, be carried out before maximum withdrawals available from the
river to supply Maputo are settled. Only with this information in hand will analysis of
the requirements for firm minimumflows from Swaziland and/or transfers from the
Incomati River be possible.
Together with the outstanding need to negotiate shared water arrangements with
Swaziland and South Africa, the above concerns highlight the need to develop co-
ordinated regulating regimes for the various river basins and major water users
involved. This will be a task for ARA-Sul in collaboration with the new unit for
international river basins in DNA.
The issue of minimum flows in the Umbeluzi below the Maputo intakes should be
a key factor in the design of hydrological investigations planned under the Maputo sub-
project of the NWDP. Moreover, this and the Incomati and international rivers issues
should be addressed by the relevant Water Resources Management components of the
NWDP discussed in more detail in Section 6 of this report:
S Section 6.2: Management Development Plan for ARA-Sul
* Section 6.4: Strengthening of Management of Shared Water Resources, and
* Section 6.5: Joint Incomati Study -- Supplementary Work in Mozambique.
Location. Planning and Design: Treatment
Disposal of sludge, backwash water and undissolved sediments from the treatment plant
into the river is probably causing negative impacts on the aquatic environment and
human health downstream, though the reduced water quality and its impacts have not
been studied. Water quality downstream of the treatment plant should be monitored,
particularly during lowflows, to determine if contaminants from the treatment process
are creating significant problems. If they are, planningfor increased treatment
capacity at the present site should include provisions for the safe disposal of these
wastes into a lagoon or landfill.
Location. Planning and Design: Transmission. Storage and Distrbution
Along the clear water transmission mains between Boane and Maputo, some informal
settlements have developed on top of and along the pipelines, and some resettlement
will be necessary. Some of the most likely locations are:
*  About 100 refugee houses remain along the transmission main between Matola and
Maputo, adjacent to the highway and in from the Cement Factory. The area is
relatively low and wet and the houses are built on an artificial elevation created for
the pipeline. Because of the high pressure in the line, any ruptures would represent
serious risks to the safety and lives of these people.
* The area next to Mahotas, where a new distribution centre is planned, is densely
populated. Construction of a distribution tower will necessitate the removal of an
unidentified number of families.



Assessment of Urban and Peri-Urban Water Supply 35
Upgrading of the transmission main and the new distribution centre are proposed
components of French funded projects, and not parts of the NWDP. Environmental and
resettlement issues in this regard are thus outside the scope of this EA study. The Team
would however, make the following recommendations to the Maputo City Council and
AdM:
Families living on the transmission main and in the area of the new Mahotas
distribution centre should be resettled in accordance with existing regulation and
practice. This matter will be particularly important if the planned upgrading of the
whole transmission main goes ahead under French funding.
Construcimn
No construction impacts were identified which cannot be satisfactorily managed through
measures incorporated in the environmental monitoring and management plan (Section
7.3).
Operation
Apart from increased water abstractions from the Umbeluzi River, no operation impacts
were identified which cannot be satisfactorily managed through measures incorporated
4                  in the environmental monitoring and management plan (Section 7.4). Increased
withdrawals of water from the river will result in lower flows downstream of the
treatment plant, exacerbation of what impacts may be caused by waste discharges from
that plant, and other as yet unidentified water quality, quantity and related ecological
and human use effects. These concerns are discussed further in Section 6, Assessment
of Water Resources Management Proposals.
The Water Marke
With an expanded network, improved quality and regularity of the supply, prices for
water should come down in the bairros as compared to today's prices. It is, however,
necessary to review and improve the organization of distribution. The collapse of the
Grupos Dinamizadores (previous local authority) in the bairros has caused an
administrative vacuum at the grass roots organizational level. The local authority
substituting for these groups lacks the financial, administrative, political and legal
authority and autonomy necessary to set priorities, make decisions and exercise
administrative control.
For the organization ofpublic participation in connection with the extension of
the distribution system, new partner organizations should be found, such as
associations of inhabitants and women's organizations.
4.3.5    Analysis of Alternatives
The principal alternatives which pertain to the NWDP, concern sources of future raw
water supply for Maputo. As discussed above, the two altemative sources under
consideration are the Incomati River and groundwater in the Pateque-Manhica area
north of Maputo. DHV (1994) indicated that further investigations are required to
determine the practical and economic feasibility of these alternatives.



36 Assessment of Urban and Peri-Urban Water Supply
Hydro(geo)logical investigations in support of these feasibility studies are planned as
part of the NWDP.
It will be essential that these feasibility studies include environmental
assessment to evaluate the environmental costs and benefits of each alternative, and to
include these factors in any comparison of and selection between the alternatives.
4.3.6  Summary of Recommendations
1.   It is vital that good hydrological monitoring at the intake, and thorough analysis
of minimum flows required to meet domestic, irrigation, industrial and a variety
of downstream ecological demands, be carried out before maximum withdrawals
available from the Umbeluzi river to supply Maputo are settled. Only with this
information in hand will analysis of the requirements for firm minimumflows
from Swaziland and/or transfers from the Incomati River be possible.
2.    The issue of minimumflows in the Umbeluzi below the Maputo intakes should be
a key factor in the design of hydrological investigations planned under the
Maputo sub-project of the NWDP. Moreover, this and the Incomati and
international rivers issues should be addressed by the relevant Water Resources
Management components of the NWDP discussed in more detail in Section 6 of
this report:
* Section 6.2: Management Development Plan for ARA-Sul
*  Section 6.4: Strengthening of Management of Shared Water Resources,
and
* Section 6.5: Joint Incomati Study - Supplementary Work in
Mozambique.
3.    Water quality downstream of the treatment plant should be monitored,
particularly during lowflows, to determine if contaminantsfrom the treatment
process are creating significant problems. If they are, planning for increased
treatment capacity at the present site should include provisions for the safe
disposal of these wastes into a lagoon or landfill.
4.    For the organization ofpublic participation in connection with the extension of
the Maputo distribution system, new partner organizations should be found,
such as associations of inhabitants and women's organizations.
S.    It will be essential that the feasibility studies into future alternate water sources
for Maputo include environmental assessment to evaluate the environmental
costs and benefits of each alternative, and to include these factors in any
comparison of and selection between the alternatives.



Assessment of Urban and Peri-Urban Water Supply 37
4.4      BEIRA
4.4.1    Existing Water Systems
Institutional Framework and Other Projects
Beira is the second largest town in Mozambique and the capital of Sofala Province. The
water system supplies Dondo, Manga and Inhamizua as well as Beira and is run by the
Companhia de Aguas de Beira (CAB), originally a shareholder company owned by the
City Council and anonymous (Portuguese) individuals. At independence, the
Portuguese left and the company was nationalised and turned into a state enterprise.
This status, however, has never been formalised and CAB has maintained its legal
company structure.
CAB operates independently from the City Council (although the City Council
is the majority shareholder). In practice DNA supervises CAB through the Sofala
Provincial MOPH office by channelling donor investment assistance and the setting of
water tariffs. Relations between the City Council and CAB are very strained due to
problems with managing the Beira sewage system and to serious management problems
within CAB. CAB was previously responsible for sanitation, but the responsibility was
transferred to the Council. Despite prolonged investment support from a Dutch-
-financed project, the Council has been unable to execute proper maintenance of the
sewerage and storm water systems. The Council attributes the lack of maintenance
partly to CAB which has for more than a year refused to transfer receipts of an agreed
15 % share of the water fee to the Council to cover maintenance costs of the sewerage
system.
The Finnish Embassy in Maputo has concluded that a recently completed
FINNIDA project for institutional support to CAB was a failure due to misappropriation
of funds; lack of policies, strategies and tariff structure; and unqualified management
which did not follow established regulations. FINNIDA will, however, consider some
bridging support to CAB until commencement of the Bank-funded NWDP.
The third institution involved in the Beira water supply is the Mozambique
Sugar Estate (Acucareira de Moqambique). In the early 1970s a flood destroyed the
original CAB water intake in the Pungue River and CAB has since been dependent on
the sugar estate intake pumps and irrigation canal for its raw water supply. The estate is
compensated in an agreement between the parties with free potable water. Relations
between CAB and the estate are also strained due to salt intrusion in the river and the
intake, and consequent interruptions to water supplies (see below).
Water Source. Treatment. Transmission and Distribution
Beira obtains its raw water from the Pingue River about 75 km from the river mouth
(Figure 4.4). Minimum flow on the Pungue is estimated to be 3.9 m3/s (337,000 m3/d)
(100 year return period). At the intake works, the river is still tidal and, during the May
to October period of drier years, saline intrusion can affect water quality and limit
pumping. Salt intrusion during low flows may reach 95 km from the river mouth.



38 Assessment of Urban and Peri-Urban Water Supply
Figure 4.4: The Beira Water System
Legend
(a  Intake/Pumping stabon
Well
PropoDsed   i<&P                               C: Treatment works
Proposed                          ~~~~~~~~o Reservoir
new intale                                     *  New intake
\l _  Railway
,vMain Road
Transmission main
RiP u  River
N
ungue             Dondo                  t
1 ~~~~~~Inhamizua
>~Beira
\  h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pr
ts~~~~i  Buziw0



Assessment of Urban and Peri-Urban Water Supply 39
Water is pumped from the river by the Mozambique Sugar Estate into its 6 km
irnigation channel. A 1.5 km branch channel supplies the CAB intake pumping station
which feeds two treatment plants with combined capacity of 30,000 m3/d. A new intake
pumping station on the same branch channel, and a new treatment plant (cap. 30,000
m3/d), both Italian-funded, are almost complete and are said will be finished by the
NWDP. Average water production from the existing plants is about 19,000 m3/d.
Waste flows from the treatment process are discharged back into the branch channel
beyond the CAB intake.
The estate's river intake is presently undergoing a complete rehabilitation with
new intake and outlet pipes and eight new pump-sets to increase capacity from 5.6 to
7.2 m3/s. The main irrigation channel is subject to siltation and is regularly dredged by
the estate.
Treated water is pumped 14.2 km to reservoirs at Mezimbite then gravity-fed 30
km (via Dondo and Inhamizua) to the Manga distribution centre. Here it is pumped into
a tower for local distribution and further transmission to the Munhava then Beira
distribution centres. Almost complete are a new pumping station at the treatment site
and a 52 km transmission main to Munhava. These too are also said will be completed
by the NWDP.
The people of Beira and its bairros get their water from wells, private house or
yard connections, standposts, through water vendors and from neighbours (Ojanpera
1993). About 45% of the population is served primarily by CAB, 2/3 of which have a
house/yard connection and 1/3 depends on standposts (DNE 1994). In 1992 there were
74 standposts in the bairros. By 1995, the number had increased to 112 but only 63 are
now in service, each serving an average of about 800 individuals. CAB has created a
special Board for organising payment at the standposts. The Board operates a net of
local managers made responsible for collecting water fees. They are selected after
consulting people in the area and their local leaders. Users pay a fixed fee per family at
the end of each month.
The Water Marke
An important source of water in Beira is the secondary market developed to cope with
the inability of CAB to secure a timely supply of water. It covers about 20 % of the
population (Ojanpera 1993). Prices in 1993 were found to vary between 5,000 to
10,000 MtVrn3. It was not possible to identify current secondary market prices but they
are a multiple of the official CAB tariffs and vary considerably depending on the
services included - e.g. whether water is brought by the vendor to elevated floors of
high rise buildings, or if the buyer goes to the vendor. Another variable is the
relationship (kinship) between buyer and seller. Anecdotal information indicates that
they may reach 50,000 Mt/m3.
Sewerage Systems
The only piped sewerage system in the supply areas of CAB is in the city centre and
serves about 30% of the population. Operation and maintenance of the system is the
responsibility of City Council, but neither the customers nor the water company are
paying any contribution for the services. The system is comprised of about 50 km of



40 Assessment of Urban and Peri-Urban Water Supply
reticulation, 9 km of main collector pipelines, 11 lift stations to deliver sewage to the
mains, and four mains pumping stations to discharge the sewage to the Pungue River
estuary without any kind of treatment. Outside the city centre, septic tanks with
soakaways and pit latrines constitute the main sanitary facilities.
The Urban Infrastructure Programme, financed by the World Bank, and a
program funded by the Dutch government, have rehabilitated parts of the piping system
and all pumping stations in recent years. According to information obtained during the
visit, many pumps have broken down after rehabilitation but at least one pump is
working in each station.
4.4.2    Current Environmental Situation
Water Source, Treatment. Transmission and Distribution
Beira's raw water supply is totally dependent upon the continuous operation of the river
intake owned and operated by the sugar estate, an undesirable dependency. The main
problem is the salt water intrusion at low flows which causes salt contents far above the
limit which is acceptable for the irrigation of sugar cane (140 mg/litre). When this
occurs, normally during the early August to mid-December period, the estate stops
pumping river water to prptect its land and crops from salination. Although the water is
still suitable for human consumption (WHO recommended maximum 250 mg/litre),
CAB is consequently forced to shut down the city water supply.
This interruption causes serious adverse impacts in Beira. Only last year the
intake was closed for 10 days in succession. By strict rationing of the water in the
channel and the reservoirs, some supply was possible for three days, leaving people
without water for one week. Under the circumstances, the population uses whatever
water can be found and since the sewerage system also stops functioning in these
situations, the effects are potentially disastrous. It is strange that the new Italian-funded
raw water pumping station was located on the existing raw water channel, thus
maintaining the salt intrusion problem and the dependency on the sugar estate. This
was, apparently, against advice of both CAB and the City Council who wanted to
restore the original river intake upstream which was washed out in the early 1970s.
At the treatment plant, sludge and backwash water are discharged back to the
intake branch of the channel, downstream of the intake. The channel continues far into
the marshy flatland and the idea is that solids should settle while water should seep back
to the river. As it is, the channel has silted up and, during floods or when raw water
intake to the channel is less than the pumping rate of the raw water station, heavily
polluted water flows backwards to the intake. During the site visit, two clearly
distinctive flows, one from each direction, were feeding the intake pumping station, the
one from downstream being completely black. This situation clearly adds to treatment
costs.
The transmission system capacity is adequate for the water production at the
treatment plant in operation, but not more. The leaking ground reservoir in Manga,
causing loss of precious water, is aggravating the difficult supply situation. The Italian-



Assessment of Urban and Peri-Urban Water Supply 41
funded transmission line could have eased the supply situation, along with the other
components under the same program. Moreover, the 40 year old distribution system is
in a poor state with frequent bursts in spite of extremely low pressures in the city centre
and some rehabilitation and replacement works recently carried out with FINNIDA
support.
Water Qualitv. Consumers and Health
With water being distributed only about 7 hours per day, and sometimes not at all, the
distribution system is often empty and non-pressurised. This, coupled with an
inadequate and only partly developed sewerage system, means that the water
reticulation is susceptible to contamination from pit latrines and drained or flooding
septic tanks. As the sewerage system to a great deal is dependent on sewage pumping
stations, break-down of these causes leakage and high risk of contamination of water
pipelines, with adverse impacts to human health. The EA team was not able to obtain
any official statistics on the health and hygiene situation in the city and the bairros.
However, anecdotal information indicate that the health situation is no better in Beira
than in other cities, and that incidents of cholera had been recently reported.
Receiving Waters
Anecdotal information indicate that sewage and waste water being discharged to the
Puingui River mouth without treatment is causing severe pollution of the waters and the
shores along the water front. This results in health risks to everybody taking part in the
harbour activities and is adversely affecting the general impression of the town and
surroundings. The pollution is possibly also having other adverse ecological effects.
4A.3     Project Description
Suply and Demand Projections
DHV (1994) projected the population in the supply area to increase to about 490,000 in
1997 and to about 980,000 by the end of the planning period, year 2017. Only the urban
and peri-urban areas will be covered by the water supply system which means that Beira
and Manga will have full coverage in 2017 whereas the coverage in Inhamizua and
Dondo are estimated to be 85% and 75% respectively in the same year. Unaccounted-
for water (UfW) was taken to be reduced from 40 - 50% of present production to a
modest 20% early in the planning period. The present level of service, with 68% of the
population not covered and only 25% covered by house and yard connections, is
expected to improve until full coverage is reached in 2017 with 75% being supplied by
house/yard connections.
Based on the above assumptions, DHV (1994) projected an average day water
demand increase to about 21,000 m3/d in 1997 and 137,000 m3/d in 2017, all to be
supplied by CAB.
NWDP Investments
Project investments proposed by the Bank for the Beira system are shown in Figure 4.5.
They involve:
* New intake pumping station. first phase



42   Assessment of Urban and Peri-Urban Water Supply
* Local storage and pumping at Inhamizua and Dondo
* Water loss reduction and metering
* New service connections
In addition, it is understood that the new intake pumping station and treatment plant
almost completed with Italian funding will be finished by the NWDP (Shepherd 1996a).
Figure 4.5:
Project Investments in Beira
New intake (1.03)   Construct first phase of new   XXX   XXX   XXX
intake pumping station of
2,000 m3/h capacity
(ultimate cap. 7,200 mn/h).
Storage (1.07)      Construct 2,500 rn3 ground             XXX   XXX
level reservoir with pumping
unit in Inhamizua (south).
Storage (1.08)      Construct 2,000 m3 ground              XXx   XXX
level reservoir with pumping
unit in Dondo.
Distribution(I.10)   Lossreductionand        XXX           XXX   XXX   XXX
consumer meter program.
Distribution (new   Construct 2,492 HC and                 XXX   XXX   XXX
connections) (1.1 1)  4,740 YC
Project activities on which the EA focuses, with a distinction between those
which may cause significant effects and those for which effects are likely to be minor,
are:
Significant environmental effects
* increase surface water abstraction from Pungue River
Minor environmental effects
* new ground level reservoirs at Inhamizua and Dondo
4.4.4     Environmental Assessment of the NWDP
Location. Planning and Design: Water Source and Treatment
The DHV report (1994) for Beira states that there is sufficient water for the supply of
Beira if this is given priority over any other uses, and if the saline intrusion problem can
be solved. However, it will be necessary to limit other uses in the fiuture as the demand
for Beira water supply increases. (Minimum annual recorded flow was 766 Mm3/y in
1967-8 against projected demand of 50 Mm3/y in 2017). The National Irrigation
Development Master Plan (quoted in DHV 1994) recommended that the total irrigated



Assessment of Urban and Pen-Urban Water Supply 43
area should be limited to about 8,500 ha (present area of the sugar estate). Although no
minimum flow requirement was specified, the estimated irrigation area limit was taking
into account the need to use available flow to push the freshwater/saline water interface
downstream. It is not known whether possible reduction in flows across the border from
Zimbabwe was considered. A new supply line from the river destinated for the town of
Mutare in Zimbabwe, is under construction. Planned extraction is 0.7 m3/s, but the
capacity is actually higher.
Provided that restrictions on water use for irrigation are enforced to maintain a
minimum downstream flow, the increased abstraction of water for Beira from the
Pungue River would probably not cause any significant environmnental impact. This
statemnent, however, also presupposes that a satisfactory agreement is reached with
Zimbabwe with regard to the shared water resources of the Puingue River. DNA and/or
the new ARA for the region should monitor water demands on the Pzingu& Riverfrom
irrigation and other uses in Mozambique andfrom Zimbabwe. Should these demands
plus water supply to Beira indicate potential problems with maintaining minimumflows
in the lower river, more detailed hydrological analysis should be carried out to assist in
resolving competing water demands.
4                    *  Monitoring of salt content, evaluation of the weir option and hydrological
studies, as recommended by DHV (1994), have been omitted from the NWDP
investments outlined in Figure 4.5. The recommended new intake pumping station is
included, but its location is not specified and no raw water transmission main to the
treatment plant is included. The Bank is currently studying the downstream weir option
(Shepherd 1996a). Although not specified in the investment plan of NWDP, there is
evidently still some analysis to be completed before a final solution to Beira's raw water
supply, and investments under the NWDP, are settled. At this point, there appear to be
five options:
1. A new river intake at the current location, no weir, and discharge of raw water into
the existing channel for delivery to the treatment plant intake. This appears to be
what the Bank is currently proposing.
2. Option 1 but with a weir in the river.
3. Option I but with a pipeline from the river intake to the treatment plant directly.
This would eliminate the need for intake pumps on the channel into the treatment
plant.
4. Option 1 but with a weir and a pipeline from the river intake to the treatment plant
directly. This would eliminate the need for intake pumps on the channel into the
treatment plant.
5. Location of a new river intake 14 km upstream, to avoid the salt water intrusion
problem altogether, and a pipeline to the treatment plant directly.
Options 1 and 3 do not solve the salt water intrusion problem. Options 2 and 4
will solve the problem both for CAB and the sugar estate if the weir can be reliably built
and operated, and if it is affordable considering both capital and O&M costs. Both these
assumptions need to be seriously examnined. Option 5, the one most desirable to both
CAB and the City Council, will very likely solve the salt water intrusion problem for
CAP, but not for the sugar estate, and includes no new technology which CAB must



44 Assessment of Urban and Pen-Urban Water Supply
adapt to. -Options 3, 4 and 5 all release Beira from dependency on the sugar estate's
own pumping criteria and schedule.
It is our opinion that Option 5 should be seriously considered since it offers the
simplest technical solution to the salinity problem and releases Beira from dependency
on the sugar estate. Options involving a weir are likely to have significant
environmental impacts, especially to fisheries and river navigation, which would have
to be assessed. The other options will have minimal and manageable environmental
effects. However,
We recommend that a thorough feasibility study be undertaken, considering all
five supply options, before settling the final solution for Beira 's raw water
supply and the final proposed investments under the NWDP. Any options
involving a weir in the Pungue River will if selected, require a separate
environmental assessment.
Completion of the Italian-funded treatment plant must include provisions for
safe disposal/discharge of sludge and backwash water. The present self-polluting
situation must be discontinued.
Rehabilitation of the existing treatment plants is not included in the NWDP. The
reason could be that the new, Italian-funded treatment plant will have sufficient capacity
alone until approximately 2000. However, the existing treatment plants, particularly the
newer one, should be rehabilitated to preventfurther deterioration with adverse effects
and extra costs when the capacity is needed in a relatively nearfuture.
Location. Planning and Design: Transnission. Storage and Distribution
The route- for a possible new raw water transmission main has not been studied, and no
specific comments on environmental impacts are possible. However, the area is
sparsely populated, and significant environmental impacts from one, later two, pipelines
in parallel are not expected.
The distribution system recommended for Inhamizua by DHV (1994) has been
left out of the NWDP. However, a local reservoir, drawing water from the transmission
line, has been constructed under Finnish funding, including also a pumping station and a
small, elevated reservoir. A distribution system would be a natural part of this program,
but the extent is not known.
Construction
No construction impacts were identified which cannot be satisfactorily managed through
measures incorporated in the environmental monitoring and management plan (Section
7.3).
With regard to employment, Beira is not much different from other major cities
of the country. Unemployment and underemployment rates are extremely high with
more than half of the population between the age of 15 and 59 being unemployed (DNE
1994). The area also counts a large number of demobilised soldiers (100,000 in the
Sofala Province, 14,000 in Beira itself). At the same time, there are at least three local



Assessment of Urban and Peri-Urban Water Supply 45
companies capable of executing construction works under the NWDP: CETA, Teixeira
Duarte and COTAM.
Op2eration
Apart from the potential for increased sewage treatment and sanitary problems
addressed in Section 4.2.1, no operation impacts were identified which cannot be
satisfactorily managed through measures incorporated in the environmental monitoring
and management plan (Section 7.4).
Receiving Waters
The increased water supply and number of connections will cause increased sewage and
waste water production, especially if recommendations in Section 4.2.1 are not
followed. Unless extension and improvement of the water supply is accompanied by
parallel improvements in the sewerage system and/or introduction of other appropriate
sanitation solutions, the present untreated discharge of solids and human wastes will
increase, polluting the harbour and nearby ocean and beaches, and creating the potential
for impacts to both the aquatic environment and human health.
Recommendations for the planning of waste water treatmentfacilities are
discussed in Section 7.2 of the Environmental Management Plan. See also Section 4.2.4.
4.4.5    Analysis of Alternatives
DHV (1994) offered two alternatives for improving raw water quality, the Pfingue River
being the source in both cases:
* Construction of a weir downstream of the intake to prevent salt intrusion;
* Construction of a new intake where salt intrusion does not occur, 14 kn up the river
just above the tributary Dingue-Dingue River.
These alternatives were discussed above in Section 4.4.4.
DHV (1994) also mentioned developing ground water supply but this would
only complement the present source and is not discussed here. Also mentioned was, for
the long term, constructing a storage dam on the Puingue River at Bue-Maria. A design
has already been prepared for a large dam at this location. It is not likely that the project
will be considered viable in the forseeable future and is not discussed further in this
report.
4.4.6    Summary of Recommendations
1.    DNA and/or the new ARA for the region should monitor water demands on the
Pungue Riverfrom irrigation and other uses in Mozambique andfrom
Zimbabwe. Should these demands plus water supply to Beira indicate potential
problems with maintaining minimumflows in the lower river, more detailed



46 Assessment of Urban and Peri-Urban Water Supply
hydrological analysis should be carried out to assist in resolving competing
water demands.
2.    We recommend that a thorough feasibility study be undertaken, considering all
five supply options discussed in this report, before settling the final solution for
Beira 's raw water supply and the final proposed investments under the NWDP.
Any options involving a weir in the Puingue River will if selected, require a
separate environmental assessment.
3.    Completion of the Italian-funded treatment plant must include provisions for
safe disposal/discharge of sludge and backwash water. The present self-
polluting situation must be discontinued.
4.    The existing treatment plants, particularly the newer one, should be
rehabilitated to prevent further deterioration with adverse effects and extra costs
when the capacity is needed in a relatively nearfuture.
5.    Recommendations for the planning of waste water treatment facilities are
discussed in Section 7.2 of the Environmental Management Plan.See also
Section 4.2.4.



Assessment of Urban and Peri-Urban Water Supply 47
4.5 QUELIMANE
4.5.1 Existing Water Systems
Institutional Framework and Other Projects
Quelimane is the capital of the Zambezia Province, situated on the northern bank of Rio
Cuacua as it reaches the Indian Ocean. The water supply mainly covers the town of
Quelimane, but some standposts and other, single connections along the transmission
main to the town distribution centre are also supplied by Empresa de Agua de
Quelimane (AdQ). AdQ is a state enterprise "in creation"; it functions as an
independent company but is supervised by DNA through the Zambezia Provincial
MOPH office. There are no formal connections between AdQ and the Quelimane City
Council. Co-operation with the city health service is limited to exchange of biological
test results from water taps and there are no dialogue on health problems.
Other projects in the area include a German-funded manpower development
initiative within AdQ as an emergency measure. Fundacao Eduardo Mondlane is
sponsoring a sanitation project in the peri-urban areas. PRONAR, the Rural Water
Program, is constructing wells in the Quelimane area. In the near future, the National
Roads Directorate will begin to rehabilitate and extend the main road along the
transmission main from Quelimane via Nicadala, and passing Licuare, with financing
from the Bank through the GoM National Roads Program.
Water Source. Treatment. Transmission and Distribution
The original and main water source for Quelimnane is the artificial Namite Lagoon close
to the Licuare River about 50 km northeast of town (Figure 4.6). The lagoon is fed by
groundwater and by pump and 950 m open canal from the river during dry periods when
groundwater flows decrease. The lagoon is severely overgrown by hyacinths and
weeds. An intake tower with three pumps (one operational) in the lagoon feeds the
treatment plant on the shore. Another, bigger pump has been installed in a shed on the
shore with an intake pipe into the lagoon and outlet pipe to the plant. The German
government has funded the drilling of five boreholes near the treatment plant yielding
150 to 220 m3/h though the driller suspects that the long-term recharge will not allow all
boreholes to be in operation simultaneously. One borehole has been completed, with a
smaller pump than planned, and provides about 70 m3/h to the plant.
The conventional treatment plant is in a state of complete deterioration except
for one rapid sand filter. Due to lack of money, no chlorination is carried out and no
equipment for this is present. Thus, water treatment for Quelimane is virtually non-
existent.
From the treatment plant, water is pumped into an elevated reservoir, and further
gravity-fed by a 51 km main to ground level reservoirs in town. These systems are also
in poor condition with pumps working intermittently or not at all, dangerously
deteriorated support structures, and leaky tramsmission main. Direct pumping, omitting
the water tower, is considered impossible as several pipe-bursts occur every month with
just gravity, leaving the town without piped water supply.



48 Assessment of Urban and Peri-Urban Water Supply
Figure 4.6: The Quelimane Water System
Proposed                     Legend
K  dam  site                      G  Intake/Pumping staton
W Well
\  Treatment works
o  Reservoir
D* am site
(l 9  Railway
N                               /\/ Main road
TRr.aenmis3ion main
uareic               oaala
0 Ucar
j                \~Naact
N                <                       5~~~~~~~~~~Aipr
.~~~ioCu



Assessment of Urban and Pen-Urban Water Supply 49
The pipeline supplies a few standposts and some private connections on its way to town.
The distribution centre at AdQ headquarters comprises two ground tanks, a pumping
station and a water tower from which water is supplied to the distribution system a few
hours per day. No bulk water meters are functioning anywhere in the production or
transmission system.
There are only 2,100 private connections (house/yard) in the city which serve 7
% of the population (DHV 1994). About 1/3 of the population depend primarily on
standposts for their water (DNE 1994). However, only 12 of the 27 standposts installed
are functioning. The rest of the population, approximately 60% depend on wells as their
main source of water. The wells are apparently more reliable than piped water from
AdQ. Water use is not metered but average total use is estimated to be about 1,800 m'/d
(DHV 1994).
The Water Maket
In Quelimane, standpost caretakers are apparently free to set their own prices for water.
In response to the general raise in tariffs from February 1996, the EA team observed that
at one particular standpost the price was 50,000 Mt/n'. This is more that 70 times the
official tariff at standposts set by the Government. The caretaker is allegedly charged
319,000 Mt/month by AdQ for the operation of the standpost but there appears to be no
control from the enterprise on his financial operations. The price on the secondary
market is also around 50,000 Mt/mr.
Sewege Systems
In the city centre, a rudimentary drainage system is also functioning as sewerage
system, with several septic tanks connected. Apart from the septic tanks, which are
never emptied, no wastewater treatnent exists, and the combined drainage and sewage
is discharged directly into the Cuacua River. Flooding septic tanks are common during
rains and blocked drainage canals and pipelines are causing health risks. Operation and
maintenance of the sanitation and sewerage systems are the responsibility of the City
Council, but no charges are being claimed or paid, and there is no formal cooperation
between AdQ and the Council on the issue. Outside the town centre, sanitation facilities
comprise pit latrines and a few septic tanks with soakaways.
4.5.2    Current Environmental Situation
Water Source. Treatment. Transmision and Distribution
The Namnite Lagoon is subject to siltation due to sedimnentation of turbid river water at
high flow, and to overgrowing due to stagnant water. Nonetheless, the lagoon is
improving raw water quality by filtration in the ground at high flows and functions as a
settling basin for turbid water when this is pumped from the river. The plant operator is
pleased with the intake arrangement as a whole and wants no changes. The ongoing
ground water development is important as it is believed to achieve a yield sufficient to
close down the treatnent plant for desperately needed refurbishment. The treatment
plant is virtually non-functioning and the population of Quelimane is consuming
untreated river water, except from the processes in the lagoon, mixed with ground water
reportedly of good quality. The situation undoubtedly has the potential for adverse
impacts on health.



50 Assessment of Urban and Peri-Urban Water Supply
Water Qnality, Consumers and Health
Water supplied to the public of Quelimane is of bad quality (e.g. washing machines
cannot be used due to high contents of sand and silt), and house connections create
waste water. With the prevailing sanitary situation in Quelimane, with septic tanks
flooding and never emptied and drained, or connected to a poor sewerage system, the
house connections constitute a health hazard to the public, particularly during rains.
Also, since water is provided only for a few hours a day, the distribution system is
empty and non-pressurised most of the time. These conditions represent a high risk of
leakage of contaminants through cracks and open joints into the water-pipes.
Water supplied by AdQ is tested once a month by the Quelimane Hospital
laboratory. The water is normally regarded as unsuitable for human consumption.
Diseases such as diarrhoea, cholera, hepatitis and typhoid fever occur in the city on a
regular basis. Other water-related diseases such as malaria and filaria occur as well as
problems caused by improper hygiene practices (scabies and trachoma). Statistics could
however, not be obtained.
Although some health workers qualified the population's knowledge of hygiene
and waterbome diseases as sufficient, it was admitted that there are many problems.
J                 Extension workers recommend that people boil drinking water before consumption, but
most people fail to do so. The reason is probably a complex of poverty, lack of
sufficient firewood and ignorance as to the health dangers of impure water.
The sanitation situation of public areas, such as markets is very poor. Only the
Central Market has a water connection. The markets in the peri-urban areas are not
served by AdQ.
Recevin& Waters
Waste and storm water, carrying human and solid wastes, eventually discharges into the
harbour and estuary of the Cuacua river totally uncontrolled and without treatment. The
pollution constitutes a health risk to fishermen, washing and other activities in and
around the harbour and shores bordering the seaward side of town, and has potential
negative effects on the ecological systems of the estuary.
4.5.3    Project Description
Supply and Demand Projections
DHV (1994) projected the population in the supply area to increase to about 149,000 in
1997 and to 326,000 at the end of the planning period, year 2017. Approximately 40%
of the population in 1994 were refugees, and it has been assumed that some 60% of
these will return to their home villages. Only the urban and peri-urban population will
be covered by the supply system, and this part of the population is estimated to increase
fiom today's 48% to 58% in 2017. Unaccounted-for water (UfW) is taken to be reduced
from today's 50 to 60% of production to a modest 20% early in the planning period.
The present level of service, with 52% not covered, with 22% of those covered having
house or yard connections, is expected to improve until full coverage of the urban and
peri-urban population is reached in 2017 with 75% covered by house/yard connections.



Assessment of Urban and Peri-Urban Water Supply 51
Based on the above assumptions, DHV (1994) projected an average daily water
demand increase to about 3,600 m3/d in 1997 and 26,000 m3/d in 2017, all to be
supplied by AdQ.
NWDP Investments
Project investments by the NMDP for the Quelimane system are shown in Figure 4.7.
They include hydrological and hydrogeological studies in the Licauri basin to improve
water supply data and examine the feasibility of a dam. New intake works at the river
and water main to the treatment plant (bypassing Namite Lagoon), refurbishment of the
treatment plant, a new transmission main, and new ground level storage in the town are
planned. Metering, leak detection and repair, and expansion/improvement of the
distribution system, including connection of settlements along the transmission main,
are also part of the program.
Project activities on which the EA focuses, with a distinction between those
which may cause significant effects and those for which effects are likely to be minor,
are:
Significant environmental effects:
.  increased surface water abstractions from Licuare River
3 new transmission main from treatment plant to town (mainly due to the
expansion and upgrading of the road)
Minor environmental effects:
* small weir and new intake on the Licaure River
* transmission main from river to treatment plant
* new ground level storage reservoir in town
* extension of distribution system
4.5A     Environmental Assessment of the NWDP
Location. Planning and Design
The DHV (1994) report on Quelimane offered an analysis of the discharge pattern of the
Licuare River based on data from a total of 14 years during the period 1967-84. The
discharge has very irregular intra-annual distribution (only 6% from June to November
on average). The analysis also revealed that there is an important variability on an inter-
annual basis. The mean flows in the river, in particular during October, will therefore
not be sufficient for the future demand from AdQ. Increased water abstraction from the
river, without a regulating reservoir, will further reduce the flow with the risk of the
river bed downstream remaining dry or with a very low flow over prolonged periods
during the dry season. This may cause adverse ecological impacts downstream to where
the river discharges into a marshy flatland and a network of historical riverbeds of the
Cuacua river. The time allocated did not permit the EA team to conduct firther
investigations. No settlements were, however, observed along the stretch of the river
which may be affected.



52 Assessment of Urban and Pen-Urban Water Supply
Figure 4.7:
Project Investments in Quelimane
Hydrological          Licuare alluvial aquifer   XXX
investigations (1.01)  hydrogeological study. Start
hydro and meteorological
program in Licuare basin
and detailed investigations
of dam site on the Licuare
River.
Leakage reduction     Prepare reliable maps of  I'm    XXX   XXX   XXX
(1.06)                distribution system.
Install/repair bulk and
connection water meters.
Leak detection and repair.
Service connections   Install 1,500 HC, 1,500 YC         XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX
(1.08)                and 30 PT.
New intake (2.02)     Build small weir in Licuari        XXX   XXX
River. Construct new intake
tower. Install 2 pumps 375
rn3/h each.
Increase transmission  Lay 51 km of 500 mm main.         XXX   XXX   XXX
capacity (1.07)       Install 2 pumnps 450 m3/h
each. Install water hammer
facilities.
Increase storage      Construct 3,000 rn3 ground         XXX
capacity (2.03)       level reservoir in town.
Upgrade/expand        Expand/improve distribution                       XXX   X
distribution system   systemL Increase capacity of
(2.04)                prumary distribution system.
Service connections   Install HCs, YCs and PTs.                         XXX   XXX
(2.05)
Bypass Namite Lagoon   Lay I km of 400 mm main           XXX
(1.03)                from river to treatment plant
Treatment (1.04)      Rehabilitate treatment plant.      XX       =
Plans to construct a new intake at the river, and to bypass Namite Lagoon will
omit use of the lagoon as pre-treatment of the river water, which must be considered
negative. On the other hand, waste of water and energy by seepage from the canal and
lagoon will be avoided and, with a fully operational treatment plant, the solution will
have a net positive effect on the quality of water supplied.
The construction of a weir in the river, believed to be necessary to acquire
sufficient intake depth, could have negative environumental effects as it will hinder the
passing of boats and possible fish migration during the dry season. Apparently, this is



Assessment of Urban and Pen-Urban Water Supply 53
not considered a problem locally, and no professional opinions were acquired during the
team's visit. The weir should be omitted if possible.
Both with regard to securing the water supply for Quelimane over the year and
for mitigating any negative environmental impacts from reduced flows during the dry
season resulting from increased water extraction, the DHV proposal of constructing a
storage reservoir upstream is supported. It is recommended that estimation of the
storage volume of the new reservoir should include the eventual requirement of a
minimum ecologicalflow downstream of the water intake. Although a new reservoir is
not included in the NWDP, this should be assessed during the proposed hydrological
investigations.
The planning of increased treatment capacity at the present site must include
provisions for the safe disposal/discharge of sludge and backwash water, possibly to the
lagoon which will be abandoned as water source, or to the river downstream of the new
intake if considered safe. Care should be taken in the design of the refurbishedfacilities
to choose processes and equipment the same as or similar to the existing ones as far as
possible (see Section 7.2.1 for more details).
The NWDP includes the construction of a new, separate pumping station at the
treatment site pumping directly to town through a new transmission main with no
connections on the way. The old pumping station, water tower and AC transmission
line is supposed to be kept for supply of the villages along the route after repairs to the
pipeline and valves. However, there is good reason to believe that the old pipeline is
approaching the end of its lifespan. It is recommended that the old pipe be abandoned
and the new pipeline be equipped with branches along the route, including pressure
reduction valves or local elevated reservoirs as required, to supply adjacent settlements.
The main road next to the pipeline is partly non-existent and a World Bank
project is upcoming for its rehabilitation and widening. With shoulders and ditches, the
new road will require a width of 30 m. It is expected that the road works will affect
agricultural areas (rice fields) and require the resettlement of an as yet undetermined
number of families. The new transmission main, parallel to and replacing the present
one, would probably also require the resettlement of some families along the route.
Planning and construction of the new transmission main should be closely co-
ordinated with these road plans to minimize construction disturbance to local people
and, where possible, make use ofjoint rights-of-way to minimize any required
resettlements. In any case, detailed study is required to set thefinal transmission main
alignment and identify resettlement requirements.
CoQnstrumion
No construction impacts were identified which cannot be satisfactorily managed through
measures incorporated in the environmental management plan (Section 7.3).
Statistics indicate an unemployment rate of 45 % of the population in age groups
between 15 and 59 (DNE 1994). Construction works from project investments will
create at least temporary employment opportunities for local skilled and unskilled



54 Assessment of Urban and Peri-Urban Water Supply
workers, provided that local companies are considered for engagement on the various
components of the project. It is likely that qualified companies exist in Quelimane and
should be investigated further during project preparation.
Qperation
Apart from the potential for increased sewage treatment and sanitary problems
addressed in Section 4.2.1, no operation impacts were identified which cannot be
satisfactorily managed through measures incorporated in the environmental
management plan (Section 7.4).
Receiving Waters
The increased water supply and number of connections will cause increased sewage and
waste water production, especially if recommendations in Section 4.2.1 are not
followed. Unless extension and improvement of the water supply is accompanied by
parallel development of adequate sanitary solutions, the present untreated discharge of
solids and human wastes will increase, polluting the harbour, the river estuary and
nearby ocean and beaches, and creating the potential for impacts to both the aquatic
environment and human health.
Recommendations for the planning of sewage and waste water treatment
facilities were discussed in Section 4.2.5.
The Water Market
Qualitative, quantitative and regularity improvement of the AdQ water supply will most
likely contribute to a significant reduction in the cost of water for the poorer groups of
the population in Quelimane. However, the impact of the improved water supply on the
local economy will be contingent on the competitiveness of the AdQ water with water
from wells where these represent real alternative sources for people. Water from the
wells is by its nature free, and well owners will only be interested in piped water if it is
of sufficiently high quality and if supply is sufficiently reliable. The Beneficiary
Assessment study should take this issue into account.
The city of Quelimane hosts a number of industries that depend on regular water
supplies. These include a soap plant, a textile industry, fisheries, the railways and the
shipping activities. Quelimane is a renown export port for, among other things, copra
and tea (Grupo Madal) on the Mozambican coast. A producer of soft drinks had to
close down, probably from the lack of a reliable water supply. Continuing failure to
supply water on a sustainable basis may led to further closures of industrial plants, thus
further endangering the city's economy. The NWDP will thus have substantial
economic benefits for the town.
4.5.5    Analysis of Alternatives
A future dam site, required for flow regulation in the Licuare River when water demand
increases, has been preliminary located by DHV (1994) to about 30 km upstream of the
present intake. Although the NWDP does not include this new reservoir, the possible
development of a reservoir in this area is commented upon in general terms in this
report regarding environmental impacts. The reservoir area was overflown by the Team



Assessment of Urban and Peri-Urban Water Supply 55
and scattered farms were noted on shallow soils penetrated by rock within rather sparse
primary and secondary forest. The development of a reservoir will apparently not
require major resettlement. The area to beflooded should be investigatedfor
environmental resources, e.g. minerals, before afinal decision about location of the
dam and reservoir is made. Possible conflicts with historical or cultural areas are
unlikely in the area in question, but this should always be investigated early in the
planning stage for reservoir developments.
The raw water quality from the new reservoir can be expected to be much the
same as from the present lagoon, providing the area to be flooded has no particular
adverse characteristics and that activities in the area have not created pollution or
contamination. The reliability of water supply created by a reservoir may rapidly
decrease due to heavy siltation from the upstream river catchment area or from
adjoining terrain. The state of the catchment area should be investigated, the potential
for water quality and erosion problems assessed, and their effects mitigated as
necessary by, for example, regulating land use, road construction and deforestation.
Clearing of the reservoir area should be planned to avoid impacts from
decaying vegetation and to create the impression of a natural lake without the adverse
4                  impression of a dead, flooded landscape.
Notwithstanding the above comments, an environmental assessment should be
carried out ifplanningfor a dam proceeds into pre-feasibility studies.
The DHV report on Quelimane (1994) assessed the ground water potential in the
alluvial valley of Licuare for water supply to Quelimane. DHV considered the
discharges from a well opened by Geomoc in 1981 to be in the high range when pumped
for 6 months in 1985-6 (the well stopped operating probably due to inadequate
construction and/or filters). A well field would probably provide additional water and
be less sensitive to dry years than the present Namite Lagoon. As mentioned in Section
4.5.1, five boreholes have been drilled recently with German support near thetreatment
plant. More tests and hydrogeological studies (included in the NWDP) will, however,
be needed to determine how the well field might be contributing to the future water
supply for Quelimane. It is recommended that the hydrogeological study should include
an environmental assessment, in particular with regard to effects from drawdowns of
the ground water table.
4.5.6  Summary of Recommendations
1.    Estimation of the storage volume of the proposed new reservoir on the Licuare
River should include the eventual requirement of a minimum ecologicalfiow
downstream of the intake. This should be assessed during the proposed
hydrological investigations, although the reservoir is not part of the NWDP.
2.    The proposed weir across the Licuare River should be omitted ifpossible.
3.    The planning of increased treatment capacity at the present site must include
provisions for the safe disposal/discharge of sludge and backwash water,



56 Assessment of Urban and Peri-Urban Water Supply
possibly to the lagoon which will be abandoned as water source, or to the river
downstream of the new intake if considered safe. Care should be taken in the
design of the refurbishedfacilities to choose processes and equipment the same
as or similar to the existing ones asfar as possible (see Section 7.2.1 for more
details).
4.    It is recommended that the old transmission main be abandoned and the new
pipeline be equipped with branches along the route, including pressure
reduction valves or local elevated reservoirs as required, to supply adjacent
settlements.
5.    Planning and construction of the new transmission main should be closely co-
ordinated with plans for rebuilding the roadfrom Quelimane via Nicadala, and
passed Licuare to minimize construction disturbance to local people and, where
possible, make use ofjoint rights-of-way to minimize any required resettlements.
In any case, detailed study is required to set thefinal transmission main
alignment and identify resettlement requirements.
6.    Recommendations for the planning of sewage and waste water tr.eatment
facilities were discussed in Section 4.2.5 above.
7.    The Benefi ciary Assessment study should take into account the relative
competitiveness ofAdQ and well water.
8.    Concerning the proposed dam on the Licaure River (if being considered):
-  The state of the catchment area should be investigated, the potentialfor
water quality and erosion problems assessed, and their effects mitigated as
necessary by, for example, regulating land use, road construction and
deforestation.
*  The area to beflooded should be investigatedfor environmental resources,
e.g. minerals, before a final decision about location of the dam and reservoir
is made. Possible conflicts with historical or cultural areas are unlikely in
the area in question, but this should always be investigated early in the
planning stage for reservoir developments.
* Clearing of the reservoir area should be planned to avoid impacts from
decaying vegetation and to create the impression of a natural lake without
the adverse impression of a dead, flooded landscape.
*  Notwithstanding the above comments, an environmental assessment should
be carried out ifplanningfor a dam proceeds into pre-feasibility studies.



Assessment of Urban and Peri-Urban Water Supply 57
4.6   NAMPULA
4.6.1 Existing Water Systems
Institutional Eramework and Other Projects
The town of Nampula is the capital of the Province of Nampula, situated on the main
south-north and east west roads and the railway line, about 130 km from the coast
(Figure 4.8). The water system supplies mainly the central parts of town. The
Texmoque textile factory, with 3,000 workers, used to be supplied from an intermediate
reservoir along the transmission line but has been closed down. Nampula town and
peri-urban areas is supplied by Companhia de Agua de Nampula E.E. (AdN). AdN is
not yet a registered state company and is supervised by the DNA through the Nampula
Provincial MOPH office.
The financial situation of AdN is particularly bad. Water fee arrears amount at
present to 2.3 million Mt or 11 months billed fees. Less than 1/4 of the billed fees are
collected each month, and the main defaulters are Government institutions. The rapid
depreciation of the Metical makes the financial situation for the company even worse
than the figures indicate. A fine system was introduced.in 1994 in which 50 % of the
4                 outstanding amount is added to the bill for each month of non-payment. The fine
-system is not applied at the standposts and there were no reports as to the success of the
system. AdN has made arrangements with EDM with regard to payment for electricity
and this may help the company stay afloat for some time. However, the situation is very
serious.
AdN and the City Council are on talking terms, but relations are somewhat
strained. As well, there appear to be co-operation problems within the Council itself
and among its various departments. This situation will diminish the Council's ability to
cope with acute environmental problems in the town area.
Other projects in the area include EU-financed improvements to distribution
systems and new taps, but detailed information was not obtained. As well, Dutch-
supported projects are laying new transmission mains and rehabilitating the pumping
station (commenced June 1995, not yet complete) and working on erosion control
education in peri-urban areas. A World Bank-supported Local Govermnent Reform
and Engineering project (PROL) is planned to commence in Nampula. An
envirornmental study has been carried out and the project will do an ecological analysis
as an input to a structural plan (Kim HeInind, pers. comm.). Nampula will become a
testing ground for urban environmental management practices in Mozambique.
Water Source. Treatment. Transmission and Distribution
Nampula pumps its raw water from a dam on the Monapo River about 10 km north of
town to a nearby treatment plant commissioned in 1976. No meteorological or
hydrological data has been collected for some years. Of the approximate 4 Mm3 behind
the concrete dam, AdN estimates that 1/3 is silted up. Drains to reduce siltation are
installed but have not been operated for many years due to fears among the staff of not
being able to close the valve after flushing. Generally, the dam gives a good impression
and no serious faults, except minor leaks were reported. The intake tower has had four



00
W                              ~~~~~~~~~~RiiD MOnaPOa 1
Proposed
Dam site                                                              
0
\  \                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rA
\                         ~~~~~~~~~Airport         Legend
N ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L  In A.                          takle/Pumping station
k                 _:b           L     _                   U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C Treawtment works
\ == ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o  Reservoir
111                  J                                   *  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dam site
l #               _               ~~~~~~~Nampula                      Raly
!                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~Main Road
~~~~~~~~~~Transmission main
\                  ,v., ~~~~~~River



Assessment of Urban and Peri-Urban Water Supply 59
vertical pumps installed, of which three are in working condition and deliver raw water
to the treatment plant.
The treatment plant capacity is rated at 800 m3/h but requires major repairs and
is operating at half that figure. The flocculation and filtration components are in
particular disrepair. No chlorination takes place at the plant due to forner requirements
of the Texmoque textile factory which could not use chlorinated water. Sludge from the
floccu-clarifier and backwash water from the filters are discharged back to the reservoir
close to the intake tower. Another group of filters were never completed beyond the
concrete structure, and have never been used. An old treatment plant, adjacent to the
one in operation, is severely deteriorated but not beyond repair.
Clear water is pumped through parallel mains for 6.7 km to ground level
reservoirs at an intermediate booster station, then 2.5 km to AdN's distribution centre
where it is pumped into a tower for gravity distribution. With Dutch funding, the high-
lift pump station at the treatment plant is being completely rehabilitated and one of the
two AC transmission mains is being replaced with larger PVC pipes.
At the intermediate station, chlorine is being supplied into one of the tanks after
the former branch-off to Texmoque but the efficiency is doubtful since the gas is
supplied from pressure containers at steady rate with no installation to inform when the
container is empty. The pumps are being replaced by new ones with Dutch funding.
The last station and distribution centre was originally a separate waterworks for
the railways, drawing water from a nearby stream. The treatment plant is locked and
abandoned, whereas the ground reservoir, pumping station and the tower have been
included in the town supply. Apparently, the pipeline from AdN headquarters has
collapsed, and the distribution centre is not in use. The pumping station was fitted with
new pumps by the Dutch last year, and the Dutch govenmment will apparently be
funding a new pipeline from the intermediate station to the reservoir.
The peri-urban areas of Nampula are served by 59 standposts of which 52 are
actually functioning, according to AdN information. Each standpost serves 900 to 1000
people on average. It is estimated that more than half of the city and peri-urban
population draw their water from wells.
Nowhere in the system is water metered but production at the treatment plant is
estimated at 9,000 m3/d.
The Waer Market
In the Nampula peri-urban areas, each standpost is operated by two caretakers who
collect water fees and keep the standpost area clean. The caretakers sell water tickets of
5,000 Mt each which entitle the holder to collect water for one month without
restrictions on quantity. The main problem is the unreliable water supply; tapping is
restricted to working hours, i.e. 5:30 to 12:00 and 14:00 to 17:00. The EA team was
unable to obtain any information regarding the secondary water market.



60 Assessment of Urban and Peri-Urban Water Supply
AdN is trying to address certain problems of the 'existing system. There is no
connection between the monthly fee and the quantity of water supplied, and in some
cases the receipts from the sale of tickets do not cover the costs for water supply to the
standposts. Large quantities of water are used by people producing cement blocks, and
several households may collect water by using the same ticket.
Sewerage Systems
There is no sewerage system in Nampula. Most of the houses in the city centre have
septic tanks followed by soakaways or connected to the drainage system. No proper
vehicles or system for emptying the tanks exist, thus blockages and overflows are
common. The drainage system, virtually a combined sewer, is being discharged on
slopes outside the city centre. As Nampula is located on top of the hill, with bairros
surrounding it, the situation is particularly bad since waste and drainage water, as well
as dirt and garbage from streets, find their way to the bairros during rains, causing
health hazards. According to the City Council, rats are causing problems in the city and
neighbouring bairros. Outside the town centre, pit latrines are the common sanitation
facility, some also having septic tanks and soakaways. It was reported that the
provincial administration has helped to improve sanitation in some schools, a large
number of which have no sanitation facilities at all. Operation and maintenance of
sanitation and sewerage systems is the responsibility of the Council but no fees are
being charged or paid and there is no formal co-operation between AdN and the Council
on the issue.
4.6.2    Current Environmental Situation
'Water Source. Treatment. Trasmission and Distribto
Envirommental impacts of the present scheme could be seen in and around the dam and
reservoir, along the transmission main, in the supply areas and in connection with
wastewater discharge.
Two issues concerning impacts to the water source were noted: (1) the location
of the water intake inside a frequently visited leisure spot, next to a restaurant and
swimming pool, and (2) the discharge of sludge and backwash water into the reservoir
close to the intake.
The location of the intake inside and the treatment plant immediately outside the
gates of a leisure area is peculiar. The dam and reservoir have initiated the
establishment of the enterprise on the shore of a beautiful lake, and people are bathing
next to the intake. The swimming pool, on shore a few metres from the intake, is
emptied into the reservoir when water is changed or overflowing due to rain. The same
goes for wastewater from the restaurant, whereas the toilets reportedly discharge to
tanks which are collected by trucks and emptied elsewhere. The mutual benefits for the
establishment owner and the water company seem to please both parties (the owner of
the establishment is maintaining the road in good condition). However, the activities
next to the water intake are no doubt causing pollution problems and the arrangement is
totally unacceptable by any standards.



Assessment of Urban and Peri-Urban Water Supply 61
The discharge of sludge and backwash water close to the intake is obviously
silting up the inmmediate surroundings and causing inferior raw water quality. The
positive element of not loosing the 5 to 10% of treated water used for backwashing does
not make up for this, and another solution should be sought, e.g. dewatering and
depositing of the sludge and backwash water downstream of the dam. The latter would
require a pumping station and a pipeline, preferably along the mountainside track
between the treatment plant and the dam.
No adverse environmental impacts of the original transmission main were
reported, except for local erosion and flooding which used to be caused by frequent
bursts on the old pipeline; This line is presently being replaced, and old and new pipes
were scattered all along the route from the treatment plant to town. Partly backfilled
trenches are causing erosion and silt run-off. It is to be expected that these adverse
effects will be dealt with soon as part of the contract as the project is close to
completion.
In the distribution system, with the prevailing sanitary situation and septic tanks
that are never emptied and soakaways, house connections generating much waste water
constitute a health hazard to the public,.particularly during rains. AdN provides water in
the distribution system only a few hours a day, meaning that the reticulation is empty
and without pressure most of the time. The described sanitary situation in town, as well
as pit latrines and open defecation in the villages, creates a high risk of seepage into the
pipelines. The high degree of leakage and lost water suggests that the occurrence of
pollution of the drinking water in this way is very high.
Water Qualitv. Consumers and Health
The present water treatment plant is in bad condition, the quality of the water produced
is far from satisfactory, rendering chlorination ineffective, and is not fit for human
consumption. Chlorination of the water is not taking place at the treatment plant but at
the intermediate reservoir and 2.5 km from town, a situation which is totally
unsatisfactory and provides no security for proper disinfection. This means that the
restaurant at the intake and villages supplied between the treatmnent plant and the
intermediate reservoir are getting non-disinfected water, creating a clear health hazard.
The Central Hospital laboratory in Nampula regularly analyzes the quality of the
water supplied by AdN. In most cases the tests show that the water is unsuitable for
human consumption. The Urban Health Service also provides preventive health training
in 11 health centres in the city and treatment of drinking water is one of the issues dealt
with. However, people do not normally boil their drinking water. Despite the health
service's claims that their staff pay regular visits to the bairros for preventive health
education, the locals contacted by the EA team maintained that they never have met an
health extension worker in their area.
Although water quality is poor and the preventive health care system deficient,
the health situation (according to the same health service's statistics) appears to be not
particularly bad. Cholera and dysentery have not been registered, but diarrhoea is
relatively widespread,-particularly during the rainy season. This points at the
unsatisfactory waste water system in the city.



62 Assessment of Urban and Peri-Urban Water Supply
Receiving Watem
There appear to be no proper waters to receive wastewater in Nampula, the combined
sewerage and storm-water system simply discharging on slopes and mostly dry streams
outside town. The present arrangement, with the city centre on the top of a hill
surrounded by peri-urban areas at lower levels, creates serious health hazards. The
situation has been worsened by the water supply system, enabling house connections
and sewage production which is not taken care of in any way.
4.6.3    Project Description
Supply and Demand Projections
DHV (1994) projected the population of Nampula to increase to approximately 295,000
in 1997 and 610,000 at the end of the planning period, year 2017. Only the urban and
peri-urban population is expected to be supplied by the public water supply system, and
this part of the population is expected to increase from today's 53% to 73% in 2017.
Unaccounted-for water (UfW) is taken to be reduced from today's 40 to 50% of
production to a modest 20% early in the planning period. Of the urban and peri-urban
population, 43% is today covered by the water supply system, 24% having house or
4                  ryard connections and the rest serviced by public taps. The aim is to reach full coverage
in 2017, with 75% covered by house/yard connections.
Based on the above assumptions, the DHV (1994) projected an average daily
water demand increase to about 11,600 m`/d in 1997 and 64,000 m3/d in 2017, all to be
supplied by AdN.
NWDPInv nts
Project investments proposed by the Bank for the Nampula system are shown in Figure
4.9. With the exception of monitoring and assessment studies to confirm and extend
surface and ground water availabilities, all involve improvements and extensions to
existing infrastructure, and leakage reduction. The elements are:
* Hydro(geo)logical investigations to gather flow data and investigate dam and
ground water alternatives
* Detect and repair leaks in existing dam
* Build new intake in the reservoir
* Construct a new treatment plant
* Increased storage at the railway reservoir
*  Service connections, including house/yard connections and public taps
Project activities on which the EA focuses, with a distinction between those
which may cause significant effects and those for which effects are likely to be minor,
are:
Significant environmental effects
* increased water abstraction from Monapo River
Minor environmental effects
v new intake at the reservoir



Assessment of Urban and Peri-Urban Water Supply   63
* new treatment plant
* new railway premises ground level reservoir and pumnping station
* extension of distribution network and service connections
Figure 4.9:
Project Investments in Nampula
Hydro(geo)logical     Survey Monapo Dam and     XXX
studies (1.01)        reservoir and prepare O&M
rules. Start flow monitoring
program Study dam
alternatives. Assess ground
water potential.
Intake station (2.01)  Construct new intake in                         XXX   XXX
Monapo reservoir. Install 2
pumps at 850 rn3/h each.
Treatment plant (2,02)   Construct new treatment  XXX   XXX
plant (Phase 1), capacity of
24,000 m3/d.
Increase capacity to/at   Construct new 2,500 rn  XXX   Xxx   XXX   xxx
railway reservoir (1.09)  ground level reservoir at
PS4. Construct district
pumping station.
Service connections   Install 2,200 HC, 5,500 YC    XXX   Xxx   XX     XX     xxx
(1.10)                and 160PT.
Existing dam (1.11)   Detect and repair leaks in  XXX
daum
Distribution system   Upgrade/expand/improve            XXX   XXX   XXX   xxx
(2.03)                distribution systemn  increase
capacity of primary
distribution system.
4.6.4      Environmental Assessment of the NWDP
Location. Planning and Design
The discharge of the Monapo River measured at the dam shows a very irregular intra-
annual distribution with only 6% of the average during the dry season from June to
November with a possibility of the river drying up towards the end of the season (DHV
1994: Nampula, Annex II). With the present storage capacity (reduction due to silting
probably not considered) of the reservoir, it is, however, estimated that AdN will have
supplies with adequate reliability up to the year 2007. The estimated demand of 29,000
m3/d represents less than 10% of the mean annual discharge at the dam. Only in
extreme drought situations is there a possibility of water shortages.



64 Assessment of Urban and Peri-Urban Water Supply
The EA team did not obtain any information regarding the ecology and land use
downstream of the dam. Although data are not available (earlier recommendations to
collect hydrological and meteorological data had not been followed up), it is likely that
the periods of dry riverbed are prolonged by the extraction of water from the reservoir
(if the present leaks from the dam do not maintain a minimum flow). This may have
negative environmental impacts beyond the normal effects of the dry season, but to what
degree is not possible to assess. There are no medium or large scale irrigation schemes
in the area of influence and AdN has received no complaints about loss of water which
could be attributed to the dam.
It is recommended that, in connection with the new 0 & M rules (regulation
regime) to be prepared, the needfor maintaining a minimum flow from the dam for
ecological or other reasons, should be considered.
For a discussion of possible impacts from the proposed new dam upstream from
the existing one, see Section 4.6.5.
Increasing treatment capacity by construction of a new plant should not cause
significant adverse environmental impacts if the existing plant were in satisfactory
condition and fumctioning well. However, for Nampula, the planning of increased water
treatment capacity at the present site must first of all include provisions for improved
aw water quality, in particular making proper arrangements for the discharge of sludge
and backwash water. Failing this, an increasing number of consumers will be subjected
to the hazards imposed by the present situation. ThIus, it is recommended that:
* the NWDP include in its investments a pipelinefrom the treatment plants
and along the mountain side track to carry sludge and backwash water to
the downstream side of the dam; and
*The new reservoir intake be located as close as possible to the dam, and as
far as possiblefrom the leisure area, to minimize the potentialfor water-
borne wastes from the leisure facility from entering the intake.
Care should be taken in design of the new treatment facilities so as to choose
processes and equipment the same as or similar to the existing plant. Different designs
and operational routines will increase the risk of faulty operation and the need for a
large number of different spare parts, thus adversely affecting the safety and
possibilities for proper maintenance and quick repair of breakdowns.
Furthermore, chlorination must be shiftedfrom the intermediate reservoirs to
the treatment plant. If Texmoque is reopened and still have the same requirements
regarding chlorine content, other disinfection methods should be evaluated, e.g. UV-
transmission at the treatment plant followed by chlorination at the intermediate station.
Most of the sub-projects in the first development block of the DHV (1994)
report are under way with funds from the Dutch government. However, it is unclear if
they will also undertake the rehabilitation of the existing intake and treatment plant. If



Assessment of Urban and Pen-Urban Water Supply 65
this is not being done under Dutch aid, it should be included in the investment program
as the plant presently is producing water far below acceptable standards.
No bulk water metering is taking place in Nampula, and few consumer meters
are functioning. The amount of water lost through leakage is thus unknown, but of the
40% unaccounted-for water, and based on the situation in other towns, it can be
assumed that leakage is an important issue. If water metering and leakage detection,
including construction of reticulation maps, are not part of the Dutch-funded
rehabilitation program, they are recommendedfor World Bankfunding. Excessive loss
of clean water, produced and pumped at high cost, is not acceptable and causes adverse
effects due to unsatisfactory supply to customers.
Construction
No construction impacts were identified which cannot be satisfactorily managed through
measures incorporated in the environmental monitoring and management plan (Section
7.3).
Due to time constraints it was not possible to contact the provincial employment
services to obtain informnation on qualified construction companies and the labour
market. However, the situation is probably not very different from the other cities.
Compared to Beira and Quelimane, Nampula is a rural town. Many inhabitants
maintain agricultural plots outside town which they attend to during the rainy season.
About 46 % of the population (above 7 years of age) describe themselves as
economically active (DNE 1994), and about 27 % qualify themselves as farmers. The
unemployment rate is high, about 54% claiming to be unemployed. Both skilled and
unskilled workers would be available through local construction companies.
Ooeration
Apart from the potential for increased sewage treatment and sanitary problems
addressed in Section 4.2.1, no operation impacts were identified which cannot be
satisfactorily managed through measures incorporated in the environmental monitoring
and management plan (Section 7.4).
However, with dams and reservoirs, there is always a risk of serious adverse
impacts from improper operation and maintenance, such as flooding of downstream
areas, erosion, loss of precious water, siltation, etc. This can only be avoided through
proper planming and provision of operation and maintenance manuals, and training of
staff, which must be adhered to. Proper monitoring of dam, reservoir, adjoining areas
and downstream effects are important factors.
iving Waters
The prevailing situation regarding treatment and discharge of sewage and waste water in
Nampula is particularly difficult since there appears to be no proper receiving waters
close to town and with a year-round flow adequate for sufficient dilution and natural
purification of waste waters. While the general recommendations concerning sewage
and waste water collection and treatment (Section 4.2.5) should be considered and
prevail, alternative solutions must be evaluated. A separate system for transporting all
sewage to treatment at all times may prove to be necessary, with increased costs. If a



66 Assessment of Urban and Pen-Urban Water Supply
combined system is found sufficient, this must be provided with overflow arrangements
discharging to artificial or natural streams or ditches during heavy rains.
During the planning and design of a sewage and waste water collection and
treatment system for Nampula, we recommend that special attention be paid to the
choice of treatment method and especially to the method(s) for disposing of both
overflow from the collection system during heavy rains and discharge from the
treatment plant.
4.6.5    Analysis of Alternatives
DHV (1994) estimated that natural flows in the Monapo River and the capacity of the
existing dam permit abstraction of 30,000 m3/d (95% reliability). When needed, around
2007, the only realistic alternative to maintain a reliable water supply would be to
construct a second storage dam some 8.5 km further upstream. The report also
recommends that ground water supply should be investigated for local supplies to peri-
rural areas, but expects limited yields. The ground water option will thus not be
discussed further here.
Further investigations will be required to confirm currentflows in the Monapo
River and to determine the feasibility of greater water abstractions, both with the
current supply arrangements and with a possible second dam in thefuture.
The site for the new dam has been preliminary located, based on topographical
maps, and no further investigations have been carried out regarding population, geology,
flora, fauna etc. The area was overflown by the Team during the visit. Although the
proposed new dam is not included in the NWDP, the possible construction of a dam and
reservoir is commented upon in general terms regarding environmental impacts.
The reliability of water supply created by a reservoir may rapidly decrease due to
heavy siltation from the upstream river catchment area or from adjoining terrain. Raw
water quality can be expected to be much the same as from the present reservoir,
providing the area to be flooded has no particular adverse characteristics and that
activities in the area have not created pollution or contamination. The state of the
catchment area must be investigated, the potentialfor water quality and erosion
problems assessed, and their effects mitigated as necessary by, for example, regulating
land use, road construction and deforestation.
The establishment of a regulating reservoir may create social conflicts as it will
introduce a different flow pattern. Small water catchment dams on the slopes to the
river between the present and future reservoirs could be seen from the air at the time of
the team's visit, indicating that irrigation is or has been in use. This suggests the need
for maintaining a regulated, minimum flow in the river, or the necessity of resettlement
ofpeople. Provision of new, acceptable land, and payment of reasonable compensation
and resettlement .-osts must be expected.
The area to bL flooded is used for a large-scale afforestation project. Only 1,700
ha of the planned 20,000 ha were actually planted. Farmers have moved into the area



Assessment of Urban and Pen-Urban Water Supply 67
during wetter years but moved on when the eucalyptus started to constrain the growth of
their crops. The afforestation project originally included the borders of the existing
reservoir. It was hoped that this would stop erosion and silting of the lake. However,
most of the silt probably originates from the river it self. Design of the new dam should
therefore take the silt load into consideration.
Clearing of the reservoir area should be planned to avoid impacts from decaying
vegetation and to create the impression of a natural lake without the adverse impression
of a dead, flooded landscape. The area should also be investigated with regard to other
environmental resources (e.g. minerals) before a final decision about location of the dam
and reservoir is made. Possible conflicts with historical or cultural areas are unlikely in
the area in question, but this should always be investigated early in the planning stage
for reservoir developments.
Notwithstanding the above comments, an environmental assessment should be
carried out ifplanningfor a dam proceeds into pre-feasibility studies.
4.6.6  Summary of Recommendations
.    In connection with the new 0 & M rules (regulation regime) to be prepared for
the Monapo dam and reservoir, the needfor maintaining a minimum flowfrom
the dam for ecological or other reasons, should be considered.
2     Concerning the treatment plants and intakes at the Monapo reservoir, it is
recommended that:
-  The NWDP include in its investments a pipeline from the treatment plants
and along the mountain side track to carry sludge and backwash water to
the downstream side of the dam; and
* The new reservoir intake be located as close as possible to the dam, and as
far as possible from the leisure area, to minimize the potentialfor water-
borne wastesfrom the leisurefacilityfrom entering the intake.
3.    Chlorination must be shiftedfrom the intermediate reservoirs to the treatment
plant.
4.    If rehabilitation of the existing intake and treatment plant is not being done
under Dutch aid, it should be included in the investment program as the plant
presently is producing water far below acceptable standards.
5.    If water metering and leakage detection, including construction of reticulation
maps, are not part of the Dutch-funded rehabilitation program, they are
recommendedfor World Bankfunding.
6.    During the planning and design of a sewage and waste water collection and
treatment system for Nampula, we recommend that special attention be paid to



68 Assessment of Urban and Pen-Urban Water Supply
the choice of treatment method and especially to the method(s) for disposing of
both overflow from the collection system during heavy rains and discharge from
the treatment plant.
7.    Further investigations will be required to confirm currentflows in the Monapo
River and to determine the feasibility of greater water abstractions, both with
the current supply arrangements and with a possible second dam in the future.
8.    Concerning the possible second dam on the Monapo River (if being considered):
* The state of the catchment area must be investigated, the potentialfor water
quality and erosion problems assessed, and their effects mitigated as
necessary by, for example, regulating land use, road construction and
deforestation.
*  Indications of small-scale irrigation above the existing Monapo reservoir
suggest the needfor maintaining a regulated, minimumflow in the river, or
the necessity of resettlement ofpeople. Provision of new, acceptable land,
and payment of reasonable compensation and resettlement costs must be
expected.
* Design of the new dam should take the silt load into consideration.
* Notwithstanding the above comments, an environmental assessment should
be carried out ifplanningfor a dam proceeds into pre-feasibility studies.



Assessment of Urban and Peri-Urban Water Supply 69
4.7      PEMBA
4.7.1    Existing Water Systems
Institutional Framework and Other Projects
The town of Pemba is the capital of the Province of Cabo Delgado, situated on the
peninsula between the Bay of Pemba and the Indian Ocean. Aguas de Pemba (AdP) is
still a state enterprise "in creation". It is currently reorganising its internal structure in
an effort to make it more effective and efficient. There are no visible positive results of
this reorganisation due to the supply problems of the well fields, which have reduced
income from water sales. As a reaction to the prolonged crises, about 100 of the 3,500
clients have suspended their contracts with AdP. Among these were many of the larger
consumers. AdP management feels that the state enterprise status restrains its
development, and is dissatisfied with its present relations with the State. The State sets
tariffs that inhibit the company's profitability without providing subsidies for coverage
of subsequent income shortages.
The population in the peri-urban areas is mainly served by wells, constructed by
Agua Rural (EPAR) which is a section of the Provincial Directorate of Water (DPA)
and part of the National Programme for Rural Water Supply (PRONAR). 25 of the
1,600 wells maintained by EPAR are located within the city boundaries. EPAR is
investigating methods to improve public participation in maintenance and cost recovery
through a network of locally elected "caretakers". The caretakers also monitor the
condition of the wells and quality of the water. DPA maintain a database where the
information is processed.
The Swiss Organisation for International Co-operation, Helvetas, is supporting
the wells program in Cabo Delgado, and the Dutch government will be financing a
Support Unit North (Niassa, Nampula and Cabo Delgado provinces) based in Nampula
which will work on institutional development for (peri-) urban water supply systems.
The Italian government will be financing new reticulation network and a public tap
system.
Water Source. Treatment. Transmission and Distribution
The only water source at present for Pemba water supply is the Metuge ground water
well field along the Muaguide River, commissioned in 1993 (Figure 4.10). It has a
design capacity of 9,600 m3/d but delivers only 2,900m3/d, mainly due to poor borehole
construction and corrosive water with high iron content. Water is discharged to a
central reservoir, chlorinated and pumped about 40 km via several intermediate
reservoirs and booster pumping stations to the main storage capacity near the airport
some 4.5 km from the end reservoir/cistern in town. Along the transmission main, the
villages of Metuge, Mieze and Morrebue are also being supplied.
The former water source for Pemba, the Chiuba well field, located about 8 km
southeast of town has been abandoned due to salt water intrusion. Only the boreholes
and the collecting reservoir are left; all headworks, buildings and equipment have been
demolished and/or removed by vandals. The pumping station has also been vandalised,
only the walls remain.



Rio~~ ~ ~ ~ ~                                  1 f a  U id 
Chiuba~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
!i   Intake/Pumping sti w o
| l 1 h | | |~~~~t  IntkPmig sttc
*  Well
a] Treatment works
o   Reservoir
lAezl    ~ ~ ~    ~     * Dam site
Main road
A! HfTransmission main
rS \ 3 o ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rivervi



Assessment of Urban and Peri-Urban Water Supply 71
Only eight standposts are installed in the peri-urban areas, supposed to serve as
many as 54,000 inhabitants. Due to lack of piped water and the poor supply to the
existing standposts, most people of the bairros depend on wells. The 22 wells
constructed by EPAR in the bairros (DHV 1994) are relatively shallow (4 to 7 m deep).
Three boreholes were also drilled by EPAR. However, the water supply systems are
deficient, each standpost, borehole or well serving an average of 1600 persons, three
times as many as desired.
The Water Market
AdP has tried several payment systems for public taps through a project of community
management of standposts. Existing variants include the appointment of a caretaker by
the community of water users and the leasing of the standpost to private contractors. At
a standpost visited during this study, the previously elected community member had
been replaced by a private contractor. Consumers were charged the average of 5,000
Mt/im3, while AdP billed the contractor 700 Mt/m3 for the metered consumption from
the standpost. Water meters are, however, often not functioning or have been
manipulated to measure less than the real consumption.
The secondary market in Pemba mainly consists of people with house
connections and tanks. Prices vary from 10,000 to 50,000 Mt/m3. AdP suspects that 10
to 20 individuals are selling water on a large scale.
Sewerage Systems
There is no full sewerage system in Pemba. In the city centre, most buildings have
septic tanks, whereas latrines and open defecation, also on the beach, are common
solutions in other parts of the town and the neighbouring villages. Septic tanks are not
emptied since the breakdown of the collecting truck several years ago.
Wastewater is collected partly in separate, partly in combined sewers. A ditch
starting in the high zone ends in a close conduit between the cinema and the port,
carrying combined wastewater. Broken-down pipes and clogging cause overflow of the
pipeline which discharges to the sea without treatment. A separate sewage line from the
hospital is connected to the sewerage system along the main street and discharges to the
ocean without treatment. In the bairros the situation is very bad -- 80 % of the houses
are without latrines. Unicef is currently assisting a project for construction of pit
latrines in the Pemba area.
There is no formal connection between AdP and the Municipality Council,
which is responsible for sanitation, and no charges are billed or paid for sanitary
services. However, the two institutions are discussing water supply and sanitation
expansion and problems, and are on good terms.
4.7.2 Current Environmental Situation
Water Source. Treatment. Transmission and Distribution
According to the test-pumping protocols, the static ground water level throughout the
Metuge well field was 3 to 5 m below ground level before pumping started. Draw-



72 Assessrnent of Urban and Peri-Urban Water Supply
downs at design yield for the respective boreholes varied between 10 m and 15 m
leaving the water levels in the boreholes at 15 to 20 m below ground level. The current
variations in the water levels are not known since the piezometer arrangements for
monitoring ground water levels in the area have disappeared.
According to AdP, no vegetative variations have been detected in or around the
well field even during dry seasons. The EA team visited the well field at the end of a
very wet rainy season and the area gave the impression of being very fertile, with tall
grass and maize. The present well yields are small and it must be concluded that
physical environmental impacts due to abstraction of ground water at Metuge well field
so far have been minor if any. The area around the well fields is inhabited by rain-fed
slash and burn shifting farmers. Apparently they moved into the area after the road was
opened into the well field. The households use surface or shallow well water. Any
significant impact on agriculture from lowering of the ground water levels and impact
from agriculture on water quality is not very likely with the present farming practices.
Expansion of the well field in a westward direction may, however, have an
indirect impact. There are indications that shallow well water in the area is influenced
by salination (EPAR 1996). Contrary to AdP officials, EPAR indicated that minor
changes have taken place over the past years in the vegetation west of Metuge water
divide and that this indicates salinity influence in the area. The information offered is
unclear and more based on intuition than factual observations. Salt in the well water
may also indicate the existence of sediments of marine origin in the area.
In or close to the area proposed for new wells, several claims have been made
for land concessions for farming. One concession of 20 ha is -located within the area,
and another 6 concessions of approx. 790 ha have been granted in its vicinity. Two
other requests are still being considered.
Water Quality. Consumers and HIealt
Water quality from the piped system and wells is regularly monitored by the Pemba
Hospital laboratory. However, recent test reports were not available. Since AdP
provides water in the distribution systems only a few hours a day, it will be empty and
without pressure most of the time. The described sanitary situation in town, as well as
pit latrines and open defecation in the villages, thus create a high risk of seepage into the
pipelines. The high degree of leakage and lost water suggests that the occurrence of
pollution of the drinking water in this way is high.
According to the Health Department, the occurrence of water-related diseases
are relatively high in Pemba. The relatively densely populated bairros of Cariac6 and
Ingoname are the worst hit. However, dysentery occurs more frequently in the cement
city than in the bairros of Paquite and Cariac6. Waterbome diseases are most likely the
result of consumption of water from contaminated wells, tanks and local private
reservoirs where piped water has been contaminated from sewage through leakage. The
high figures of diseases in Pemba, as compared to country averages, may also be a result
of a better functioning registration system in this relatively small town.



Assessment of Urban and Peri-Urban Water Supply 73
The only market served by piped water is the Central Market in the cement city.
Most commercial activities are concentrated in markets in the bairros, the most
important being located in Natite. These markets are not serviced with piped water and
do not have any sanitation systems.
Irregularity of water supply has made people use tanks and other reservoirs for
storage of water. The Health Department is preparing a program for the cleaning of
tanks at the owners request and cost.
Receiving Waters
Waste and storm water, carnying human and solid wastes, will eventually be discharged
to the sea, mostly into the Bay of Pemba, where it pollutes the beaches and shallow
waters and creates health hazards to possible swimmers, and to fish and fishermen as the
catch is being hauled onto the beaches. During the EA team's visit, the shores and
water on the ocean side of the peninsula appeared clean and fresh while the coastline
facing the bay was obviously polluted, with floating garbage and oil spills drifting along
the shores.
4.7.3 Project Description
Supply and Demand Projections
DHV (1994) projected the population of Pemba to increase to approximately 80,000 in
1997 and 135,000 at the end of the planning period, year 2017. Only the urban and peri-
urban part of the population, in addition to villages along the transmission main, is
expected to be supplied by the water supply system, and this part of the population is
expected to increase slightly from today's 44% to 47% in 2017. Unaccounted-for water
(UfW) is taken to be reduced from today's 40 - 50% of production to a modest 20%
early in the planning period. Of the urban and peri-urban population, 54% was covered
by the water supply system in 1992, 48% having house or yard connections. The aim is
to reach full coverage in 2017, with 75% covered by house/yard connections.
Based on these assumptions, average demand on the system is expected to grow to
about 4,300 m3/d in 1997 and 14,000 m3/d in 2017. DHV (1994) recommended that the
Chiuba field be refurbished to supply adjacent villages. As the safe yield of the Metuge
field aquifer is thought to be only about 6,000 m3/d, eastward extension of the field to
exploit another aquifer was recommended to provide an additional 6,500 m3/d.
NWDP Investments
Project investments proposed by the Bank for the Pemba system are shown in Figure
4.11. With the exception of hydrogeological studies to determine safe yields from
aquifers at Metuge, all involve improvements and extensions to existing infrastructure.
In particular, several villages/bairros will be connected and the distribution system
expanded.
Project activities on which the EA focuses, with a distinction between those which
may cause significant effects and those for which effects are likely to be minor, are:



74 Assessment of Urban and Peri-Urban Water Supply
Significant environmental effects
* increase ground water abstractions from existing Metuge well field
Minor environmental effects
* extension of distribution network
Figure 4.11:
Project Investments in Pemba
je:L         -                    ~~~~~~~   ~~YL5 -
Hydrogeological        Study safe yields of Metuge   XXX
investigation (1.01)   aquifers (east and west).
Water metering and leak  Install/repair bulk water  XXX   XXX   XXX
reduction (1.0516)     meters and connection water
meter. Prepare reliable maps
of distribution system. Leak
detection and repair.
Rehabilitation of Chiuba  Repair existing facilities.    XXX
wellfield (1.07)       Construct facilities for
Cluuba and adjacent
villages.
Rehabilitation of      Reconstruct boreholes and  XXX   XXX
Metuge wellfield (1.04)  electrical lines. New pumps.
Construct flood protection
and pump housing. Provide
spare parts.
Phase 2 of ongoing     Connect Alto Gingone-      xxx   XXX
project to connect     Wimbe, Morrebue, Mieze
villageslbairros (1.03)    and Nangua sub-systems
Service connections    Install 315 HC, 1,000 YC   XXX   XXX
(1.08)                 and 50 PT.
Upgrade distribution   Increase capacity of primary       XXX   XXX
system (2.01)          and secondary distribution
systems.
Expand distribution    Expand distribution systems.              XXX   XXX
(2.02)
Service connections   Install 250 HC, 1,180 YC           XX      XX            l
(2.03)                 and 45 PT
4.7.4 Environmental Assessment of the NWDP
Location. Planning and Design
The probable impacts of the extension of Metuge well field will relate to the ground
water table, possibilities of salination and effects on agriculture. The extension must be
carefully designed, based on thorough hydrogeological investigations and extensive
monitoring of the water table and draw-downs during test-pumping. The area should



Assessment of Urban and Pen-Urban Water Supply 75
be declared a partially protected zone. New settlements in the area should be
prohibited, and resettlement ofpeople presently living in the wellfield may be
necessary. Impact on and from agricultural activities in the influence area must be
carefully considered with regard to drought and pollution, and possible reducedflow in
the Muaguide river must be evaluated. Care must be taken when choosing equipment
and materials suitable for the prevailing water quality with corrosive properties and
high iron content. The hydrological investigations should treat the issue of salinity with
the necessary concern.
Treatment of the water, probably restricted to aeration and iron removal, must
be considered on the basis of laboratory testing of water samples from the test-pumping
The project includes a water metering program for bulk supply and individual
connections, and a leakage reduction program including the establishing of reticulation
maps. As discussed above, the safe well field yield at Metuge is suspected to be lower
than the designed abstraction capacity, and reduction of the demand through leakage
reduction is thus of extreme importance. The metering and leakage reduction programs
should be givenfirst priority in Pemba.
The investment program includes close to 3,000 new connections, of which
almost 600 are house connections. The total number of connections in 1992 was
estimated at approximately. 2,400 of which 1,150 were house connections. The number
of new connections planned is considerable, and will cause serious adverse impacts if
the increased sewage production is not taken care of in a safe way. As emphasized in
Section 4.2.1, plans for new house connections should be reduced in the NWDP if
appropriate sanitary solutions are not introduced along with the water supply
development.
Construcfion
Development, operation and maintenance of both well fields will require extensive
access road rehabilitation and construction work and areas for storage of construction
materials. Care must be taken to avoid conflicts with settlements and agricultural areas
along the roads. Storage areas for construction materials and equipment must be
established on free land, fenced and guarded.
Although the working market situation is not as bad in Pemba as in most other
cities, only 23 % of the potential labour force hold formal employment (DNE 1992).
One third considers themselves as totally unemployed, the balance consisting of farmers
and the informal sector. Rehabilitation and expansion of the water supply system may
offer some new employment opportunities, at least during the construction phase. There
are at least three companies in Pemba capable of exercising construction works: EMAC,
Construc,co Civil e Infrastructuras and Empresa de Reparacao de Casas.
0peion
Low yields may be caused by siltation of gravel-pack, corrosion of screens and
excessive draw-down, and will cause reduced water supply and may lead to breakdown
of pumps. With the high degree of water lost in transmission and distribution, it can be
foreseen that the total planned capacity to be installed will be used as from day one after



76 Assessment of Urban and Peri-Urban Water Supply
rehabilitation. As a result, excessive draw-downs and general lowering of the water
table may well cause impacts on vegetation, reduce crops and available fire-wood, and
reduce flow in streams and rivers in the area. It may also cause land subsidence and
harm to borehole headworks and structures. Shallow wells may dry out. Adverse water
quality may cause health problems, clogging and corrosion of pipes, and loss of
borehole installations. Long term ground water abstraction is different from test-
pumping, and developments in the influence area must be closely monitored with regard
to yields of each borehole, draw-downs and water table, water quality and impacts on
various crops, trees and vegetation in general. As a consequence, hydrogeological
investigations, planning and design are required prior to rehabilitation of the entire
wellfield. As well, intensive monitoring, inspection and management of operations are
necessary to avoid adverse environmental impacts.
Water Market and Employrent Situation
A number of industrial enterprises in mining (graphite), logging, plywood and fisheries
are or have been operating in Pemba. Major employers are Marmonite, ECMEP, EDM,
TDN, Texmanta and the airport. It is known that at least two companies, Texmanta and
Marmonite have had to reduce operations due to water supply problems. Securing water
supplies will improve operations of existing enterprises and create conditions for
rehabilitation, expansion and establishment of new industries.
4.7.5 Analysis of Alternatives
DHV (1994) concluded that the abandoned Chuiba well field should be rehabilitated to
provide a safe yield, avoiding salt intrusion, of 1,000 m3/d and that necessary
transmission facilities be installed for supply of Chuiba and other adjacent villages. The
redevelopment of Chuiba well field to a yield far below the former capacity will,
according to DHV, cause no significant environmental impacts, and salt intrusion will
probably not occur at the suggested maximum yield.
Based on aquifer characteristics and numerical models, DHV (1994) concluded
that the safe yield of the present Metuge field is approximately 4,600 m3/d, far below the
originally installed capacity of approximately 9,500 m3/d. However, it is assumed with
a high degree of certainty that the well field can be extended eastwards and thus attain a
safe yield of approximately 11,200 m3/d.
The future exploitation of the present well fields in Pemba, if achievable, will
secure the projected water supply until the end of the planning period, year 2017. The
DHV report makes it quite clear that thorough hydrogeological investigations and long
term test-pumping are needed. If the real safe yield of the extended Metuge well field
should prove to be less than the theoretical value, the supply will have to be augmented
by abstraction of water from the Mieze or the Muaguide Rivers. These solutions will
also have to be considered for supply beyond year 2017. Abstraction of water from both
rivers will require the construction of dams and reservoirs, and water treatment plants
will be required. The future abstraction of water from the rivers, including dams and
reservoirs, is regarded only as a possible necessity in Pemba, and the environmental
impacts are not considered here.



Assessment of Urban and Pen-Urban Water Supply 77
The water supply situation in Pemba is becoming critical. Due to breakdowns
and low yields of the remaining boreholes at Metuge and the abandoning of Chuiba well
field, combined with a high degree of leakage and unaccounted-for water, water is
supplied to the customers a few hours a day only and new breakdowns and further
reduction of yields are highly probable. The rehabilitation of Metuge well field, and
later redevelopment of Chuiba, are thus of great importance to prevent fuirther
degradation of living and health standards in Pemba.
4.7.6 Summary of Recommendations
1.    Concerning the extension of the Metuge wellfield:
* It must be carefully designed, based on hydrogeological investigations and
extensive monitoring of the water table and draw-downs during test-
pumping.
* The area should be declared a partially protected zone.
* New settlements in the area should be prohibited, and resettlement ofpeople
presently living in the wellfield may be necessary.
* Impact on andfrom agricultural activities in the influence area must be
carefully considered with regard to drought and pollution, and possible
reducedflow in the Muaguide river must be evaluated.
* Care must be taken when choosing equipment and materials suitable for the
prevailing water quality with corrosive properties and high iron content.
T The hydrological investigations should treat the issue of salinity with the
necessary concern.
- Treatment of the water, probably restricted to aeration and iron removal,
must be considered on the basis of laboratory testing of water samples from
the test-pumping.
2.    Because the safe wellfield yield at Metuge is suspected to be lower than the
designed abstraction capacity, reduction of the demand through leakage
reduction is of extreme importance and the metering and leakage reduction
programs should be given first priority.
3.    During construction, care must be taken to avoid conflicts with settlements and
agricultural areas along the roads. Storage areas for construction materials
and equipment must be established on free land, fenced and guarded.
4.    During wellfield operations, thorough hydrogeological investigations, planning
and design are required prior to rehabilitation of the entire wellfield. As well,
intensive monitoring, inspection and management of operations are necessary to
avoid adverse environmental impacts.



78 Assessment of Urban and Pen-Urban Water Supply
.   .              .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Assessment of Rural Water and Sanitation 79
5.    ASSESSMENT OF RURAL WATER AND SANITATION
5.1   Current Condition of Rural Water and Sanitation
According to the National Water Policy (NWP) document (1995), sufficient water
resources had been developed to increase the supply to rural communities to cover 6%
of the population in 1980 and 30% in 1993. The present level of use and the quality of
the services is not known. It is likely that a significant number of small piped systems
(SPS) have been abandoned due to destruction, lack of maintenance and migration
during the war.
The EA team did not come across any reliable information with regard to the
present sanitation situation in rural towns. It would, however, not be too far fetched to
assume that sanitation is provided by septic tanks and latrines in the centres of rural
towns and by latrines and open defeacation in the surrounding areas.
5.2   Project Descrption
This component of the project is still being developed but is expected to include the
development/strengthening of community-based water users' associations in rural towns
and peri-urban districts; community-led design of SPS, and complementary sanitation
such as simplified sewerage, septic tanks, pit latrines, drainage and solid waste
management; and subsequent project investments in these systems/works. Only an
outline design document was prepared at the time of the EA study (21 March 1996), and
the EA will therefore simply provide recommendations/guidelines on how these
systems/works may best be implemented to be environmentally and socially sustainable.
A lump sum of USD 5 million is allocated for this component in the NWDP
investment program (WB 1996b). Specific villages/towns or provinces have not yet
been identified for the project.
The total estimated costs have not been broken down, but the following
categories are indicated:
i)    SPS component management;
ii)   Studies on optimal arrangements for public participation and sustainable
management and operation of SPS;
iii)   Beneficiary assessments for identification of eligible towns;
iv)   Capital investments in SPS and complementary urban environmental
management initiatives (sanitation, drainage, solid waste management and
erosion control);
v)    Support to a district/provincial fund management unit; and
vi)   Workshops and information dissemination.
The NWP document (1995) indicates that up to 200 SPS shall be rehabilitated
and that the number of improved family latrines should be doubled to 200,000 by the



80 Assessment of Rural Water and Sanitation
year 2000. The SPS component is proposed as a pilot project, and the number of
provinces benefiting and the number of SPS to be targeted will be limited, probably far
below the target of NWP. A Low Cost Sanitation Programme is presently being
implemented with UNICEF support. The outline design document indicate future
coordination between the two programs.
The document fiurther discusses and indicates possible institutional frameworks,
development of public participation mechanisms, project management, technical
evaluation and monitoring arrangements. Issues in the fields of hydrology, environment
and technology are mentioned, but not discussed in the document.
5.3   Recommendations on Environmental Issues
It is expected that none of the SPS will be of a size and magnitude which would require
full EA (WB Category A) but some, depending on size, may require environmental
analysis (WB Category B). The feasibility studies of individual SPS projects should,
however, be prepared in a way to facilitate proper environmental screening in
accordance with the Bank's OD 4.01. The scope of the TORsforfeasibility studies of
individual projects should therefore include relevant environmental issues for further
investigation and assessment if required.
Issues of physical, biological and social environmental concerns with regard to
SPS would normally, among more site specific issues, include the following more
general issues:
- Impacts of water extraction from source - lowering of water table (groundwater),
reduction of downstream flows (river) with possible conflicts with other users and/or
biological impacts.
* Flooding and hydrological changes in case of dam construction
* Pollution of water source
* Impacts from increase in waste water production - consequences for sanitation
system choices
* Health -- possible change in incidences of water-bome diseases and malaria
Design criteria for the SPS should be developed during the feasibility phase. A
starting point is to define the minimum criteria for people's access to water. A basic
principle would be that the criteria should be based on what people can afford.
People's real conception around the issue of water therefor needs to be clarified.
The document stresses public participation at all stages of the project cycle. This is
important, but is not easy to accomplish. One should, however, attempt to develop both
the eligibility criteria, and later on the design criteria, through public participatory
mechanisms. The design criteria should, for example, specify the maximum number of
people/families to be served by each connection (public tap), maximum distance for
fetching water frorm a public tap, operation, management and tariff/payment principles
for public taps, hours of service, etc.



Assessment of Rural Water and Saniitation 81
The SPS component is a pilot undertaking, and wider application of leamed
lessons depends on the rate of success of the pilot schemes. It is therefore imperative
that externalfactors which may impede the sound development of individual SPS
schemes (e.g. sanitation systems, roads, electricity supplies) are identified, analysed and
ifpossible incorporatedfor solution in the development program for a town.
Finally, the TORs for the feasibility studies should spell out criteria for
appropriate technologies to be applied in the individual schemes, taking into account
the local level of technical knowledge, desired standardization, existing water dealer
networks and future supply possibilities for equipment, spareparts and chemicals.
5.4   Summary of Recommendations
1.    The feasibility studies of individual SPS projects should be prepared in a way to
facilitate proper environmental screening in accordance with the Bank's OD
4.01. The scope of the TORsforfeasibility studies of individual projects should
therefore include relevant environmental issues forfurther investigation and
assessment, if required.
2.    The TORs for the feasibility studies should spell out criteria for appropriate
technologies to be applied in the individual schemes.
3.    Design criteria for the SPSshould be developed during the feasibility phase. A
startingpoint is to define the minimum criteria for people's access to water. A
basic principle would be that the criteria should be based on what people can
afford.
4.    It is imperative that externalfactors which may impede the sound development
of individual SPS schemes (e.g. sanitation systems, roads, electricity supplies)
are identified, analysed and ifpossible incorporatedfor solution in the
development program for a town.



82 Assessment of Rural Water and Sanitation



Assessment of Water Resources Management 83
6.  ASSESSMENT OF WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT
6.1   INTRODUCTION
The Water Resources Management component of the NWDP is comprised of individual
studies, institutional and capacity-building support and investments with the common
objective of supporting the strengthening of water resources management both within
Mozambique and with respect to the management of shared international rivers. The
objectives of the Water Resources Management component include:
* Support to decentralized river basin management;
* Investments in necessary rehabilitation of hydraulic works;
* Reinforcement of Mozambique's capacity to operate as an equal partner in
intemational negotiations regarding water resources shared with other riparian
states; and
* Enhancement of co-operation at the river basin level.
The Water Resources Management component as presented to the EA team was
comprised of four sub-projects:
1. Management Development Plan for ARA-Sul (institution building)
2. Corumana Dam Completion Works (feasibility study)
3. Strengthening of Management of Shared Water Resources (preparatory study)
4. Joint Incomati Study - Supplementary Work in Mozambique (investigation)
These sub-projects are still in the identification/pre-feasibility phase. A set of
four draft terms of reference (TORs) for consultancies was prepared by the Bank and
DNA on 6 March 1996 which specify the work to be done under the Water Resources
Management aspects of the NWDP.
As discussed in Section 4 of this report, the NWDP also involves several activities
to study and determine the need for and feasibility of future activities and investments in
each of the urban water supply sub-projects. Where these involve abstractions from
rivers and associated hydrological investigations, and are appropriate for inclusion in the
design of the Water Resources Management sub-project studies listed above, they are
incorporated in the discussions below. The relevant aspects of the urban sub-projects
are:
Maputo
* Increased surface water abstraction from the Umbeluzi River
* Diversion of water from the Incomati, via the Movene, to the Umbeluzi River
* Construction of a tansmission main/canal from the Incomati to the Movene River
* Ground water abstraction in the Pateque-Manhica area
* Increased surface water abstraction from the Puingue River



84 Assessment of Water Resources Management
The approach taken to the environmental assessment of the Water Resources
Management component of the NWDP was to outline, for each sub-project, the issues
which should be addressed to obtain environmentally sustainable development of the
water systems with which each is concemed. Each draft TOR was then reviewed and
comments were made concerning how they should be revised to better address the
identified issues.
6.2 MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT PLAN FOR ARA-SUL
6.2.1 Introduction
This sub-project concerns the creation of a development plan, and capacity-building and
support, to the Regional Water Administrations (ARAs) which are key institutions of
the new, decentralized water resources management structure in Mozambique. The
ARAs will function as financially self-sustaining water resources management agencies
with responsibilities for bulk water delivery, hydrological services and water allocation
concessions. NWDP support will initially be concentrated on ARA-Sul, the Southem
Region Water Administration. Based on experience gained in this region, the
development of other high priority ARAs can be undertaken.
ARA-Sul's mandate includes all of southern Mozambique north to and including
the Save River basin. Of the five cities which are part of the NWDP, this area includes
only Maputo and the rivers on which it depends for its water supply - the Umbeluzi
and, probably in the future, the Incomati.
6.2.2 Environmental Concerns Associated with Urban Water Supply
As discussed in detail in Section 4.3.4, the principal environmental concens with regard
to the use of water in Maputo and the water balance in the Umbeluzi basin relate to:
1. The minimum flow required downstream of the Maputo water intake to control
salinity intrusion and protect other ecological functions;
2. Proposed future transfers of water from the Incomati to the Umbeluzi River to
augment Maputo raw water supplies; and
3. Monitoring and management of the minimum flow being delivered across the border
from Swaziland.
To address these concerns, two major recommendations were made:
1. It is vital that good hydrological monitoring at the intake, and thorough analysis of
minimum flows required to meet domestic, industrial and a variety of downstream
ecological demands, be carried out before maximum withdrawals available from the
river to supply Maputo are settled. Only with this information in hand will analysis
of the requirements forfirm minimumflows from Swaziland and/or transfers from
the Incomati River be possible.



Assessment of Water Resources Management 85
2. The issue of minimumflows in the Umbeluzi below the Maputo intakes should be a
keyfactor in the design of hydrological investigations planned under the Maputo
sub-project of the NWDP. Moreover, this and the Incomati and international rivers
issues should be addressed by the relevant Water Resources Management
components of the NWDP.
All of these concerns fall within the mandate of ARA-Sul. They, and the
recommendations which they precipitated, should be reflected in the scope of work for
the sub-project TOR.
6.2.3 Comments on the Terms of Reference
All comments refer to Section 3: Scope of Work.
Basic Considerations: Legal and Institutional Framework
In addition to identifying gaps and loopholes in the existing Water Act, the consultant
should identify overlaps and inconsistencies with other Acts and statutes regulating
water management and use. Particular reference should be made to the Municipality
Act.and new Land Act under preparation, in addition to the Water Act.
The role of ARA-Sul in the context of the new Environmental Act should be
assessed, that is on environmental management issues with regard to protection and
management of water resources and on ARA-Sul's, and later the other ARA's relations
with MICOA.
Reponsibilities and Functioris: Hvdrology and Water Qualitv
Mechanisms for improved collaboration and co-ordination with agriculture, forestry and
irrigation authorities should be assessed.
As a separate item, the consultant should be directed to emphasize the
implementation of urgently-needed flow and water quality monitoring on the Umbeluzi
River system, perhaps as a "pilot" exercise to explore and develop ARA-Sul's
capabilities in a practical situation (see section 6.2.2 above).
Responsibilities and Functions: Bulk Water Suply and Water Demand Management
Several studies have pointed at the increasing problem of salt water intrusion in rivers
along the coastal plains. Minimum ecological flows have been calculated for some of
the rivers (probably on weak data bases) -- that is, minimum flows during the dry season
required to keep the salt water at bay. As demand for water increases, both nationally
and in upstream riparian states, it will be more difficult and costly to maintain minimum
ecological flows during dry seasons and drought periods. As a separate item, the TOR
should direct the consultant to prepare a strategy for studying the salt water intrusion
problem with the aim of analyzing alternative solutions which are technically,
economically and enviromnentally sound.
Beyond recommending policies and plans for the allocation of water among
various users, the TOR should direct the consultant to develop specific strategies and



86 Assessment of Water Resources Management
study requirements to analyze minimum flow requirements and, where appropriate,
reservoir operations, and to assess possibilities for improving hydrological regimes to
better meet requirements for "environmental allocations and pollution control". These
requirements should be specified in the TOR to include not only the management of salt
water intrusion but also, for example, the conservation of riparian habitats; the transport,
dispersion and natural purification of waste waters; and the transport of suspended
sediment through important waterways and harbours. On this matter, the TOR should
emphasize urgent requirements on the Umbeluzi River system.
Responsibilities and Functions: Environmental Protection and Pollution Control
The "polluter pay principle", embodied in the National Water Policy, should be
highlighted for consideration by the consultant, in particular in descriptions of
mechanisms for enforcement and control.
Responsibilities and Functions: Intemational River Basin Issues
The TOR should require that the assessment of ARA-Sul's responsibilities in the
management of intemational river basins be co-ordinated with the team working on the
"Strengthening of Management of Shared Water Resources" preparatory study.
Organization and Management: Staff Development and Incentives
The TOR should direct the consultant to include the integration of environmental
"awareness-building" wherever appropriate and thus pioneer the development of an
environmental culture in water resources management and pollution control. There are
elements of environmental protection and natural resources management in traditional
rural cultures, but modem Mozambique has little, if any, environmental conservation
traditions.
Performance Monitornn
The performance monitoring systems should also incorporate some key environmental
monitoring indicators.
6.3 CORUMANA DAM COMPLETION WORKS
6.3.1 Introduction
Corumana Dam in the Sabie river in the Incomati catchment area has not been
completed up to standard, and it is necessaxy to carry out engineering design, costing
and construction of the critical remaining works as part of this sub-project. It is also
planned to carry out a feasibility study to assess the development opportunities and
potential of this dam in order to identify and justify options for maximizing
development benefits from the investigations to be made.
The scope of work to complete the Corumana Dam is contingent on the results of
the subject feasibility study but could involve:
* Protection of the downstream slope;
* Stabilization of the river channel downstream of the spillway;
* Provision of a security fence;



Assessment of Water Resources Management 87
* Installation of lighting;
* Upgrading of the 1.5 km access road; and
* Installation of spillway gates to increase the storage volume.
The dam is already in place and, in early 1996, the reservoir was full. The
feasibility study will probably not raise any new significant environmental issues. On
the other hand, impacts from the completion work will by and large result in positive
effects on the environment.
6.3.2 Comments on the Terms of Reference
Feasibility of Increasing the Storage Capacity
The TOR do not envisage the need for installation of the spillway gates in the
foreseeable future. However, the consultant is asked to assess the feasibility of this
option. The study should therefore identify possible environmental impacts in case the
spillway gates are to be installed, that is impacts from increasing the storage volume of
the reservoir from 830 Mm' to 1,230 Mm3. Raising the water level will result in a larger
flooded area, with possible impacts on human settlements, agriculture, forestry, flora,
fauna and micro-climate. The TOR should direct the consultant to identify these
i.npacts in brief and indicate necessary restrictions. The viability of the option of
installing spillway gates should be analyzed not only in economic and technical terms
but also in natural and social environmental terms.
Stabilization of the River Channel Downstream of the Spillway
The TOR should emphasize the need to protect not only the dam from erosion but also
the downstream river channel.
Security Fence
The TOR should direct the consultant to investigated whether any traditional footpaths,
crossings or housing unrelated to dam operations will be affected. If so, mitigation and
compensation measures should be proposed.
lender Documents
Environmental concerns and mechanisms for maintaining worker safety etc. should be
incorporated in the tender documents, indicating control and mitigating measures, and
reporting procedures.
6.4  STRENGTHENING OF MANAGEMENT OF SHARED WATER
RESOURCES
6.4.1 Introduction
Preliminary study and institutional support will be provided to establishing an
international river basin unit (Gabinete dos Rios Intemacionais) within DNA which will
be the focal institution in Mozambique's negotiations with other riparian states about



88 Assessment of Water Resources Management
water rights and mutual management and utilization of shared water resources. The
preliminary study will serve as a basis for the five-year institutional support program.
6.4.2 Environmental Concerns Associated with Urban Water Supply
As discussed in Sections 4.3 and 4.4 of this report on urban water supply, Maputo and
Beira depend on rivers shared with other countries -- Swaziland, South Africa and
Zimbabwe. The international aspects of the environmental concerns for the water
supply to Maputo, first raised in Section 4.3, were reiterated above in Section 6.2
concerning the management development plan for ARA-Sul, and will not be repeated
here.
For Beira, the increased abstraction of raw water from the Puingue River would
probably not cause any significant environmental impact. This statement, however,
assumes that restrictions on water use for irrigation are enforced to maintain a minimum
downstream flow and that a satisfactory agreement is reached with Zimbabwe with
regard to the shared water resources of Pungue River. The recommendation was that
DNA and/or the new ARA Central should monitor water demands on the Pungue River
from irrigation in Mozambique and from Zimbabwe. Should these demands plus water
supply to Beira indicate potential problems with maintaining minimum flows in the
lower river, more detailed hydrological analysis should be carried out to assist in
resolving competing water demands.
These city-based factors highlight one dimension of the need for Mozambique to
have a much stronger capacity to assess its own water needs, to analyze cross-border
flows in its international rivers with a view to detennining its requirements in those
flows, and to negotiate acceptable arrangements with upstream riparian states for actual
receipt of those flows.
6.4.3 Comments on the Terms of Reference
The TOR focus on legal, procedural and institutional capacity issues, whereas the
apparent enviromnental imperatives for improved water resources sharing mechanisms
receive little prominence. The TOR should highlight the issue of sound enviromnental
management as a fundamental basis for assessing equitable sharing and use of water.
The TOR should further recognize the fact that securing Mozambique's interests
and rights with regard to cross-border water resources management may represent the
most significant factor when it comes to the country's ability to sustain environmental
and natural resources management in the southem and central regions of the country.
Staffing of the team of consultants should reflect the importance of this issue. In
particular, the water resources management and river basin expert must be
knowledgeable about both human and ecological values associated with water, and with
the complexities of making choices among competing values and uses for water.



Assessment of Water Resources Management 89
6.5 JOINT INCOMATI STUDY - SUPPLEMENTARY WORK IN
MOZAMBIQUE
6.5.1 Introduction
This will be the first of five studies to support Mozambique's participation in joint
intemational river basin studies concerning the Incomati, Pungue, Limpopo, Save and
Umbeluzi River basins. These studies are crucial for enhancing a good climate for
cooperation, and for establishing a common base for monitoring, management and
development of watercourses with other countries.
6.5.2 Environmental Concerns Associated with Urban Water Supply
Of concern here is the prospect of water transfers from the Incomati to the Umbeluzi
River to supply Maputo. Analyses of Mozambican water demands on the Incomati
must consider the amount and location of potential abstractions for this purpose. Flows
downstream of the abstraction point must be left sufficient to accommodate both human,
irrigational and ecological requirements for water, especially with respect to minimum
flows.
6.5.3 Comments on the Terms of Reference
Water Related Development
Criteria for evaluating potential development alternatives should include environmental
criteria in addition to "economic, financial and social". Such criteria should address
minimum requirements for ecological flows at different times of the year and at key
points in the river. Factors to consider include the management of salt water intrusion;
the conservation of riparian habitats; the transport, dispersion and natural purification of
waste waters; and the transport of suspended sediment through important waterways and
harbours.
Dams and Regulation
Assessment of the hydrological regime and development regime of the Corumana Dam
should be done in close collaboration with the team on the Corumana feasibility study.
As discussed in Section 6.3.2, an environmental point of view should be taken in
addition to technical and economic, especially when considering the effects of raising
the flood level of the dam.
Envirormn
The reference to mitigation measures should give, as examples, the specification of
minimum flows at different times of the year and at different locations on the river, and
the conservation of important riparian habitats and wetlands.



90 Assessment of Water Resources Management
4



Environmental Monitoring and Management 91
7.  ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
7.1 INTRODUCTION
The final part of this report addresses a number of matters concerning the environmental
management of NWDP activities. The first three sections provide guidance on the
location, planning, design, construction and operation of project facilities to maximize
the opporunities for good environmental perfonnance. They complement discussions
on issues common to all project cities/towns presented at the beginning of Section 4.
The fourth section addresses the vital and sometimes sensitive issue of resettlement of
people from lands required by the project. The fifth and sixth sections concem the
monitoring of project activities, and the management of those activities based, in part,
on monitoring information. Finally, matters related to enviromnental awareness-
building and training are discussed.
7.2 LOCATION, PLANNING AND DESIGN
7.2.1 Refurbishment/Expansion of Existing Treatment Plants
All new investments should be analyzed in terms of their capital costs, their operating
and maintenance requirements, their reliability on foreign equipment and spareparts,
etc. If choices are to be made between more or less equal alternatives, processes and
equipment of the same type or similar to the existing ones should be chosen. Different
designs and operational routines will increase the risk of faulty operation and the need
for a large number of different spare parts, thus adversely affecting the safety of and
possibilities for proper maintenance and quick repair of breakdowns.
7.2.2 Distribution Systems
Wherever possible, new distribution systems should be located to avoid existing houses
and infrastructure, and thus the need to relocate them and, perhaps, people who live in
them.
Routing of pipes through areas polluted by industral and human wastes will
probably be unavoidable. Proper design is particularly important in such areas. Care
should be taken to choose the right pipe-material. Pit latrines and garbage dumps
should be cleaned and closed and new locations sited if necessary.
Ifwater and wastewater pipelines are to be located in the same trench, care
should be taken to have the water pipeline at a higher level than the sewer. This will
help to avoid direct leakage of polluted water into leaky, non-pressurized water pipes
during hours of no supply, or while repair works are carried out. Where possible, water
and wastewater pipelines should be routed in separate trenches or on different sides of
a road. This is safer but generally more expensive.



92 Environmental Monitoring and Management
7.3   CONSTRUCTION
Wherever possible, water companies should use local contractors, skilled and unskilled
workers from each of the cities in which NWDP construction will take place. Before
DNA approves any construction contracts, it should assure itself that water company
operators, and any general contractors involved, have thoroughly investigated the
availability of local companies and workers for the contract, and have maximized the
opportunities for them to be involved in the construction work
Standard environmental construction requirements for the project are detailed
below. It is vital that these requirements are incorporated into general and specific
construction contract specifications for all works being funded by the NWDP.
7.3.1 Water Sources and Treatment Plants
* Soil erosion and silt run-off from construction sites should be carefully prevented,
since this could easily find its way into drainage and water courses.
* Noise, dust and air emissions should be minimized by use of modern equipment,
awareness and attentive construction practices, especially in populated areas.
D The use of toxic and polluting substances during construction should be avoided or
minimised remembering that such substances will have direct impact on soils and
water quality.
* Proper housing and sanitary facilities for workers must be provided, and storage
areas kept fenced and guarded.
* Oils and chemicals must be prevented from seeping into the ground or into drainage
and water courses. Oil spills from construction machines must be avoided, and used
oils and lubricants should be collected and disposed safely out of the working area.
o Construction sites must be left clean and tidy. After completion of the construction
work, all temporary installations must be removed.
* Construction hazards will not be significant providing safety precautions and control
are imposed on the labour force.
7.3.2 Transmission and Storage
* Pipeline trenches should be backfilled as soon as possible after laying of pipes and
pressure testing, thus reducing the risk constituted by open trenches.
* Trenches should be carefully backfilled, using proper materials, and compacted to
avoid later subsidence, uneven surfaces and erosion. Paved areas should be
carefully restored. Top soil with vegetation should be replaced where applicable to
avoid erosion.
* Noise, dust and air emissions should be minimized by use of modern equipment,
awareness and attentive construction practices, especially in populated areas.
* Proper housing and sanitary installations for workers, and fenced and equipped
stores and storage areas must be arranged. Spilling of oil must be avoided.
* All temporary structures, fences and leftovers must be removed after completion of
works.



Environmental Monitoring and Management 93
7.3.3 Distribution Systems
*  Pipeline construction in populated areas creates problems for traffic and access to
houses. Care should be taken, during design if necessary, to section the work in
such a manner that these problems are minimized.
*  Trenches should be backfilled as soon as possible after laying of pipes, thus
reducing the risk, particularly to children, constituted by open trenches.
*  Trenches should be carefully backfilled, using proper materials, and compacted as
necessary to avoid later subsidence, uneven surfaces and erosion. Paved grounds
should be carefully restored. Top soil with vegetation should be replaced where
applicable to avoid erosion. Contracts should require that the contractor return to
disturbed sites to repair later-occurring damages caused by the excavations.
*  Proper housing and sanitary installations for workers, and fenced and equipped
stores and storage areas must be arranged.
*  All temporary houses, fences and leftovers must be removed after completion.
7.4   OPERATION
7.4.1 Water Sources and Treatment Plants
*  Operation and maintenance (O & M) manuals, and suitable staff training, must be
supplied and adhered to, particularly regarding the handling of chemicals.
*  Intake water quality should be monitored regularly to establish whether unknown
substances or minerals are adversely affecting the quality of drinking water.
7A.2 Transmission and Storage
*  Pipeline routes should be inspected regularly against leakage and valve chamber
vandalism, and to avoid illegal connections.
*  Significant leakage will cause erosion and flooding, and should be prevented by
automatic monitoring of pressure or flow, thus stopping the pumps on such
occasions. All leakage must be attended to immediately to avoid damages.
*  Valves should be checked and manoeuvred regularly to secure their functioning
when required for proper operation of the transmission system.
7.4.3 Distribution Systems
* The pipeline routes should be inspected regularly to make sure that all manhole lids
are in place, and that no illegal connections are being attempted.
*  Significant leakage will be reported by the public, but inspection should include
awareness of unexpected growth of grass and weeds during the dry season. Flow
measurements should be carried out according to a pre-set schedule or whenever
leakage is suspected. Leakage must be repaired immediately to prevent erosion and
flooding.



94 Environmental Monitoring and Management
* Water samples from taps on the reticulation system should be analyzed regularly as
safety against pollution.
* Valves should be inspected and manoeuvred at regular intervals to secure their
functioning whenever required.
7.5   RESETTLEMENT
As indicated in Section 4, some of the investments of the NWDP will influence existing
housing and settlements, in particular farmers along transmission mains and makeshift
housing in peri-urban areas. Where possible, specific resettlement needs were
identified. In most cases, such as in the location of distribution systems, project
planning has not progressed far enough to identify specific resettlement requirements,
time tables and budgets. What this study provides is guidance and the basis for future,
more detailed resettlement planning.
There are established procedures for expropriation and forced resettlements in
the Land Act of 1979 (see Section 2.2.2). Although the Act presupposes that the settler
have legal title to the land, recent practice has been to offer compensation and title to
new settlements regardless of whether incumbents held titles previously. The entity
causing the need for resettlement must bear all the costs involved. With particular
reference to Maputo, the City Council developed in 1988/9 a resettlement model which
reportedly has been used with success on a number of occasions.
As well, the Bank's Operational Directive 4.30 on involuntary resettlement
provides specific policy guidance which should be adhered to during implementation of
the NWDP. OD 4.30 states that:
1. Involuntary resettlement should be avoided or minimized where feasible, exploring
all viable alternative project designs.
2. Where displacement is unavoidable, resettlement plans should be developed. All
involuntary resettlement should be conceived and executed as development
programs. Displaced persons should be (i) compensated for their losses at full
replacement cost prior to the actual move, (ii) assisted with the move and supported
during the transition period in the resettlement site, and (iii) assisted in their efforts
to improve their former living standards, income earning capacity, and production
levels, or at least restore them.
3. Community participation in planning and implementing resettlement should be
encouraged.
4. Resettlers should be integrated socially and economically into host communities.
5. Land, housing, infrastructure and other compensation should be provided to
adversely affected [people] ... who may have usufruct or customary rights to land or
other resources taken for the project. The absence of legal title to land ... should not
be a bar to compensation.
Without in any way commenting on the intentions or practices of the
government or institutions in Mozambique, it must be noted that, in far too many cases,
involuntary resettlement programs around the world have fallen far short of



Environmental Monitoring and Management 95
expectations. A key reason is that project loans have not included resettlement costs,
they are planned to be covered from other govemment funds and, for one reason or
another, these funds have not been forthcoming. Thus, it is strongly recommended that
resettlement plans should be prepared early in the planning process, and their financing
and execution should be implemented with the support of the donor (NWDP). The
Project Unit should assist the relevant Municipality councils and implementing
agencies as required.
The following procedures are recommended in general for involuntary
resettlement necessitated by the NWDP:
1. Areas being influenced by installations and construction works, including flooded
areas, protected areas, storage and constr iction areas, should be marked on maps
and/or demarcated during the detailed planning stage. Maps should be at a scale
allowing identification of affected houses and settlements in the field. Where
possible, project works should be designed or located to avoid the need for
resettlement, for example in the location of pipelines, storage tanks and distribution
systems.
2. The implementing agency, supported by the Project Unit, should carry out a specific
study of resettlement needs when the need is apparent or, if a significant number of
families are identified for resettlement, engage a consultant with socio-economic
and legal experience for the task. The study should register names, number of
family members, standards and approximate values of houses and other
immovables, affected areas, land use, crops etc. Particular attention must be paid to
special places which may be affected such as graves and spiritual sites, and to local
practices required to manage the disruption involved. In collaboration with the
Municipality Council, the study should identify suitable resettlement areas and
calculate costs for moving people and movables, and constructing new houses,
infrastructure and other compensations. The study should also assess indirect effects
of ruptures to traditional and social bonds such as ethnic linkages (e.g. the Macua
people in the bainro Mafalala in Maputo) and develop appropriate strategies for
dealing with these effects. These could include, for example, moving entire groups
together and supporting the groups in undertaking traditional practices involved in
moving. Finally a detailed plan for resettlement should be developed in
collaboration with the Council and the secretary of the bairro/village. The Bank's
OD 4.30 provides a useful reference in developing resettlement plans.
3. Throughout the process of developing and implementing resettlement plans, affected
people, families and communities must be consulted concerning the overall process,
and their needs and desires for adequate relocation.
4. A minimum of three months notice prior to moving must be given orally and in
writing, in accordance with the expropriation regulations of the Land Act.
5. Negotiations should take place with each individual family or groups of families on
one side, and the implementing agency and the respective Municipality council on
the other. The secretary of the bairro/village should act as a mediator.



96 Environmental Monitoring and Management
6. The Municipality council will be responsible for coordination and monitoring of the
resettlement activities and for necessary logistical arrangements regarding moving
and resettlement, with the costs to be covered by the implementing agency. Reports
should be prepared by the implementing agency on the execution of the resettlement
plan to be presented to the DNA Project Unit and the respective Municipality
Council.
7. Compensation should be based on full replacement and moving costs, and be paid
without delay before the actual move. If appropriate, the implementing agency or
the Council should supervise the building of new houses for resettled families,
replanting of fruit trees, etc. In some cases, additional cash compensation should be
considered to support displaced families while they restore their livelihoods at the
new locations.
7.6 ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING AND MANAGEMENT
Apart from normal monitoring and management by the Bank and DNA of contracts and
other activities under the NWDP, the needs for environmental monitoring and
management during project implementation are expected to be largely limited to
ensuring compliance with:
1. Environmental specifications contained in construction contracts, as discussed in
Section 7.3 above.
2. Resettlement planning and implementation, as discussed in Section 7.5 above.
The project "owner" will be the National Directorate of Water (DNA) which will
thus have a major responsibility for monitoring and management of the environmental
aspects of planning and implementation of the NWDP. In practice, the Project Unit
(with a Project Co-ordinator) to be established under the National Director of DNA
should carry out these functions as an integral part of its roles of supervision and
monitoring of the various components of the project. A separate chapter of regular
project reports to be prepared by the DNA Project Co-ordinator should deal with
environmental aspects of the various components as indicated and described in this EA
report and any later EA reports.
Reporting procedures should follow lines of command to be established for
planning, implementation, operation, supervision and management of the various
NWDP components. Thus the Provincial MOPH and/or the SUPRAs (ad hoc
construction supervisory units established by DNA at the Provincial MOPH for
particular water supply construction projects), and the new management of the water
companies may be assigned monitoring and management functions. In principle, the
water companies should monitor and manage their contractors and DNA (central or
provincial) should monitor the water companies and, occasionally, contractors in the
field.
The regular reports will be scrutinized by MOPH and the WB supervisory
missions. MICOA (and its future Centre for Environmental Monitoring) should receive



Environmental Monitoring and Management 97
copies of the reports (environmental section) to enable the Ministry to monitor DNA for
compliance with provisions of the environmental assessment and issue directives or take
any other appropriate action. MICOA may also carry out ad hoc field monitoring
surveys.
ARA-Sul (for Maputo Urban Water Supply sub-project, and sub-projects of the
Water Resources Management component), and the other ARAs (when established) will
in accordance with their mandate monitor water use, flow regimes and other
hydrological aspects of water resources management carried out by the water
companies. These aspects should also, as appropriate, be incorporated in the regular
data collection and reporting procedures of the water companies/implementing agencies.
Resettlement planning and implementation (see Section 7.5) should be monitored by the
DNA Project Unit.
The Ministry of Health (through the provincial health administrations/
laboratories) should continue monitoring of water quality. The quality of sample
collection, laboratory testing and reporting routines needs to be improved, and
procedures for follow up actions on the analysis reports should be developed. The
NWDP should, in co-operation with other health support projects, assist in improving
monitoring of people's health and hygiene situation in the areas of influence of the
project. It would be appropriate to include this issue in the WB Staff Appraisal Report.
Currently there are no mechanisms in place for pollution monitoring and control.
Relevant for this project would be monitoring of the quality of raw water and of
downstream waters receiving sludge and backwash water from the treatment plants. In
the absence of relevant institutions, the water companies should be instructed to cary
out required testing and monitoring as part of the regular reporting procedures.
The EA report does not envisage any formal role of the relevant municipality/
city councils, since the Municipality Act has not yet been made effective. However,
after the establishment of functional administrations in compliance with the Act (e.g.
after the dust has settled from the oncoming direct elections), an adequate role for the
councils should be designed in the environmental monitoring plan for the project.
7.7 ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS-BUILDING AND TRAINING
Few training needs will be required beyond those embodied in the capacity-building
elements of the NWDP. Training will be required for personnel of DNA (and provincial
MOPH] SUPRA), MICOA and private-sector water company management and
operational staff to monitor and supervise enviromnental performance during
construction of new and refurbished works being funded by the project. The DNA
Project Unit should conduct a workshop for key personnel of these institutions on the
recommendations of the EA report and how they should be imnplemented.
The water companies should make field staff aware of environmental provisions
of construction contracts, and train them in altemative practices for dealing with
environmental concerns on-site. Training of key personnel of the water companies in



98 Environmental Monitoring and Management
supervising these practices could possibly be included in the workshop mentioned
above, or other training schedules of the institution-building efforts of the DNA Project
Unit.



References  99
REFERENCES
Banco de Moc,ambique. 1995. Boletin Estatistico. No. 09/Ano 3. Maputo.
Chonquica, E. 1995. Environmental Impact Assessment of the Pequenos Libombos
Dam in Southern Mozambique, UJNGI report No 90, Uppsala.
Convery, F.J. 1995. Applying Environmental Economics in Africa. World Bank
Technical Paper Number 277. Africa Technical Series, The World Bank,
Washington, D.C.
DHV Consultants BV. 1994. Provincial Towns Water Sector Study. Report to the
Republic of Mozambique, the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development and the Intemational Development Association.
DHV Consultants BV. 1995. Environmental Management Project. Proposal to the
Ministry for Coordination of Affairs (MICOA), Government of Mozambique,
December 1995.
DNA. 1994. Actual Situation of Water Resources Management in Mozambique, Final
Draft. Maputo: Direccao Nacional de Aguas.
DNA. 1997. Enviromental Assessment of the Mozambique National Water
Development Programme - Public Participation. Roland Brouwer, Maputo
DNE. 1994. Pobreza, Emprego e a Questao Demografica nas Cidades Capitais de
Mo,ambique. Maputo: DireccZo Nacional de Estatistica.
DNE. 1994. Relat6rio sobre os Resultados do 0M6dulo do Inquerito as Familias nas
Capitais Provinciais. Maputo: Direcc,o Nacional de Estatistica.
EPAR. 1996. Personal communication.
Feechem, R.G., and Jamison, D.T. 1991. Disease and Mortality in Sub-Saharan Africa.
Published for the World Bank, Oxford University Press, Oxford.
Listorti, J.A. 1990. Environmental Health Componentsfor Water Supply, Sanitation, and
Urban Projects. World Bank Technical Paper Number 121. The World Bank,
Washington, D.C.
Ministry of Coordination of Environmnental Actions. 1995. Local Govermnent Reform
and Engineering Project. Environmental Profile of the City and District of
Nampula. Summary. Maputo: Centre for Population Studies, UEM.
Ministry of Coordination of Environmental Actions. 1995. Programa Nacional de
Gestao Ambiental. Maputo.



100  References
Ojanpera, Satu. 1993. Affordanility and Willingness to Payfor Water in the Urban and
Semi-Urban Areas of Beira. Beira: Direccao Nacional de Aguas, Finnish
Intemational Development Agency.
Ohlsson, L. 1995. Water and Security in Southern Africa. Publications on Water
Resources No.1, Department for Natural Resources and the Environment,
University of Gothenburgh.
Pereira, A. Lopes: 1995. World Bank Preparation Mission Report. NWRMDP.
Republic of Mozambique:
1995 Environmental Act (draft)
(not dated) Ante-Projecto do Regulamento da Avalia,do do Impacto Ambiental
Republic of Mozambique. Boletin da Repuiblica:
No 31/91 3de Agosto. 2o Suplemento: Lei no. 16/19 de 3de Agosto (Lei de
4guas). Maputo.
No 46/93. Diploma Ministerial No 134/93: Estatuto da Administra,do Regional de
Aguas do Sul.
No 34/95. Resolucao No 7/95. Conselho de Ministros: Policia Nacional de 4guas.
Shepherd, John (1996a). World Bank project task manager. Personal communication.
Shepherd, John (1996b). Comments to the draft final report, 10 June 1996.
Water Department in Pemba. 1996. Calculo dos custos de operacdo e manuten,co do
sistema de 4gua de Pemba. Anexo 1. Agua de Pemba, Pemba.
World Bank. 1990. OD 4.01 Involuntary Resettlement. Jan. 1990.
World Bank. 1991. OD 4.30 EnvironmentalAssessment. Oct. 1991.
World Bank. 1993. Towards a National Environmental Action Plan forMozambique:
Emerging Issues (Draftfor Discussion). Agriculture and Environment Division,
Southern Africa Department, December 29, 1993.
World Bank. 1995. Environmental Assessment and Review in sub-Saharan Africa. Jean-
Roger Mercier, Paper No 7, Post-UNCED Series.
World Bank. 1995. Memorandum of the President of the International Development
Association to the Executive Directors on a Country Assistance Strategy of the
World Bank Group for the Republic of Mozambique, November 7, 1995.
World Bank. 1995. Water Resources Management in the Southern Region. Field Report
of the Project Preparation Mission. NWRMDP. 1995.
World Bank. 1996a. Mozambique National Water Resources Management and
Development Project: Project Information Document.



References  101
World Bank. 1996b. Mozambique Proposed National Water Resources Management and
Development Project. Aide Memoire, 1 March 1996.
World Bank. (not dated). Mozambique: Country Environmental Strategy Paper
(Draft).



102 References
4



Inception Report and Terms of Reference 103
APPEDIX A:
INCEPTION REPORT AND TERMS OF REFERENCE
THE WORLD BANK
MOZAMBIQUE NATIONAL WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT AND
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INCEPTION REPORT
on the
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
concerning
SCOPING AND INTERPRETATION OF THE TERMS OF REFERENCE
by
John Boyle
Arne Dahlen
NORAGRIC
Centre for International Environment and Development Studies
Norway
March 1, 1996



Inception Report and Terms of Reference                              104
l



Inception Report and Terms of Reference 105
CONTENTS
Introduction                                                       107
2.   General Assessment Approaches                                      107
2.1  Urban Sanitation                                              107
2.2  Construction Activities                                       108
2.3  Water Quantity Management                                     109
2.4  Resettlement                                                  110
2.5  Public Consultation                                           110
3.   Project Activities to be Assessed                                  110
3.1  Maputo                                                        111
3.2  Beira                                                         111
3.3  Nampula                                                        ll
3.4  Pemba                                                         111
3.5  Quelimane                                                     111
3.6  Water Resources Management                                    112
3.7  Rural Water and Sanitation                                    112
4.   Deternination of Potential Impacts                                 113
5.   Study Area                                                         113
Terms of Reference                                                 115



Inception Report and Terms of Reference                             106
.I



Inception Report and Terms of Reference 107
THE WORLD BANK
MOZAMBIQUE NATIONAL WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT AND
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INCEPTION REPORT on the
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT concerning
SCOPING AND INTERPRETATION OF THE TERMS OF REFERENCE
1. INTRODUCTION
This inception report was based on descriptions of proposed project investments
provided by the World Bank, on project details from the "Provincial Towns Water
Sector Study" prepared by DHV Consultants BV of the Netherlands (DHV 1994), and
on discussions with members of the Bank's project preparation mission to
Mozambique over the 20-29 February 1996 period. Guiding documents were
primarily the EA terms of reference (TOR) of 30 January 1996 provided by the Bank
and annexed to this report, and relevant Bank policies and documents, notably:
*Environmental Assessment Sourcebook;
- OD 4.01, Environmental Assessment;
3 OD 4.30, Involuntary Resettlement; and
AFTES "Environmental Assessment and Review in Sub-Saharan Africa",
1995
Also taken into account were Mozambique's draft environmental management
law and draft EIA regulations.
This inception report deals with Noragric's interpretation of some elements of
the TOR and with the proposed scope of the EA itself. The TOR are vezy
comprehensive and require interpretation and scoping because of the nature of the
project and because this is a Category B project rather than Category A. Category B
projects require "environmental analysis" rather than the "full EA" required of
Category A projects. The report makes some specific interpretation and scoping
proposals for which Noragric requires Bank approval to ensure that the EA will meet
the Bank's project preparation needs. Because of the urgent time fiame on which the
EA is to be prepared, this approval is needed as soon as possible. Nonetheless,
Noragric will proceed with the EA on the basis of the proposals contained in this
report so that no time is lost and the EA can be completed in a timely fashion.
2. GENERAL ASSESSMENT APPROACHES
2.1 Urban Sanitation
This five-year water supply project is part of a much larger country assistance strategy
being implemented in Mozambique by the Bank (World Bank 1995). Specifically,



Inception Report and Terms of Reference                          108
this project, expected to begin in 1997, will overlap with a "Water, Sanitation and
Local Government Project" which will address sanitation and other urban needs and is
expected to begin in 1999 (Shepherd 1996). Moreover, GoM has recently concluded
an agreement with DHV Consultants to undertake a four-year program (DHV 1995)
which comprises institutional strengthening for environmental management within
GoM; the development of a master plan for sanitation, drainage and environment in
13 cities, including the five incorporated in this project; and the development of a
coastal zone environmental management plan. Because of the close relationship
between the water supply aspects of this Bank project, the sanitation aspects of the
second Bank project and the DHV program, this Bank project will include, at the
request of the GoM, provisions for coordination of the three initiatives to ensure that a
holistic, integrated result is obtained in the management of urban water services in the
five cities (Shepherd 1996).
Clearly, increasing urban water supply without making complementary
improvements to drainage, sewerage and waste water treatment is a prescription for
substantial negative effects on human health and pollution. An EA of such a project
would have to assess these effects very thoroughly. The Bank's TOR acknowledges
this risk by specifying that the EA "make recommendations for the proper
management of the wastewater produced by the various urban water supply sub-
components of the project." However, this water supply project will be closely linked
to a second program of investment in drainage, sewerage and waste water treatment
works. Thus, it is proposed that this EA omit assessment of the health and pollution
effects of this project which would increase water supplies without, at the same time,
making parallel improvements to sanitation workss. The EA should consider what
monitoring of health and pollution indicators will be required both to identify impacts
and design mitigation measures should the second project not proceed, and to provide
informnation for the planning of that project. The EA of the second sanitation project
should include an assessment of health and pollution effects.
This is a significant scoping proposal which must be seriously evaluated by the
Bank. Accepting the proposal presumes a firm commitment by both the Bank and the
Government of Mozambique to the timely implementation of the second project.
Proceeding with this water supply project in the absence of such commitment could
result in substantial negative impacts on pollution and urban environmental health.
2.2 Construction Activities
By far the largest component of the project is rehabilitation or upgrading of existing
facilities involving no disturbances of new sites. All project sites should be examined
for environmentally sensitive aspects but it is expected that most environmental
protection requirements during construction can be adequately managed using
standard, general construction contract requirements (eg. for trench openings, erosion
control, dust suppression) coupled with supervision and monitoring. These general
environmental requirements should be developed during the EA and form part of the
environmental management plan. Thus, most activities for the rehabilitation or
upgrading of existing facilities need not be analyzed in the EA. Any sensitive aspects



Inception Report and Terms of Reference 109
on particular existing sites/routes (eg. resettlement) should be addressed with site-
specific recommendations and construction contract requirements.
Previously undeveloped sites (eg. Inhamizua ground level reservoir near Beira)
should be examined and specific siting and construction management
recommendations made.
2.3 Water Quantity Management
The project is intended to bring new water supplies to urban areas and it is thus
expected that demands on both surface and ground water resources will be increased.
In addition to the supply of potable water, other demands and values associated with
water resources may be affected if urban water withdrawals are significant enough.
These include:
Irrigation:       Reductions to the availability of irrigation water can have
consequent effects on agricultural production, land use and
socio-economic factors.
Waste dispersion:   Flow reductions in rivers can leave less flow to carry away and
disperse, for example, agricultural chemicals, urban waste
water and silt with consequent downstream effects on water
quality and dependent water uses such as domestic water
supply, tourism and fisheries.
Salt intrusion:   Reduced river flows can result in more extensive upstream
intrusion of salt water and consequent effects on aquatic life
and water suitability for irrigation and urban water supply.
Ground water withdrawals can similarly cause saline intrusion,
reductions in water availability for human use, and ecological
effects.
Ecological functions: Reduced flows in rivers, along with consequent water quality
changes, can affect aquatic environments. Ground water
abstraction can lower water tables and have consequent
ecological effects.
It will be important in the EA to try to forecast and quantify the downstream and
ground water effects of increased water withdrawals precipitated by the project. At
the same time, hydrological and hydrogeological data are sparse in Mozambique, it
may not be possible to even estimate these effects, and the project includes a
substantial component of monitoring and research on specific water systems and of
development of water resources management capacity. Where the EA cannot
realistically forecast the effects of water withdrawals, recommendations should be
made for focusing these research and management efforts, in part, on (1) quantifying
available water, (2) analyzing the socio-economic and environmental trade-offs



Inception Report and Terms of Reference                           110
between-competing water uses, and (3) developing measures for managing the
environmental effects of water abstraction for human use (eg. setting minimum river
flows to keep downstream effects within acceptable limits).
More generally, the TOR specify that the EA "assess the mechanisms proposed
by which Mozambique is to seek to increase its security of supply from international
river basins" (Page 1, Section 2). This is a very "big" question relating to the capacity
of Mozambique to both understand and manage its water resources (which the project
is intended to strengthen), and to its ability to negotiate and ensure compliance with
international water basin management agreements. Noragric feels that a thorough
assessment of this matter is possible only within the broader mandate of a sectoral EA
of the entire water sector in the country. Nonetheless, the issues which need to be
addressed in such a sectoral EA, and in securing water supplies from these basins, can
be identified during this project EA. These results could be used in conducting such a
sectoral EA and/or as suggestions for detailing the capacity building elements of this
project for water resources management in international river basins.
2.4 Resettlement
The project is expected to involve little, if any, resettlement. It might occur, for
example, in:
* the siting of new works (eg. new storage tanks, expanded distribution systems);
* the upgrading of existing works where people have settled in working areas (eg.
main transmission lines); and
* the construction of new dams (eg. Nampula, Quelimane)
Where the location of project works is known, these should be surveyed and
resettlement estimates and strategies prepared based, in part, on consultations with
individuals, families and groups which may be affected. Where they are not known,
the potential need for resettlement should be recommended for future study. In either
case, resettlement policy, principles and guidelines should be recommended in the EA
and contribute to the preparation of a separate resettlement plan as called for in the
TOR.
2.5 Public Consultation
OD 4.01 (paragraph 19) specifies that EA studies include consultation with affected
groups and local NGOs "to understand both the nature and extent of any social or
environmental impact and the acceptability of proposed mitigatory measures,
particularly to affected groups". On this project, the major project components likely
to be of concern to the public are the introduction of new tariffs for water, the
extension of distribution networks and, perhaps, the linkages between increased water
supply and improved sanitation works. None of these components are sufficiently
defined to be adequately considered in the EA and the first two are the focus of the
major beneficiary study being undertaken as part of project preparation. It is
proposed that the EA not consult the public on these issues but recommend meansfor
the beneficiary study to address them. The only other issue which may concern the



Inception Report and Terms of Reference Il l 
public is.the potential need to resettle people from project work areas. This issue was
discussed above.
3. PROJECT ACTIVITIES TO BE ASSESSED
Project activities on which the EA should focus are summarized below. First, the five
urban sub-projects are discussed, and then the more general water resources
management and rural water and sanitation sub-projects. For the towns, a distinction
is made between those activities which may cause significant effects and those for
which effects are likely to be minor. As discussed above (Section 2.2), routine
activities which involve the rehabilitation or upgrading of existing facilities are not
listed.
3.1 Maputo
Significant environmental effects
*  increase surface water abstraction from Umbeluzi River
Minor environmental effects
* new intake and treatment plant
* extension of distribution network
3.2 Beira
Significant environmental effects
* increase surface water abstraction from Pungue River
Minor environmental effects
* new intake
* new ground level reservoirs at Inhamizua and Dondo
3.3 Nampula
Significant environmental effects
* increase surface water abstraction from Monapo River
Minor environmental effects
* new transmission main
* new ground level reservoir at PS4
* district pumping station
* extension of distribution network
3.4 Pemba
Significant environmental effects
* increase ground water abstractions from existing Metuge well field



Inception Report and Terms of Reference                           112
Minor environmental effects
* extension of distribution network
3.5 Quelimane
Significant environmental effects
* increased surface water abstractions from Licauri River
Minor environmental effects
* small weir and new intake on the Licauri River
* transmission main from river to treatment plant
* new transmission main from treatment plant to town
* new ground level storage reservoir in town
* extension of distribution system
3.6 Water Resources Management
The only capital works in this sub-project are those associated with completing the
Corumana Dam. Undertaking these works is contingent on the results of a feasibility
study but could involve:
?  protection of the downstream slope;
e stabilization of the river channel downstream of the spillway;
- provision of a security fence;
e installation of lighting;
- upgrading of the 1.5 lan access road; and
- installation of spillway gates to increase the storage volume.
The project involves several activities to study and determine the need for and
feasibility of future activities and investments which are not part of the current
project. Some of these may have significant environmental effects which should be
studied in the course of the project. They are:
Maputo
* diversion of water from Incomati, via Movene, to Umbeluzi Rivers
* construction of transmission main/canal from Incomati to Movene River
* ground water abstraction from Pateque-Manhica area
Nampula
* construction of dam and reservoir upstream of present reservoir on Monapo River
Pemba
* ground water abstraction from extended Metuge well field
Quelimane
* construction of a dam and reservoir on the Licauri River



Inception Report and Terms of Reference 113
3.7 Rural Water and Sanitation
This part of the project is still being developed but is expected to include the
development/
strengthening of community-based water users' associations in rural towns and pen-
urban districts; community-led design of small piped water systems and sanitation
works; and subsequent project investments in these systems/works. As specific towns
have not been identified, the EA will simply provide recommendations/guidelines on
how these systems/
works may best be implemented to be environmentally and socially sustainable.
4. DETERMINATION OF POTENTIAL IMPACTS
Based on the above discussion, the potential impacts to be assessed would include:
i)  Project Location: possible resettlement of people; loss of forest land; loss of
agricultural land (cropping and grazing); impact on flora and fauna; impact on
historic and cultural sites; effects on water resources inside the command area.
ii)  Project Design: disruption of surface water and ground water resources;
drainage problems; design of constructions and other structures; crossings for
people and animals.
iii)  Construction Works: soil erosion; noise; traffic and other safety issues;
management of construction spoils; dust suppression; sanitary conditions and
health risks associated with construction carnp and workers coming into area;
social and cultural conflicts between imported workers and local people.
iv)  Project Operation: changes in surface water quantities and qualities within
affected drainages; changes in ground water levels within command areas;
consequent effects on other water uses and values.
5.  STUDY AREA
The geographic areas for the EA should be those specified in the TOR, modified
according to the general assessment approaches proposed in Section 2, and the
discussion of project activities to be assessed discussed in Section 3. The proposed
areas will thus be:
i)  the five cities (Maputo, Beira, Nampula, Pemba and Quelimane) that are the
focus of the urban water supply investments, their water intake areas and the
main catchlnent and/or ground water systems (including their recharge areas)
which supply them; and
ii)  the Cormuna Dam.



Inception Report and Terms of Reference                           114
iii) the limited number of rural towns for which piped water supply systems will be
upgraded and/or rehabilitated.



Inception Report and Terms of Reference 115
Draft Terms of Reference (TOR) for the Environmental Assessment of the Mozambique Water
Resources Management and Development (MWRMDP) Project.
Cyprian Fisiy with Jean-Roger Mercier (AFTES)
Revised version by John Sheperd/Torbjorn Damhaug, January 30, 1996
1. Introduction
Mozambique is under reconstruction and its environmental problems have been
identified and solutions proposed from the Bank's perspective in the CESP. The water
sector approach taken in this project and in this EA is consistent with the need to plan
the use of this natural resource and should also be consistent with the regional water
Resources management strategy being designed by the World Bank in a very
participatory way.
2. Objectives
The Objectives of the EA will be to identify the possible negative enviromnental
impacts of the project as presently designed and propose the required mitigating
measures to be implemented to avoid these negative imipacts. The EA will also
J highlight the positive impacts of the project on the water sector.
At this stage of the screening process, the negative impacts should be coming from the
physical investments financed, notably the infrastructure and equipment components,
with the possible following impacts:
- general nuisance of the construction works and their health
and safety hazards,
- water pollution, both inland and marine,
- water quantity management, e.g. in a transboundary context (the EA
will assess the mechanisms proposed by which Mozambique is to
seek to increase its security of supply from international river basins.
The EA will also take the water cycle as a whole and make recommendations for the
proper management of the wastewater produced by the various urban water supply
sub-components of the project.
Although involuntary resettlement is not anticipated at this point in the preparation,
should it become an issue subsequently, a separate resettlement plan will be required.
The Project proposes the enhancement of the performance in water resources
management and urban water supply and sanitation through projects incorporating
institutional reforms and capacity building. The EA will assess likely effects of other
proposals under the Project on the enhancement of urban and rural environmental
conditions.



Inception Report and Terms of Reference                           116
These terms of reference have been drafted with the objective that the EA would be
over, endorsed by the Government of Mozambique /GoM) and cleared in the Bank
(AFTES) before the appraisal mission.
3. Environmental Assessment Requirements
The EA will seek to ensure that the project complies with the relevant guidelines and
requirements of the following:
- World Bank Operational Directive 4.01 "Environmental
Assessment," and related guidelines such as O.D. 4.30
"Involuntary Resettlement";
- national laws and/or regulations on environmental reviews
and impact assessments;
- regional, provincial or communal environmental
assessments regulations;
- environmental assessment regulations of any other financing
organisations involved in the project
- The National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP)
4. Study Area
The core areas for the study include: (i) the five cities (Maputo, Beira, Quelimane,
Pemba and Napula) that are the focus of the urban water supply investments, their
water intake areas, wastewater discharge locations, and affected water surface waters,
and the main catchment and/or groundwater systems (including their recharge areas)
which supply them; (ii) the Corumana Dam and its basin; (iii) a limited number of
rural towns for which piped water supply systems will be upgiraded and/or
rehabilitated. The precise boundaries of the study area for the Assessment (e.g., water
catchment) will be decided upon during the initial exercise of the EA.
5. Tasks
S. Scope of Work.
Some of the technical and economic/financial as well as institutional information on
the project is till being refined. The consultants will take stock of all relevant existing
information at the time of starting EA preparation.
Description of the Proposed Project:
The Project is described in the attached Project Identification Document (PID).
Details of the proposed investments will be provided for the Consultants. This task
will take stock of the project components as they stand now and will break them down



Inception Report and Terms of Reference 117
according to the type of works in order to ease the identification of their likely
environmental impacts. A convenient way to do so is to break down each activity into
the following phases: construction, maintenance, development of activities pennitted
by the works (e.g. design of the water supply systems, land clearing and acquisition
work, laying out the pipes etc.)
Description of the environment
The consultants will assemble, evaluate and present baseline data on the relevant
environmental characteristics of the study area. These will include information on any
changes anticipated before the project commences. The first task of the EA will be the
scoping phase. This will include a preliminary reconnaissance of the likely
environmental impacts of the project. Within the areas likely to be impacted the
following environmental impacts will be collated when relevant:
(a) Physical environment: geology; topography; soils; climate and meteorology;
ambient air quality; surface and ground-water hydrology; coastal and oceanic
parameters; existing sources of air emissions; existing water pollution discharges; and
receiving water quality.
(b) Biological environment (especially in rural areas): flora; fauna; rare or endangered
species; sensitive habitats, including parks or preserves, significant natural sites, etc.;
species of commercial importance, and species with potential to become nuisances,
vectors or dangerous.
(c) Socio-economic environment: land use (including current crops and cropping
pattems); land tenure and land titling; human settlements, human health indicators,
present water supply and water uses (including current distribution of water Resources
if irrigation systems already exist in area); control over allocation of resource use
rights.
The consultants will make use of the abundant data collected for the preparation of the
CESP/NEAP and the Beneficiary Assessment which will be carried out in parallel as
part of the project preparations.
Legislative and Regulatory Considerations.
Ascertain and summarise the pertinent regulations and standards governing
environmental quality, health and safety, protection of sensitive areas, protection of
endangered species, siting, land use control, etc., at intemational, national, regional
and local levels. An Assessment of the present handling of the EA requirements and
procedures, as well as of the Govenmnent's capacity to handle these in the future
should be included in this EA. Make use of the NEAP as part of this exercise.



Inception Report and Terms of Reference                             118
Determination of the Potential Impacts of and Impacts on
the Proposed Project
Potential impacts to be assessed include, but are not limited to:
(a) Project Location: possible resettlement of people; loss of forest land; loss of
Agricultural land (cropping and grazing); impact on flora and fauna; impact on history
and cultural sites; effects on water Resources outside and inside command area.
(b) Project Design: disruption of hydrology; drainage problems; design of
constructions and other structures; crossings for people and animals.
(c) Construction Works: soil erosion; noise; traffic safety issues, construction spoils
(disposal of); sanitary conditions and health risks associated with construction camp
and workers coming into area; social and cultural conflicts between imported workers
and local people.
(d) Project Operation: pollution by agrochemicals; impacts on soils (waterlogging,
salinization, etc.); changes in ground water levels and quality inside and outside
command area; changes in surface water quality and risks of eutrophication; incidence
of excreta and water-related diseases, sanitary risks from the landfill.
The scoping part of the EA will detemiine the exact list of impacts that should be
investigated.
Anatysis of Alternatives to the Proposes Project
Describe altematives that were examined in the course of developing the proposed
project and identify other altematives which would achieve the same objectives. The
concept of altematives extends to siting, design, technology selection, construction
techniques and phasing, and operating and maintenance procedures. Compare
altematives in terms of potential environmental impacts; capital and operating costs;
suitability under local conditions; and institutional, training, and monitoring
requirements. When describing the impacts, indicate which are irreversible or
unavoidable and which can be mitigated. To the extent possible, quantify the costs
and benefits of each alternative, incorporating the estimated costs of any associated
mitigating measures. Include the alternative of not constructing the project, in order to
demonstrate environmental conditions without it.
The Consultants could refer to the DHV report which refers to the feasibility studies
for the five cities include Assessment of alternative solutions.
Development ofManagement Ptan to Mitigate Negative Impacts
This task will only be executed if the EA has identified significant harmful impacts of
the proposed Project.
Recommend feasible and cost-effective measures to prevent or reduce significant
negative impacts to acceptable levels. Estimate the impacts and costs of these



Inception Report and Terms of Reference 1 19
measures, and of the institutional and training requirements to implement them.
Consider compensation to affected partied for impacts which cannot be mitigated.
Prepare a management plan including proposed work programs, budget estimates,
schedules, staffing and training requirements, and other necessary support services to
implement the mitigating measures.
Identification of Institutional Needs to Implement Environmental Assessment
Recommendations
This duty component is subject to a justified need of more monitoring plans and
institutional building than those which will be implemented as part of the proposed
Project.
Review the authority and capability of institutions at local, provincial/regional, and
national levels and recommend steps to strengthen or expand them so that the
management and monitoring plans in the environmental Assessment can be
implemented. The recommendations may extend to new laws and regulations, new
agencies or agency functions, intersectoral arrangements, management procedures and
training, staffing, operation and maintenance training, budgeting and financial
support.
Development of a Monitoring Plan.
Prepare a detailed plan to monitor the implemnentation of mitigating measures and the
impacts of the project during construction and operation. The monitoring efforts
shouldn't only cover biophysical elements, but also inhabitants and their sanitary
conditions. Include in the plan an estimate of capital and operating costs and a
description of other inputs (such as training and institutional strengthening) needed to
carry it out.
Assist in Inter-Agency Coordination and PubliciNGO Participation.
DNA will lead coordination with other govenmmental agencies, donors, and other
affected groups. The Consultant will assist DNA in this, include keeping records of
meetings and other activities, communications, and comments and putting these at
their disposals.
6. Report
The environmental Assessment report should be concise and limited to significant
environmental issues. The main text should focus on findings, conclusions and
recommended actions, supported by summaries of the data collected and citations for
any reference used in interpreting these data. Detailed or uninterpreted data are not
appropriate in the main text and should be presented in appendices or a separate
volume. Unpublished documents used in the Assessment may not be readily available
and should also be assembled in an appendix. Organise the environmental Assessment
report according to the outline below.
Executive Summary, Policy, Legal and Administrative Framework, Description of the
Proposed Project, Baseline Data, Significant Environmental Impact, Analysis of



Inception Report and Terms of Reference                                 120
Alternatives, Mitigation Management Pian, Environmental Management and
Training, Environmental Monitoring Plan. Appendices: List of Environmental
Assessment Preparers References Record of Interagency/Forum/Consultation
Meetings
(This is the format suggested in OD 4.01, Annex B; the TOR may specify a different
one to satisfy national agency requirements as long as the topics required in the
Bank's directive are covered.)
7. Consulting Team and Time Budget
Members of the team should consist of people with the following specialisation's:
- one EA preparation team leader with general expertise in EA
- one environment economist
- one social scientist
- one water Resources specialist with general expertise in water
and sanitation projects
The tentative time budget for each team member are as follows:
Team member                             Number of days
Team Leader/EA expert                    50
Environmental Economist                 20
Social Scientist                        30
Water Resources and WSS Specialist      30
, Total                                   130
The use of local/Southem African consultants is highly recommended.
8. Schedule
The EA preparation is scheduled to take place as follows:
Tasks/Month (199e)      February     March       April       May         June
Sceping               xxxxxxxxx
First Progress report        x   x
Impact & analysis of alter.       xxxxxxxxx    x_
Second Progr. Report                      _  xxxx
Recommendations                                  xxx      __
Public consultation                                xxx   xxx
Draft Final EA report                                      xxxxxxx
Review: GoM/AFTES                                                 x  xxx
Final EA report                                                         xxxxxxx



Inception Report and Terms of Reference  121
9. Other Information
It is important that this EA takes into consideration all relevant information on
environmental issues in Mozambique, as well as the specific planning and
implementation activities dealing with environmental aspects of this Project. Hence,
the consultants attention should be directed to i.a. the following data sources, project
background reports and studies, relevant publications, and other items:
- Environmental Assessment Sourcebook and all related
regulatory texts published by the World Bank group
- AFTES <Environmental Assessment and Review in
Sub-Saharan Africa>>, 1995
- AFTES <Managing the Environment Locally in Sub-Saharan
Africa (MELISSA))), 1995
- AFTES <Integrated Coastal Zone Management>>, 1995
- Mozambique CESP, 1994
- Programa Nactional de Gest&o Nacional do Meio Ambiente,
(NEAP) Maio 1994
- Coastal Zone Management Projects
Some relevant project specific plans, descriptions and Terms of Reference are as
follows:
- Strengthening of Management of Shared Water Resources,
Draft TOR January 9, 1996
- Business Development Plan for ARA-Sul, Draft TOR, January 9, 1996
- Feasibility Study for Corumana Dam Complementary Works,
Draft TOR, January 9, 1996
- Joint Incomati Study - Proposals for Revised Study, DNA
- Implementation of Performance Contracts in the Water
Sector: Terms of Reference for the Counterpart Team
- Beneficiaries Assessment Study. Terms of Reference, January 1996.



Inception Report and Terms of Reference                               122



Economic Analysis 123
APPENDIX B: ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
With the wide definition of "environment" in the Bank OD 4.01, a wide definition of
environmental economics is also chosen in assessing the urban water supply project.
B1.  Introduction: A Social Welfare Function for Mozambique?
The political goals and legislative system of the country are supposed to represent the
social preference function or what is considered to be the accepted social justice in the
country. Ideally, these should represent a complete and consistent basis for formulation
of a development strategy. In practice, there are big gaps and inconsistencies in existing
institutional frameworks, lack of coordination, incomplete information causing moral
hazard problems and inferior and inconsistent strategies. The intemational society
through international and donor organizations is also imposing their goals of efficiency,
social justice and sustainability on poorer countries.
In order to carry out an environmental economic analysis of urban water supply
in Mozambique, we have to try to apply economic theory to an economy where
transactions costs may be high, information problems are tremendous, poverty is an
urgent issue, institutional structures are under complete revision, and the people have
lost hope in the government's ability to solve its problems. No doubt, this is a thorny
and narrow, if at all passable, path. Concepts in economic theory, like market failure,
externality, policy failure, etc. are linked to an ideal world without transactions costs
(and with perfect information) as a baseline for comparison. In a second-best world the
conclusions arrived at in a first-best world do not necessarily hold. In a "third-best"
world, like Mozambique, the situation is even worse. Navigation according to rules
from the first-best world do not necessarily lead towards improvements because
important issues are neglected. Still, this is attempted due to the lack of better principles
to follow.
The principles we follow are:
*  Water should be provided according to needs. The National Water Policy (1995)
states that provision of basic water supply needs to low income groups in peri-urban
and rural areas are prime (principal) objectives.
*  Water should be paid by the users according to its economic value or the cost of
providing it (Ibid.).
*  Aim for cost recovery to develop a sustainable water sector.
*  Matching of water supply (quantities and qualities) with the demand for water
(ability and willingness to pay for water).
*  Polluter pays principle (wastewater disposal).



124 Economic Analysis
These principles may in some cases contradict each other, in particular the needs
may be higher for the poorest segmnents than their actual ability to pay for water. Cost
recovery may thus only be achieved in several stages if a positive economic growth,
also benefiting the poor, can be achieved. Grant money will be necessary to facilitate
this process.
The objective of the National Water Policy is to increase the coverage in urban
and peri-urban areas to 50-80% of the population by the year 2002. The target for
Maputo is 60%, for Pemba 80%, while it is 50% for Beira, Quelirhane and Nampula.
Tariff structures should be revised such that by year 2000 they should cover operation,
maintenance and 50% of the depreciation costs. Full cost recovery should be achieved
before 2003 (Ibid.).
B2.  Pricing of Water
A new tariff system has recently (February 1996) been introduced in Mozambique. This
is an important step in the direction of establishing a system to support a commercially
viable water sector (WB 1996). We will suggest here some general principles for the
pricing of water. These principles could be used in relation to the further development
of a tariff system as long.as pricing cannot be left to market forces alone.
If water is abundant, the correct pricing of water would be the cost of cleaning
and distributing it. If water is scarce, pricing is more tricky. One may have to trade off
between the goals of satisfying current basic needs vs. economic growth (including
future basic needs). In two of the towns, Maputo and Beira, there were emerging
conflicting interests in use of water, either for irrigation or for urban consumption. In
the towns there may also be conflicts between using water for commercial purposes and
for household consumption.
Raw water from the Pequenos Libombos dam near Maputo is currently priced at
only Mt 4/m3 (USD 0.00033/m3). This is the price paid both for urban consumption and
for irrigation. This price is likely to be increased to Mt 70/m3 (USD 0.0058/m3) in the
near future. This can be compared to the estimated average net value added per m3 for
irrigation water of USD 0.046/n3 (DHV 1994). If this estimate is still valid, and we
make the simplifying assumption that marginal cost is equal to average cost (linear
profit function), the opportunity cost of water is almost nine times as high as the
suggested new price for raw water. ARA-Sul is responsible for the overall water
resource management and should get an income to cover its costs as sale of water is the
principal source of income.
Water for urban consumption is now given highest priority although the dam
was originally designed to provide water for irrigation. Currently there is sufficient
water both for urban consumption and irrigation but with the expected increases in
urban as well as irrigation demands there may be negative effects on agricultural
production from expanding urban consumption. These losses should be valued
according to the opportunity cost of scarce water. This requires knowledge about future
prices and relevant technologies and management systems. The marginal increase in the



Economic Analysis 125
profit in farming due to a marginal increase in the use of water for irrigation would
represent this price. As future prices etc. are unknown we can only make a rough
estimation of expected scarcity values based on current prices.
A general principle which could be derived from this is that the price of water
should be set higher at times of scarcity and this scarcity price should be faced both by
urban and irrigation water consumers. This would result in seasonal price variation and
higher prices in drought years. Whether this is administratively feasible has to be
considered. The relative price variation would be much higher for irrigation water than
for urban consumption, however, as much of the price paid by urban consumers is due
to the cost of cleaning and distributing water to the urban areas. For comparison with
the current (Mt 4/m3) and future (Mt 70/m3) prices of raw water, the urban consumers
pay Mt700-4,000/m3, the lowest price being for "basic need" consumption and the
highest price-for industries. Scarcity pricing of irrigation water would facilitate location
of irrigation projects where water is more abundant if conditions otherwise are similar.
Irrigation requires high initial investments, however, and careful land use planning is
necessary, taking into account future water supply and demand before land is allocated
for irrigation.
- B3.  Cost Recovery Problems
The water companies in each town have severe cost recovery problems. The recovery
rates from the consumers were typically low. Particularly state departments often fail to
pay their water bills. There were also limited possibilities for reducing the costs as a
very large share of the costs were for electricity. For example, in Pemba the costs/m3
were estimnated to be Mt 6,000 (USD 0.50) while the income/m3 was only Mt 700-900
(USD 0.058-0.075) (Water Deparment in Pemba, 1996). So when with the existing low
prices the recovery rates are low, how would they be when prices are raised to try to
incorporate coverage of the real costs, and of the additional costs required to upgrade
and improve the systems as well? Management problems within the water companies
and coordination problems among the various state institutions are only going to add to
this problem of creating a sustainable system for water supply.
Poor services were frequently given as reasons for not paying the water bills.
The poor services were primarily unreliable supplies of water. Water was often
distributed only a few hours a day. In other cases it was distributed only a couple of
days per week. This imposed storage problems and costs on the consumers and was an
important reason for the development of secondary markets.
Seventy percent of the employees in the Maputo area earn the minimum wage of
Mt 228,000 per month. This does not even cover the costs of 40 kg of maize or 50 kg of
rice. With the addition of house rent, work travels and other expenses, the minimum
wage will not cover the basic costs of living. What would be the willingness and ability
to pay for water under such circumstances?
If the aimAis cost recovery, there must be a possible match between the
willingness or ability to pay and the actual cost of providing the water. If we assume a



126 Economic Analysis
water demand for decent living of 15 lites/capita/day and a household size of six
persons, the total monthly demand for water would be 2.7m3. If the cost of water would
be USD 0.25/m3 (Mt 3,000), the monthly expenditure on water would be Mt 8,100 or
3.6% of the minimum monthly wage (assuming only one employed member of the
household). If the cost of water is USD 0.5/m3 (Mt 6,000), the monthly expenditure
would be Mt 18,200 or 7.1% of the minimum monthly wage.
If the same household had a yard tap and consumed 70 litres/capitalday, the
monthly water consumption would represent 16.6 or 33.2% of the monthly minimum
wage, given the same prices as used above. A yard connection may even be too
expensive for a technician working in DNA and having a monthly salary of Mt 350,000
as he would have to spend 10.8 or 21.6% of his salary to pay for the water demand of
his family. House connections would simply be prohibitive for households on
minimum wages, if they were not able to sell water to neighbours and others.
From this perspective it is clear that the DHV consultants who designed the plan
have aimed for a too high standard (75% having house or yard connections by the year
2017). They did not have income distribution data at the time they did the study (DHV
1994). It is very unlikely that the large share they proposed will have the ability to pay
for such a high standard water supply system. It seems much more realistic to provide
public standposts for the large majority of people, which implies lower costs per m3 of
water and considerably lower rates of water consumption per consumer.
Another question is whether an element of cross subsidies incorporated in the
tariff system could help to increase the coverage of distribution and recovery of costs. If
the relatively rich urban population, who get house connections, have to pay an
additional tax on their water supply, this tax could be used to provide subsidized water
for the poor. Yet the share of non-poor households is very low on average (less than
10%). However, this points in direction of increasing the price of water for house
connections, to a level at least as high as that for commercial users. The current system
with progressive water prices is having a similar effect.
The current tariffs are fairly low although they have just been raised. The high
inflation rate, if it is going to last, makes it necessary to have frequent index regulation
of tariffs using the loan currency (USD) as the base.
B4.  Water Quality and Pricing
Poor water quality seemed to be perceived as being less of a problem among consumers
than it really was. Lack of knowledge about waterbome diseases was the reason for
this. This was therefore not an important reason for non-payment. Distribution of
unhealthy water may also be seen as an externality causing human suffering, imposing
costs on the health service system, and loss of profits in productive sectors. The price of
unhealthy and dirty water should therefore have been lower than the price of clean and
safe water. In this case one could view the water company distributing unhealthy water
as the polluter imposing damages on others. These damages also represent extemalities
which ideally should be internalized. Differentiation of water prices according to water



Economic Analysis 127
quality would therefore be appropriate from a theoretical point of view. The question is,
however, if this leads to improvements in a third best world.
Agrochemical pollution of water has been identified as a possible problem in the
Maputo area. Large irrigated areas are found upstream in the Umbeluzi basin,
particularly in Swaziland. Water quality considerations from a human consumption
perspective should be included in the international agreements and monitoring system to
control the use of agrochemicals to keep levels of toxic elements below safe standard
levels. It is not known what the effects are on human health and aquatic life from this or
whether a monitoring and management system can succeed in reducing the problem.
B5.  Free-Riding and Moral Hazard Problems
Illegal connections were common in several of the towns studied and caused
unaccounted for water (UFW) losses. Total UFW losses have been estimated from
between 30-40%/O in Maputo to 50-60% in Quelimane. A part of the repair program is to
repair leakages and illegal connections. The danger is that these may reappear soon
after the repair has been carried out. A permanent monitoring system and a system with
finss etc. may be necessary to handle this problem. Establishment of water taps at
regular frequent intervals along the transmission mains and other parts of the
distribution system may also reduce the problem.
Damage of water meters was common. Often a water meter lasted for only a
week before it was put out of function. This was due to the current incentive structure
where there were no fines or additional costs imposed on those who used these taps.
Rather they could increase their consumption without having to pay for it because billed
water consumption tended to be set low at these places. It is part of the rehabilitation
and distribution network improvement to repair, replace and introduce new water
meters. The costs of doing this may not be recovered and defended unless the incentive
system at distribution points is changed. Those in charge of public taps should be held
responsible for repair or replacement of damaged water meters and a higher price should
have to be paid for water from taps where the meters are out of function.
House conmections with broken meters are currently in many cases functioning
like illegal conmections because large amounts of water may be drawn without paying
more than the normal low flat fee. Having a house connection may therefore be a
profitable business because unpaid for water may be resold at a very high price to less
fortunate neighbours (see also Ojanpera, 1993). This may perhaps also explain that
there currently is a high demand for more house connections although the costs may not
be justified from a society perspective. It is therefore hard to justify the large planned
expansion of house connections in the World Bank investment program. We also return
to this in relation to the discussion of sanitation.



128 Economic Analysis
B6.  The Secondary Markets for Water
We found considerable variation in the extent and functioning of secondary markets for
water. In periods of scarcity, the price of water in secondary markets could be as high
as up to Mt 50,000/m3 while the official prices has just been increased to Mt 700-
4,500/m3. One could say that the prices found in the secondary markets represent the
true scarcity value of water, however severe poverty could ration poor households out of
the market and cause life-threatening suffering. The planned project may result in a
larger and more reliable supply of water and lower prices in secondary markets, if they
cannot be fully removed.
The planned beneficiary assessment will carry out a detailed study of this mnarket
as well. As many types of solutions have been tried in different towns and also within
towns, it is likely that this study will result in much clearer recommendations as to how
the distribution system should be set up. One option we did not see but which we think
should be considered, is that the public standposts rather than ending in a tap, should
end in a tank. This would reduce the storage problems which impose high costs on the
beneficiaries, particularly the poorer who cannot afford to buy tanks and who have to
buy the water at a much higher price from the vendors.
The beneficiary assessment is planned for only two of the towns. We
recommend that the beneficiary assessment is developed to a participatory distribution
system development project to get a good match between supply and demand.
B7.  Impact on Health
Improved supply of clean water will give positive health effects (if sanitary conditions
are not worsened). Lack of knowledge about the relationship between water quality and
health among the users may cause larger health problems because sufficient
precautionary measures are not taken. This may cause people to underestimate the
value of clean water or that they believe the water they get is of better (less dangerous)
quality than it really is. This points to one of the limitations of willingness to pay
studies with regard to water quality. Even with this knowledge people may fail to take
the necessary preventive measures, e.g. to boil their drinking water because this is very
expensive. It would be helpful to know how common this practice is and how it relates
to the income level of people, their knowledge about water quality, educational level,
and access to and provision of public information about water quality.
The health effects include the pain suffered by those getting sick and their
relatives, additional health services required (drugs, nursing, doctor consultation, and
hospitalization), productivity losses in days lost for work, and days worked at lower
productivity (Convery 1995). Loss of lives may also occur. In our case we expect a
reduction of these costs from improving the water supply and quality of water (if
sanitary problems are controlled). It is difficult to relate general health statistics directly
to water supply, however. Water quality and quantity are not the single most imnportant
elements in direct transmission of e.g. diarrhea and dysentry (Listorti 1990).



Economic Analysis 129
Furthermore, there is likely to be considerable underreporting in the health
statistics. Ministry of Health (1996) reports 80 deaths caused by diarrhea and dysentry
in 1995 in Maputo. With a population of 1.4 million, that is only 0.06 deaths per 1000
inhabitants while a study in Quelimane and Beira in 1985-86 found 15 deaths in Beira
and 4.1 in Quelimane per 1000 inhabitants which were caused by diarrhea (Feechem
and Jamison 1991). The large difference between Beira and Quelimane may have to do
with water quality but we do not know for sure. At this time the water in Quelimane
appeared to be of poorer quality than in Beira while water samples taken in 1991 and
1992 show large variation from one year to the other in Quelimane in samples taken
from wells (8.6% infected in 1991 against 44.4% infected in 1992). Calculation of costs
and benfits on this basis would therefore be pure speculation.
For a proper analysis household data including health records, water supply
conditions, behaviour in relation to water use, and other conditions affecting the health
of people, are needed. It may then be possible to estimate the effects of water supply on
the health of people (frequency of various diseases e.g. in days sickness/year) if other
possible causes also can be registered and included in the analysis (including e.g.
food/nutritional data). If households also are interviewed about the income and cost
effects of being sick, we may put economic value on some of the health effects. It has
not been possible to do this with the limited time available for this study. It should be
considered whether it is appropriate to include this approach in the beneficiary
assessment.
B8.  Distribution and Sanitation
Sanitation seems to be the most significant negative issue in relation to increased urban
water supply in Mozambique. Sanitation is not part of the current project but
implementation of the WB project as planned will result in serious negative
environmental effects if a solution to the increased sanitary problems are not found. An
alternative plan has thus been sketched. We propose that extensions in the distribution
system should not take place for house connections untill the sanitation problem is
solved. We thus suggest that funds are reallocated from house connections to public
taps/standposts. This will create less sanitary problems and water can be provided to a
larger share of the urban population, particularly the poor living in peri-urban areas.
This is supported by socio-economic studies of the urban populations which indicate
that as much as 70% of the population are ultra-poor, being unable to cover their basic
needs, more than 20% had incomes between one and two times the basic needs
requirements, and less than 10% were non-poor and had incomes above two times the
basic need level (Ministry of Planning and Finance 1994). This may not have changed
much since the study was carried out in 1992/93.
The DHV proposed, and current WB project may thus have been planned with a
too high standard compared to the purchasing power of the majority of people. If the
aim is cost recovery in the long run, the standard of supply should be adjusted down.
Detailed analyses are given in Section B.14 for Beira and Quelimane as rough
examples. The Beneficiary Assessment will facilitate a more accurate analysis. We
have tried to give an idea of the consequences of shifting from house connections to full



130 Economic Analysis
coverage-by public taps as an extreme alternative and what this implies in terms of total
water demand and installation costs (not including all aspects related to distribution
network and increased water demand in Quelimane where population data are corrected
upwards). An advantage with the alternative plan is that it will more than satisfy the
coverage target of the National Water Policy which is 50-80% by 2002. The WB
project will fail to meet this target.
Without detailed plans or analyses of the physical situation and health effects
from increased water supply on the sanitary situation, it has not been possible to
quantify the health costs for the different alternatives.
We may conclude and recommend that further extension of house connections
should only take place if those getting these pay the full costs of supplying the water
and the increased sanitation costs imposed on their neighbourhoods. Inclusion of house
connections in the present project should only be accepted if a solution to the sanitary
problem is actually found. We recommend that the program is changed to concentrate
on extending distribution through public taps.
B9.  Induced Development Effects
There are scarce funds for development investments in Mozambique. Therefore all
projects should ideally be judged and compared to the best alternative projects. There
are large information gaps preventing proper comparison, however. Projects may have
both direct and indirect (induced) effects. Induced effects may be hard to predict. Some
of them are short-term, others are long-term. Detailed knowledge of the structure of the
economies and data to develop SAM/CGE models are needed to make quantifications of
these effects. Without this information it is only possible to make some general
assessments based on similar studies carried out elsewhere. There may be short term
positive effects from the planned project on urban consumers. Both expenditure on
water, if bought at very high prices in the secondary market, and time spent to get the
water, may be reduced. There will thus be some clear redistribution effects locally.
Others, who have managed to get water at a very low price up to now, may have to pay
much more to get water after the rehabilitation.
There may also be some more long-term effects on migration between urban and
rural areas. Water supply, however important, is only one of many factors influencing
people's decisions about migration and where to settle. The war forced about 1/3 of the
rural population to move to the towns. If there are relatively better employment or other
income-gaining opportunities in an area, people are likely to go there if they have the
knowledge and resources to do so. Migration and resettlement is costly. People may
thus be trapped in places from where they would like to escape. Urban-rural migration
is particularly dear and difficult as there are few immediate income or employment
opportunities in the rural areas. It takes time to reestablish farms.
A gradual expansion of a market oriented and more advanced agriculture from
the towns and outwards seems the most appropriate approach in Mozambique.
Provision of infrastructure and water supply where needed in peri-urban or near urban



Econornic Analysis  131
rural areas, together with the development of factor and output markets, extension
service, etc. may gradually provide increasing income and employment opportunities
which may facilitate the movement of poor unemployed people out of city centres if
they have no other options. A modernized agricultural sector has been shown to have
strong forward and backward linkages and provides incomes to the majority of poor in
most developing countries. Provision of water supply should therefore be seen in this
context to stimulate agricultural growth and thus economic development in the country.
Investments in different sectors have to be balanced to achieve this.
B10. Urban Water Consumption vs. Water for Irrigation
Agriculture represents the largest sector of the Mozambiquan economy providing 40%
of GDP and export value in 1991 after a decline in this sector due to the war (MOPH
1994). In 1994/95 the country produced only 67% of its food requirement causing the
need for importing large amounts of food (Ohlsson 1995). In 1990 the total import
value was almost six times as large as the total export value and the food import value
alone was more than double the total export value. The urgent need to increase food
production is therefore evident.
Mozambique has favourable conditions for agricultural development and a huge
underutilized irrigation potential, particularly in the Zambezi river basin. Currently
irrigated areas are rehabilitated and there is a National Irrigation Development Master
Plan indicating expansion of irrigated areas in the years to come. Water demands for
irrigation are high, estimated to be more than twenty times the urban water demand in
1992 (MOPH 1992). These demands could therefore easily come in conflict and there
is a clear need for integrated water resource management to strike a balance between
irrigation and urban demands. As population grows, irrigated areas may have to be
reduced in some places. Development of rainfed agriculture and irrigated agriculture in
areas with more abundant supply of water, like in the Zambezi river basin, should
therefore be prioritized. Poor infrastructure is currently constraining transport of
agricultural produce from the north to the south in the country, however. The irrigated
areas in Umbeluzi, Incomati and Limpopo river basins therefore have a favourable
position in relation to the Maputo area.
Models for integrated resource managemnent should be developed to support the
planning process. Currently the irrigation potential developed in this area is far from
fully utilized. This is partly due to the war and partly due to the lack of tradition for this
type of agriculture among the rural population. PRORURAL, an Italian sponsored
agricultural development project, is providing irrigation for 300 ha in Umbeluzi but the
farmers have not yet reached break-even yields for full cost recovery. This is for
smallholders, however. Commercial farmers with knowledge and access to higher level
technology may be able to make high profits. Even export to South Africa could be
possible because the season is longer for certain products than in South Africa.
In the Maputo and Beira areas there will be significant competition for water for
urban consumption vs for irrigation. Restrictions have already been put on the irrigated



132 Economic Analysis
areas in the Umbeluzi basin and in Beira (DHV 1994). The Corumana Dam was
established primarily to facilitate irrigation development. However, it is now stated that
urban consumption needs have priority over water for irrigation. The DHV consultants
carried out an economic evaluation of different water supply scenarios in the Maputo
area. They found that irrigation components (Movane area) contributed to increased
economic internal rates of retum. Detailed analyses have also been made in the
National Irrigation Development Master Plan. Further analysis is therefore not pursued
here.
Bl. Population Growth Projections
The population estimates and projections which served as the basis for planning made
by DHV (1994) were very uncertain. There were no reliable statistics on the actual
refugee populations or the percentage that would return to their original villages. The
consultant thus imposed the assumption that from 3% (Pemba) to 25% (Nampula and
Quelimane) of the populations in these towns in 1992 would leave for their areas of
origin. Our information obtained during visits to these towns indicated that this
outmigration has not taken place. This implies that actual populations in some of the
towns are likely to be considerably higher than the projections made by the consultants
in 1994. We were told that the population in Nampula was likely to be above 380,000
in 1996 while it was projected to be only 278,000 according the DHV consultants. In
Nampula we found that there was some temporary outmigration during the rainy season.
B12. Ability or Willingness to Pay for Water
Demand for water would typically depend on the price of water and the income of the
person buying. Rich households would typically demand higher quantities of water but
the share of their income used on water may be lower than for poor households as water
may be seen a necessity with income elasticity below one. Ojanpera (1993) carried out
a study of affordability and willingness to pay for water services in the urban and semi-
urban areas of Beira. He found that poor households stated to be willing to pay up to
4% of their income for water supplied from public standposts. Richer households
indicated that they were willing to pay 0.1-1% of their income for water. Average WTP
for water from public standposts was Mt 1,510/month and approximately Mt
8,000/month for house connections.
Ojanpera also estimated actual quantities of water used by households but the
data were presented only as average consumption per household or per capita per day
for five different bairros in Beira. The averages per bairro varied from 21 to 31
litres/capita/day with an overall average of 26 litres/capita/day (Ojanpera 1993, Table 6)
but these quantities are claimed to be per household in the text (p.13). We assume the
figures in the table are correct as they correspond quite well with the quantity estimates
used by the DHV consultants for their water demand calculations. They have used 20-
30 litres/capita/day for public taps, 60-80 litres/capita/day for yard connections, and 90-
130 litres/capita/day for house connections. If we relate these figures to the WTP
estimates of Ojanpera, we find the average WTP/m3 to be Mt 296/m3 (USD 0.057/m3)
for public taps (assuming use of 170 litres/household/day) and Mt 423/m3 (USD



Economic Analysis 133
0.081/m3) for house connections (assuming use of 630 litres/household/day). This
indicates that the WTP/m3 may be higher among people with house connections but care
should be undertaken when interpreting this. Current WTP/m3 estimates may reflect the
current favourable situation of people with house connections as they often have a
favourable position as vendors and having a house connection can be a profitable
business. Their WTP may therefore reflect this profitability rather than their WTP for
their own consumption needs.
Stated WTP may also reflect what people have been used to paying rather than
the maximum they would be willing to pay in a scarcity situation. Prices in the
secondary market may thus better reflect real WTP. With prices as high as MtlO,000-
50,000/m3 (USD 0.83-4.20) in these markets, there should be good opportunities for
improving the cost recovery of the project. This issue requires careful attention in the
Beneficiary Assessment. Attempts should be made at estimating income and price
elasticities for water to facilitate the development of a more "optimal" water distribution
system. The fact that people with house connections are both sellers and consumers of
water needs to be corrected for. Households thus need to be treated both as production
and consumption units (sale of water is a production activity). It may be difficult if not
impossible to get reliable data from the secondary market as this activity is illegal.
Estimation of dernand for water as a function of price and income was not
attempted by 0janpera (1993) and the data set was not included in the report.
B13. Overall Water Supply and Demand Considerations
Table B.1:
Distribution of Connection Types, Service Ratios, Water Demand and Connection
Costs for the DHV (1994) Plan, the NWRMDP as proposed and Alternative Plan
for Beira (Year 2002)
Population Served ('000)
DHV Plan      NWRINDP        Alternative
House Connections             94             75            60
Yard Connections              90            42             99
Public Taps                   109            66             425
Service Ratio                 50             31             100
Water Demand, m3/d            20,305         12,101        24,759
Connection Costs, USD 1,000   2,950          1,170         2,259
Demand or consumption of water will, besides being deternined by the population size,
also be influenced by the distribution system (type of connections or taps and coverage).
In the plan developed by the DHV consultants the aim was e.g. in Beira to increase the
coverage with house connections to 35%, and to 40% for yard connections, while the
rest would have access to public taps by the year 2017. We have developed some



134 Economic Analysis
altemative scenarios in the following. Our calculations are rough examples for Beira
and Quelimane.
In the case of Beira we illustrate the effect of shifting the plan from expanding
house connections to only expanding public taps. We use income/expenditure estimates
to classify the projected populations in three classes according to their income (poverty)
level based on a household survey from 1992. We therefore assume that that income
level and distribution of income is constant as we have no better altemative assumption
or knowledge. Our analysis indicates that there may be a misfit between the actual
income distribution and the planned standard of water supply by the DHV consultants
and the Bank project. The income profile data indicate that a small percentage of the
urban population has an income level high enough to afford to have house connections.
It is possible that the share of non-poor will increase with the new economic policy but
we do not have any recent data which confimns that. A summary of the distribution of
house connections, yard connections and public taps for the DHV Plan, the Bank
project, and our alternative plan, the resulting water demands, service ratios and rough
connection cost estimates are given in Table B.1.
Table B.2:
Distribution of Connection Types, Service Ratios, Water Demand and Connection
Costs with two population estimates for Quelimane (Year 2002)
Population Served ('000)
DHV       NWRUDP  Alt. 1:          Alt. 2:
Plan                 Low Pop'n    High Pop'n
House Connections        14        20         6             6
Yard Connections        23         20         40            62
Public Taps             28         9           134          167
Service Ratio, Low Pop'n  35       31          100          -
Service Ratio, High Pop'n  27      24         77            100
Water Demand, m3/d      3,696      3,417      6,492         8,599
Connection Costs,       927        1,000       1,830        2,511
USD 1,000
For Quelimane we have included alternative population projections to those
made by the DHV consultants. They assumed that a large share (24%) of the estimated
population in 1992 would migrate out but our information indicated that this has not
been taking place. This affects the real service ratios which we have calculated for the
urban and semi-urban populations together. Then we have suggested an alternative plan
without further development of house connections but with expansion of public taps to
increase the service ratio to 100% in year 2002 for the two alternative population
projections. These two alternatives result in higher total water demands and investment
costs for expansion of connections.
For simplicity we have assumed that the non-poor and poor can be provided with
yard connections while the ultra-poor get public taps. The beneficiary assessment will



Economic Analysis 135
give better indications. A summary is given in Table B.2. We see from the table that
the DHV Plan will provide water for 35% of the population by year 2002 with its own
low population estimate but to only 27% with our revised population estimate. The
Bank project reaches even fewer households, 31 and 24% for the two population
projections, and with an even higher share of house connections than the DHV Plan.
Our altemative plans then follow for the two population projections, giving much higher
service ratios but also higher water demands and connection costs.
B14. Recommendations
* Opportunity cost pricing of water. Index regulation of water tariffs.
*  Relate service standards to purchasing power ofpeople
*  Improvement of incentive structure at distribution points before installation of new
water meters.
* Assessment of health effects as part of the beneficiary assessment.
*  Participatory distribution system development. Involve local people in selecting
location points for public taps.
* No further expansion of house connections untill the sanitary problems are solved
or the use of the 'polluter pays principle" is institutionlised in relation to urban
water consumption.
It is estimated that people with house connections use four to five times as much
water as people with access to public taps only (Ibid.). One may say that this represents
a negative extemality if the one causing it is not considering or paying for the costs he is
imposing on others. This externality could be internalized by imposing a tax on the
polluter. This tax should be high enough to pay for the damages made and/or for the
costs of constructing the necessary sanitary facilities to mitigate the damages made.



136 Economic Analysis
i



Team Members, Work Schedule and Division of Tasks 137
APPENDIX C:
TEAM MEMBERS, WORK SCHEDULE AND DIVISION OF TASKS
Cl. EA Team Members
The World Bank engaged The Centre for Intemational Environment and Development
Studies (Noragric) at the University of Agriculture, As, Norway to carry out the EA
assignment. Noragric assigned the following team to carry out the work:
Ame Dahlen        M.Sc Agric.       AD-Consult A.S.   Team Leader
John A. Boyle     Ph.D., P.Eng.     Private Consultant  EIA Specialist
Hans E. Magnussen B.Sc. Civ. Eng.    Interconsult     WSS Spec./Hydrol.
Stein T. Holden   Dr. Scient. dev. econ. Noragric     Environ. Economist
Antonio E.L. Couto Biologist        Austral SARL      Social Scientist
In agreement with Noragric, Austral SARL assigned another qualified scientist
to cover part of the assigned tasks for the social scientist, Mr. Roland Brouwer, Ph.D.,
Agric./Env. The team also benefited from the expertise of Sra. Celia Meneses of
Austral SARL regarding legal and institutional aspects of water supply and
envirownental assessment in Mozambique. In total, 138 persondays of effort were
devoted to the study.
C2. Work Schedule
The schedule for carrying out the environmental assessment was outlined in the study
TOR and revised in Maputo through discussion with the Bank's task manager. The
schedule in 1996 was:
EA scoping and Inception Report                 19 February - t March
Field work, Mozambique                          26 February - 16 March
Draft report preparation, Maputo                18-30 March
Draft report preparation, Norway                15 April - 5 May
Draft report presentation, Maputo               9-10 May
Review, GoM and World Bank                      10-31 May
Final report preparation                        3-8 June
The EA scoping and preparation of the Inception Report were carried out by A.
Dahlen, Team Leader, and J. Boyle, EIA Specialist.
The field work included a one day visit to each of the five cities, water
companies, water supply installation sites and meetings with local authorities. A list of
the people and organisations consulted is included in Appendix D. The field survey to
the central and northern cities of Beira, Quelimane, Nampula and Pemba was
undertaken using a chartered aircraft. A. Dahlen, H. Magnussen, S. Holden and R.
Brouwer participated in this survey, accompanied by Eng. Bento Mualoja from DAS of
DNA. All relevant installations were visited and inspected on the ground. Existing and



138 Team Members, Work Schedule and Division of Tasks
proposed water intake and treatment sites were also examined from the air where
applicable. The field team also examined the Corumana Dam on the Sabie River from
the air.
C3.  Division of Tasks
Task allocation among the team members more or less matched the tasks and scope of
work outlined in the TOR and Inception Report with the professional background of the
various members. The Team Leader, in addition to co-ordinating the work of the other
members, was also responsible for financial arrangements and logistics. Contributions
of the various team members were used throughout the report. Preparation and editing
of the report, based on the various team contributions and comments from GoM and the
World Bank, was done by the Team Leader and the EIA Specialist.
C4.  Public Display and Consultation
Through Noragric, the Team Leader was engaged by the Bank in the beginning of 1997
to assist DNA in preparing public display and consultation of the report's findings,
conclusions and recommendations. Initial discussions were held with DNA in Maputo
in February 1997. The Team Leader prepared texts for display posters and a pamphlet
based on the executive summary. Austral SARL assisted in translation work, technical
production of posters and local logistics. The display and public consultation/debate
took place in the five cities during March - April 1997, and Mr. Brouwer prepared the
report on the exercise in consultation with DNA (June 1997).
The final report with Appendix E was edited by the Team Leader in August 1997 and
issued as 2nd edition.



People/Organizations Consulted  139
APPENDIX D: PEOPLE/ORGANIZATIONS CONSULTED
Maputo
Luis Elias               National Director, DNA, MOPH
Manuel Alvarinho         Policy Advisor, DNA
Chandra Pereira          Technical Advisor, DNA
Leonardo S.T. Kranendunk Hydrology Advisor, DNA
Bento Mualoja            Engineer, DNA
Jaime Matsinhe           Civil Engineerl, DAS, DNA
Vicente Macamo           Sanitary Engineer, DAS, DNA
Francisco T.C. Mabjaia    Senior Advisor to the Minister, MICOA
Rogero Wamusse           National Director, Natural Resources Management,
MICOA
Daniel Shier             Legal Advisor, MICOA
Kim Hermind              Advisor to the Minister, MICOA (PROL)
Charlotte Allen          Advisor, MICOA (PROL - INPF)
Issufu Chutumia          Director General, ARA-Sul
Rute Mateus              Head of Administration of Water, Pequenos Libompos
Dam, ARA-Sul
Miguel Alves             Director General, Aguas de Maputo (AdM)
Joaquim E. Pirej         Director of Operations, AdM
Maria dos Anjos          Department of Environmental Hygiene, MISAU
Anjela Femandes          Head of Hygiene Laboratory, MISAU
Andreas Garavini         Agricultural Economist, PRORURAL
Custodio Boane           Fish Biologist, Department of Biological Sciences, UEM
Alfredo Santos           LINK, Deputy Co-ordinator, NGO-Donor Working Group
Beira
Gilberto S. Waya         Director, CAB
Simon Comissario         Head of Administration, CAB
Mariano Roia             Head of Technical Division, CAB
Jose Merlandane          Head of Finance Department, CAB
Antonio Velho            Water Commissioner, bairro Chipangara
Isaias Rafael            Co-ordinator, Gabinete da Apoio Comunitario
Luis Caetano             Technical Assistant Water, Acucareira de Mocambique
Jose Dungusa             Director, Construction and Urbanization, City Council
Alberto Massinga         Interim Director, SUTRA
Elias Nyambe             Provincial Director of Workers Departrnent, Sofala
Province
Quelimane
Firliz Descanso          Director, AdQ
Serafim J.D. Detrato     Head of Technical Department, AdQ
Retrato                  Technician. AdQ



140 People/Organizations Consulted
Jose A. Ronda            Technician, GTZ project, AdQ
Antonio                  Private standpost manager, bairro Coalane
Americo Muianga          Provincial Director of MOPH, Zambezia Province
Mauricio Duarte          Water Department, MOPH, Zambezia
Leonardo Chaube          Water Department, MOPH, Zambezia
Luis Pedro Chandemba     Head of Department of Urbanisation and Construction,
City Council
Raul Branco              Director, Health Department
Joaquim Jori Pedro       Supervisor, Health Department
Rogerio Henriques        Head of Administration, Grupo Madal
Nampula
Julius Salim.            Deputy Director, Finance, AdN
Rede Manual              Chief, Human Resources, AdN
Eva Femandes Rafael      Chief, Commercial Section, AdN
Gracinda Trinidade Cadeira Chief, Finance Department, AdN
Alberto Certo Amado      Chief, O&M Department, AdN
Lopes Mungueleze        Hydromechanical technician, AdN
i                  Mario Luis Artur         Chief of Water Supply Programme, Peri-urban areas
ichaca Abdul Baraca      Director, Physical Planning, Municipality Council
President, Municipality Council
Lanfredo Romao           Director, Urban Health Services
Noacha                   Head of Human Resources Department, Urban Health
Services
Miguel Massunda Junior    Forestry technician, Provincial Service of Forests &
Fauna
Albino Funeli Amanyikanza Head of the secretariate
Manuel Amos              Head of Provincial Department of Geography and
Cadastro
Julio Orlando Mario      District Director of Agriculture & Fishing
Pemba
Vietorino Ferrao         Director, AdP
Rufino                   Head, Technical Department, AdP
Alfredo                  Standpost manager, bairro Cariaco
Afanso Paquete           Provincial Director of Water, MOPH, Cabo Delgado
Province
Montero Jaime Faifa      Provincial Director of Housing, MOPH, CD Province
Jose Julio Andrade       Director of Urban Health
Josina                   Community health worker
Paulo Junior             Head of Provincial Rural Water (estaleiro)
Jose Henriques           Head of Rural Water Systems, MOPH, Cabo Delgado
Joao Maria Severiano     Deputy Director of Agriculture, Cabo Delgado
Eusebio Joao Sitingui    Deputy Director of Works Department, Cabo Delgado



People/Organizations Consulted  141
Donors and Embassies
Mette Masst              Assistant Resident Representative, NORAD
Matti Kariainen          Resident Representative, FINNIDA
Jarmo Kiuuttila          First Secretary, Embassy of Finland
Cor van Honk             First Secretary, Embassy of the Netherlands
Kees Metzlaan            Consultant, Embassy of the Netherlands
Ulla Andren              Programme Co-ordinator, Natural Resources and
Environment, ASDI, Embassy of Sweeden
Henny Matos              Programme Officer, Environment, UNDP
World Bank StaffConsultants
John Shepherd            Task Manager, AF1EI
Torbjom Damhaug          AFTES
Martin Gambrill          Rural Water Supply
Sarah Keener             Beneficiary Assessment
Rod de Vietter           Enviromnent and Natural Resources Operations Officer,
Maputo Resident Mission






Public Display and Consultations- Summary Report 142
APPENDIX E: PUBLIC DISPLAY AND CONSULTATIONS - SUMMARY REPORT
Some time after the final draft of the EA Report was presented, the Bank and the National
Directorate of Water agreed to anrange public display and consultations on the findings, conclusions
and recommendations of the Report. The Team Leader was engaged through Noragric to assist
DNA in the exercise. Locally, the company Austral was engaged for translations, technical
production of display posters, and logistic support. A book was made available to the public for
written comments during the displays, and this received 36 entries.
Public displays and consultations/debates were arranged in the five cities of Maputo, Beira,
Quelimane, Nampula and Pemba during March - April 1997. This summary report is based on
observations and written comments during the displays and public debates, which are contained in a
report of 1st June 1997, prepared by Mr. Roland Brouwer of Austral, in consultation with DNA
(DNA 1997).
In all the five cities the public display and hearing was welcomed as a good initiative. However the
public debate attracted relatively few people, mostly persons involved with water affairs and public
service. The opening display was anranged in Maputo, and here the reasons indicated for the limited
interest by the general public were (as an example):
3 the location at the Civic Centre which is regarded as the home of administration and bureaucracy,
a place earlier not easily accessible to the general public;
- the format of the display and the issues presented, which were found to be too technical and not
sufficiently visual. More general issues on access to water would have been preferred to the
emphasis on environmental issues; and
3 that the still "timid" civil society is not yet used to this form of participatory approaches.
The public meeting in Nampula, scheduled at the end of the display, was cancelled because of no
participation from the general public. A possible reason was that the meeting was planned during a
weekend. In most of the other cities, however, the debates were lively and reported to have raised a
number of important issues related to water sources, supply and sanitation. Main concems
concentrated on i) the privatisation of water companies which may lead to not affordable water
tariffs and reduced, instead of increased access to piped water, and ii) the seemingly lack of concern
in the project for waste water systems and treatment.
The public display and consultation process received relatively wide national media coverage;
television, radio and the press, with focus on NWDP and the findings of the EA.
The mentioned report on the public display and consultation indicates that much can be learned
from the process which may be useful for later, similar exercises. It is therefor recommended that an
appraisal is made of the experiences from the public display and consultation. It is assumed that
DNA and the Bank consider relevant concerns raised by the public in the future planning and
implementation of NWDP.



