Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 17274 -MOZ
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 26.2 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
FOR A
NATIONAL WATER DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
January 20, 1998
Water & Urban 1
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(as of December 31, 1997)
Currency Unit                              Mozambican Meticais
US$1.00                               Mt 11,604
FISCAL YEAR
Government & Public Enterprises     =               January I to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter (m)                              3.2808 feet (ft)
I kilometer (km)                             0.6214 miles (mi)
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
ARA Sul       =      Administra,cao Regional de Aguas do Sul
(Southern Regional Water Administration)
CIDA          =      Canadian International Development Agency
COGEA         =      Commissao de Gestao de Empresas de Agua
(Commission for the Management of Water Services)
GOM           =      Government of Mozambique
DNA           =      Direc,cao Nacional de Aguas (National Directorate of Water)
GRI           =      Gabinete dos Rios Intemacionais (Office of International Rivers)
HRD           =      Human Resources Development
MOPH          =      Ministerio das Obras P6blicas e Habita,ao (Ministry of Public
Works and Housing)
ND                   National Director of Water
NDF           =      Nordic Development Fund
NWD I         =      National Water Development I
NWD II        =      National Water Development II
NWP           =      National Water Policy
PL            =      Project Leader
PRONAR        =      Programa Nacional de Agua Rural
(National Rural Water Program)
PSM           =      Private Sector Management
RWSS          =      Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
SDC           =      Swiss Development Cooperation
SIDA          =      Swedish International Development Authority
SPS           =      Small Piped Systems
WRM           =      Water Resources Management
Vice President:       Callisto Madavo
Country Director:     Phyllis Pomerantz
Sector Manager:       Jeffrey Racki
Task Leader:          John Shepherd



Republic of Mozambique
National Water Development I Project
Project Appraisal Document
Table of Contents
Project Financing Data                                                        I
Block 1: Project Description                                                  I
1.   Project development objectives                                  1
2.   Project components                                              2
3.   Benefits and target population                                  3
4.  Institutional and implementation arrangements                    3
Block 2: Project Rationale                                                    4
5.   CAS objectives supported by the project                         4
6.   Main sector issues and Government strategy                      4
7.   Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices  5
8.   Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection       7
9.   Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other
development agencies                                            7
10.   Lessons learned and reflected in project design                 8
11.  Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                 8
12.  Value added of Bank support                                      9
Block 3: Summary Project Assessments                                          9
13.   Economic assessment                                             9
14.   Financial assessment                                            9
15.   Technical assessment                                           10
16.  Institutional assessment                                        10
17.   Social assessment                                              I 1
18.  Environmental assessment                                        11
19.  Participatory approach                                          11
20.   Sustainability                                                 11
21.   Critical risks                                                 12
22.   Possible controversial aspects                                 13
Block 4: Main Loan Conditions                                                14
23.   Effectiveness and Disbursement Conditions                      14
24.   Assurances                                                     14
Block 5: Compliance with Bank Policies                                       15
List of Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4: Economic Analysis
Annex 5: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 6: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 7: Documents in the Project File
Annex 8: Status of Bank Group Operations in Mozambique
Annex 9: Country at a Glance






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Africa Regional Office
Country Departnent 2
Project Appraisal Document
Mozambique
National Water Development I
Date: December 12, 1997                                                               []  Draft         [x] Final
Task Manager: K. John Shepherd                                  Country Manager: Phyllis R. Pomerantz
Project ID: MZ-PE-39015                                         Sector: Water Supply & Sanitation
Lending Instrument: Sector Investment Credit                    PTI:          []  Yes             [X] No
Project Financing Data                 [             Loan       [X] Credit           [   Guarantee   [I   Other [Specifyl
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (USSm/SDRm): US$36.0 million/SDR 26.2 million
................................................................................................................. .......... ........................................................................................................................ .............................................................
Proposed Terns:                                   [X1  Multicurrency            [1    Single currency
Grace period (years): 10 years                []   Standard Variable       []    Fixed             []    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40 years
Commitment fee: not exceeding 1/2 of 1%
Service charge: 0.75%
.... i~........................ ........................................... .....", ............ ..................... ....... ................................ ...............
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                                                   Local                 Foreign              Total
Government                                                                2.5                    0.0                 2.5
Cofinanciers                                                              4.6                    13.8               18.4
IDA                                                                       10.0                   26.0               36.0
Total                                                                     17.1                   39.8               56.9
Borrower: Government of Mozambique
Guarantor: Government of Mozambique
Responsible agency: National Directorate of Water (Direc9ao Nacional de Aguas, DNA) of the Ministry of Public Works
and Housing (Ministerio das Obras Puiblicas e Habitacao, MOPH).
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m):            1998       1999       2000         2001      2002       2003      2004
Annual 1.1          4.0        7.0          8.0       8.5        5.5       1.9
Cumulative  1.1         5.1        12.1         20.1      28.6       34.1      36.0
Expected effectiveness date: May 15, 1998                                        Closing date: Oct. 31,2003
Block 1: Project Description
1. Project development objectives (see Annex I for key performance indicators):
............ ........................................................................................................  .........................................................................................
The project will reorient the institutions of the sector in line with the strategic vision set out in the National Water Policy
(NWP), increase their capacities, prepare for the private sector management of the urban water supply systems of the
cities Maputo, Beira, Quelimane, Nampula and Pemba ("the five cities"), and reorient and reform the management and
implementation of rural water supply and sanitation, so that sector organizations can provide sustainable water supply
and sanitation services to an increasing proportion of the community, and can manage Mozambique's water resources.
The project will have an initiating and integrating role within the Government's National Water Development Program,
which will consist of a set of sector reforms, studies and investments implementing the NWP and will be supported by the
Government and several donors. As the first IDA water project to be undertaken in Mozambique, it would implement
key preparatory steps for the proposed second such project, National Water Development II (NWD-II), FY99. NWD-II



Project Appraisal Document                                                                               Page 2
Country: Mozambique                                                  Project Title: National Water Development - Sector Support
would improve water supply coverage and service to communities of the five cities through private sector management of
the city water supply systems, and investments in the water supply infrastructure. The proposed Urban Environment
Project, FY01, would implement the plans for sanitation infrastructure prepared under this project, NWD-I.
...................................................................................................................................................................................................
2. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):
Component                            Category   Costs    % of   Bank         % of
US$m    Total  financ'g  Bank
US$m      financ'g
A. Institution Building and Policy Development                Institution  6.2     11      5.1        14
* build capacity in planning and management, particularly in  building/
finance;                                                    policy/
* develop a regulatory and monitoring framework and capacity;   physical
* undertake studies for development of water sector policy.
B. Preparation for Private Sector Management of Urban         Institution   8.5    15      8.1        23
Water Supply                                                  building/
* support the bidding process for the private sector management   studies/
of the water supply systems of the five cities;             physical
* design and construct emergency works to ensure more secure
operation of the headworks systems of city water supplies
including Beira and Pemba;
* prepare a strategy and plans for the provision of sanitation
services in the five cities, required because of increasing
wastewater generation, and to improve public health.
C. Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (RWSS)                   Institution   18.2   32       10.3      29
* reorient and reform the management and implementation of    building/
RWSS and build capacities at central and provincial levels;  studies/
* in Inhambane Province, mobilize stakeholders, rehabilitate pilot social
works for small piped systems and prepare for investment in  devel./
point source water supplies and sanitation.                 physical
D. Water Resources Management (WRM)                           Institution   14.6   26      6.6        18
* strengthen ARA-Sul (Administra,ao Regional de Aguas do Sul, building/
Southern Water Resources Administration) to provide self    studies/
supporting bulk water supply service, and GRI (Gabinete dos    physical
Rios Internacionais, Office of International Rivers) to undertake
international joint studies and negotiations.
* develop a national water resources management strategy;
* undertake studies of options for development and management
of key international rivers, in line with the priorities of the
national water resources strategy and including the Incomati
and Pungue Rivers, and carried out jointly with upstream
riparian states;
* safety-related rehabilitation works at Corumana Dam and
feasibility and design studies for a future increase in capacity.
E. Human Resources Development                               Capacity   5.2        9       1.8        5
Training and human resources development with initial emphasis  building
on HRD planning and on management training and development.
F. Project Management                                         Proj. mgt.  2.2      4       2.1        6
G. PPF Refinancing                                            PPF         2.0      4       2.0        5
Total       56.9     100     36.0       100



Project Appraisal Document                                                                            Page 3
Country: Mozambique                                                Project Title: National Water Development - Sector Support
3. Benefits and target population:
The main benefit of the project will be provision of a sound foundation for GOM to proceed with its planned program of
reformed management of, and investment in, the water sector, such that all management reforms and investments can
result in sustained benefits to the people of Mozambique. The project's institution building, policy and human resources
development components would enable the National Directorate of Water (Direccao Nacional de Aguas, DNA) to
provide strong strategic leadership to the sector, and would enable other organizations of the sector to manage efficiently
and sustainably their physical assets and other resources entrusted to them, and to provide improved and more sustainable
services throughout the country. The project's support of the bidding process for engaging private sector operators for
the five city water supply systems, and the associated investments in water supply infrastructure, would constitute the
primary preparatory steps for the proposed NWD-II project. Similarly, its sanitation planning component would prepare
for the Urban Environment Project. While some benefits, including greater supply reliability, would accrue immediately
to an estimated 750,000 people as a result of the emergency works, most of the potential benefits would result from and
depend upon the success of the two subsequent projects. The RWSS component would help ensure the widespread
adoption of principles and practices based on decentralization and community demand. This should result in future
RWSS investments providing rural water services that are more reliable and better matched to community needs. The
water resources management component would help GOM to secure equitable allocations of water on the international
rivers, ensure more efficient and sustainable management of intemally available water resources, and rehabilitate
Corumana Dam to eliminate safety risks. These measures are aimed at ensuring that future national development will not
be unduly constrained by the cost or availability of water.
........................... .......................................................................................................................................................................................................................
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: Five years.
Executing agency: DNA, MOPH.
Project coordination: The project will be implemented under the direction of the National Director of Water Affairs
(ND). The ND will be supported by a Project Leader (PL) who will be responsible for planning and coordinating project
activities, and who will be assisted by a team of administrative staff including an accountant, an engineer and, for the first
two years, a procurement specialist. A financial management specialist will be appointed with responsibility for the
establishment and development of financial management functions. In addition, a manager of human resources will be
appointed to plan and manage the human resource development component. The Minister of MOPH will chair a Project
Steering Committee consisting of scnior representatives of the ministries of Finance, Foreign Affairs, Health, Agriculture,
Local Administration and Environment, and the Bank of Mozambique. Task Forces chaired by the ND will be
established to supervise the implementation of the Transition Plan for rural water supply, and the reform of other units of
DNA. A small implementation unit will be established in Inhambane Province to manage implementation locally, and
this will hand over progressively to the permanent team as it is recruited and trained.
Project oversight and policy guidance will be provided by the Minister and the ND. The Government has established
an interministerial Commission, COGEA (Commission for the Management of Water Services), chaired by the ND, to
direct the reform of the urban water companies, and this body will give policy guidance in regard to the bidding,
evaluation and award of contracts for private sector management of urban water supplies, and associated studies.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: DNA, through its project unit, will be responsible for
project financial management, reporting and auditing, following systems and procedures acceptable to IDA. An auditor
acceptable to IDA will be appointed. Each implementing agency will submit quarterly progress reports, with copies
going to the PL, who will immediately provide copies to IDA and to the other co-financiers. The format of these
progress reports was agreed at negotiations, and will be included in the Project Implementation Manual. For the purposes
of project supervision, a "Project Supervision Team" will be assembled with representatives from the Bank, NDF, CIDA,
SDC and GOM, and this team will participate in the annual reviews of the project. The team will also include consultants
contracted to assist in the implementation of the RWSS and WRM components. A mid-term review will be conducted by
the project supervision team. Project accounts will be externally audited yearly. Yearly audits will be conducted for all
components. These audits will feed into the audit of the project accounts. For ARA-Sul, audits will include in addition to
the financial audit, a technical audit.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                               Page 4
Country: Mozambique                                                  Project Tite: National Water Development - Sector Support
Monitoring and evaluation (MIE) arrangements: Under the direction of the ND, and coordinated by the PL, project
MIE will be the shared responsibility of the implementing units within the Ministry of Public Works and Housing
(MOPH): DNA, (including PRONAR), ARA-Sul, Office of International Rivers (Gabinete dos Rios Internacionais, GRI),
and the Provincial Directorate of Public Works and Housing, Inhambane Province. M/E will be guided by the Project
Design Summary (see Annex 1), and the Implementation Plan, a draft of which has been provided by GOM to IDA, and
which will be included in the Project Implementation Manual. M/E will be conducted through (1) regular meetings of the
Project Steering Committee, chaired by the National Director, which will be open to IDA and other participating donors;
(2) IDA supervision missions; (3) annual progress review during IDA missions before the end of the first quarter of each
fiscal year and the annual audit report within six months of the end of the fiscal year; (4) midterm review (MTR) of
project implementation jointly with IDA and other donors no later than 30 months after effectiveness; and (5) beneficiary
assessments at implementation milestones as provided in the implementation plan. By July 31 and January 31 each year,
the PL will provide IDA with progress reports on project implementation and outcomes, using the format agreed at
negotiations. An Implementation Completion Report will be prepared within six months after credit closing. GOM will
contribute to the ICR its own evaluation of the project and an operational plan.
Block 2: Project Rationale
5. CAS objective(s) supported by the project Document number and date of latest CAS discussion:
Report No. 171 80-MOZ dated November 21, 1997, discussed by the
Executive Directors on December 18, 1997.
The overarching CAS objective is to support GOM's program for poverty reduction through sustainable economic
growth. In support of this, there are three strategic priorities:
* promoting rapid, broad-based private sector-led growth,
. capacity building and development of human resources, and
. strengthening development partnerships.
The project is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy, and contains actions that support each of the above
strategic priorities. In regard to the first priority, the objective of the project is to address one of the major constraints to
growth, access to safe water. To do so, the project is supporting the introduction of private sector management to the
urban subsector, and reform of the provision of rural water supply. New and improved infrastructure and services, in
both urban and rural settings, would be supported both directly as part of the project, and through preparations leading to
provision of sustainable water and sanitation infrastructure on a larger scale in subsequent projects. Under the second
priority, the project contains substantial efforts in capacity building and human resources development, covering the
sector comprehensively, and especially in DNA. Concerning the third priority, development partnerships, the project,
together with GOM's larger National Water Development Program of which it is a part, is providing a framework within
which donors are for the first time working closely together and in a coordinated manner to support GOM in its efforts to
plan and implement a program of development for the sector. The project also supports action by Mozambique and
neighboring riparian countries working together to evolve partnerships for the joint development and management of
transboundary rivers.
..............................................................................................................................I. ............................................................................................................................
6. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Sector Issues:
Water supply and sanitation services in Mozambique are characterized by extremely low coverage, poor service quality
and weak sustainability. Only some 30% of the population has convenient access to safe water, a significant cause of
Mozambique's health statistics being amongst the worst in the world. The sector's poor performance is due to (1) nearly
20 years of war, which resulted in the neglect or damage and destruction of most of the country's infrastructure; (2) until
1995, poor policies, such as extremely low tariffs, inadequate financial and human resources management and excessive
centralization, which made it impossible for the Government-owned urban water companies and the provincial and
district administrations to operate and maintain facilities effectively and sustainably; and (3) the influx of several hundred



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 5
Country: Mozambique                                             Project Tdte: Natonal Water Development - Sector Support
thousand refugees.
Much of the water resources on which Mozamnbique must rely are those of its major rivers, almost all of which arise in
other countries. Over the last three decades, upstream riparians have diverted much of the yield of several of these rivers
for irrigation and other consumptive uses. From 1991 to 1996, Mozambique faced severe water shortages, with
insufficient water for irrigation requirements, saline water intrusion into estuaries, and water supply interruptions in
different parts of the country. Unless satisfactory arrangements can be made for the more equitable sharing of water
between the riparian countries, Mozambique will face increasing economic constraints on development, and recurring
crises due to water shortages. Mozambique has little capacity to support the technically challenging negotiations that will
be required to reach such agreements, and its water resources management capacities are at this stage rudimentary, and
non-existent in much of the country.
Policy: In August 1995, the GOM adopted a National Water Policy (NWP). The policies to which GOM committed itself
include: increased beneficiary participation, recognition of water as an economic as well as a social good; decentralized
autonomous and financially self sustaining provision of water supply and sanitation services; a direction setting role for
Government, which will withdraw from direct service provision; integrated water resources management taking
environmental impacts into account; multi-objective investment planning, greater focus on capacity building; and an
increased role for the private sector.
Strategy: With support from the Bank, GOM has decided to: (a) reorient central management arrangements for the sector,
away from direct service delivery, and towards strategic sector direction-setting, regulation and financial planning and
management, and continue the evolution of national water policy by further developing subsector policies and strategies;
(b) reform the management of the water companies of the cities of Maputo, Beira, Quelimane, Nampula, and Pemba by
arranging for them to be placed under private sector management; (c) reform tariffs, aiming at full cost recovery - the
average tariffs for Maputo and the other four cities have already been increased from about 7 US c per cubic meter to 30
and 20 US c per cubic meter respectively; (d) embark on a program of investment to bring water services in the five cities
to an acceptable level of service and coverage; (e) reform the provision of rural water supply services with the objective
of implementing a demand oriented approach; (f) develop a strategy for water resources management and the
management of bulk water for irrigation and other purposes; and (g) develop human resource capacities - with the
assistance of SDC, the Dutch Government and the Bank, GOM has completed a human resources development strategy
study.
Program/project strategy: GOM has prepared and approved a proposed National Water Development Program, under
which it will implement all of (a) to (g), its highest priorities for the sector, at an estimated cost of US$155 million over
the next five years. The first component of the Program to proceed is proposed to be this project. A subsequent
component of the Program, a proposed IDA-supported Project NWD-II, (MZ-PE-52240, FY99), is proposed to support
the urban water supply components (b) to (d) above of the strategy. This project is under preparation. Bids will shortly be
called for proposals from private sector organizations and consortia to operate these companies. The remainder of the
Program, most of it investment associated with urban water supply, will be supported by other donors. The proposed
IDA-supported Urban Environment Project will be external to the National Water Development Program. It is, however,
consistent both with the CAS and the GOM's strategy for the development of urban infrastructure, including sanitation,
and upgrading the capacity of local government.
7. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Consistent with its concept as a project supporting sector integration and preparations for subsequent projects, this project
will support each of the elements of GOM's strategy outlined above. Its support of investments in urban water supply
would be limited to small scale emergency works sufficient to provide security of supply to cities where present supply
arrangements are subject to high failure risks, and, in addition, planning and design studies of sanitation and drainage
infrastructure to deal with the increasing volumes of wastewater in urban areas that will be generated by the planned
investments in urban water supplies.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 6
Country: Mozambique                                            Project Title: National Water Development - Sector Support
(a) Institution building and policy, and preparationfor privatization of Urban Water Supply: Without policy and
management reform and a program of investment, the overall level and quality of urban water supply services would
continue to deteriorate. GOM, having decided to take action, was faced with some important strategic choices concerning
the form of management of the urban water supply systems, the cities to be targeted, the investment priorities, and the role
of central sector management. (1) Form of management. To achieve improvement of the performance of the water
supply companies, the possible options ranged from technical assistance, through commercialization, with or without
twinning, to the various forms of private sector management (PSM). The PSM options included management contracts
with or without performance incentives, affermage/lease options, and full concessions. Evaluations of the relative
effectiveness of this range of options, in Africa and worldwide, suggested that the options involving technical assistance
and commercialization only are unlikely to result in rapid performance improvement, especially for water utilities whose
performance indicators are relatively unsatisfactory. It was therefore agreed that PSM provided the best prospect for
Mozambique. The PSM options to be used would be decided upon city by city, having regard to the scale and condition
of the systems, and of the scale and financial viability of the businesses that would result. (2) Cities to be targeted. The
second strategic choice was how many and which cities should be included in the ambit of privatization of management.
Options ranged from Maputo only, through to Maputo plus all 12 provincial cities. At one extreme, Maputo, with the
country's largest urban water supply system, appeared to offer an attractive opportunity for private sector management
and associated investment to benefit a large number of people. However, investing in this water supply system alone
would leave the water supplies of several other important cities continuing to degrade, cities whose improved viability is
important to the growth and development of much of the rest of the country. At the other extreme, an attempt could be
made to place all 13 city water systems at once under private sector management. This would result in high risks of
project failure, due to difficulties of communication, coordination, regulation, and the limited capacities available to
manage a project of such scale and complexity. It would be preferable to choose cities in which work was under way or
planned on the strengthening of local government, the upgrading of other municipal services, and the development of
structure plans. It was therefore agreed that the cities to be included in the PSM initiative would be Maputo, Beira,
Quelimane, Nampula and Pemba, the same cities whose planning and development is supported by the Local Government
Reform and Engineering Project (PROL, Cr. 2530). (3) Investment priorities. This set of decisions also led to the choices
of investments in urban water supply systems to be included in this project. While all five of the water supply systems
will require continuing investment over many years, especially in rehabilitation of existing networks and construction of
extensions into new service areas, most of this investment should be undertaken within an environment of policies and
management that will assure sustainability, and should thus only be commenced when this environment is fully in place as
the proposed NWD-II project commences. However, some facilities in the headworks of some of the city water supply
systems are in poor condition, with significant risks of failure. It was agreed that NWD-I should include such works for
Beira, Nampula and Pemba as are necessary to secure reliable supplies into the cities, and the planning and design of the
larger scale works that are likely to be required for Quelimane. This should reduce the risks faced by bidders for the PSM
contracts and reduce the costs of those contracts. (4) Central management. These decisions and those in relation to
RWSS and WRM indicated below, enabled the role, scale of work and organization of DNA to be clarified, transitioning,
in line with the NWP, towards a direction-setting, supervisory and regulating role, and moving out of direct service
provision.
(b) RWSS: In the past, GOM, donors and NGOs have in a number of cases undertaken physical replacement of failed
rural water supply facilities, in a supply-driven manner, without use of a demand or community-driven approach. This
approach was generally, and understandably, used because of war emergency conditions. The result often was that the
rehabilitated/replaced system failed within a short time, resulting in hardship to the community served, particularly to
women, on whom usually falls the burden of collecting water and performing water-using chores. These experiences, and
lessons learned in other countries indicate that significant sustainable progress in RWSS coverage would be better
attained through the demand-driven approach, supported by decentralized institutional arrangements. It was agreed that
this methodology would be adopted for this component. The choices faced in seeking to implement a program in line
with these principles, are concerned with (1) choice of the province or provinces in which the RWSS component would
be operated (a single province, Inhambane, to focus effort and control costs), and (2) community eligibility criteria to
ensure community "ownership" of the system to be installed or upgraded, and ongoing financial viability (principles



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 7
Country: Mozambique                                             Project Title: National Water Development - Sector Support
adopted as part of GOM's Rural Water Supply Transition Plan).
(c) WRM. Limited availability and declining quality of water resources available from the international rivers, and
periodic crises due to shortages of water, becoming more severe in risk level year by year, are increasingly likely to place
economic constraints on development. The Govermment of the Republic of South Africa has launched a new water policy
which, among other things, leaves room for allocations on South African rivers both for the environment and for
downstream nations including Mozambique. The South African Government, in promulgating this far-sighted position,
has also indicated that the determination of such allocations places an onus on the downstream countries to ensure that the
water from such allocations is used legally and efficiently. Development of an operational regime within Mozambique to
manage the water within its boundaries is therefore strategically important. While there is adequate primary legislation to
support this, subordinate legislation will be developed and proclaimed during the first year of the project to support the
water resources management organizations in their development of these systems and capacities. Corumana Dam, the
key regulating storage in the Incomati river basin, is subject to an increasing risk of failure due to successive spills from
the reservoir eroding the streambed at the toe of the spillway. Rehabilitation is necessary to secure the safety of the
structure, and avert possible failure of power generation at the dam, and of water supply to 18,000 hectares of irrigated
agriculture. This is also a medium and long term strategic choice, as the Incomati River is likely to be the optimum
source of water for urban and major new industrial requirements in the Maputo area within 6 or 7 years.
8. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
During most of the preparation phase, this project and the NWD-II Project dealing with the privatization of the five city
water supply systems, were being prepared as a single large and complex project. In July 1997, GOM and the Bank
agreed to split the project into two. This resulted not only in simpler, more manageable projects, but in the components of
this project being able to proceed without awaiting the bidding and award process for the contracts for operation of the
city water companies.
The project level options are the choices of component size and scale, and the inclusion/exclusion of subcomponent items.
(a) Institutional development and policy: Based on comparison of provisions of the existing NWP against assessment of
policy framework needs in areas proposed for action under this project, further policy development was shown to be
needed in RWSS and WRM to support decision making in relation to community driven options for rural water supply
provision, and bulk water operations. (b) Preparation for privatization of urban water supply: The continuing
experiences of the communities, and the studies preparing for private sector management of the water companies, both
indicate urgent requirements for more secure headworks systems for Beira, Quelimane and Pemba. The requirement for
the planning and later provision of sanitation infrastructure was identified through the environmental assessment. The
choices of locations will be dependent on the choices of new neighborhoods for water supplies, which will be based on
community and local government consultation. (c) RWSS: The plan for transition at central Government level and for
capacity building at provincial and district levels was prepared under the Rural Rehabilitation Project (MZ-PA-1796). (d)
WRM: A tentative order of priorities and groupings of international river basin studies was determined from a preliminary
assessment of the risks faced by the communities dependent on those resources, and of the feasibility of options for
development and management. Key basins include those of the Umbeluzi and Incomati Rivers, which could be operated
as sources of water for Maputo and water-using industries to be associated with the Maputo corridor, but are subject to
further reduction of flow and releases to Mozambique, due to dam construction and irrigation diversions upstream.
However these assessments are incomplete and preliminary, and a more complete determination of problems,
opportunities and priorities will be undertaken as part of the development of the water resources strategy. (e) HRD: Scale
and design of this component is based on planned and projected growth and development of the sector.
9. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and
planned).
There have been no previous IDA water projects in Mozambique. However, the Rural Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2479),
and the Urban Rehabilitation Project (PRU, Cr. 1949) each supported water studies and infrastructure provision. PRU
disbursed US$4.8 million from the IDA credit for water and sewerage infrastructure in Maputo and Beira, and, together



Project Appraisal Document                                                                               Page 8
Country: Mozambique                                                  Project Title: National Water Development - Sector Support
with the Dutch Government, supported the main engineering studies on urban water supplies in Maputo and 12 provincial
towns for the proposed NWD II Project. Preparation of the NWD II Project is continuing, and preparation of the Urban
Environment Project (which will include the provision of sanitation infrastructure) is expected to begin soon. The sector
has been and is being assisted by the Netherlands, Swiss Development Cooperation (SDC), Caisse Francaise de
Developpement (CFD), Italy, UNDP, Denmark, the European Union (EU), and Portugal. Most of these projects
concentrated on works and/or technical assistance for the water supplies of individual towns, or rural water supplies in
specific provinces. The Dutch Government and the UNDP have supported, and are continuing to support, water resources
and hydrology, and strengthening central sector management. Smaller projects have been supported by KfW, FINNIDA,
and Austria. UNICEF is active in rural water supply. The donors cofinancing the NWD-I Project include SDC, NDF,
SIDA and CIDA. Those planning to support the construction of urban water supply infrastructure as participants in
GOM's National Water Development Program include the Netherlands, the African Development Bank, EU, CFD, KfW
and the European Investment Bank. Austria will be supporting the establishment of the water resources management
body for the central region, and the African Development Bank will be supporting the rehabilitation of Massingir Dam.
10. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The project design draws on lessons from projects of the Bank and other development agencies in the sector and in other
infrastructure and natural resources management areas. First, community consultation, mobilization and leadership are
essential prerequisites for sustainability in water supply and sanitation services, particularly in rural services and the
management of public standpipes in periurban areas. Second, water infrastructure development should be accompanied
by effective water resources management. Third, development of a workforce with relevant skills and qualifications, and
ongoing self-sustained programs of skill enhancement, are important prerequisites of service improvement and
sustainability. The ICR for the recently completed PRU project reported several lessons from the experience of that
project which have been drawn upon in designing this project. They are:
*  In a complex and uncertain environment, marked by weak capacity in the country, project design has to be well
focused on the key issues and constraints. Design should be clear and preferably simple, and above all, built on the
capacity of the involved agencies. Key issues include weak or non-existent capacity in financial and human resource
management, and in the management of the three major subsectors: urban water supply, rural water supply and
sanitation, water resources management. Strengthening these is a major emphasis of the project.
*  Implementors must be diligent in enforcing appropriate policy measures. Without such, the sustainability of physical
improvements is undermined. The project would establish an environment which would encourage long term
sustainability of the present sound policy framework, in particular by means of the proposed private sector
management contracts for the urban water supply systems of the five cities, and through improved donor
coordination.
.  More emphasis needs to be put on creating strong information systems and insisting on regular and timely progress
reporting, throughout the life of the project. In the case of a ministry or similar government implementing agency,
such systems should be applicable to general operations as well as to the project. The monitoring and reporting
arrangements are being designed to achieve this.
.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
11. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
In August 1995, GOM approved the NWP, in which it committed itself to the strategies discussed previously, and to
private sector management of the five water companies of Maputo, Beira, Quelimane, Nampula, and Pemba. GOM has
approved the RWSS transition plan, has implemented increases and improvements to urban tariffs in two major steps, and
is completing its consideration of a new tariff policy, which builds on the NWP and proposes further steps in tariff reform
for urban water services. Bulk water supply tariffs for the southern region, covering urban water companies, irrigation,
and industrial uses were recently increased substantially, and charges for water used for power generation at Corumana
Dam were introduced. GOM has confirmed its commitment to the project in consultations with IDA, and through
representations by delegations to the Bank in July and November 1997, led by the Minister. GOM has also confirmed its
commitment to the principle of community consultation and participation essential to success in this project. Consistent
with this, it has: (1) approved the RWSS reform; (2) displayed and presented the draft Environmental Assessment



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                  Page 9
Country: Mozambique                                                    Project Tite: National Water Development - Sector Support
throughout the country and invited and accepted comment; (3) demonstrated its support for the beneficiary assessment
process under way with IDA and SDC support, and has used the results to enrich and support the submissions to the
National Council of Ministers on urban tariff reform; and (4) used consultative approaches in all of its policy and
planning initiatives on this project, including approval and promulgation of the NWP, its preparation and acceptance of
the RWSS transition plan, and preparation of the HRD strategy document. GOM will urgently upgrade financial
budgeting and management within DNA.
12. Value added of Bank support:
Several bilateral and multilateral development agencies and a number of NGOs have been providing Mozambique with
assistance for many years, with European bilateral agencies dominant in urban water supply, and most of the bilateral and
multilateral agencies and NGOs active in rural water supply and sanitation. While there have been limited local
successes, much of this assistance has not resulted in sustainable benefits. This has been due to a combination of factors:
requirements to respond to war emergency situations, the lack of a national policy (until 1995), poor management,
institutional arrangements that contained incentives favoring failure rather than success, and fragmented approaches by
donors. With assistance from IDA and other donors, particularly the Netherlands, SDC and UNDP, GOM has completed
the development of its NWP framework for sustainable action in the sector. The proposed project would assist and enable
GOM to carry these strategies into action.
.............................................................................................................................................................. ................................................................................. .............
Block 3: Summary Project Assessments
[x]   Cost-Benefit Analysis for the Maputo Water Supply    [I   Cost      [  Other
13. Economic assessment:         System, considering relevant components of this project  Effectiveness
(See Annex 4 for Economic         jointly with relevant components of the proposed NWD-   Analysis:
Analysis.)                        II Project: NPV=US$84.9 million; ERR = 26%
The components of this project are in each case preparatory for other projects, or in the nature of sector reform. The
project as a whole is thus not amenable to economic analysis. However, a preliminary assessment of the likely economic
rate of return of the Maputo water supply system has been made and has shown a strong economic rate of return (Annex
4). Similar water supply privatizations have in most cases resulted in substantial improvement in economic and financial
performance. Preliminary analysis indicates the same for ARA-Sul. The RWSS pilot schemes will be designed and
implemented in a beneficiary-led demand driven manner, and under rules which will require that as conditions of
eligibility, communities agree to contribute in cash and/or kind to the capital costs of the physical facilities, to cover all
operations and maintenance costs, and to make satisfactory arrangements for system operation and the collection and
safekeeping of funds. Demonstrations of willingness to pay in line with these provisions will contribute towards ensuring
that economic benefits exceed costs.
.......................................................................................................... .................................................................... ...................................................I........................
14. Financial assessment:
This project has the characteristics of a technical assistance project in that it is oriented to sector reformn. The objectives o
the investments proposed are primarily to create conditions for the reform of the subsectors. It is thus not possible to
calculate a financial rate of return for this project. However, the positive impacts of this project, in terms of the financial
health and sustainability of the sector, are expected to be great. Perhaps as a result of Mozambique's history of central
planning, knowledge and application of sound financial practices within the water sector are virtually non-existent. At the
sector level, for example, to date there has been no person or section whose mandate is to monitor the sector's financial
flows, whether from the Government budget or generated by the individual water authorities; this is particularly
problematic in regard to disbursements of the sector investment budget, which have been dropping in real terms and
reached their lowest level in six years in 1996. At the level of the water providers, including the five city water companies
to be assisted under this project and ARA-Sul, accounts are not kept adequately; only Agua de Maputo (once) and Aguas
da Beira (twice) have been audited, and the auditors were unable to make a judgment because of poor quality.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                 Page 10
Country: Mozambique                                                    Project Tile: National Water Development - Sector Support
This project will initiate the introduction of sound financial management to the sector, built on the principles of
accountability, cost recovery, efficiency and transparency. One of the most important results of this project will be the
hiring of a financial management specialist for DNA whose mandate will be to design and develop a financial planning
function for the sector, including liaising with and assisting water providers, and the implementation of accounting and
budgeting systems. At the level of the water companies, Government and the Bank have agreed that the most effective
way to initiate sound financial processes is through the privatization of the management function. The operations of
ARA-Sul will be strengthened through the consultancies to be financed under this project. The human resource
development component will complement and overlap this work, through its financial training activities.
The follow-on project to this project, National Water Development II, will, for the five city water supply services, build on
and solidify the financial strengthening begun under this project.
Fiscal impact:
The development of the sector planning and budgeting function is expected to have a strong positive impact on the fiscal
situation. In the short term, the development of this function should enable DNA to work with Ministry of Planning and
Finance to improve the volume and timeliness of disbursements of the sector budget. In the longer term, the results of this
project, combined with the follow-on project, will result in more autonomous and financially self-sufficient water
providers, including ARA-Sul and the water companies of the five cities, thereby reducing their demands on central
Government resources and enabling these resources to be used for other productive purposes in the sector.
15. Technical assessment:
The physical works components of this project are small to medium scale, and consist of design and construction of (1)
new and rehabilitated demonstration small piped systems and point source water supplies, (2) restoration of urban water
supply headworks and transmission systems, and (3) safety-related rehabilitation of Corumana Dam. The technical need
for the urban works was established in studies by international consultants financed through projects jointly funded by
IDA and the Netherlands, and accepted by GOM. The process of selection of the demonstration rural water supply
projects will take place through community consultation in line with the agreed demand oriented processes, assisted by
qualified technical advice where required. The small restoration works for urban water supply were identified in the
course of the above studies and subsequently reconfirmed during the investigations by the international consultancy on
private sector management of the water companies. All design and construction work will be subject to normal inspection,
acceptance and handover procedures, except that in case of the RWSS works, the benefiting community will also be
involved in this process. Corumana Dam: The need for rehabilitation at Corumana Dam became increasingly apparent
after the flood of February, 1996, during which the spillway discharged and caused further erosion at the toe of the
spillway. A subsequent inspection and report by a dam engineering specialist (Annex 7, reference 10) reconfirmed the
need for rehabilitation works. The works will not change the operating level and storage capacity of the reservoir or the
release, spill or water quality characteristics, and thus there would be no resettlement, and no adverse riparian or aquatic
environmental effects. GOM will employ an independent panel of experts to review investigations, design, and
construction.
............................................................................................................I...............................................................................................................................................
16. Institutional assessment:
a. Executing agencies: By developing the NWP and using it effectively to support implementation of the first steps of
tariff reform and private sector management of the urban water sector, and initiating a reform path for the RWSS and
WRM subsectors, MOPH and DNA have demonstrated strong abilities to formulate and implement a reform-oriented
policy agenda. All sector agencies are, however, weak in technical skills in their key specialties, and extremely weak in
financial and human resources management capacities. The project incorporates measures to redress these weaknesses in
the subsectors addressed by this project.
b. Project management: DNA has had experience in the management of projects consisting of individual works but not
of an integrated project supporting reform of subsectors or of sector-wide functions like HRD. Accordingly GOM has



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                    Page 11
Country: Mozambique                                                      Project Title: National Water Development - Sector Support
assembled a team for the leadership and coordination of the program, under a PL who reports directly to the ND.
...............................................................  ................................................................................................................... .........................................
17. Social assessment:
Experience in Mozambique and elsewhere has demonstrated that beneficiary preferences as to the types, location, and
management of water sources, and existing informal vendors, all influence project sustainability via the willingness of
residents to accept "ownership" of assets, pay the costs of operations and maintenance, refrain from vandalism, or to
contribute time to maintain investments. Preparations therefore included beneficiary assessments of the communities of
the five cities to gain an understanding of these issues. Implementation of the RWSS and WRM components will also
include beneficiary assessments, to assist in the identification of demand, and the social characterization of communities
and stakeholder groups to assist in the design of involvement and consultation mechanisms, to ensure that decision making
is well structured, fully informed and soundly based. Beneficiary assessments and consultations so far have highlighted
the diversity of communities, the effects of past dislocation due to war, widely varying levels of income, and high levels
of willingness to pay for improved water services.
......      ........I.............................................I................................... . ........ .......... ..........................................................
18. Environmental assessment:              Environmnental Category        [   A          [X]  B           [ ]   C
An environmental assessment (EA) has been undertaken for this project and the NWD-II Project (MZ-PE-52240) jointly.
The EA was subject to display and public discussion and comment in five towns and cities, and relevant comments have
been incorporated in the final document. No adverse comments were received about the components of this project. No
cases of resettlement as a result of works in this project were identified during project preparation. Nevertheless, should a
requirement for any resettlement be identified for any works under this project, resettlement plans acceptable to IDA will
be prepared and furnished to IDA for agreement, and funding identified for their implementation, before the works
commence. Through the EA, the beneficiary assessments and other consultations and studies, concerns were expressed
about improved water supplies generating more wastewater in the cities. This project responds by incorporating a
planning and design study for the provision of upgraded sanitation and drainage, in preparation for implementation under
the proposed Urban Environment Project. Environmental monitoring will be provided for in the terms of reference of
studies which would result in works or management programs where environmental effects or management are issues,
including the studies of international rivers and the sanitation planning studies, and will be coordinated through the
Ministry of the Environment with other environmental programs. A requirement to undertake environmental assessments
will be included in terms of reference for studies on the planning and design of works and for changes in the operation of
river systems. The design review work preparing for the safety-related works for Corumana Dam (which will not result in
any change in reservoir operating levels or release rules, and will involve no resettlement) will be accompanied by an EA
to ensure effective identification, management and minimization of any environmental impacts. International Rivers:
The project supports joint studies of the water resources of several international rivers. In compliance with the Bank's
policies in regard to international waterways, GOM has provided IDA with copies of letters written to the upstream
riparian countries (South Africa, Swaziland, Zimbabwe and Zambia) advising them of GOM's intention to undertake such
joint studies.
...............................................................................................................................I........................................................ ..................................................................
19. Participatory approach:                   Identification/Preparation     Implementation          Operation
Beneficiaries/community groups CON                             CON and COL             COL
Intermediary NGOs CON                              CON and COL             COL
Academic institutions COL (WRM)                      COL (WRM)               COL (WRM)
Local government IS                              IS                      IS
Other donors CON and COL                    CON and COL             CON and COL
Public sector agencies participating in reforms CON and COL                 CON and COL             COL
IS: Informnation Sharing. CON: Consultation. COL: Collaboration
20. Sustainability:
The creation of conditions for sustainability is a primary focus of this project. Each component is designed to incorporate



Project Appraisal Document                                                                              Page 12
Country: Mozambique                                                  Project Title: National Water Development - Sector Support
the sustainability principles contained in the NWP: (1) Institutional Reform and Policy Development: Supports
development of policies and consequent institutional reform that will enhance sustainability in water services and resource
management. (2) Preparation for Private Sector Management of Water Companies: Takes early steps towards
sustainability of urban water supply services, the main vehicle for which will be IDA's NWD-II Project. (3) RWSS: This
component will re-orient institutional arrangements and practices to promote a demand driven approach. (4) WRM:
Supports ARA-Sul to become self sufficient in the management of releases and diversions; (5) HRD: Sustainability
requires an adequately skilled workforce, the aim of this component.
.........................................................................I................................................................... ..............................................................................................................
21. Critical risks (see fourth column of Annex 1):
Project outputs to development objectives:
Risk                         Risk Rating               Risk Minimization Measure
Macroeconomic and political instability.      Modest
Lack of political will to invite private      Modest            Preparation includes full evaluation of the benefits
participation in private sector management                      of PSM and dialogue on the proposal with
(PSM) of water companies, with good market                      stakeholders in Mozambique. Bidding and award
based entry.                                                    of contacts will be competitive and based on
World Bank procurement guidelines
Backtracking on tariff policy for water       Risk of delay may  Continued policy dialogue between the Bank and
companies and water resources management      be high.          GOM. Once a PSM contract for the water supply
bodies.                                                         systems of the five cities is in place, contractual
penalties and other adverse effects on customers
and governments tend to discourage tariff
backtracking. GOM's well structured internal
dialogue on tariffs, which has built a succession of
decisions on the NWP, has increased commitment.
Lack of commitment to policies for            Modest            Project supports (1) preparation of detailed change
decentralizing service delivery, stakeholder                    program, and (2) MOPH's planned consultation
participation in decision making, and demand-                   with potential beneficiaries and advocacy of their
driven implementation and operation of rural                    interests with other stakeholders.
water supplies and sanitation.
International goodwill and cooperation decline to Varies with   The participants in the Global Water Partnership
the point where there is no cooperation in    country from low  including the World Bank are making
moving towards equitable allocations of the   to high           arrangements to support SADC Water Unit, based
waters of international rivers.                                 in Lesotho, and the SADC countries, to create an
environment supportive of constructive dialogue
between upstream and downstream riparians.
Budget allocations lower than agreed levels, and  High          At negotiations, GOM committed to: adequate and
disbursements to DNA from MPF are delayed or                    timely provision counterpart funding requirements;
lower than the approved budget.                                 and appointment of a finance manager in DNA.
Preparations have supported new efforts by DNA
in budgeting, and dialogue with Ministry of
Planning and Finance.
Inadequate management capacity on the part of  Modest           At negotiations, GOM committed to the
DNA to implement the project successfully.                      appointment of managers for finance and HRD
functions. Project supports extensive HRD.
Project components to outputs:
Risk                      - Risk Rating               Risk Minimization Measures



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                       Page 13
Country: Mozambique                                                        Project Title: National Water Development - Sector Support
Institution Building and Policy Development.    Modest                Clear designation of leadership responsibility and
As in almost every organization subject to                            authority and a fully consultative approach
change, some of the central units undoubtedly                         supported by detailed planning and scheduling
contain some individuals personally reluctant to                      should control these risks.
contribute actively to GOM's change agenda.
There is a risk that such opposition could slow
down reforms such as decentralisation.
Preparations for PSM of urban water supply.       Modest              PSM: GOM is publicly advocating the benefits of
Controversy over PSM could affect political                           this proposal and its characteristic as contracted
commitment. The generally poor condition of                           management with GOM retaining asset ownership.
the transmission systems and trunk distribution                       System risks: The proposed works address the
mains and tanks could result in system failure                        most serious known of these risks. Support
and consequent cessation of all or part of                            planned under the NWD-II project would enable
revenue until supply is restored. For some                            the PSM operators to assess and remedy other risk
works, flooding could delay completion.                               areas.
RWSS: Low level of skills to support this major  Modest               The RWSS component is designed support the
change. The stakeholders may not have the                             change processes through stakeholder involvement
commitment to stay with the time consuming                            in more detailed planning and design, continued
process of community consultation that is                             information dissemination, responsive to
required.                                                             stakeholder feedback. Project supports extensive
stakeholder consultation.
WRM: ARA-Sul has few of the skills to             Modest              For both ARA-Sul and GRI, the project supports
transform itself to a commercial-customer-                            skill development; for ARA-Sul, evolution of
oriented organization. GRI has only limited                           business plans and administrative systems; for
access to skilled experienced water resources                         GRI, supporting water resources studies.
professionals, and little knowledge of
development and management options.
Negotiations on international rivers will require                     SADC water sector initiative supports a
each party to adopt a consistent approach to                          multilateral approach which should strengthen the
confidence building. Departure of either party                        incentives of the parties to maintain positive
from this could set back progress.                                    negotiating relationships.
HRD: Hitherto DNA has had insufficient            Modest              Appointment of qualified HR Manager, and
management capacity to implement such a                               creation of HR unit, and development of HR
program.                                                              strategy.
Overall project risk rating:
Risk                            Risk Rating
The overall risk that the project could fail to   Modest              Risks are mitigated in particular by the MOPH's
achieve its development outcome is moderate.                          strong management of the policy dialogue within
The risk of it failing to achieve a satisfactory                      Government and the public sector.
preparation for the two IDA projects for which it
supports preparatory studies and works is also
moderate.
~   ~ ~~~~~; i.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
22. Possible controversial aspects:
The Government's program of privatization has become controversial in Mozambique. This increases the scrutiny which
the public is likely to give to the proposal for private sector management of the water companies, and the sensitivity of the
public to concern which may be expressed about it. The Minister has emphasized publicly that (1) the water sector
proposals are receiving very thorough and careful preparation, and the operator(s) will be subject to strong regulatory



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 14
Country: Mozambique                                             Project ridle: National Water Development - Sector Support
oversight; and (2) the proposal differs from most previous privatizations in Mozambique in that the Government will
retain ownership of the assets, and the Operators will be contracted managers. Public exposure of the components of this
project during the Environmental Assessment process, discussion of the RWSS component among stakeholders, and
reporting in the media concerning the international rivers issue, did not bring to light serious adverse concern on the part
of the public, although some were concerned about the influx of foreigners that PSM would bring, and the likely increase
in tariffs. Controversy, if any, other than about PSM, may be generated by (1) stakeholders within the public sector who
may see themselves adversely affected by the reforms proposed, and (2) illegal users of water, as water resources
management and urban water supply management improve and prevent or penalize illegal use.
Block 4: Main Loan Conditions
23. Effectiveness and Disbursement Conditions:
As conditions of effectiveness the Government would:
* appoint the project accountant and the Manager Finance;
* furnish a completed Project Implementation Plan satisfactory to IDA.
As conditions of disbursement, the Government would:
* on works that contain or result in resettlement, provide resettlement plans acceptable to IDA and identify funding for
their implementation;
*  on HRD, appoint of the Human Resources Manager.
24. Assurances:
During negotiations, GOM gave assurances on the following:
Project Implementation:
*  GOM would maintain within DNA, through the duration of the project, (a) a Project Leader who would report to the
National Director and be responsible for planning and coordinating project activities. The Project Leader would be
assisted by a team of administrative staff, including an accountant, an engineer, and for the first two years a
procurement specialist, in accordance with TORs and qualifications acceptable to IDA, and (b) a financial
management specialist with responsibility for the establishment and development of financial management functions.
*  GOM will monitor the implementation and progress of the project in accordance with performance indicators agreed
upon in the DCA.
 Government will support the investment program with counterpart funds on a timely basis to fulfill the project cash
flow needs.
*  GOM will issue a decree, satisfactory to IDA, the provisions of which will support the management of water delivery
to and diversions by irrigators and other water users, by end November 1998.
*  Reform of the provision of rural water and sanitation services will be carried out in accordance with the Rural Water
Supply Transition Plan.
*  Beneficiary assessments (BAs) of stakeholders in rural water supply demonstration projects, and of users of water
released from storages by ARA-Sul, will be conducted at the milestones specified in the project implementation
manual.
*  Within six months after the closing date of the project, GOM will prepare and furnish to the Bank a plan designed to
ensure the sustainability of the project.
Environmental Management:
* GOM has agreed to criteria and procedures satisfactory to IDA for assessing the environmental impacts of
prospective investments and for mitigating possible adverse impacts.



Proect Appraisal Document                                                                                  Page 15
Country: Mozambique                                                    Projec Title: National Water Development - Sector Support
Annual Reviews:
* GOM will carry out an annual review of the project not later than March 31 of each year.
Mid-Term Review:
* By December 31, 2000, GOM, with the Bank, will carry out a mid-term review of the project.
Block 5: Compliance with Bank Policies
I [x]   This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Taf s eader: John Shepherd                                       Country Manager: Phyllis Pomerantz



I



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 3
MOZAMBIQUE
NATIONAL WATER DEVELOPMENT I
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary    Key Performance Indicators       Monitoring and        Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
Sector-related CAS    - Development of sectoral database, - Agency records of  (Goal to Bank Mission)
Goal:                 including information on population  customers and    Civil order, macroeconomic
Foster a poverty      with convenient access to safe,  standards of service  stability and growth with
reducing pattern of   reliable water supplies: February    achieved (water  equity in Mozambique
growth through        2000.                           companies); beneficiary  continue.
improved water                                        assessments (DNA)
infrastructure services,                              - Treaties with
management of natural                                 upstream riparians
resources, and                                        providing equitable
development of human                                  water allocations.
resources.                                            Measurement of flows
and quality of water at
key stations (GRI,
ARAs).
Project Development   - Central regulating body       DNA and ARA-Sul       (Objective to Goal)
Objective:           established and staffed in      reports, and IDA/DNA   Maintenance of
Increase the capacities   preparation for private sector  reviews.          macroeconomic and political
of the organizations  management of urban water supply                      stability.
and people of the     systems.                                              Government support
sector, and prepare for                                                     continues for change agenda
the private sector    - Bids invited for private sector                     of National Water Policy.
management of the     management of five urban water
urban water supply   supply companies, and evaluated by -                   No backtracking on tariff
systems of five cities,   November 1998.                                    policy for water companies
so that sector                                                              and water resources
organizations can    - Pilot piped rural water supply  Beneficiary          management bodies.
provide sustainable   systems rehabilitated and in    assessments.
water supply and      operation as autonomous entities                      Mozambique and upstream
sanitation services to an  with full stakeholder participation;             countries continue building
increasing proportion    similarly for wells and boreholes.                 relationships to work
of the community and                                                       towards equitable sharing of
manage water resources - Proposals completed to develop                     intemational water
sustainably.         and manage the Incomati and                            resources, in line with
Pungue Rivers jointly with                            SADC Protocol on
upstream riparians. ARA-Sul                           International Waters.
operates with income fully covering
bulk water supply operations and
maintenance.
- HRD program in action, in line
with nationally agreed strategy.



Outputs:                                                                   (Outputs to Objective)
Central:               Central Sector Management: Plan for Issue of bidding
-Institutional capacity    development of finance function  documents for private  Political will continues to
established for financial   within DNA is agreed, and  sector management of invite private participation
management of DNA and  implementation under way:       water companies.    in infrastructure
to supervise and promote  December 1998.                                   management, with good
private management and   Bids invited and evaluated for                    market based entry.
commercialization of   private sector management of the
water utilities.      five water companies. Central                        Commitment continues to
regulating body established and                     policies for stakeholder
staffed in preparation for private                  participation in decision
sector management of urban water                    making, and a demand-
supply systems: November 1998.                      driven decentralized
approach to rural water
Urban:                 Urban Water Supply and Sanitation:  Supply reliability for  supplies and sanitation.
-Preparations completed   Works to secure water supply  Beira and Pemba
for private sector     reliability for Beira and Pemba  improves by        Budget allocations are in
management of five     designed, constructed and in    eliminating         line with agreed levels, and
urban water companies.   operation: July 2001. Sanitation  headworks-caused  disbursements to DNA
-Sanitation plans      strategy, designs and documentation  outages of >12 hours.  from MPF are timely and
completed for the five    completed: January 2001.     Supervision missions  in line with the approved
cities.                                                every six months.   budget, as agreed by
RWSS: Rural water supply and                        GOM.
RWSS:                  sanitation transition plan (RWSTP):  Data on RWSS
-Institutional capacity    appointment of steering committee   maintained by project. Salaries and conditions
established to manage a   and directorate body: June 1998.                 adequate to retain a core of
decentralized demand-    Approval of central institutional                 trained staff.
driven rural water supply  strengthening plan and RWSTP
and sanitation service;    national communication strategy:
-Pilot projects completed. June 1999. First small piped system
in Inhambane rehabilitated/
improved under autonomous
management, with full stakeholder
participation: December 2001.
WRM: Business Plan for ARA-Sul
WRM:                   approved: May 1999. Intemational  Project and annual
-Institutional capacity    river basin management and  reports (DNA and
established to manage  development plans started: March    ARA-Sul). Outputs of
water resources and    1999.                           planning studies on
operate a self-supporting                              water resources
bulk water supply                                      management and
service.                                               sanitation.
-Joint studies on key
international rivers.  HRD: Strategy for human resources
development agreed upon, action  Technical audits.
HRD                    plan developed, and implementation
-Training programs     under way: February 1999.
implemented.



Project Components/   Inputs (budgets for each                             Components to Outputs:
Subcomponents:         component): (USS)
1. Institution building and  1. $5.6 million            1. Continuing policy  As in almost every
policy development:                                     dialogue.          organization subject to
1.1 Build regulating and    1.1 $1.5m                   Biennial supervision  change, some of the central
monitoring capacity                                     missions.          units undoubtedly contain
1.2 Upgrade and reorient    1.2 $3.Om                                      some individuals
central management of                                                      personally reluctant to
the sector                                                                 contribute actively to
1.3 Upgrade National    1.3 $1.1m                                          GOM's change agenda.
Water Policy                                                               Assumed that such
opposition will not slow
2. Preparation for                                                         down reforms.
privatization of urban  2. $7.2 miDlion
water supply:                                           2.1 Programmed     - Political commitment
2.1 Evaluate and award  2.1 $2.0 m                      preparation of     continues
tenders for PSM of 5 city                               NWD-I1 Project.    - Supply interruptions will
water companies                                         2.2 Design reviews.  be few and will not result
2.2 Design and construct   2.2 $3.2 m                   Construction       in major revenue loss.
emergency works                                         supervision contract.  -Assumed that the budget
2.3 Prepare sanitation  2.3 $2.0 m                      2.3 Study outputs.    makes sufficient allowance
plans                                                                      for extensive option
preparation due to poor
3. Rural water supply and  3. $15.2 million                                drainage conditions.
sanitation:
3.1 Implement the Rural    3.1 $4.5m                    3.1 Transition Task   Commitment continues to
Water Supply and                                        Force Reports.     a demand-driven
Sanitation Transition                                   Biennial supervision  decentralized approach.
Plan                                                    missions.
3.2 Consolidate new     3.2 $5.Om                       3.2 Construction
methodologies through                                   supervision
pilot projects in                                       contracts.
Imhambane Province:
Small Piped System
3.3 Ditto for Point Source   3.3 $5.7m
Supplies
4. Water resources     4. $12.4million
management:
4.1 Strengthen ARA-Sul,   4.1 $4.5m                                        Formalization of water
and GRI                                                 4.1 Agency reports.  rights and payment
4.2 Water resources     4.2 $3.5m                       Minutes of meetings  obligations of irrigators
policy and international                                of customer        will be conducted in a
rivers                                                  representatives    consultative manner,
4.3 Rehabilitation of   4.3 $4.4m                       4.2. Task force    minimizing controversy.
Corumana Dam                                           reports. SADC
Water Sector Unit
meetings & reports.
DNA design review.  Assume that HRD
5. Implement HRD       5. $4.3million                                      management skills and
program                                                 DNA/IDA reviews   organization are sufficient.



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 3
MOZAMBIQUE
NATIONAL WATER DEVELOPMENT I
Detailed Project Description
Project Component 1 - US$5.6 million (total cost of component)
Institution Building and Policy Development. This component is aimed at reorienting the central
sector organizations and strengthening their capacities in areas identified by the National Water Policy as their
designated areas of sector leadership. In doing this it will be necessary at the same time to refresh and extend
parts of the National Water Policy itself, to ensure that some of the sector agencies are provided with the strategic
guidance required, and to ensure that the NWP continues to be the "living", constantly-used document that it has
so far proved to be. The subcomponents and their base costs are:
(a) Development of a regulatory framework, and monitoring and regulatory capacity (base cost US$ 1.5 million):
Develop a regulatory framework and capacity to ensure that the interests of Mozambique and its urban
communities are well served by the proposed contract(s) for private sector management of the cities of Maputo,
Beira, Quelimane, Nampula, and Pemba and to provide a regulatory guidance to the water companies of the other
cities.
(b) Development of capacity in planning and management, particularly in finance (base cost US$3.0 million):
Reorient DNA in line with the NWP's vision of DNA withdrawing from involvement in direct service provision,
but instead providing strategic direction to the sector. DNA will as an early priority be strengthened in planning
and management, particularly in finance, and a management information system will be provided. The capacities
of provincial level organizations will be strengthened. The strengthening of DNA and provincial organizations
will also be supported through the construction, refurbishment and furnishing of office buildings and of housing
for provincial staff.
(c) Development of sectoral policy and strategies (base cost US$ 1.1 million): Development of sectoral policy and
strategies, through stakeholder involvement supported where necessary by technical assistance and studies.
Included will be (1) a refreshed and extended National Water Policy; (2) provincial development strategies; (3)
strategies for urban sanitation provision, to provide a policy framework for sanitation provision under the
proposed Urban Environment Project. Areas targeted for new and improved national policy include water
resources, sanitation and environment.
Project Component 2 - US$7.2 million (total cost of component)
Preparation for Private Sector Management of Urban Water Supply.
(a) Studies -for Private Sector Management of Urban Water Supply (base cost US$2.0 million): This
subcomponent will support the continuation of the studies for-the preparation for private sector management of
the water supply systems of Maputo, Beira, Quelimane, Nampula and Pemba, including evaluation and award of
tenders for the private sector management contract(s), and design of works, including the pumping station and
pipeline from the proposed well field to Quelimane.
(b) Emergency Works (base cost US$3.2 million): Design and construction of emergency works to ensure more
secure operation of the headworks systems, including the Beira and Pemba water supplies, and including



rehabilitation, supply, installation and construction of well fields, pumping stations, power supplies, channels,
channel control and regulating works, pipework, tanks, valves, meters, and road, culvert and bridge works.
(c) Sanitation Planning (base cost US$2.0 million): Preparation of sanitation feasibility studies and plans for the
cities of Maputo, Beira, Quelimane, Nampula and Pemba, taking into account the increasing generation of
wastewater arising from the planned upgrading of water supplies in the cities, including the cleaning, inspection
of and minor repairs to the existing sewerage reticulation systems, and the preparation of designs and contract
documentation.
Project Component 3 - US$15.2 million (total cost of component)
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation. This component supports the Govermment in undertaking the first
steps towards its objective of providing increased coverage of rural water supply services to low income groups in
rural areas, with all services operated and maintained so as to be sustainable.
(a) Implementation of the Rural Water Supply Transition Plan (base cost US$4.5 million): GOM will establish
the proposed Rural Water Supply Transition Task Force which will plan the day-to-day transition steps in detail
and supervise its implementation. The Transition Plan includes programs (I) to change the mode of
implementation and operation from a supply-driven mode to one which is demand driven and (2) to decentralize
the provision of rural water supply services. The component will therefore support the development and
implementation of processes that involve communities in determining the facilities required, sharing in the cost of
construction, and being fully responsible for the arrangements under which operations and maintenance are
carried out, and for their costs. In addition, the present arrangements in which the central agency responsible for
RWSS, PRONAR (a department of DNA), has field implementation responsibilities, will be changed to
arrangements in which implementation is undertaken at provincial and district level. The component will support
PRONAR to change its role to that of coordinator and facilitator of provincial and district programs, and will
strengthen capacities in selected provinces and districts.
(b) Small Piped Systems (SPS), Pilot Schemes, Inhambane (base cost US$5.0 million): Identification of a number
of candidate SPSs, selection of several for rehabilitation and extension, strengthening the relevant provincial and
district capacities to undertake RWSS work in a demand oriented manner, undertaking the required work with the
communities in line with the demand oriented approach, design and construction of the works, and monitoring
performance. Prepare for investment in point source rural water supply and sanitation.
(c) Point Source Rural Water Supply, Inhambane (base cost US$5.7 million): Identifying community demand
for rural water supply assistance, determining candidate locations for point source rural water supply facilities,
community mobilization, design and implementation of rural water supplies, and performance monitoring.
Project Component 4 - US$12.4 million (total cost of component)
Water Resources Management. This component assists the Government in meeting its objectives of
securing adequate water resources to support future development in Mozambique, and managing those water
resources effectively.
(a) Strengthening ARA-Sul and GRI (base cost US$4.5 million): ARA-Sul, the water resources management
body for southern Mozambique, will be supported in preparing a plan of action to become financially self
sufficient and an annual business plan, and in its efforts to implement these plans. Assistance will include: the
provision of operating equipment, and the establishment, with the aid of technical assistance, and equipment and
works for the control and measurement of water, of a system of administration and management of the release of
water from its storages to water users downstream, in a manner which involves users in all decisions such as
policing illegal use, the minimization of wastage and the tradeoffs between supply volumes and risks of shortfall.
GRI, the Office of International Rivers, will be strengthened and supported in its work in negotiating with
upstream riparian countries allocations of water for Mozambique from its international rivers, that will provide
for future development and are fair and equitable to all riparian countries.



(b) Water Resources Strategy Development and Studies: (base cost US$3.5 million) The subcomponent will
commence with the development of a national policy and strategy for the Water Resources subsector. This would
be conducted through extensive stakeholder involvement supported by technical assistance and brief
reconnaissance studies. It would include: (1) steps in the further decentralization of water resources including a
program for the formation of additional regional water resources bodies (ARAs), (2) management of water
resources utilizing basin committees representing those who rely on the basin and have an incentive to manage it
well; (3) policies for the allocation and delivery of water for irrigation, and irrigator involvement in storage
management and system operation; and (4) bulk water pricing and cost recovery. A series of studies will be
conducted, jointly with upstream riparian states (which have been notified), on the water resources of the
international rivers and options for their further development and management, in order of priority as set by the
national strategy. River basins for early study would include the Umbeluzi, Incomati, and Pungue Rivers, the
Umbeluzi and Incomati being investigated jointly due to possible conjunctive use of the water resources of
adjacent basins. Groundwater resources would also be included. This work will also include studies and
facilities relating to flow and diversion measurement, and prefeasibility studies including field exploration and
testing for potential diversion and storage works. The Terms of Reference of the studies would include
environmental assessments of proposals for works and changed river management rules, and will require
proposals for environmental monitoring of water resources.
(c) Safety-related rehabilitation works, Corumana Dam. (base cost US$4.4 million) The Corumana Dam,
Mozambique's key dan in the Incomati catchment, is incomplete and is subject to safety risks, particularly due to
erosion at the toe of the spillway. The work will consist of: (1) a design review, environmental assessment, and
completion of bidding documents for phase I (safety/rehabilitation works) and Phase 2 (spillway gates and fuse
dyke to raise the operating level and storage capacity of the reservoir); and (2) construction and construction
supervision for Phase 1 only. A panel of dam Experts will be appointed to advise GOM on the design and
construction.
Project Component 5 - US$4.3 million (total cost of component)
Human Resources Development. (base cost US$4.3 million): This component is aimed at alleviating
one of the most important constraints on good performance of the water sector in general, with special attention to
the needs and requirements of the urban water activities of NWD-II Project. A human resources development
strategy will be prepared and agreed based upon a comprehensive options paper developed through extensive
consultations and stakeholder involvement during project preparation. This component will then support the
implementation of the strategy. Elements of the strategy would include (a) support of the institutions providing
education and training of managerial and professional personnel, and other personnel involved in the process of
institutional reform and development, in key management functions such as finance, human resources, planning,>.
regulation and monitoring; (b) support of candidates undertaking training and the temporary plugging of gaps in <
the water sector organizations providing key officers for training; (c) the development of personnel policies and
practices based on equality of opportunity, performance evaluation and consistent emolument policies and
sanctions; (d) the support of incentives encouraging consistent good performance; (e) adequate personnel policies
and incentives, as well as other measures, should aim to promote the full utilization and retention of existing staff,
in parallel with the recruitment of additional selected personnel. An initial emphasis of IDA-supported training in
this project will be at the management and professional level, later widening to subprofessional and basic skills
training.



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2
MOZAMBIQUE
NATIONAL WATER DEVELOPMENT I
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                 Local    Foreign    Total
-------------US $ million--------
1. Institution Building and Policy Development
(a) Capacity building: regulation and monitoring   0.6         0.9       1.5
(b) Capacity building: planning and management     1.1         1.9       3.0
(c) Policy studies                                 0.1         1.0       1.1
1.8         3.8      5.6
2. Preparation for Privatization of Urban Water Supply
(a) Studies -Private Sector Management             0.2         1.8       2.0
(b) Emergency Works                                1.3         1.9       3.2
(c) Sanitation Planning                            0.2         1.8       2.0
1.7         5.5      7.2
3. Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
(a) Implement RWSS transition plan                 1.6         2.9       4.5
(b) Small piped systems, Inhambane Province        2.0         3.0       5.0
(c) Point source RWSS, Inhambane Province          2.3         3.4       5.7
5.9         9.3     15.2
4. Water Resources Management
(a) Strengthen ARA-Sul and GRI                     0.8         2.3       3.1
(b)Water Resources Policy and International Rivers  0.5        4.4       4.9
(c) Rehabilitation of Corumana Dam                 1.4         3.0       4.4
2.7         9.7     12.4
5. Human Resources Development                          1.5         2.8      4.3
Project Management                                      1.8         0.2      2.0
PPF refinancing                                        0.8          1.2      2.0
Total Baseline Cost                                    14.6        34.1     48.7
Physical Contingencies                                 0.9          2.1      3.0
Price Contingencies                                     1.6         3.6      5.2
Total Project Cost                                     17.1        39.8     56.9



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
MOZAMBIQUE
NATIONAL WATER DEVELOPMENT I
Financing Plan
Component                                               IDA  NDF CIDA   SDC  SIDA GOM TOTAL
US$ million                  %
1. Institution Building and Policy Development
(a) Capacity building: regulation and monitoring    1.6                                      1.6
(b) Capacity building: planning and management      2.2                 0.7          0.4    3.3
(c) Policy studies                                  1.3                                      1.3
5.1                0.7          0.4    6.2  11%
2. Preparation for Privatization of Urban Water Supply
(a) Studies -Private Sector Management              2.3                                     2.3
(b) Emergency Works                                 3.5                              0.4    3.9
(c) Sanitation Planning                             2.3                                     2.3
8.1                             0.4    8.5  15%
3. Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
(a) Implement RWSS transition plan                  4.8                              0.4     5.2
(b) Small piped systems, Inhambane Province         5.5                              0.6    6.1
(c) Point source RWSS, Inhambane Province                        6.9                        6.9
10.3         6.9                 1.0   18.2  32%
4. Water Resources Management
(a) Strengthen ARA-Sul and GRI                      0.9   4.2                       0.1     5.2
(b)Water Resources Policy and International Rivers  0.7   2.7                 0.6           4.0
(c) Rehabilitation of Corumana Dam                  5.0                             0.4      5.4
6.6   6.9                0.6   0.5    14.6  26%
5. Human Resources Development                           1.8                3.3          0.1     5.2   9%
Project Management                                       2.1                             0.1     2.2   4%
PPF refinancing                                          2.0                                     2.0   4%
Total Project Cost                                      36.0   6.9   6.9   4.0   0.6   2.5    56.9 100%
Percentage                                              63%   12%   12%    7%    1%    4%    100%



ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 4
MOZAMBIQUE
NATIONAL WATER DEVELOPMENT I
Economic Analysis
Introduction
This discussion of the economic assessment of the NWD-I project takes the broad interpretation of economic assessment.
It commences by identifying links between the economics of the project and the main categories of project preparation.
This is then followed by a summary of the economic analysis of the proposals for urban water supply to be commenced
under this project and completed under the proposed NWD-II project. This summary includes a sensitivity analysis.
Links to CAS and ESW
The CAS identifies three strategic priorities (paragraph 41):
. promoting rapid, broad-based private sector-led growth,
* capacity building and development of human resources, and
* strengthening development partnerships.
Interventions in line with these three priorities are the main thrusts of this project, in some cases (for example, urban and
ural water supply, alleviating the limited access to water which is a major constraint to private sector-led growth, see
paragraphs 43 and 44) as preparatory activities for subsequent implementation projects, in others (for example, human
resources development, see paragraph 49, and the creation of partnerships with riparian countries for the joint develpment
of shared water resources, see paragraph 54) as implementation, or as a mixture of the two (water resources where the
studies should lead to works subsequent to this project, and/or to changed river management regimes, such as reservoir
release rules changed to give greater basin-wide benefits).
Four Sector Studies had important impacts on the design of this project:
*  The "Provincial Towns Water Sector Study" (Annex 7C (3)) included economic analysis of the proposals to provide
physical investment to upgrade the urban water supply of 12 provincial cities and Maputo, concluding that such
investment would be economically justified, with the greatest net benefits occurring in the cases of the larger cities.
Both that study and later project preparation confirmed that measures to ensure financial viability were, however,
required to ensure sustainability. ( See note on Private Sector Participation (PSP) below)
*  Two beneficiary assessments of urban water supply, obtained social and economic information on the effects of
inadequate water supplies on those, mainly poor people, who pay high prices in the informal water supply market, and
established willingness to pay data. The study specifically for this project ("Beneficiary Assessment on Urban Water
in Mozambique - Maputo and Quelimane, Final Report", see Annex 7C (6)), showed that high prices were being paid
by the urban poor for informal water services (of inadequate reliability and quality). For example, the great majority
of the poor in Quelimane were paying US$0.87 to US$1.49 per cubic meter, at a time when the price being charged to
formal users was US$0.19. Through extensive surveys and focus groups, the study established willingness to pay at
higher levels than was expected. The basic information for the price elasticity curves (for the different districts in
which the communities face a range of different scarcity and monopoly conditions in each of the two cities) was
collected by this study.
*  The "Study of the Institutional Arrangements for the Provision of Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Services in
Mozambique" (Annex 7C (5)) presented recommendations and a proposed Rural Water Supply Transition Plan (since
adopted in principle by the Government) which is aimed at reforming the sector such that service provision becomes
demand driven and sustainable, with the communities contributing to the provision of the facilities, participating in
planning to ensure a good match with community needs, and full community responsibility for 0 & M.
*  The Environmental Assessment (Annex 7C (7)) contains an extensive discussion (in its Appendix B) of the
economics of the former NWDP. Much of the discussion focuses on the urban water supply issues including tariffs,
on most of which the Government has already taken strong positive action. Its conclusions relating especially to the



NWD-I include the need for resolution of a bulk water pricing policy, and for a program to ensure that the increasing
quantities of urban waste water do not become a problem.
Adequacy of Policy Environment
The policy framework, as described in Paragraph 6, main text, has matured from very poor at the commencement of
project preparation, to the point where: (1) it is adequate to support the implementation of this project, (2) the policies
covering the transition to private sector management of urban water supply, including tariff policy, are comparatively
strong, (3) the Govermment has provided much evidence over the last two years that it is using its policy framework in a
mature and sophisticated way, building an evolving set of subsector strategies upon a basically sound fundamental
framework, and (4) the Government recognizes that some of the subsectoral policies require further development, and is
seeking to use this project as the vehicle to support the necessary work to achieve this.
Public/Private Justification
This project not only prepares for private sector operation of the urban water supply companies, but also takes steps to
ensure that communities and community-determined private contracting, become the dominant mode of service delivery
of rural water supply services. This applies also to 0 & M.
Cost Benefit, Alternative Designs
Cost benefit analysis below demonstrates cost benefit justification for PSM of urban water supply. For alternatives/do
nothing options, see paragraphs 7 and 8 in the main body of this document
Sensitivity /Risk Analysis
See below for sensitivity analysis of Urban water supply cost benefit analysis. demonstrates satisfactory robustness.
See paragraph 21 for risk discussion of all project components.
Fiscal Impact/ Cost Recovery
This project takes first steps to ensure urban water supply companies and the southern region water resources
management and bulk water supply agency become self supporting. Rural water supply and sanitation program
emphasizes full community responsibility for 0 & M. and some of capital cost. See paragraph 14. Elimination of
subsidization of these agencies from the fiscus, and from sources such as unpaid debts to the electric supply agency, is
therefore a primary focus of this project.
Institutional Capacity
Prior to 1995 serious policy and management neglect and the exigencies of war over many years, have resulted in low
human resources capacities in the sector. The HRD component is the main project response to this. The sector is
especially weak in financial management, strengthening of which is a key commitment of GOM.
Poverty Analysis
See Beneficiary Assessment discussion in sector studies section above.
Results show that the urban poor pay very high prices for extremely poor water services, and the design of this project
jointly with the NWD-II Project, FY99, and the Urban Environment Project, FY99, will result in lower prices and better
services for the poor, and better service meeting the main concerns and desires expressed by the communities to the BA
teams, and in the responses to the questionnaires. Similar results were obtained by these beneficiary assessments to the
"contingent valuation" analyses by Pinheiro and Whittington1 of residents of a rural town in Mozambique served by
small piped systems.
For example: Armando Castelar Pinheiro and Dale Whittington: "Introducing a Demand-Side Approach to Rural Water Investment
in Mozambique: A Rapid Appraisal of Household Demand for Improved Water Services in Marracuene." June 1996, CVM Inc., P.O.
Box 328, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, 27514, USA.



Environmental Analysis
Consistent with the above. The most important finding is the need to ensure through planning and implementation of
sanitation and drainage that increased wastewater generation resulting from higher levels of water use do not result in
increased disease and other hardship.
Performance indicators
See Annex 1.
The indicators differ in nature from component to component. As this is a project which initiates reforms in each of five
subsectoral areas, each component has its specific indicator(s), some as reform milestones, others as financial and
physical performance.
Discussion and Analysis - Rural and Urban Water Supply, and Water Resources Management
Rural Water Supply, Water Resources Management, and Urban Water Supply - Common considerations: The
primary institutional aims of this project are to restructure rural water supply provision and water resources management
for improved efficiency and responsive delivery, to strengthen human resources capacities, to reorient and decentralize
sector management, and to make essential engineering preparations for upgrading five water companies through private
sector management and investment. The selection of service technologies and levels of locally proposed projects in rural
areas will be pioneered through a demand-driven approach, and similar principals will guide urban water supply
investment. Investments in the rural program will be determined by the users' proposals approved by GOM, rather than
being predetermined. The improved water resources management will include commercializing operations, making the
operations more responsive to client needs, and the planning and management of international rivers.
Benefits from the project will increase, although to an extent that is difficult to quantify, as a result of the project's
support for the implementation and further development of the recently adopted National Water Policy. In particular, the
NWP's support of tariff policy reform which recognizes water as an economic good, and which would implement bulk
water pricing to achieve cost recovery, has received strong commitment and action by Government, and will lead to more
sustainable operation of the water companies, water resources management bodies, and rural water supply facilities.
More importantly, this would have significant implications for the efficient development of the water sector in the long
run.
Evidence from the beneficiary assessments in the urban areas indicates that there is considerable excess demand in
Mozambique for increased coverage of the population and improved services for those currently served. It is expected
that this will continue to be the case even at substantially higher future tariffs. Beneficiary assessments yet to be carried
out are expected to validate the assumption that there is sufficient excess demand to permit negotiated cost-sharing in
rural areas to cover part of the capital costs and all of 0 & M costs. To the extent that this is true, there is primafacie
evidence that economic benefits exceed costs and the project is economically justified.
Urban Water Supply: The benefits in the urban water supply subsector will result from the combined set of measures of
this project (NWD-I) and of the proposed NWD-II Project (private sector management, investments system rehabilitation
and extension, cost recovery improvement etc.) being prepared in parallel. These benefits are likely to include sharply
improved managerial practices, higher operating efficiencies, improved attention to customers, and gains in productive
efficiencies. Due to the non-quantifiable nature of the benefits of the components of this project and the fact that all of its
components other than rural water supply are essential for the success of the NWD-II Project, the economic analysis that
was undertaken focuses on the economic outcome for urban water supply, taking all inputs into account including those
contained in this project.
For the five water companies, investments are primarily of a rehabilitatory nature. In addition, some new works
are also envisaged. The user benefits estimated are of two types: (i) arresting the deterioration of service levels and
coverage due to system malfunctions and (ii) additional service coverage attributable to improvements in production and
distribution capacity. The incremental service provided (weighted for domestic and non-domestic consumption) is valued
at the tariffs expected. Based on tariffs levels as at December 1996, the average ERR for the 5 cities was estimated at
about 18%. The tariff levels have since been increased further in real terms, indicating a more rapid likely attainment of



full cost recovery and a higher ERR, about 21%. However, these tariff levels understate the prices that consumers are
willing to pay; the difference being the estimated consumer surplus. Using available data from household surveys of
actual prices paid and water consumed in Maputo, Beira, and Quelimane for which data are available at the present time,
and assuming Nampula's and Pemba's elasticity's to be the same as Maputo and Quelimane respectively, a straight
demand curve is assumed and the total consumer benefits are calculated. Using this willingness to pay as a proxy for
consumer surplus, the ERR under this scenario increases to 26%.
Sensitivity analysis was carried out determine the robustness of the rate of return to changes in key variables. The results
of this analysis are presented in Table 1. These results indicate that the ERR is fairly robust for the adverse scenarios
presented. Two variables are relatively the most sensitive - tariffs and demand. If tariffs were to drop back to the pre-
December 1996 levels, the ERR drops to its lowest (12%). A drop in demand by 20% reduces the ERR to 16%. A 20%
drop in demand in conjunction with a one-year delay reduces the ERR to 13%. The importance of this variable is
underscored by the fact that due to the paucity of data, the demand forecasts assume a conservatively low rate of increase
for all five cities.
Table 1.     Sensitivity Analysis Results
Scenario                                       ERR (%)
Base Case                                      27.2
Capital Costs:
Up 10%                                         23.3
Up 15%                                         22.4
Up 20%                                         21.5
Delay by I year                                21.3
Delay by 2 years                               19.7
Capital costs up 10% and a 1-year delay        19.6
Drop in demand by 10%                          21.4
Drop in demand by 20%                          16.0
Drop in demand by 10% and delay by 1 year      18.2
Drop in demand by 10% and delay by 2 years     15.9
Drop in demand by 20% and delay by 1 year      13.4
Drop in demand by 20% and delay by 2 years     11.1
Future Tariffs:
Revert to 1996 levels                          12.0
As at December 1996                            18.0
Increase 50% above December 1996 expected levels   23.0



ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 5
MOZAMBIQUE
NATIONAL WATER DEVELOPMENT I
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A)
Procurement for Project Preparation. The three major consultancies undertaken during
preparation work for the project were: the Water Supply Study for 12 Towns and Maputo, the Consultancy to
advise GOM on Private Sector Management Options for the Five Cities, and the Study on a Demand Oriented
Approach to Rural Water Supply and Sanitation, financed respectively by the IDA PRU project jointly with the
Dutch Government, the PPF of this project and the IDA Rural Rehabilitation Project. These were contracted by
short listing of consultants. Other project preparation work was contracted following IDA guidelines for the use
of consultants. The summary of proposed procurement arrangements are presented at Table A.
Procurement under the Project. Total value of IDA-supported consulting assignments will be US$9.7
million. These assignments mainly comprise policy analysis, planning and design work, specific studies, and
design and construction supervision. Consultants would be hired in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Selection and Employment of Consultants (January 1997). Most consultant selection will be addressed through
competition among qualified short-listed firms in which the selection will be based on Quality-and-Cost-Based
Selection (QCBS) by evaluating the quality of the proposal before comparing the cost of the services to be
provided. Short lists for contracts estimated under US$100,000 may be comprised entirely of national consultants
if a sufficient number of qualified (at least three) are available at competitive costs. However, if foreign firms
have expressed interest, they will not be excluded. In addition, US$2.9 million will be spent on technical
assistance, mainly in the form of hiring of individual short term consultants (individual contracts not exceeding
US$100,000). Contracts less than $100,000 each may be awarded on a sole source basis subject to adequate
justification and prior review by IDA. Training (total value US$1.9m) will comprise hiring of individual short
term consultants and support for training programs.
Larger works contracts (individual contract value - local costs and IDA support -- US$0.5 million and
above) will be awarded on the basis of ICB for an aggregate value equivalent of US$11.0 million approx. This
comprises contracts for rehabilitation of the Beira, Pemba and other water supply headworks and several
contracts for Rehabilitation of Small Piped Water Supply Systems. Smaller-value works contracts (individual
value less than US$0.5 million equivalent) will be awarded on the basis of NCB for an aggregate value of US$1.1
million equivalent. It has been agreed that procedures for NCB to be used by DNA will be consistent with IBRD
Guidelines on NCB; and the tender documents used are based on the Standard Bid Documents of IBRD for all
ICB, and NCB suitably modified. Contracts for the procurement of goods supported by IDA (individual value
US$250,000 equivalent and above) will be awarded on the basis of ICB. Smaller value goods procurement
contracts, for an aggregate value of US$2.2 million (individual value less than US$250,000 equivalent) will be
awarded on the basis of NCB, and contracts less than $50,000 each may be awarded through International
/National Shopping using approved procedures or from the Inter-Agency Procurement Services of the UNDP
(IAPSO), for an aggregate value of US$0.5 million equivalent (US$0.4 million international and US$0.4 million
national shopping).
The General Procurement Notice will be published in the Development Business Forum at least 60 days
prior to the issue of bid documents. Specific Procurement Notices will be issued before preparation of shortlists



in respect of consulting contracts above US$200,000. The Procurement Planning Schedules for consultancies,
goods and works are included in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP).
Implementation Arrangements. The procurement for the contracts other than training will be
undertaken by the DNA procurement unit, with inputs regarding specifications and terms of reference from ARA-
Sul in the case of WRM, and the Provincial Directorate of Public Works and Housing, Inhambane Province, in
the case of RWSS works. The procurement unit will consist of a Procurement Specialist (already in position), a
procurement officer, and secretarial support as necessary. The procurement unit will report directly to the Project
Leader. The Training component will be managed by the Manager, Human Resources of DNA, who will report
to the Project Leader. The procurement unit will assist him as needed.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
For procurement of works and goods, all cases valued at US$ 250,000 or more will require prior
review by IDA. The Bank will review the selection process for the hiring of consultants proposed by the
borrower for those consultancy contracts to be awarded to firms; contracts worth US$ 100,000 and above will be
subject to IDA prior review; for individual consultants the prior review threshold will be US$ 50,000. However,
the exception to IDA prior review will not apply to the Terms of Reference of such contracts, regardless of value,
to single-source hiring, or assignments of a critical nature as determined by IDA or to amendments of contracts
raising the contact value above the prior review thresholds. All contracts during the first year of the project, and
selective contracts thereafter, will be subject to post-review.
Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
The proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed against:
(a)    100% of foreign expenditures and 85% of local expenditures on works contracts;
(b)    100% of foreign expenditures and 85% of local expenditures for vehicles, equipment and
materials (procured outside of the currently proposed works and supply and install contracts);
(c)    100% of expenditures for studies, other Consultancy and advisory services and training; and
(d)    90% of expenditures on operating costs.
As projected by Bank's standard disbursement profiles, disbursement would be completed by four months after
project closure. Disbursement would be made against standard IDA documentation.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursement would be made on the basis of statement of expenditure (SOE) for contracts and purchase orders
with an individual value less than those requiring IDA's prior review.
Special account:
In order to ensure the timely provision of funds available to finance the costs of the project, it is proposed
that the Government establish a Special Account in the amount of US$500,000. Funds in this Special Account
would be available to finance only eligible expenditures under the Project. During negotiation, agreement would
be reached regarding the arrangements for establishing and operating the Special Account.



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                 Procurement Method                        Total Cost
ICB    NCB        Other       NBF
1. Works
Urban Water Supply Headworks                 2.9     0.3                                3.2
(2.6)    (0.3)                             (2.9)
Rural Water Supply & Sanit'n (IDA)          3.7      0.5                                4.2
(3.4)    (0.4)                             (3.8)
Rural Water Supply & Sanit'n (CIDA)                                         6.0         6.0
Buildings, staff housing, secure storage     1.2     0.1                                1.3
(1.1)    (0.1)                             (1.2)
Water control & measure't wks                        0.2                    1.0         1.2
(0.2)                             (0.2)
Rehab of Corumana Dam                       4.4                                         4.4
(4.0)                                      (4.0)
2. Goods
Equipment                                            0.7         0.2        0.4         1.3
(0.6)      (0.2)                  (0.8)
Vehicles, Computers                                  1.2         0.4        0.2         1.8
(1.2)      (0.2)                  (1.4)
Materials and furniture                              0.3         0.1                    0.4
(0.3)      (0.1)                  (0.4)
3. Services
Eng. Services & Studies                                          9.7        6.2        15.9
(9.7)                  (9.7)
Technical Assistance                                            2.9         0.8         3.7
(2.9)                  (2.9)
Training                                                         1.9        3.7         5.6
(1.8)                  (1.8)
4. Miscellaneous
Operating costs                                                  1.0        0.3         1.3
(0.9)                  (0.9)
PPF                                                             2.0                     2.0
(2.0)                  (2.0)
Unallocated                                                      4.6                    4.6
(4.0)                  (4.0)
Total                                    12.2      3.3       22.8       18.6        56.9
IDA      (11.1)    (3.1)     (21.8)      (0.0)      (36.0)
Note:  NBF = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit



Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure           Contract Value          Procurement         Contracts Subject to
Category              (Threshold)              Method               Prior Review
i. Works
< 500,000              NCB                    > 250,000
> 500,000              ICB                    > 250,000
2. Goods               <250,000               NCB                     >250,000
> 250,000              ICB                    >250,000
< 50,000               InternationallNational  -
Shopping
3. Services
QCBS                   100,000 (firms)
Individual             50,000 (individuals)
Single Source          All
4. Miscellaneous
Total



Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category              Amount in US$million   Financing Percentage
Civil Works                                    8.3                   100% foreign and 85%
local
Works and Goods for Rural Water Supply and     3.8                   100% foreign and 85%
Sanitation Schemes                                                   local
Goods
(a) Equipment                                0.8                   100% foreign and 85%
local
(b) Vehicles, Computers and Software         1.4                   100% foreign and 85%
local
(c) Materials and furniture                  0.4                   100% foreign and 85%
local
Services
(a) Engineering services and Studies         9.7                   100%
(b)Technical Assistance                      2.9                   100%
(c) Training                                  1.8                  100%
Operating costs                                0.9                   90%
Refinancing of PPF                             2.0
Unallocated                                    4.0
Total 36.0



ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 1
MOZAMBIQUE
NATIONAL WATER DEVELOPMENT I
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)              Planned                       Actual
(At FEPS stage)
(NWDP was divided into two   NWD-I: US$415.65 consisting
projects in July 1997. See   PreApp.: US$253.85
paragraph 8, main text)      Appra. : US$161.8
B. Project Schedule                     Planned                       Actual
(At FEPS stage)
Time taken to prepare the project:       NWDP                        NWD-I
First Bank mission (identification)    02/03/1995                   02/03/1995
Appraisal mission departure            06/24/1996                   06/24/1996
Negotiations                           03/24/1997                   11/26/1997
Planned Date of Effectiveness          06/30/1997                   05/15/1998
Prepared by: DIREC(AO NACIONAL DE AGUAS (DNA)
Preparation assistance: PPF: US$2m. Trust Funds: PreApp.: US$115.50; App.: US$174.65
Bank staff who worked on the project included: John Shepherd (team leader), Catherine Seibert
(financial analyst), Martin Gambrill (water and sanitation engineer), Subhash Dhingra (sr.
procurement specialist), Nga Nguyen (sr. staff assistant) (all of AFTU 1), Mamta Murthi
(economist) (ECSHD), Shobha Shetty (economist) (MNSRE), Roberto Chavez, (AFMMZ),
John Briscoe, (senior water advisor) (ESDGW), Mike Garn (economist) (TWUWS), Alison
Rosenberg, (principal cofinancing off.) (AFTK1), Kishor Uprety, (legal counsel), (LEGAF).
Consultants included Torbjom Damhaug (water resources engineer), Sarah Keener (beneficiary
assessment and participation specialist), and Alvaro Carmo Vaz (hydrologist). The Quality
Assurance Team comprised John Roome (chair), David Grey, Bob Roche (all of AFTUl) and
Gerhard Tschannerl (AFTSA). The Technical Manager was Jeffrey S. Racki and the Country
Director was Phyllis S. Pomerantz.



ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 1
MOZAMBIQUE
NATIONAL WATER DEVELOPMENT I
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
Detailed Cost Tables
B. Bank Staff Assessments: Detailed cost benefit analysis.
C. Other
1) National Directorate of Water, Republic of Mozambique: "National Water Policy"; Maputo, 8 August, i995
2) National Directorate of Water, Republic of Mozambique: "The Present Condition of the Water Sector in
Mozambique" March 1995
3) National Directorate of Water, Republic of Mozambique: "Provincial Towns Water Sector Study" PU'V
Consultants BV, Consultec Consultores Assoc. Lda, Fernando Braz de Oliviera Consultores de Eng. Lda
4) The World Bank: "Proposed Mozambique National Water Development Project - The Water Resources
Management Component" T. Damhaug, May 1996
5) National Directorate of Water, Republic of Mozambique: "Study of the Institutional Arrangements fot the
Provision of the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Services in Mozambique." Cowater International 1&.i
March 1997
6) National Directorate of Water, Republic of Mozambique, and the World Bank: "Beneficiary Assessment on
Urban Water in Mozambique - Maputo and Quelimane, Final Report, Executive Summary." SAWA, Jtiiy
1997
7) National Directorate of Water, Mozambique, and the World Bank: "Environmental Assessment of the
Mozambique National Water Development Project", Noragric, Norway, August 1997.
8) National Directorate of Water, Mozambique: "Training and Capacity Development in the Water Sector",
Draft Final Report, Stephen Hugman, February 1997.
9) National Directorate of Water, Mozambique: "Programa Sectorial de Investimentos - Proposta de Integtaolo
do PNDA na Programacao de Investimento do Sector de Abastecimento de Agua". Draft, Volume 1
Laurence Solomianski, Maputo, April 1997.
10) DNA, NORAD and the World Bank: "Report from participation in the World Bank mission to Mozambi4qe
Sept. 30 - Oct. 4. 1996, regarding Corumana Dam and preparatory study of strengthening of management of
shared water resources," Odd Morkrid, October, 1996
*Including electronic files.



Annex 8
MOZAMBIQUE
NATIONAL WATER DEVELOPMENT 1
Status of Bank Group Operations in Mozambique
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                 and actual               Last ARPP
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                 disbursements a/    Supervision Rating bl
Project ID    Credit      Year               Borrower                     Purpose
NO.                                                                         IBRD        IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed  Orig    Frm Rev'd   Dev Obj           Imp Prog
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 15
Active Loans
MZ-PE-1784    IDA 20810   1990  GOVT                               INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRIS         0.00      50.10             0.00         25.72     19.92        .92       NS            S
MZ-PE-1776    IDA 22000   1991  GOVT                               EDUCATION II                 0.00       53.70            0.00          8.24       6.67      6.67       S             S
MZ-PE-1790    IDA 23740   1992  GOVT OF MOZAMBIQUE                 FIRST ROAD & COASTAL         0.00       74.30            0.00         25.51       6.17      0.00       S             S
MZ-PE-1781    IDA 23370   1992  GOVT.                              AGR.SER. REHAB.              0.00       35.00           12.30         12.12      14.80      0.00       S             S
MZ-PE-1791    IDA 25300   1993  GOVT                               LOCAL GOVERNMENT  EN         0.00       23.20            0.00         15.31     15.61       0.00       S             S
MZ-PE-1801    IDA 24870   1993  GOVERNMENT                         FOOD SECURITY                0.00        6.30            0.00          3.84       3.13      0.00       S             S
MZ-PE-1796    IDA 24790   1993  GOVERNMENT                         RURAL REHABILITATION         0.00      20.00             0.00         11.83     10.77       0.00       S             S
MZ-PE-1802    IDA 24540   1993  GOVERNMENT                         MAPUTO CORRIDOR              0.00        9.30            0.00          4.02     -2.45      -2.45       5             5
MZ-PE-1810    IDA 24370   1993  GOM                                LEG & PUB SEC. CAPAC         0.00       15.50            2.93          4.88       6.21      -.34       S             S
MZ-PE-1797    IDA 24360   1993  GOM                                CAPACITY BUILDING(HU         0.00       48.60            0.00         30.43     23.99       0.00       S             S
MZ-PE-1780    IDA 26290   1994  GOVT                               GAS ENGINEERING(ENGY         0.00       30.00            0.00         12.72       4.63      0.00       8            HS
MZ-PE-1811    IDA 26070   1994  GOM                                FINANCE SECTOR CAPAC         0.00        9.00            0.00          5.85       4.40      0.00       HS            S
MZ-PE-1804    IDA 25990   1994  GOVERNMENT                         2ND ROAD AND COSTAL          0.00     188.00             0.00        110.44     29.29       0.00       S             S
MZ-PE-1792    IDA 27880   1996  GOVT                               NEALTH SEC RECOVERY          0.00       98.70            0.00         85.73     29.59       0.00       S             S
MZ-PE-35922   IDA N0100   1997  GOVT                               ERC III                      0.00      100.00            0.00         47.12      50.34      0.00       S             S
Total                                                                                           0.00     761.70            15.23        403.76    223.07       4.80
Active Loans         Closed Loans           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                340.64              861.70            1,202.34
of which has been repaid:                  0.00                2.56               2.56
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                746.47              833.81            1,580.28
Amount sold                                       0.00               0.00                0.00
Of which repaid                               0.00                0.00               0.00
Total Undisbursed               :              403.76               26.40              430.16
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS - highly Satisfactory, S   satisfactory, U   unsatisfactory,
HU N highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
0s



ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2
MOZAMBIQUE
NATIONAL WATER DEVELOPMENT I
Country at a Glance
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Saharan      Low-
Mozambique    Afrta  Income         Development diamond
Populatlon mid-1996 (mlons)                             19.0      600    3229
GNP per capita 1996 (USS)                                 90      490       500                  Ufa expectancy
GNP 1996 (billonrs U$)                                   1.8      294     1.601
Average annual growth, 199046T
Population (%)                                           4.0       2.7      1.7
LaborbreX               -                                  .       2e6      1.7   qtNP    _\-Gros
Mot recent stimate (lsles yearavailable since 1969)                                  caita pe  illrnt
Pover"t: headcount Index (% ofpopulatton)
Urban popula tion(%   total populat/on)                   34       31        29
Ufa expectancy at birth heats)                            47       52        63
Infant mortalty (per 1,000 live brth)                    128       92        69
Child malnutrition (% of childrn under5)                   0        ..       ..                Access to safe water
Access to salg water (% ofpopultlfon)                     28       47        53
lliteracy (% of'populateon age 154.)                      6o       43        34
Grosprimary enrolment (% ol'school-age populaton)         61       72       105             -     Mozambique
Male                                                    89       78       112             -Lrw-ncomegoup
Female                                                 45        65        98Lw4cmegu
KEYr ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     198       1 1996   1996
GOP (billons USS)                                ..      28        1.5      1.7      Economic ratloe
Gross domesatc InvestmentlGDP                    ..     17.0      51.2     48.3
Exports of goods and servicestGOP                ..      5.       27.4     27.8               Openness of economy
Gross domestic savingslGOP                       ..      3.8      18.0     19.9
Gross national savings/GOP                       ..      4.0      17.7     17.5
Curent account balancetGOP 11                   ..    -17.2      45.6    -38.9
Interest paymerrntaGDP 21                       ..       3.0       3.4      3.0      SavIngs                       Invesstment
Total debttGDP 21                                ..    258.0    807.5    542.0       .a-.ng
Total debt service paldtexports 2                ..     96.5      26.9     2e.3
Present value of det/GOP                         ..       ..        ..       ..
Present value of debt/exports                   ..
Indebtedness
1975.88  1986-96      1985     1998  1997408
(average annual growth)
GOP                                  -6.5      5.8       1.4       6.4      8.1             -     Mlozamblque
GNP per capita                         ..      2.8      -1.8       5.7      3.8                 Low-Income goup
Exportsofgoodsandservices              .      10.0      10.1     14.5       8.3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     19S5      1995     1996      Growth rtes of outputand lnvestmentI%)
(X of GOpt)
Agriculture                                      ..     47.5      34.9     38.8        T
Industry                                        ..      13.2      23.2     23.8      s                  Q
Manufacturing                                  ..       ..        ..       0.0      1
Services                                        ..      39.3      41.9     39.3
Private consumpton                              ..      75.3      89.4     68.1        -3 !                              go
General government consumption                  ..      21.0      12.6     12.0
Imports of goods and services                  0..      18.8      80.8     68.0                 -          -- OP
(average annual growth)                    197S64    1986t96     1996      195 s    Growth rates of exports and Imports (#   I
Agriculture                                      ..      3.1       6.7      6.0      soT
Industry                                        ..      -1.6      12.2     10.2        l
Manufacturing                                  ..        .         ..       ..       T
SevIces                                         ..      12.5      *9.3      a.1        Y                               /
Private consumption                             ..       0.9      -4.7      7.3           79
General govemment consumption                    ..      2.6    -37.7       1.4    .oT
Gross domestic investment                        .       4.3       1.2      8.6
Imports of goods and services                    .       0.1    -13.4      10.1
Gross national product                           ..      8.5       3.0      9.3                   'o         0  "'"f
Note: 1996 data are prlIlminary estimates.
* The diamonds show fbur key indicators In the country In bold) compared with its incomegroup average. If data ar missing, the diamond will
be Incomplete.
1/ Before official capital grants.   2/ Paid after debt relIef.



ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
MOZAMBIQUE
NATIONAL WATER DEVELOPMENT I
Country at a Glance
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                              1975      1N95     1995      1996       Inflation (1/6)
(% change)                                                                         so
Consumn  prices 1/                               _      30.8     54.4     44.6      8_
Implcit GOP deflator                            ..    33.1       50.4      37.9
Govoiment finantnce                                                                 2
(% of GOP)                                                                          e        -     _,
Current revenue                                         1 ..    17.3  18.3  15.0    _- -ol.- 85    83   '4    85   94
Current budget balance                          ..    .12.4       1.7       Z0                      GOP W.       CPS
Overadl surplus/defidt                          ..   -18.4    -20.8    -17.2                                       .
TRADE
(millions USS)                               1975      1985      1995     1996      Ksport and Import levels (mIlL USs)
Totalesport (fob)                               ..       77       174      22e      *2.
Cashrewnutsandraw                  .           ..      12        13       45            i
Prawn                                                  33        73       80      asr,
Manu acturs                                             0                   7
Total imports (ci)                              ..  381  727   802  n11* 1111
Food                                          ..        ..       44       29      2t2
Fuel and enegy                                 ..       ..       68       78       2,
Capital goods                                  ..       ..      168       152        __l   ___ittli iUi!  i  ____*  it _   _
CixportprleIndex(1987-100)                     ..       8d        94        9           so   91   92   a3   .4   ff   is
lmportpriceindex(19a87100)                      ..      121       133      133                oa 'p.at       atmpoit
Tarmns ottrade(1987-100)                        ..       70        70       75
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(millions USSJ                               1975      1985     1995      1996    f Currnt account balance to GOP ratio%
iixportsofgoodsandservices                      ..      143      407       479       o
Importsi d goodsand serv                        ..      481      e8g       973                 * .2 '.       j4  j     .5 '
Resource balance                                 *-    -39       492      494         s |             ;
Net income                                      ..    -102       -185     -174                               1 I
Naetcurentranafars                              0         0         0        0                  1!
Current account balance                                                               I!
beftre oicial capital ransfers                ..      440      .877      487       1        i                     i
Financing items (net)                           ..      420       736      826
Changes In net reserves                         ..       21       40      *158    ,0 '-                     i
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. USS) 21          ..       18      225       384
Conversion rate (loca&'tJSS)                  25.6     43.2  8,889.8  11,293.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
(millions USSJ                                         1985      199f             | Composaidon of total debt, 1994 (mill. US$)
Total debt outstanding and'disbursed 3/          0    2,706    9,017    9,300
IRO                                          a         0        0         0
IDA                                           0         5      890     1,079                      G: 159 8:1079
Total debtservAce4/                              a       42      422       375           F: 1846S               C.Dit
IBRD                                          0         o        0         0                 -      ,:52
IDA                                           0         1        7         8
Compositon of net resourme flows
Offcial grants                                0       149      339       283                                 )
Official creditors                            0       309       153      202
Private creditors                             0        64       S9        75
Foreign direct Investlnewt                    ..        0       45        73
Portiolo equity                               0         0       - 0        0                             8.5g2
World Bank program
Commintents                                   0        4e       99         0      A - tis                        Bilateral
Disbursements                                 a         5      180       221      8-IA      0 .Otnert tatrltwal   F-Pivatla
PrIncipal repayment                           0         1         1        1      C - IMf                      0- Shert-tw
Net flows                                     0         3       189      220    .
Interest payments                             0         0         6        7
Net transfers                                 0         3       1S3      213
1 Period average.
2 Gross foreign assets of the banking system.
31For 1995 and 119s8,tguindude nonguanted private seordet anddebtto Russia.
4/ Scheduled before debt relIef.



