                                      Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                                   Report No: 35316 - MOZ

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                        (PPFI-P9740 PPFI-P9741 IDA-30390 TF-29560)

                                          ON A

                                         CREDIT

        IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 26.2 MILLION (USD 36.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                         TO THE

                              REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE

                                           FOR

                       NATIONAL WATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT I




                                      April 24, 2006




AFTU1
AFC02
Africa Regional Office

                                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                            (Exchange Rate Effective as of February 27, 2006)

                                        Currency Unit = Mozambican Meticais
                                              SDR 1.00 = US$ 1.44
                                              US$ 1.00 = Mt. 26,866

                                                FISCAL YEAR
                    Government and Public Enterprises - January 1 to December 31

                                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ARA      Administração Regional de Águas (Regional Waterboard)
ARA-Sul  Administração Regional de Águas do Sul (Regional Waterboard South)
CRA      Comissão de Regulação da Água (Water Regulatory Board)
DAR      Departamento de Água Rural (Rural Water Department)
DCA     Development Credit Agreement
DGRH     Departamento de Gestão dos Recursos Hídricos (Water Resources Management Department)
DNA      Direcção Nacional de Águas (National Directorate of Water)
DPOPH    Direcção Provincial de Obras Públicas e Habitação (Provincial Directorate of Public Works and Housing)
DPOPHI   Direcção Provincial de Obras Públicas e Habitação de Inhambane (Provincial Directorate of Public Works and
         Housing of Inhambane)
FIPAG    Fundo de Investimento do Património do Sector de Águas (Water Sector Assets Investment Fund)
GOM     Government of Mozambique
GRI      Gabinete dos Rios Internacionais (International Rivers Office)
HRD     Human Resources Development
IA       Implementing Agencies
IDA     International Development Association (World Bank)
MOPH    Ministério das Obras Públicas e Habitação (Ministry of Public Works and Housing)
MTR      Project Mid Term Review
NWDPI    National Water Development Project I
PIM     Project Implementation Manual
PIP      Project Implementation Program
PMU      Project Management Unit
RWSS     Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
RWSTF    Rural Water Supply Task Force
RWSSTP   Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Transition Plan
PSP     Private Sector Participation
SPS     Small Piped Systems
TA       Technical Assistance
UWSS    Urban Water Supply and Sanitation
WRM      Water Resources Management



                                      Vice President:          Gobind T. Nankani
                                    Country Director           Michael Baxter
                                     Sector Manager            Jaime M. Biderman
                Task Team Leader/Task Manager:                 Jane N. Walker

                                       MOZAMBIQUE
                   NATIONAL WATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT I


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 10
8. Lessons Learned                                                               11
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            27
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution                                                 28



MAP      IBRD No. 33451

Project ID: P039015                                                  Project Name: NATIONAL WATER I
Team Leader: N. Jane Walker                                          TL Unit: AFTU1
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: April 24, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: NATIONAL WATER I                                         L/C/TF Number: PPFI-P9740; PPFI-P9741;
                                                                                                     IDA-30390; TF-29560
   Country/Department: MOZAMBIQUE                                                         Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Water supply (60%); Central government administration (23%); Sanitation (14%);
                            Sub-national government administration (3%)
                  Theme: Access to urban services and housing (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P); Regulation and
                            competition policy (P); Water resource management (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/09/1995                                     Effective: 05/19/1998                06/04/1998
     Appraisal: 06/24/1996                                         MTR: 11/30/2000                  02/19/2001
      Approval: 02/12/1998                                      Closing: 10/31/2003                 10/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF MOZAMBIQUE/MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS AND
                                           HOUSING
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Callisto Madavo
Country Director:               Michael Baxter                                 Phyllis Pomerantz
Sector Manager:                 Jaime M. Biderman                              Jeffrey Racki
Team Leader at ICR:             Jane N. Walker                                 John Shepherd
ICR Primary Author:             Leonard Abrams; Devendra
                                Bajgain


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The objectives of the project were to:
       ·    reorient the institutions of the sector in line with the strategic vision set out in the National
              Water Policy (NWP) and increase their capacities,
       ·    prepare for the private sector management of the urban water supply systems of the cities
            Maputo, Beira, Quelimane, Nampula and Pemba ("the five cities"),
       ·    reorient and reform the management and implementation of rural water supply and sanitation, so
            that sector organizations can provide sustainable water supply and sanitation services to an
            increasing proportion of the community, and
       ·    improve the management of Mozambique's water resources.

The project was prepared in the aftermath of cessation of the civil war in Mozambique, during which
infrastructure was destroyed and when normal governance and services provision was not possible. The
war ended in 1992 and project preparation began in 1995. The project was envisaged as having an
initiating and integrating role within the Government's National Water Development Program, and
consisted of a set of sector reforms, studies and investments designed to implement the NWP, supported by
the Government and several donors. The project was the first IDA project in the water sector in
Mozambique. It was initially a very large project including urban and rural water supply and sanitation,
and water resources management. The urban investments were taken out of the project during preparation
and included in a second National Water Development Project (NWDP-II, FY99). Two components of the
project focused on implementing key preparatory steps for NWDP-II, the objective of which was to
improve water supply coverage and services to communities of the five principal cities through private
sector management of water supply systems, and investments in the water supply infrastructure.

In the water resources sector, Mozambique faces a number of challenges including a highly variable
climate with frequent droughts and floods, a colonial legacy of being a down-stream riparian country on 9
international rivers (resulting in the country being dependent on over half its water resources coming from
neighboring countries), and a history of underinvestment in storage infrastructure and water management.
At the beginning of the project the water resources management functions of the government lacked
capacity and had no national policy or development strategy. The project was designed to address these
shortcomings.

The project objectives reflected the priorities for the development of the water sector in Mozambique at the
time, as identified both by the government and by the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy. The Objectives
remain a priority for the government. Urban water service provision continues to be addressed through the
IDA funded National Water Development Project II and further work in the sector may be incorporated
into the PRSC program.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The Objectives were not formally revised.

Key performance indicators were clarified during the Mid Term Review and included in the amendment of
the Development Credit Agreement dated April 1, 2003. See Annex 1.




                                                        - 2 -

3.3 Original Components:

1. Institution Building and Policy Development (US$6.2 million)
    i.   build capacity in planning and management, particularly in finance
    ii. develop a regulatory and monitoring framework and capacity
    iii. undertake studies for development of water sector policy.

2. Preparation for Private Sector Management of Urban Water Supply (US$8.5 million)
    i.   Support the bidding process for the private sector management of the water supply systems of the
         five cities;
    ii. Design and construct emergency works to ensure more secure operation of the headworks systems
         of city water supplies including Beira and Pemba;
    iii. Prepare a strategy and plans for the provision of sanitation services in the five cities, required
         because of increasing wastewater generation, and to improve public health.

3. Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (RWSS) (US$18.2 million)
    i.   Reorient and reform the management and implementation of RWSS and build capacities at central
         and provincial levels;
    ii. In Inhambane Province, mobilize stakeholders, rehabilitate pilot social works for small piped
         systems and prepare for investment in point source water supplies and sanitation.

4. Water Resources Management (WRM) (US$14.6 million)
    i.   Strengthen ARA-Sul (Administra,ao Regional de Aguas do Sul, Southern Water Resources
         Administration) to provide self supporting bulk water supply service, and GRI (Gabinete dos Rios
         Internacionais, Office of International Rivers) to undertake international joint studies and
         negotiations.
    ii. Develop a national water resources management strategy;
    iii. Undertake studies of options for development and management of key international rivers, in line
         with the priorities of the national water resources strategy and including the Incomati and Pungue
         Rivers, carried out jointly with upstream riparian states;
    iv. Safety-related rehabilitation works at Corumana Dam and feasibility and design studies for a
         future increase in capacity.

5. Human Resources Development (US$5.2 million)
    i.   Training and human resources development with initial emphasis building on HRD planning and
         on management training and development.

6. Project Management (US$2.2 million)
    In addition PPF Refinancing (US$2.0 million) was included in the total project cost as presented in
    Annexes 2 and 3 in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD).

3.4 Revised Components:

The project components were slightly revised through an amendment of the Development Credit Agreement
dated April 1, 2003. Subcomponent 2.ii) was moved to NWDP-II and a component entitled Flood
Emergency Response was added utilizing the released funds re-allocated from Subcomponent 2.ii). The
activities under the new component were:



                                                      - 3 -

    i.   Provision of technical advisory services to assist and build capacity to the Flood Emergency
         Commission, including evaluation and assessment studies of damage water infrastructure and
         assistance in managing donor funds
    ii. Provision of rehabilitation and restoration works for the water supply and sanitation infrastructure
         damaged by the flooding.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Although the objectives were consistent with the Government's priorities for water sector development, the
project was not adequately prepared. As an indication of this, even though the project was effective on
May 19, 1998, the Project Implementation Plan and the Project Implementation Manual were only finalized
in March 2001 at the time of the Mid-term Review. This resulted in initial delays in implementation which
were further complicated by the impacts of the major floods of 2000 and 2001. Quality at Entry is
therefore rated unsatisfactory.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The project has been extremely instrumental in the development and strengthening of the water sector in
Mozambique and has achieved its objectives, largely through the commitment which the DNA has shown in
delivering the project.

Development Objective: Reorient the institutions of the sector in line with the strategic vision set out in the
National Water Policy (NWP) and increase their capacities:-

    Capacity building through the project has empowered DNA to implement a range of innovative polices,
    including the demand led approach in rural water supplies and in water resources. Institutional
    developments have introduced new, innovative and more efficient urban water service provision
    regimes through the engagement of the private sector which has reduced the burden on public spending
    whilst greatly improving the extent and level of services. The achievement of this objective is rated as
    Satisfactory.

Development Objective: Prepare for the private sector management of the urban water supply systems of
the cities Maputo, Beira, Quelimane, Nampula and Pemba ("the five cities"):-

    The Five Cities are currently under private sector management with the oversight of an effective
    regulator and with urban water service assets held in an efficient asset holding company, both
    established by the project. The achievement of this objective is rated as Satisfactory.

Development Objective: Reorient and reform the management and implementation of rural water supply
and sanitation, so that sector organizations can provide sustainable water supply and sanitation services to
an increasing proportion of the community:-

    The rural water supply component has increased sustainable access by constructing an additional 130
    water points through which 62,000 people have been served. Small piped systems using small scale
    providers have also had great impact by increasing service to 108,000 in pilot projects. The project has
    had a catalytic effect in the sector - as policies have been developed, tested and found to be effective in
    the field, other donors have gained confidence and have provided funding to the sector to scale up



                                                       - 4 -

    implementation. For example, over US$ 35 m. has been attracted to the rural water sector from
    various donors who support the policy, in addition to a commitment of US$ 100 million from the
    AFDB towards achieving the MDGs in the sector. The achievement of this objective is rated as
    Satisfactory.

Development Objective: Improve the management of Mozambique's water resources:-

    The water resources management sector has greatly increased its capacity and developed a forward
    looking policy and development strategy. The project has significantly contributed to Mozambique
    being able to beneficially engage and negotiate with its riparian neighbors on the many international
    rivers on which the country depends. The achievement of this objective is rated as Satisfactory.

Although there were delays in implementation as a result of initial project preparation inadequacies and due
to the impacts of national flood emergencies in the first quarter of both 2000 and 2001, the project has
achieved its objectives which is all the more remarkable given the post-conflict environment in which it was
prepared and implemented. The outcome of the project is hence rated overall as satisfactory.

The Performance indicators of the project can be found in Annex 1. The Performance Indicators were
slightly different in the PAD and the DCA and were further amended and rationalized during the mid term
review.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Component 1: Institution Building and Policy Development (Actual expenditure - $US 8.5 million)
Early in the project most of the emphasis was on this component and Component 2 in order to prepare the
enabling environment for Private Sector Participation (PSP) in urban water supply services, targeting the
five main cities. Significant progress has also been achieved in building capacity within DNA to manage
the sector. Administrative capacity has been strengthened in the areas of human resources management,
financial management, planning, procurement, contract management, and monitoring and evaluation.
Technical capacity has also been built in water resources management, rural water supply and sanitation,
and urban sanitation management. The capacity building process took longer than originally anticipated
which had a knock-on effect of delaying aspects such as procurement processes and hence the
implementation of other components, especially in RWSS and WRM, but the results have been very
significant. The project included improvements to DNA's existing facilities, equipment has been provided
and construction of the first phase of the new DNA building, which will house the RWSS department, has
been completed. This component is rated satisfactory.

Component 2: Preparation for Private Sector Management of Urban Supply (Actual expenditure - $US 2.8
million)
The Private Sector Participation element of this component showed significant success early in the project.
The project supported the legal establishment of the "Water Supply Investment and Asset Fund", FIPAG
as an efficient asset holding company in the urban water sector through which the operation of water
services were delegated to private lessees. Also, a regulatory body was created, the "Water Supply
Regulatory Board", CRA. Within this institutional framework the lease contract for Maputo and the
management contract for Beira, Pemba, Quelimane and Nampula with a private operator were established.
The Emergency Rehabilitation Works studies and construction works to be carried out for the water
schemes in Beira, Pemba and Nampula were initially delayed due to lack of clarity in the initial Project
Implementation Manual (PIM) of the mandate and responsibilities of the implementing agent - the
Department of Water Supply and Sanitation (DASU). The sub-component was revised during the Mid



                                                     - 5 -

Term Review and limited to the studies, the works being incorporated within the NWDP2 project under the
responsibility of FIPAG. The preparation of a Strategic Sanitation Plan for 7 cities (Maputo, Beira,
Quelimane, Nampula, Pemba, Matola and Dondo) has been successfully achieved after an initial delay of a
year. This work includes the preparation of feasibility studies and detailed design for integrated sanitation
and drainage schemes for the cities. This sub-component was amended to include the development of a
Sanitation Policy Dialogue and Formulation and the physical works were excluded from this component.
The studies completed are (i) Strategic Sanitation Plan, (ii) Sanitation Situation Analysis for the 7
municipalities. The project also included extensive training of the municipal staff of the 7 cities. In spite of
the initial delays, this component has been highly successful in formulating and implementing sector
reforms which have enjoyed high level political support and have fundamentally changed the way urban
water services are provided in Mozambique. Implementation of reforms to promote private sector
management of urban water supply is rated satisfactory.

Component 3: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (Actual expenditure - $US 13.7 million)
Developing sustainable rural water supply and sanitation services is notoriously difficult. Meeting the
rural water MDGs is not only a matter of putting in water points - it is ensuring that all the elements are in
place to sustain services over time. It was for this reason that a great deal of effort was put into the
development of the RWSS Transition Plan, the central policy of which is the demand responsive approach.
This policy represents a complete paradigm shift from how rural water supply was approached at the time
and was initially resisted by many parties. As a result of the effort put into the Transition Plan, the
implementation of the pilot program in Inhambane Province was delayed. The pilot included the training of
Provincial and District staff, mobilization, training and participatory planning at the community level and
construction of 130 point source systems serving 62,000 people - double the project target of 60 point
sources and 30,000 people served. Other development agencies, notably CIDA and AfDB, are following
the same implementation arrangements for their RWSS projects. Social and Technical manuals for
sanitation and hygiene promotion were also produced. The principles of the demand responsive approach
and the use of autonomous public or private operators were applied to the rehabilitation and development
of Small Piped Schemes in small towns. Studies for implementation of 9 pilot schemes were undertaken in
Inhambane Province and ultimately 3 were implemented (the project target was 2), serving 108,000 people.
The work included the orientation and training of Provincial and District staff. Staff housing was
constructed in Inhambane and Maputo, the DPOPHI offices were rehabilitated in Maxixe and new DAR
offices were built in Maputo. Office furnishings, computer equipment and vehicles purchased for IAs for
DPOPH in Inhambane and DAR in Maputo. The outputs of this component are rated satisfactory.

Component 4: Water Resources Management (Actual expenditure - $US 16.4 million)
The objective of this component was to support the establishment of a resourceful, strong water resources
function at international, national and regional levels in Mozambique. The component comprised three
subcomponents - a) capacity building and support to DGRH (Departamento de Gestão dos Recursos
Hídricos (Water Resources Management Department)), GRI (Gabinete dos Rios Internacionais
(International Rivers Office)) and ARA-Sul (Administração Regional de Águas do Sul (Regional
Waterboard South)). Capacity building took the form of training, technical assistance, office equipment,
transport and field maintenance equipment; b) strategic support to the water resources sector incorporating
the revision and amendment of National Water Policy and National Water Law; the formulation of a
national Water Resources Management strategy; and the undertaking of both national and international
river basin studies; and c) Corumana Dam rehabilitation works including a feasibility study for raising the
dam has been completed and dam safety equipment has been supplied. Key outputs were the raising of
public awareness of water resource issues and the establishment of a robust Stakeholder Forum which was
engaged in the review of the outputs of the WRM policy and strategy formulation process. A very strategic
outcome has been the strengthening of the GRI and through it a greatly improved ability of Mozambique to


                                                      - 6 -

protect its interests in international river basins in which it is a down-stream riparian country and to work
with its neighbours to develop international waters to mutual benefit. The Water Resources Management
component is rated satisfactory.

Component 5: Human Resources Development (Actual expenditure - $US 2.3 million)
In order to improve human resources management in the DNA a HRDM strategy was prepared under the
project and formally adopted. The implementation of the strategy has been supported by SDC. An HR
Management Information System (MIS) has been established and is being used by the DNA after training
through the project. An HIV/AIDS prevention and mitigation policy was developed for the DNA through
the project. The component also included improvement of communications and documentation within DNA
and the upgrading of the DNA library. Numerous training courses, seminars and study tours have been
financed for staff of DNA, DPOPH and the PMU. The Human Resources Development component is
rated satisfactory.

Component 6: Project Management (Actual expenditure - $US 5.3 million)
The overall guidance of the project was under the Project Steering Committee which helped to raise
awareness of accomplishments of the project and to focus attention at the highest level on critical issues
affecting the implementation of the project. Technical Assistance consultants were used to provide overall
support to project management, procurement and financial accountability. Due to the initial start-up
problems experienced by the project, the PMU with the TAs was established late in the process but
succeeded in placing the project on a good footing for the remainder of the project period. The PMU was
well integrated into the DNA and worked seamlessly in the department which has resulted in improved
efficiency of capacity building and knowledge transfer. This will improve the potential for the
sustainability of the impacts of the project. Satisfactory ratings for financial management and procurement
were maintained for the duration of the project. Project Management is rated as satisfactory.

Component 7: Emergency Water Rehabilitation (Actual expenditure - $US 2.1 million)
Following the catastrophic floods of February and March, 2000 a new Component was added to the project
to support the establishment of a Flood Emergency Commission and to undertake initial damage
assessments which enabled the Government to mobilize funds from other donors. A Flood Risk Analysis
was undertaken to gain a better understanding of the vulnerability of the country to floods. Restoration
works were undertaken of small piped systems in four towns damaged during flooding. Rehabilitation of
flood damaged sewage and drainage works was undertaken in Maputo and Matola. Emergency Water
Rehabilitation is rated satisfactory.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

ERR was not calculated at Appraisal as the project was not amenable to economic analysis due to its pilot
and reform emphasis.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

NA

4.5 Institutional development impact:

Institutional development has been one of the primary impacts of the project. The project was the first in
the sector and has had multiple institutional impacts which together have changed the entire tone and
approach of the DNA - refer to section 4.2 above. The strengthening of the Human Resources functions of



                                                       - 7 -

the DNA has had a significant impact which places the department in a strong position for the future.
Specific support under the project to the international waters department - GRI - in the form of a study into
strengthening its functions and institutional structure provided clear guidance which is being implemented
over time. There were several specific training and capacity building activities disbursed in all the
components which have impacted the DNA as a whole and specific departments including DGRH and GRI;
Provinces and Districts through the rural water and small piped scheme activities; the newly established
institutions of FIPAG and CRA; and ARA-SUL, the regional water board. The institutional development
impact is rated Substantial.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

During February and March of 2000 the southern African region was impacted first by abnormally high
rainfall and then by Cyclone Eline. The floods affected the southern part of Mozambique and diverted
resources and attention from all other activities nationally. The DNA played a leading role in the response
to the floods which resulted in all other activities, including NWDPI, being deferred for several months. In
the same period the following year, 2001, central Mozambique was struck by flooding, particularly of the
Zambezi River, which again diverted attention from regular project work.

The low capacity of private contractors also effected implementation of rural and small piped schemes.

The influence of factors outside the control of the administration on project outcomes was therefore mainly
in lost time.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The factors affecting the implementation and outcome of the project which were within the control of the
administration included slow payment of counterpart funds; inadequate management attention, coordination
and direction in the early stages of the project to ensure that the project proceeded on time, particularly
related to the rural water and water resources components; lack of experience with World Bank
procurement procedures; the large number of Implementing Agencies which resulted in greater complexity.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Some of the Implementing Agencies lacked the personnel and experience to function adequately initially but
tended to grow in ability and confidence as the project progressed.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The IDA credit provided SDR 26.2 million (US$36.0 million equivalent) to be disbursed in 7 years. The
total project cost including Government contribution (US$2.5 million) and cofinancing/parallel financing
by different donors (US$18.4 million) as presented in the PAD was US$56.9 million (see Annex 2).

The dollar value of the IDA Credit increased by about US$1.2 million due to the appreciation of the SDR
against the US dollar. The IDA credit was fully disbursed. Parallel financing from CIDA and SDC have
different closing dates and the activities financed by these donors are still on going. At the closure of the
project, the remaining amounts to be disbursed by CIDA and SDC were US$4.80 million and US$2.5
million respectively.




                                                        - 8 -

Given the complexity of the project, the number of implementing agencies and the fact that this was the
first Bank project in the sector, this level of disbursement is impressive.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

NWDP1 was a complex project with a variety of components and different types of outputs, all of which
have different sustainability related factors. For this reason each of the main outputs of the project needs to
be considered in order to arrive at an overall evaluation of the sustainability of the project. A large
proportion of the project effort has been in Institutional Development. There is little doubt that key
institutions in the sector have been substantially influenced by the project, many in irreversible ways
through both extensive capacity building and structural changes. Much of the capacity which was based in
the PMU has been absorbed into the DNA on completion of the project which will further strengthen the
potential for the reforms to be sustained over time. The move to PSP in urban water services, including the
establishment of FIPAG and CRA, and the long-term lease and management contracts with private
operators is robust and not easily reversed, showing continued improvements in service delivery. A great
deal of effort and wide consultation went into developing the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Transition
Plan with its central policy of the demand responsive approach. This approach is now being widely taken
up by other development partners which will both ensure the sustainability of the approach and the
sustainability of the rural water services developed through this methodology in a sector (rural services) in
which sustainability is notoriously difficult to achieve. The small piped pilot systems were completed right
at the end of project implementation and it remains to be seen whether they will be sustainable or not. This
depends to a large extent on the performance of the operators and the effective and strict application of the
PSP policy. A concern related to sustainability is that a comprehensive M&E system was not established
by the DNA during the project.

The water resources activities under the project have varied potential for sustainability - the International
Rivers Office (GRI) is gaining a reputation on the Continent for its skills and abilities and it would appear
to be robust. It is not possible to determine at present whether or not the policies and strategies developed
under the water resources component of the project will be implemented.

One of the main factors which will determine the sustainability of the project outputs, particularly the
institutional gains made, will depend upon the DNA and other agencies being able to retain existing key
professional staff and attract good staff in the future to meet growing needs.

The sustainability of project activities and institutional reforms that have been implemented under the
project is therefore rated likely.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The project has created growing interest and has attracted other sources of finance to the sector for both
rural and urban services. The policies and service provision methodologies developed through the project
have now become standard practice of the GoM. Most of the staff of the PMU were absorbed into the
DNA to continue with regular operations. As a follow-on to this Project, the Bank intends to concentrate
on the provision of rural services through a programmatic approach in a PRSC which is under preparation.
It remains to be seen to what extent the DNA will participate in this process and whether rural water and
sanitation will be included in the PRSC. In the urban water sector, FIPAG continues to attract more



                                                       - 9 -

financing from such sources as the African Development Bank, the European Investment Bank and recently
the Millennium Challenge Corporation.

It was clear at the completion of the project that the GoM did not have a specific exit strategy in terms of
this particular project. Much of the project was of a pilot / reform nature addressing a number of
sub-sectors, i.e. rural & urban water services, water resources, international waters, etc. and, because of
the integration of the project into the DNA, it was anticipated that the work in these different sub-sectors
would continue on the basis of the reforms established during the project. It is clear that the project has
resulted in other donors and development partners being attracted to the sector which provides, to some
extent, ongoing resources, either through projects, SWAP type programs or by engaging in the PRSC. In
this regard there is a very active Donor Group in the water sector with which the government is engaging.
Not withstanding all the above, however, there is a risk that the momentum developed through the Project
may be lost fairly rapidly and it may hence be necessary to seek ways to support the DNA through the
PRSC or alternative vehicles.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The project was large and complex and was divided into two projects at a late stage of the lending process
which resulted in two more manageable and less complex projects. However, virtually all elements of the
project preparation were inadequate except the preparation for the private sector engagement in urban
water. This meant that the project preparation process continued after effectiveness which resulted in a
lack of clear guidance to initial project management and delayed implementation. For this reason the
Bank's overall performance in lending is rated unsatisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:

The Bank fielded 18 missions during the project's 8 years of implementation, with missions taking place on
average every 6 months. Missions lasted about 2 weeks each and typically comprised 2 to 6 members,
working on a wide range of sectoral, economic, and public sector management issues.

The midterm review of the project was conducted in February 2001. This highlighted the project startup
problems in the rural water and water resources components but noted the successful implementation of the
urban water components. In terms of performance in meeting the development objective (DO) and
implementation progress (IP) the project was rated satisfactory throughout the implementation period. This
may have been overly generous in the initial stages when implementation progress was poor. Initial slow
progress was a result of the combination of three factors - a desire for the full engagement of all
stakeholders (particularly in the rural water supply activities) which involved some very slow processes;
inadequate initial ownership and leadership from DNA (as indicated in several places in the Mid-term
Review which was partially as a result of inadequate project preparation); and the disruption of the 2000
and 2001 floods.

Notwithstanding these problems, together with several changes in TTL (four in total), the project was
ultimately successfully implemented. There were a number of aspects such as the establishment of the
urban water services PSP process and the preparation of the RWSS Transition Plan which required
dedicated high levels of input and commitment from the Bank team beyond the normal requirements of
supervision which contributed to the successful outcomes.




                                                     - 10 -

Had there not been the initial problems of slow progress, Bank Supervision performance during the project
would have been rated as highly satisfactory; however, given these problems the overall Bank Supervision
is rated satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Despite the complexities and the early difficulties, the project met its development objectives, implemented
all agreed activities and fully disbursed the credit. The Bank's performance is rated very highly by the
borrower and other development partners. Overall Bank performance is judged to be satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The problem of the project's early design and the inadequate preparation of the PIM, which is the
responsibility of the borrower, would under normal circumstances imply that the borrower's performance
in the preparation of the project should be rated unsatisfactory. However, given the following
circumstances, the Borrower's performance in the preparation of the project is rated satisfactory :-
a)       this was the first project of its kind to be prepared by the sector in Mozambique
b)       the early post-conflict context, and
c)       the complexity of the project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Management and leadership of the project could have been stronger during the initial phase of the project as
indicated in the midterm review. However, once the PMU was fully established under the strong and
competent leadership of the Project Manager, the project performed very well, especially given its
complexity. The project enjoyed strong technical support from the DNA and political support from the
Ministry of Public Works and Housing. Given the successful completion of the project, notwithstanding its
complexity and that it was the first Bank project undertaken in the sector, the borrower's performance in
implementation is rated as satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The project was very complex resulting in some 20 different implementing agencies, some within the DNA,
some at regional and Provincial levels, some at District and local levels, and some private sector
organizations. Generally the implementation was satisfactory by these various agencies which
cumulatively resulted in the successful completion of the project.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

It is unlikely that there would be a recurrence of the initial problems faced by the project today because of
the capacity which has been built through the project. The improvement of the Borrower performance
during the course of the project is a tribute to the leadership and management of the project, and one of the
primary achievements of the project. Therefore, based on the successful outcome of the project despite
initial problems, the overall performance of the borrower is assessed as satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned


The first Mozambican National Water Project has been a very interesting project. Although the project



                                                       - 11 -

faced a number of challenges, any one of which could have resulted in a less than satisfactory result,
ultimately the project exceeded expectations. Many lessons can thus be learned from the project. The
lessons have been divided into three sections: Project design; Reform context, and Leadership.

A - Project Design

i.       Importance of initial project design - The problems faced at the beginning of the project emphasize
the need for thorough project preparation and design. Project preparation increases in difficulty with
increasing complexity of the project. The inadequate initial preparation could have resulted in the failure of
the project - an outcome which was averted by the combined efforts of the Borrower and TTL at the time of
the mid term review.

ii.      Integrated PMU - The PMU was integrated into the DNA and run by Mozambicans. This was
different to the Borrowers experience with other projects where there has usually been a large number of
expatriate TAs. The NWDP1 model has resulted in greater ownership by the Borrower, closer
collaboration between the PMU and the various public agencies involved in the project, improved capacity
building and greater potential for sustainability. The PMU was not physically or managerially separated
from the rest of the Department and therefore resulted in the pervading sense, which was often expressed by
the Borrower during the ICR mission, that this was "our project, run by us", rather than "their project, run
by them." This has meant that when the project ended, staff remained part of the Department and the
capacity and momentum built during the project were not lost.

iii.     Simplicity - The project was very complex because of the large number of implementing agencies
and TAs which were used and because of the number of key reforms which were introduced. The first
issue is a matter of project design and should have been avoided particularly as this was the first experience
of the DNA with a WB project. It resulted in heavy procurement loads with related high time and effort
costs. The second issue is more difficult to address - it is generally not wise to approach sector reform in a
piece-meal fashion as different aspects of reform are inter-related. Reform is by nature time-consuming
and involves firstly changes in perspectives which lead to changes in policy, legislation, institutions and
ultimately changes in practice on the ground. These are by nature complex processes which must involve
many different parties. The ideal is to design simple projects for complex processes.

iv.      Bank's procurement procedures - The Bank's procurement procedures were initially very
confusing to the Borrower as this was the first Bank project in the sector. The delays experienced by the
Borrower on occasion in getting `no objections' from the Bank was also cited as a concern. Whilst
unnecessary delays in the Bank's procedures need to be avoided, it was acknowledged by the borrower that
due diligence in these matters, however painful at the time, did ultimately produce better results. The
Bank's training of the Borrower and related institutions' staff in procurement and financial management
was seen as very useful.

B - Reform Context

i.       Reform effort - A great deal of effort is needed, in terms of time, expense and expertise, to
establish the necessary platform of reformed policy, legislation, and guidelines to ensure the success of
processes such as introducing PSP into urban water service provision, shifting to a demand responsive
approach in rural water, and establishing a water resources strategy. It is critical that the Bank and the
Borrower share the same vision of the objective of reforms or that they work to establish a common vision
at project preparation. A robust relationship of mutual respect is needed between key project team
members on the Borrower and Bank sides to stay the course and achieve sound, sustainable reforms.


                                                     - 12 -

ii.      Need to emphasize sustainability - It is necessary to avoid simplistic, short term solutions to
problems such as rural water supply. Such solutions may initially appear to be meeting targets such as the
MDGs but they ultimately let the communities down by being unsustainable. A positive example of this
was the lengthy and difficult process of introducing the demand-response approach to rural water services -
in many respects the old methods of supply driven approaches was easier for the authorities but resulted in
substantially less sustainable services. With the project showing implementation and disbursement delays,
the TTL could have been tempted to compromise on the reform process to simply deliver rural services. At
such times managerial support of the TTL is crucial to insist on the more developmentally sustainable,
albeit more difficult, route.

iii.     Consultation and participation - Although there was initial reticence to establish genuine
consultation and collaboration processes, this has shown its usefulness and importance throughout the
project and contributed to the success of the reforms in urban and rural water supply, and the development
of water resources policy and strategy.

iv.      HR support and training - The input of the project to strengthen the Human Resources functions of
DNA and to provide training at a number of levels has been key to providing viable professional and
technical career opportunities in the DNA, which in turn is one of the surest ways of attracting and
retaining good staff in the future, thus in turn ensuring sustainability. In a reform context, one of the
lessons from the project is that it is not sufficient to target training and capacity building only at the apex
institution but at all levels which will be involved in implementing reforms, including local governments,
municipalities etc.

C - Leadership

i.       Leadership - The impact of and need for strong project management, good departmental leadership
and political support in such reform / pioneering projects cannot be overemphasized. This was graphically
illustrated in this project. Initially, once the project had been approved, it appears as though there was a
lack of commitment to implementation on the part of the borrower. This is referred to in the mid term
review. When this was turned around, the project improved dramatically and proceeded to a successful
completion - it owes this success largely to the commitment and enthusiasm invested in it by the
Government of Mozambique, with the Bank's close implementation support.

ii.      Bank's intellectual input and leadership - It is evident from the reports of the Borrower and the
implementing agencies, and the list of missions (see Annex 4) that a great deal of support, effort and
intellectual input was provided by the TTLs and the teams which they assembled, beyond the basic
requirements of sound supervision. This commitment, particularly to the reform aspects of the project,
contributed to the success of the project, whilst not relieving the Borrower of their responsibilities. It is
apparent from the Aide Memoires that there was not always agreement on issues but that the robust
relationship between the Bank and the Borrower enabled solutions to be reached which were ultimately in
the best interests of the people of Mozambique.

iii.     Leverage - Success breeds success - the effort put into getting the reforms in the sector right has
resulted in attracting significant other donor resources to the sector with a leveraging of IDA funds in the
ratio of 1:5.




                                                       - 13 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

All executing agencies expressed their satisfaction as far as relations with Bank staff was concerned. The
major complaints were in relation to the lengthy and heavy procurement procedures which were not always
understood by the agencies.

(b) Cofinanciers:

The primary cofinancier of the project was the Nordic Development Fund (NDF). Since the completion of
the project, the NDF has ceased to exist. The relationship between the Bank and the NDF was very healthy
with combined supervision missions and a great deal of collaboration.

Sida was an initial cofinancier of the project but did not allocate their resources to be managed under the
PMU. The funds were targeted to the Pungwe River in a joint project with Zimbabwe through the Sida
Zimbabwe office and should hence be regarded as parallel and not co financing.

CIDA is engaged in rural water projects and is piloting the Demand Responsive Approach developed under
NWDP1. The ending of NWDP1 has left a vacuum in the rural water sector which has increased pressure
on CIDA. CIDA would like the Bank to continue to be involved in the sector to bring funds, leverage and
technical expertise.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

Not applicable.

10. Additional Information




                                                     - 14 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                               1
               Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                    Actual/Latest Estimate
INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING AND POLICY
DEVELOPMENT:

1. Development of a national database of key
sector parameters.                           Completed by April 2005.                   Deleted at MTR but erroneously included in
                                                                                        the performance indicators list in the DCA
                                                                                        amendments in April 2003.
2. Develop and implement a finance           Plan agreed and under implementation by    Fully implemented.
management plan with DNA.                    December 1998.
2.1 MIS established and producing regular    Production of regular financial and        Fully operational.
financial and operational reports comparing  operational reports by end 2003.
actual to projected results.

2.2 Accounting and budgeting procedures      Disbursements ratio is increased to 80% by
implemented to increase disbursement.        end of project.                            100% disbursement ratio.

2.3 Regular reporting and meetings for       System in place by 2001.
monitoring progress and procurement.
                                                                                        Fully operational.

3. DNA established in improved and           Rehabilitation/construction completed by   Completed by October 2005.
adequate premises and staff housing          April 2005.
constructed in Inhambane and Maputo

PREPARATION FOR PRIVATE SECTOR
MANAGEMENT OF URBAN WATER
SUPPLY:
4. Bids invited and evaluated for private    Completed by November 1998.                Completed as scheduled (November 1998).
sector management of the five water
companies.
5. Central regulating body and investment    Completed by November 1998.                Completed as scheduled (November 1998).
fund body established and staffed in
preparation for private sector management of
urban water supply systems.
6. Sanitation strategy, designs and          Strategic Sanitation Plan prepared and     Completed in August 2004 (4 months before
documentation completed for 7 cities.        presented to 7 municipalities by December  scheduled date).
                                             2004.
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND
SANITATION:
7. Appointment of Rural Water Transition     Completed by June 1998.                    Completed as scheduled (June 1998).
Plan (RWTP) Steering Committee and
directorate body.
8. RWSS Technical, Social and Operational Completed by December 2002.                   Completed by October 2003.
Manuals for Demand Responsive Approach
(DRA) produced and field tested in
Inhambane Province.
9. Approval of DAR-PRONAR institutional      Approved by June 1999.                     Completed as scheduled (June 1999).
strengthening plan and RWTP national
communication strategy.
10. First Small piped water system in        Rehabilitation completed by December 2001. Completed by end 2004.
Inhambane rehabilitated/improved under
autonomous management, with full
stakeholder participation.
11. At least 60 sustainable water points     60 water points constructed by April 2005. 130 water points serving 65,000 people
serving approximately 30,000 people                                                     constructed by October 2005.
constructed based on participatory design
and management.
12. Piped water supplied to at least 2 small Completed by April 2005.                   14 small piped water systems designed and
communities (6,000 people) based on                                                     7 small piped water system rehabilitated
participatory planning and design and                                                   covering 7 communities (108,000 people)
appropriate management models, with tariffs                                             completed by October 2005.




                                                                - 15 -

designed to phase up to cover operating and
maintenance cost and depreciation of at least
short-life assets.

WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT:
13. National Water Policy and Water Law
reviewed and redrafted and Water Resources Completed by December 2004.                      Completed by September 2005.
Management (WRM) Strategy formulated in
consultation with stakeholders
14. Strategy for international water developed Strategy developed by March 2005.            Strategy developed by September 2004.
(NDF funded).
15. Corumana Dam safety structures             - Equipment procured for regular dam         Completed as scheduled.
rehabilitated and equipment procured for       maintenance by June 2002.
regular dam maintenance.
                                               - Dam safety structures rehabilitated by June
                                               2004.                                        Rehabilitation work completed in October
                                                                                            2005.

HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT:
16. Develop and implement human resources
management and development (HRMD)              - HRMD Strategy developed in a               HRMD Strategy approved in January 2002.
strategy.                                      consultative/participatory way and adopted by
                                               June 2002.
                                                                                            HRMD Action Plan launched by June 2002.
                                               - HRMD Action Plan launched by December
                                               2002.

17. Management information system (MIS)        MIS piloted in June 2004.                    MIS piloted in June 2003.
for Human Resources Management piloted in
two departments (Rural Water Department
and WRM Department) in DNA.


The Performance Indicators were different in the PAD and the DCA. They were further amended and
rationalized during the mid term review. The following table indicates how the indicators have changed
during the project.


                     PAD                                  Original DCA                       Amended DCA (as of April 2003)
          Performance Indicators                    Performance Indicators                        Performance Indicators
Development of sectoral database, including                 Unchanged                                    Unchanged
information on percentage of population with
access to safe, reliable water supplies
Plan for development of finance function                    Unchanged                                    Unchanged
within DNA is agreed, and implementation
underway
Strategy for human resource development,                    Unchanged                                    Unchanged
agreed upon action plan developed, and
implementation under way
HRD program in action, in line with nationally              Not included              Changed: Management information system for
agreed strategy                                                                       Human Resources Management piloted in two
                                                                                      departments in DNA
Bids invited and evaluated for private sector               Unchanged                                    Unchanged
management of five water companies
Works to secure water supply reliability for                Unchanged                                      Dropped
Beira and Pemba designed, constructed and
in operation
Central regulating body established                         Unchanged                                    Unchanged
and staffed in preparation for private sector
management of urban water supply systems
Appointment of RWTP steering committee                      Unchanged                                    Unchanged
and directorate body
Approval of DAR-PRONAR institutional                        Unchanged                                    Unchanged
strengthening plan and RWTP national
communication strategy




                                                                   - 16 -

Pilot piped rural water supply systems          Changed: First small piped water  Changed: Piped water supplied to at least two small
rehabilitated & in operation as autonomous      system in Inhambane rehabilitated communities (estimated total population of 6,000)
entities with full stakeholder participation;   / improved under autonomous       based on participatory planning and design and
similarly for wells & boreholes                 management, with full stakeholder appropriate management models, with tariffs
                                                participation.                    designed to phase up to cover operating &
                                                                                  maintenance cost & depreciation of at least
                                                                                  short-life assets
                   Not included                             Not included          At least 60 sustainable water points serving
                                                                                  approximately 30,000 people constructed based on
                                                                                  participatory design and management
                   Not included                             Not included          RWSS Technical, Social and Operational manuals
                                                                                  produced and field tested in lnhambane Province
Sanitation strategy, designs & documentation                Unchanged             Changed: Strategic sanitation plans prepared for 7
completed                                                                         cities and capacity of municipal staff and DNA
                                                                                  improved for sanitation planning
Proposals completed to develop & manage                       Dropped                                    Dropped
the Incomati & Pungue Rivers jointly with
upstream riparians. ARA-Sul operates with
income fully covering bulk water supply
operations & maintenance
                   Not included                             Not included          Corumana Dam safety structures rehabilitated and
                                                                                  equipment procured for regular dam maintenance

                   Not included                             Not included          National Water Policy & Water Law reviewed &
                                                                                  Water Resources Management Strategy formulated
                                                                                  in consultation with stakeholders
                   Not included                             Not included          Strategy for international waters developed
                    Not included                            Not included         DNA established in improved & adequate premises
                                                                                 & staff housing constructed in Inhambane & Maputo
Business plan for ARA-Sul approved                          Unchanged                                    Dropped
River basin studies started                                 Unchanged                                    Dropped




Output Indicators:
                                                                               1
                 Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest Estimate




1End of project




                                                                 - 17 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     Appraisal    Actual/Latest       Percentage of
                                                                     Estimate        Estimate            Appraisal
                         Component                                  US$ million     US$ million
1.      Institution Building and Policy Development                     5.60               8.50              152
2.      Preparation for Privatization of Urban Water                    7.20               2.80                39
Supply
3.      Rural Water Supply and Sanitation                             15.20              13.70                 90
4.      Water Resources Management                                    12.40              16.40               132
5.      Human Resources Development                                     4.30               2.20                51
6.      Project Management (US$ 2.0 Million)                            4.00               5.30
       PPF Refinancing (US$ 2.0 Million)
7.      Emergency Water Rehabilitation                                  0.00               2.10              133
 (New component added at MTR)

Total Baseline Cost                                                   48.70              51.00
  Physical Contingencies                                                3.00
  Price Contingencies                                                   5.20
                           Total Project Costs                        56.90              51.00
                    Total Financing Required                          56.90              51.00

NOTE: The total project cost of US$ 56.9 million (Appraisal estimate) includes parallel financing
(indicated as co-financing in the PAD) from different donors/sources as follows:

                                                Project Financing
                          Source              Appraisal                       Actual
                                                (US$ million)                 (US$ million)


          IDA                         36.0                            37.2*
          NDF                          6.9                             6.9
          CIDA                         6.9                             2.0**
          SDC                         4.0                              1.5**
          SIDA                        0.6                               0.6
          GoM                         2.5                              2.8
                TOTAL                56.9                             51.0

* The dollor value of the IDA Credit has increased by about US$1.2 million due to the appreciation of the
SDR (standard drawing rights) against the US dollar.

** The reasons for the lower actual/latest amount (US$51.0 million) than the Appraisal/MTR estimate are:
(i) Parallel financing from CIDA has a closing date of 12/31/2007 and the disbursed amount as of
11/16/2005 is only US$2.05 Million (remaining amount of US$4.80 Million, to be disbursed by the closing
date is not included in this calculation), (ii) Parallel financing from SDC also has a different closing date
and the disbursed amount as of 11/16/2005 included in this calculation is only US$0.8 million (remaining
amount to be disbursed and not included in the above tables is US$2.5 Million).




                                                       - 18 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                          1
                                                  Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB             NCB                    2         N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                      Other
1. Works                            12.20            1.10              0.00            7.00      20.30
                                   (11.10)           (1.00)            (0.00)         (0.00)    (12.10)
2. Goods                             0.00            2.20              0.70            0.60      3.50
                                    (0.00)           (2.10)            (0.50)         (0.00)     (2.60)
3. Services                          0.00            0.00              14.50           10.70     25.20
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)           (14.40)         (0.00)    (14.40)
4. Miscellaneous                     0.00            0.00              7.60            0.30      7.90
(Operating Costs,
PPF, Unallocated)
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)            (6.90)         (0.00)     (6.90)
5. Miscellaneous                     0.00            0.00              0.00            0.00      0.00
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                     0.00            0.00              0.00            0.00      0.00
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
   Total                            12.20            3.30              22.80           18.60     56.90
                                   (11.10)           (3.10)           (21.80)         (0.00)    (36.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                          1
                                                  Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB             NCB                    2         N.B.F.  Total Cost
                                                                      Other
1. Works                            13.87            2.19              0.09           2.10      18.25
                                   (13.37)          (1.69)            (0.08)          (0.00)   (15.14)
2. Goods                             2.52            1.62              0.49           0.00      4.63
                                    (1.92)          (1.02)            (0.43)          (0.00)    (3.37)
3. Services                         11.56            1.81              3.55           8.90      25.82
                                   (11.56)          (1.71)            (3.24)          (0.00)   (16.51)
4. Miscellaneous                     0.00            0.00              2.30           0.00      2.30
(Operating Costs,
PPF, Unallocated)
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)            (2.19)          (0.00)    (2.19)
5. Miscellaneous                     0.00            0.00              0.00           0.00      0.00
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)    (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                     0.00            0.00              0.00           0.00      0.00
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)    (0.00)
   Total                            27.95            5.62              6.43           11.00     51.00
                                   (26.85)          (4.42)            (5.94)          (0.00)   (37.21)

NOTE: IDA amount increased (from US$36 million to US$37.21 million) due to the appreciation of the
SDR against the US dollar.
         CIDA (N.B.F.) ­ Disbursed Amount as of 11/16/2005: US$2.05 Million; remaining amount to
be disbursed by closing date (12/31/2007) not included in this table: US$4.80 Million.
         SDC ­ Disbursed Amount as of 11/16/2005: US$0.8 Million. Remaining amount to be disbursed



                                                  - 19 -

   and not included in this table: US$2.5 Million.

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1. Institution Building and    5.10         0.40         0.70        6.70         1.10       0.70       131.4    275.0    100.0
Policy Development
2. Preparation for             8.10         0.40         0.00        2.80         0.00       0.00       34.6      0.0       0.0
Privatization of Urban
Water Supply
3. Rural Water Supply         10.30         1.00         6.90       11.00         0.60       2.10       106.8     60.0     30.4
and Sanitation
4. Water Resources             6.60         0.50         7.50        8.60         0.40       7.40       130.3     80.0     98.7
Management
5. Human Resources             1.80         0.10         3.30        1.20         0.03       0.80       66.7      30.0     24.2
Development
6. Project Management;         4.10         0.10         0.00        4.90         0.40       0.00       119.5    400.0      0.0
PPF Refinancing
7. Flood Emergency                                                   1.90         0.20       0.00
Response
(New component added at
MTR)


   NOTE: - Some donors (CIDA, SDC) have parallel financing arrangements, implemented by them selves
   and have different closing dates.
              - IDA amount increased due to the appreciation of the SDR against the US dollar.




                                                          - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


ERR was not calculated at Appraisal as the project was not amenable to economic analysis due to its
reform emphasis.




                                                  - 21 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              09/1994                   2    Mission Leader; Fin. Analyst
              02/1995                   6    Mission Leader; Wat. Supply
                                             Adviser; Fin. Analyst; Systems
                                             Client Consultation Sp.;
                                             Consultant (2)
              06/1995                   7    Mission Leader; Wat. Supply
                                             Adviser; Fin. Analyst; Wat.
                                             Resources Mgmt. Sp.; Wat.
                                             Supply Engr(2); Consultant
              11/1995                   8    Mission Leader; Fin. Analyst;
                                             Priv. Sector Sp.; Wat. Resources
                                             Mgmt. Sp.; Wat. Supply
                                             Engineer; Eco. Evaluation Sp.;
                                             Wat. Sector Lawyer; Peri-urban
                                             Wat. Supply Sp.
              02/1996                   9    Mission Leader; Wat. &
                                             Sanitation Engr.; Eco.
                                             Evaluation Sp.; Wat. Sector
                                             Lawyer; Fin. Analyst; Priv.
                                             Sector Sp.; Wat. Resources
                                             Mgmt. Sp.; Int'l River Basin
                                             Mgmt. Sp.; Peri-urban Wat.
                                             Supply Sp.

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              06/1996                   7    Mission Leader, Fin.
                                             Analyst; Wat. & Sanitation
                                             Engr.; Economist (2); Priv.
                                             Sector Specialist; Wat.
                                             Resources Mgmt. Sp.
              09/1996                   3    Mission Leader, Fin. Analyst; Sr.
                                             Wat. Resources Mgmt. Sp.
              11/1996                   2    Mission Leader; Sr. Wat.
                                             Resources Mgmt. Sp.
              02/1997                   3    Mission Leader; Fin. Analyst;
                                             Wat. & Sanitation Engr.
              5/1997                    3    Mission Leader; Wat. &
                                             Sanitation Engr.; Procurement
                                             Sp.

 Supervision
              04/1998                   5    Mission Leader; Wat. &                S               S
                                             Sanitation Engr.;
                                             Procurement Sp.; NGO
                                             Liaison Officer; Sr. Staff
                                             Asst.



                                              - 22 -

10/1998    7 Mission Leader; Wat. &                S    S
             Sanitation Engr.; Human
             Resources Dev. Sp.; Fin. Mgmt.
             Sp.; Wat. Resources Mgmt. Sp.;
             Proj. Planning Sp.; Sr. Staff Asst.
11/1998    2 Proj. Planning Sp.; Human             S    S
             Resources Dev. Sp.
02/1999    3 Mission Leader; Wat. Resources        S    S
             Mgmt. Sp.; Wat. & Sanitation
             Sp.
04/1999    6 Wat. & Sanitation Engr. (2);          S    S
             Wat. Resources Mgmt.;
             Consultant; Procurement Sp.;
             Sanitation Engr.
10/1999    6 Wat. & Sanitation Engr. (3);          S    S
             Wat. Resources Mgmt. Sp.;
             Implement. Sp.; Fin. Analyst
03/2000    2 Mission Leader/Engr.; Supply          S    S
             Chains Sp.
10/2000    3 Sr. Fin. Sp.; Sr. Wat. Resources      S    S
             Mgmt. Sp.; Wat. & Sanit. Engr.;
02/2001    6 (MTR) - Mission Leader; Fin.          S    S
             Specialist; Sanit. Engr.; Wat.
             Resources Mgmt. Sp.; Wat. &
             Sanit. Sp.; Proc. Officer
06/2001    5 Mission Leader; Fin. Sp.; Wat. &      S    S
             Sanit. Engr.; Wat. Resources
             Mgmt. Sp.; Proc. Officer
11/2001    3 Mission Leader/Sr. Fin. Sp.; Sr.      S    S
             Wat. Engr.; Sr. Wat. & Sanit. Sp.

04/2002    4 Mission Leader; Rural Wat. &          S    S
             Sanit. Sp. (2); Wat. Resources
             Mgmt. Sp.
12/2002    3 Mission Leader/Fin. Sp.; Rural        S    S
             Wat. & Sanit. Sp.; Proc. Officer
02/2003    3 Fin. Sp.; Wat. Resources Mgmt.        S    S
             Sp.; Water & Sanit. Sp.
09/2003    6 Task Mgr./Financial Sp.; Wat.         S    S
             Resources Mgmt. Sp.; Water &
             Sanit. Sp. (2); Fin. Mgmt. Sp.;
             Proc. Officer
11/2003    3 Task Mgr./Fin. Sp.; Wat.              S    S
             Resources Mgmt. Sp.; Wat. &
             Sanit. Sp.
05/2004    6 Task Mgr./Fin. Sp.; Wat.              S    S
             Resources Mgmt. Sp.; Water &
             Sanit. Sp. (2); Proc.
             Officer/Const.; Fin. Mgmt. Sp.
04/2005    6 Mission Leader; Sr. Wat.              S    S
             Resource Mgmt. Sp.; Wat. &
             Sanit. Sp.; Operations Analyst;



             - 23 -

                                           Fin. Mgmt. Sp.; Sr. Proc. Sp.

 ICR
               11/2005                2     Sr. Wat. Resources Mgmt.
                                            Sp.; Operations Analyst



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation             104                           289.3
  Appraisal/Negotiation                  120                           285.5
  Supervision                            175                           554.3
  ICR                                  10.38                           36.96
  Total                              409.38                          1166.06




                                            - 24 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


·    Project Appraisal Document, National Water Development Project 1 (NWDP 1), January 1998.
·    Development Credit Agreement, NWDP 1, February 18, 1998.
·    Environmental Assessment Report, NWDP1, July 1996.
·    Mid-Term Review Report, NWDP1, April 24, 2001.
·    Aide Memoires:
     o        Supervision Mission - April 1998
     o        Supervision Mission - October 1998
     o        Supervision Mission - April 1999
     o        Supervision Mission - October 1999
     o        Supervision Mission - March 2000
     o        Mid-Term Review - February 2001
     o        Supervision Mission - June 2001
     o        Supervision Mission - November 2001
     o        Supervision Mission - April 2002
     o        Supervision Mission - February 2003
     o        Supervision Mission - October 2003
     o        Supervision Mission - May 2004
     o        Supervision Mission - April 2005
     o        ICR Mission - November 2005

·    Impact Assessment and Lessons Learned from Implementing the Rural Water Pilot Project
     in Inhambane, NWDP 1; September 2005.
·    DNA- PNDA Final Evaluation of the Project, October 2005.




                                              - 27 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to Implementation Completion Report


                  First National Water Development Project (NWDP1)
                               Implementation Completion Report
                  GOM/Borrower/Implementing Agency Contribution


EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

a)      Assessment of Development Objectives and Design and of Quality at Entry.

The objective of the NWDP1 was to align the institutions of the water sector with the strategic vision set
out in the National Water Policy (NWP), to increase their capacity, prepare for the private sector
management of the urban water supply systems of the cities of Maputo, Beira, Quelimane, Nampula and
Pemba (the five cities), and reorient and reform the management and implementation of rural water supply
and sanitation, so that sector organizations can provide sustainable WSS services to an increasing
proportion of the community, and can manage Mozambique's water resources. The project's objectives
were later refined, and clear links were established between project's objectives and components as follows:
(a) increase the capacity of the Mozambican institutions in the water sector, (b) prepare the urban supply
and sanitation systems of five cities for private sector management to ensure the provision of sustainable
WSS services for a larger proportion of their population, (c) reorient and reform the management and
implementation of rural WSS and improve availability of these services to rural communities, and (d)
ensure the sustainable management of water resources.

The NWDP 1 included five major components and one subsidiary Project Management Implementation
Plan, to which the Flood Emergency Response has been added due to its emergency character. The five
major components and subsidiary component are:

      §     Institution Building and Policy Development
      §     Preparation for Private Sector Management of Urban Water Supply
      §     Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
      §     Water Resources Management (WRM)
      §     Human Resources Development
      §     Project Management (subsidiary component)

At the mid-term review, the Project was in a precarious situation as benefits of the successful
implementation of the Urban Water Supply component could have been jeopardized by poor
implementation of the other components, mainly the RWSS one. The challenge from then on was to
successfully manage the Rural Water Transition Plan to be able to implement the Small Piped System and
Point Sources activities and to achieve a satisfactory disbursement ratio for component 3 so as to justify a
possible DCA extension. A 2 year extension of the DCA was granted and most of the objectives of the
RWTP were successfully completed.

The Emergency Project component was added to the Project after the catastrophic floods of
February-March 2000, for financial support for technical assistance to the Emergency Commission to
manage and co-ordinate the flood reconstruction responses.



                                                     - 28 -

The project was originally conceived to finance activities for the privatisation of water supply management
of five cities. The other components were refined as the project progressed. As a result, the PSP process
was implemented as planned while other components of the project were delayed pending approval of a
better project design. This applied to the WRM component, which really started after its design, following
the Building Blocks approach, was approved. It also applied to the RWSS components, whose
sub-components were not designed at the beginning of the project. However, a more detailed design of the
project was prepared during the preparation of the Project Implementation Manual (PIM) and of the Project
Implementation Plan (PIP) in July 2000.

b)     Achievement of Objectives and Outputs

The Project has successfully helped to reorient the institutions of the sector in line with the strategic vision
set out in the NWP as follows:

      §      Increased participation of the beneficiaries during the project cycle and adoption of the
             demand-driven approach instead of the supply-driven approach
      §      Acknowledgment of the value of water by the beneficiaries through implementation of tariff
             policy or contribution to the services
      §      Development of institutional reforms and legal instruments for improved WRM
      §      Strengthening of the GRI presence and effectiveness in their dealings with Mozambique's
             riparian neighbours and placing GRI in a position to play a leading role in the country's
             handling of international water challenges
      §      Development of public awareness campaign and stakeholder consultation for a better definition
             of the sector strategy and for an increased public participation
      §      Private sector participation in the water sector development
      §      Revision of the National Water Policy and the National Water Law

The project has also contributed to increasing the capacity of the relevant institutions through logistical
support (building, equipment, and vehicles), training, and Human Resources Development strategy
development within DNA.

This initial objective was fully achieved by the creation of FIPAG (assets management), CRA (regulatory
body), and the signing of a lease contract for Maputo and of management contracts for Beira, Quelimane,
Nampula, and Pemba. In addition, this first move towards PSP in the water sector was later confirmed
when 4 other cities adopted the delegated private management model (Chokwe, Xai Xai, Inhambane, and
Maxixe). FIPAG is now recognized as a reputable assets management company and has secured US$ 110
million for investment in five cities.

The RWSS component was expected to help the widespread adoption of principles and practices based on
decentralization and community demand. This approach was expected to lead to future RWSS investments
providing reliable rural water services that match community needs. Despite a slow start, the project
successfully implemented a pilot project in Inhambane and, as a result, other IFIs like AfDB are involved
(in Nampula and Niassa Provinces), or have expressed interest.

The WRM component was successful due to the formulation of the National WRM Strategy based on the
output of the completed 6 Building Blocks. DGRH and GRI have increased their capacity: they are guiding
and coordinating the implementation of the National WRM Strategy and playing a key role in regional and
international WRM challenges. Decentralization is on-going through the creation of ARAs. Financial


                                                     - 29 -

autonomy of ARA Sul is still an issue. Component-specific physical investments are either completed:
Corumana Dam; Pequenos Libombos power plant; Telemetry for data transmission, and logistical support
to ARA-Sul, DGRH and GRI.

c)    Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

Factors outside the control of the Government and IAs were (i) the catastrophic floods of 2000 and 2001 in
the southern and central part of the country that forced DNA to concentrate on flood response, (ii) lack of
experienced contractors in the field of the project leading to poor quality of the construction works and
enforcement difficulties for the condition of contracts.

Factors subject to government control were (i) ensuring timely availability of counterpart funds, (ii) lack of
experience in complex procurement processes that lead to delays in most procurement activities, (iii) lack
of technical expertise to draft or comment on terms of reference for multidisciplinary works and studies,
(iv) lack of communication at the early stage of the project leading to frustration of some IAs because of
the slow progress of some of the components, (v) micromanagement type of approach selected by the DNA
leading to a vast number of consultants involved without proper co-ordination and direction.

Factors subject to Implementing Agency control were (i) too many IAs were involved, and co-ordination
among IAs was difficult in the early stages of the project (the common project database implemented by the
PMU helped improve co-ordination and reporting), (ii) staff availability and skills varied amongst IAs (iii)
weak project and contract management capacity within some IAs.

d)    Project Impact and Sustainability

An immediate and visible impact of the project is the improvement of DNA's and other IA's capacity to
manage complex multidisciplinary projects. DNA's capacity has been increased in (i) project design and
planning, (ii) procurement under international rules, (iii) financial planning and management, and (iv)
project monitoring and reporting.

The project has had an immediate impact on the urban water supply sector by laying the foundation for
more active private sector participation in urban water supply services provision. The project established
the legal and institutional framework for PSP and helped create both FIPAG and CRA. A lease contract for
Maputo and management contracts for 4 cities were signed. As a side effect, management contracts were
also signed for 4 other cities through a different programme. Actual PSP benefits must be assessed through
close monitoring of private operators' performance and of the Government of Mozambique's (GoM)
compliance with its commitments. NWDP1 kick-started the PSP approach in the water sector in
Mozambique.

NWDP1 has also brought substantial benefits to WRM in Mozambique. The strengthening of both DGRH
and GRI is a success and the foundation for a more proactive approach to WRM at both national and
international levels. Basic knowledge of water resources is a must for further planning in the sector; the
project has helped clarify the institutional and legal framework and define basic tools for data collection
and management. The recommendations made in the Building Block 3 report await implementation. GRI is
now recognized nationally and internationally as a valuable partner in the negotiation of international water
rights: a sensitive issue for the GoM.




                                                     - 30 -

The project has also had a positive impact on the activities of ARA-Sul: it brought logistical support to
ARA-Sul and financed the Corumana Dam rehabilitation studies and relevant works. The project also
funded consultants to support ARA-Sul's Business Plan preparation. ARA-Sul aims to become a
sustainable self-financing entity. Implementing the Business Plan recommendations is crucial for the
achievement of ARA-Sul´s goals. This will depend on availability of funds. Setting up the Management
Council of ARA-Sul is a priority to ease the decision-making process.

The project had a slow start in the Rural Water and Sanitation Sector. The challenge was high since the
project was aiming to move from a supply-driven to a demand-driven approach. Decentralisation of most of
the project cycle activities was a positive move, as it had been difficult to move from concept to action. The
project helped DNA, DAR, DPOPH and all stakeholders work together to define a methodology
appropriate for Mozambique. The project assisted in implementing the decentralisation process by giving
support to the DPOPH in Inhambane province, where 130 water points were built to serve 65,000 people,
and 7 small piped systems were rehabilitated to serve 108,000 people. Management models and
mechanisms for recruiting private sector operators were piloted under the project. However, benefits from
these pilots cannot be evaluated at this point of time since there are too new.

The project had a limited scope in the sanitation sector, and only two main activities took place under this
category: (i) the Strategic Sanitation Plans for seven municipalities and (ii) the elaboration of Technical and
Social Manuals for Low Cost Sanitation and project implementation in Inhambane province. Training of
DES staff was also foreseen. Project impact is positive since DNA/DES managed to "sell" these strategic
plans to donors. The investment's needs identified by the SSPs are roughly US$ 170 million and the
following funds are already mobilised:

       §     US$ 12 million from the EC for Maputo and Matola
       §     32 million  from the EC for Beira (detailed design on-going by Seureca)
       §     US$ 39 million from the Millenium Challenge Corporation (signature outstanding) for Pemba,
             Nampula, Quelimane, and 4 other cities not included in the SSP programme but that will
             follow the same approach;

The project had a positive impact on Human Resources Management and Development at the DNA. The
HRD MIS has been developed and is operational in two departments of DNA (HRD and Department of
Administration and Finance).

The project had a positive impact in the strengthening communication skills and capacity within the DNA.
Communication strategies for rural WSS have been developed, the DNA library has been refurbished, and
librarian have been trained. Through the project, DNA got some resources to disseminate the WRM
strategy formulation and the RWSS policies and strategies trough its web site. The site is open, and DNA
has secured funds for its operation.

The project has also provided for a large staff training programme. Training has been focused on project
and contract management, financial management, procurement, communication strategy, etc... Training
has been delivered at country, province, and district levels.

Through the project, the DNA has demonstrated its capacity to manage a complex project. This capacity
should be nurtured and sustained. Capacity building in the WRM sector has enabled the DGRH and GRI to
identify the necessary tools and start developing a sustainable WRM strategy at both national and



                                                     - 31 -

international levels. The urban water sector has been reoriented, and is now experiencing sustainable
development of PSPs. This approach is well-perceived by funding agencies and could guarantee a more
regular flow of investments to sustain sector development. The RWSS transition plan was as success, since
it enshrined the demand-driven approach within the national strategy for RWSS.

Sustainability of the project impacts will depend on DNA's ability to (i) secure funds and partners to
implement the WRM Strategy, (ii) disseminate countrywide the experience gained through the pilot project
in the Inhambane province, (iii) secure funds and partners to implement a first phase of the Strategic
Sanitation Plans, (iv) validate the first years experience with the PSP approach in the water supply sector
and expand it.

The Human Resources Management and Development Strategy must be implemented for all water sector
staff through: (i) medium and long-term training plans for water sector staff, (ii) medium and long-term
human resources plans for DNA, and (iii) an integrated system of DNA Human resources management,
including incentive policy for DNA staff. This will help ensure the sustainability of the strategy
implemented during the project.

e)    Bank and Borrower Performance

All executing agencies expressed their satisfaction with respect to relations to Bank staff. Major complaints
relate to the lengthy and heavy procurement procedures that were not always understood by the agencies.

f)    Lessons Learned

A lot of effort, time, and resources were wasted because of the weakness of the design of the project. At
first, the project was deemed too complex for a first National Water Development Project. The WRM or
RWSS components could have constituted a manageable project on their own. Some of the project
components were not even designed, and it was difficult for DNA to transform goodwill into action. DNA
was always committed. It appears that neither WB nor DNA were aware of the complexity of project at the
design stage. Better preparation will be required of DNA and other stakeholders for the next project.

As a response to the insufficient preparation of the project, numerous TA contracts in the RWSS sector
were launched. It would have been better to design these TA contracts to include the various aspects of the
RWSS approach. It would have guaranteed higher consistency among approaches. The micromanagement
approach could have made sense if DAR and DPOPH had had the capacity to design the overall approach
and to coordinate the various consultancies. The Building Blocks approach selected for the WRM proved
to be more efficient but required more effort to properly define objectives and goals. The multitude of small
TAs contracts had a negative impact on procurement performance.

Setting up a comprehensive management system, a set of indicators, and M&E strategy at the beginning of
the project is highly recommended, even at the expenses of the initial programme of the project. Time spent
in careful management preparation is regained in most cases through higher efficiency. Early training of the
PMU staff is a must.

Proper implementation of the WRM strategy will require more funds for both capital investment and
operating costs. The experience of ARA SUL demonstrates that identifying needs trough the preparation of
a business plan is a first step. However, data collection and data processing responsibilities (and so costs)
are increasing for ARA SUL, along with flood monitoring and early flood warning, dam safety and dam
operation, water point licensing, raw water extraction monitoring and billing, etc...


                                                     - 32 -

GRI has demonstrated its capacity to promote Mozambican interests in negotiating international water
treaties or agreements. This is a first step. However, their benefits will be reaped only if GRI/DNA and the
GoM have the capacity and resources to implement these agreements. Regular financial resources should
be secured to sustain the efforts made in getting these agreements signed.

Building block 3 identified the methodology and tools required for comprehensive data collection,
processing, and reporting in the WRM sector. It is urgent that these methodologies be implemented and
these tools developed to benefit of the dynamic initiated through the project.

The RWSS project showed that mentalities can change if stakeholders are convinced of the benefit of a new
approach. Significant time and effort have been put into this component and lessons learned have been
included in the various manual and promotion materials used to disseminate the demand-driven approach
within the country. Some of these lessons still need to be re-examined.

The IAs think that availability of spare parts and skills for repairs at the local level is crucial for project
sustainability. This is not yet achieved. The supply chain should go up to the water point. Similarly,
systematic monitoring and control of water points by DPOPH is required. Staff needs will continue to grow
along with program development.

Re-evaluation of water committees and repair maintenance groups should be done at regular intervals, so as
to extend capacity building to the community level and to monitor the performance of each committee and
repair group.

A database of water points at the local and district level should be developed.

TA for RWSS project implementation should incorporate social and technical skills.

Contracts for boreholes should be defined to better allocate risk from unproductive boreholes. Various
approaches were tested during the project, and the current approach provides a fair compensation to the
contractor without bringing all costs to the project. It is recommended that a seminar be organised with all
stakeholders, including contractors, to translate the site experience into appropriate contractual terms.

The SSPs approach is successful, thanks to the consultation process put in place all along the study period.


The decentralized approach for the sanitation projects seems to be well-suited for the Mozambican
environment, and the transfer of responsibilities from the municipalities to autonomous entities managed
under commercial principles is accepted by seven municipalities, and was extended to other municipalities.
Options for operating these entities are opened and can vary from management contracts in large cities to
TA contracts in smaller cities.

The project has and brought innovative approach of HRD to a public administration and the HRD MIS is a
success. However, the promotion of a new HRD approach could also backfire on the initiators if hope turns
to frustration and promises are not met.




                                                     - 33 -

- 34 -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IBRD 33451R

           30E                                                                                                      35E                                                                                                         40E

10S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      10S


                                                                                                             LakeLake                                 T A N Z A N I A                                                            To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MtwaraMtwara

                                                                                                             Malawi
                                                                                                             Malawi


        MOZAMBIQUE                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Mocimboa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MuedaMueda            da Praia




                                                                                                                  AugustoAugusto                                             Lugenda
                                                                                                                  CardosoCardoso                                                                                C A B O

                                                                                                                                                  N I A S S A                                 Messalo     D E L G A D O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Pemba

                                                                      MALAWIMALAWI                                                LichingaLichinga
                                                                                                                                                                          MarrupaMarrupa
                                                                                                                                                                                         q   u e              MontepuezMontepuez

                                                                                                                                                                                b       i
                                                      To
                                                      To                                                                                CaturCatur                          m              u                       Lúrio
                                                   Chipata
                                                   Chipata                           To
                                                                                     To                                                                                   a             a
           Z A M B I A                                                          LilongweLilongwe                                                                                e
                                                                                                                                                                   o  z       t
                                                                   Vila
                                                                    ila                                                                                   M               l a
                                                                GamitoGamito                                             To
                                                                                                                         To                                           P                                                                          Nacala
                To
                To                                                                                                   MangocheMangoche                                                            N A M P U L A
               PetaukePetauke                                                                                                                                   CuambaCuamba
                                                                  FurancugoFurancugo                                                                                                       RibáuéRibáué
15S                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                                  To
         To
         To                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              15S
                                                                                                            ZombaZomba
        Lusaka
        Lusaka                    FíngoéFíngoé                                                                                                                              Monte Binga
                                                                                                                                                                            Monte Binga                Nampula
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Nampula                                  Mocambique
                                 Lago de       T E T E                                                                                                                      (2,419 m)
                                                                                                                                                                            (2,419 m)
                               Cahora Bassa                                                                                                                        Vila
                                                                                                                                                                    ila
                   ZumboZumbo                       SongoSongo    Zambeze                                           To
                                                                                                                    To                                  JunquieroJunquiero
                                                                                     Vila de
                                                                                          ila de                                                                                         Alto Molócue
                                                                                                                                                                                         Alto Molócue
                                                                                                                  BlantyreBlantyre
                                                                                     MoatizeMoatize
                                                                                                                                                  MilangeMilange                                            Ligonha
                                                                                    Tete
                                                                                     ete
                                                                                                                                                        Licungo    Z A M B E Z I A                                               Angoche


                                                                             ChangaraChangara
                                                                                                                                                  Vila de Mocuba
                                                                                                                                                   ila de Mocuba
                                                      To
                                                      To
                                                    Mutoko
                                                    Mutoko

                                                                                                          Vila de
                                                                                                            la de                                      NamacurraNamacurra                      Pebane

                                                                                                            SenaSena

    Z I M B A B W E                                                         CatandicaCatandica                                          Zambeze                           Quelimane


                                                                               GorogosaGorogosa                        InhamingaInhaminga
                                                     To
                                                     To
                                                  Harare
                                                  Harare                                              S O F A L A
                                                                              Chimoio
                                                                              Chimoio                                                                                                         INDIAN OCEAN
                                                To
                                                To                MANICAMANICA                                    i n
                                              Masvingo
                                              Masvingo
                                                                                                           l a
                                                  Monte Binga
                                                  Monte Binga                                             P          Beira
20S                                                  (2,438 m)
                                                     (2,438 m)                                           e                                                                                                                                               20S

                                                    To
                                                    To                        Buzi                      u
                                               Masvingo
                                               Masvingo
                                                                  EspungaberaEspungabera             i q
                                                                                               b
                                                                                            m                          Inhambane

                                                                             Save          a
                                                                                          z
                                    To
                                    To                                                                                   Inhassôro
                                  Rutenga
                                  Rutenga                                            o
                                                                                    M                                              Vilanculos
                                        ChicualacualaChicualacuala                                                                                                                       0     50        100       150  200 Kilometers
                                                                      MachaílaMachaíla

                             To
                             To
                     Messina
                     Messina                                                    INHAMBANEINHAMBANE
                                                                                                                                                                                         0              50         100            150 Miles
                                                                                ChiguboChigubo
                                      MapaiMapai        G A Z A

    S O U T H                                   Limpopo                                      Changane                                                                                      MOZAMBIQUE
                                              MassingirMassingir
    A F R I C A                                                                                                                      Inhambane
                                                                                                        PandaPanda

                                                                                                                                                                                                          SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                       Guija
                                                       Guija
                                                                            ChibutoChibuto                             Inharrime                                                                          PROVINCE CAPITALS

25S                                                                                                                                                                                                       NATIONAL CAPITAL                               25S
                                      To
                                      To                                                  Xai-Xai
                                   Nelspruit
                                   Nelspruit                                                                                        This map was produced by                                              RIVERS
                                                                  Manhica                                                           the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                                                    World Bank. The boundaries,
                                       MoambaMoamba   MAPUTOMAPUTO                                                                                                                                        MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                                    colors, denominations and
                                                                                                                                    any other information shown
                                                                MAPUTO                                                              on this map do not imply, on                                          RAILROADS
                                      To
                                      To                                                                                            the part of The World Bank
                                   Mbabane
                                   Mbabane                                                                                          Group, any judgment on the                                            PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                    legal status of any territory,
                  SWAZILANDSWAZILAND                                                                                                or any endorsement or                                                 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                   Zitundo                                                          a c c e p t a n c e         o f s u c h
                                                                                                                                    boundaries.
           30E                                                                                                      35E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     APRIL 2006

