Report No. PIC3735
Project Name              Mozambique-National Water Development
Region                    Africa
Sector                    Water Supply & Sanitation
Project ID                MZPA39015
Borrower                  Government of Mozambique
Implementing agency       Direccao Nacional de Aguas   - DNA
Luis Elias, National Director
PO Box 1143
Av. de Septembro, 942
Telephone: 8-1-422 191 Facsimile: 8-1-421 403
Date this PID prepared    April 26, 1996
Projected appraisal date June 17, 1996
Projected Board date      March 21, 1997
Country and Sector Background
1. With a population estimated at 16 million and an average per
capita income of US$90 in 1994, Mozambique is one of the poorest
countries in the world. A 20-year civil war and periodic droughts
have resulted in widespread dislocation and continuing poverty, but
the successful elections in October 1994 give cause for optimism that
the country is entering a period of peace and economic growth. The
poor condition and coverage of water and sanitation infrastructure is,
however, a significant contributor to poor living conditions, and a
constraint on economic development. Only about 30 to 35 percent of
the population has convenient access to safe water. Access to
adequate sanitation facilities is also low. As a result, levels of
morbidity and mortality due to water-borne disease are among the
highest in the world. Substantial parts of the water systems are
either inoperable at present, or at risk of further deterioration and
collapse. Most water supply institutions are weak and skilled
personnel are rare.
2. As a first step towards the rehabilitation, improvement and
expansion of services the Government of Mozambique (GOM) has recently
finalized a policy framework for the water supply and sanitation
sector. The framework, set out in The National Water Policy document,
highlights the policy changes and institution-building efforts that
will be needed to promote the protection and management of the
country's scarce water resources, and improve the provision of water
supply and sanitation services in both urban and rural areas.
Project Objectives
3. The overall objective of the project will be to support the
implementation of the GOM's National Water Policy, and to assist in
its further evolution, by assisting the GOM in its efforts to improve
the management of water resources and increase the quality,



reliability, coverage and sustainability of urban and rural water
supply and sanitation services. Within this broad objective the
immediate goals of the project are to (i) improve the policy and
institutional framework for the management of water resources and the
provision of water services; (ii) restore deteriorating infrastructure
and increase coverage to progressively provide access to safe water
for an increasing preportion of the population; and (iii) strengthen
the ability of government institutions and the private sector to plan
and manage the delivery of water supply and sanitation services.
4. A key element in the improved institutional framework for the
delivery of water services will be the involvement of the private
sector in the management of assets and the implementation of
investments.  The project will assist GOM in redefining its role in
the sector by supporting the shift of responsibilities for the actual
provision of services from government to the private sector.
Government will develop a new role in regulating and monitoring the
performance of the private sector and facilitating sectoral finance,
and will strengthen its existing role of providing strategic direction
to the sector. Furthermore, by supporting the implementation of
adequate and appropriate cost recovery policies, the project will
facilitate the development of efficient and sustainable water supply
delivery systems.
Project Description
5. It is envisaged that the project will have the following four
components: (i) Urban water: The project will rehabilitate and
extend the water supply systems in the five cities of Maputo, Beira,
Nampula, Pemba and Quelimane, proceeding in two phases. In the first
phase, priority will be given to rehabilitating existing headworks and
distribution systems, and bringing operations, maintenance and
administration under control in the five cities. The second phase
will see the planning and extension of service delivery, and
preparatory activity for coping with the resulting increased volumes
of wastewater. Suppport for management improvement of the water
companies of the other significant cities will also be available to
companies which meet defined eligibility criteria. (ii) Rural water
and sanitation: Funds will be made available under the project for the
improvement and rehabilitation of rural and small town water treatment
and distribution systems, and sanitation facilities.     (iii) Water
Resources Management: The project will support the strengthening of
water resources management both within Mozambique and with respect to
international waters. Funding will be directed towards institutional
development, river basin studies (both local and international) and
priority investment in bulk water supply. (iv) Institutional
Strengthening: The project will support capacity building within
Mozambique to successfully implement the first three components of the
project.
Project Financing
6. The minimum likely investment required on the water supply
systems, for the five cities of Maputo, Beira, Nampula, Pemba, and
Quelimane is estimated at US$86 million. Together with the
- 2-



requirements for supporting management improvement in water companies,
some rehabilitation of rural and small town water systems, water
resources management, and institutional strengthening, the total
investment requirement is estimated at US $1 million. Of the US $1
million. IDA contribution is currently set at $30 million. It is
proposed that the remainder be made up through contributions from
donors and the Government.
Project Implementation
7. The project will be implemented under the oversight of the
Ministry of Public Works and Housing. Under the proposed new
management arrangements for the sector, the construction of all major
facilities will be carried out under the direction of the private
operator, with DNA responsible for planning and coordination. The
private operators will act autonomously but will be accountable to
Government for the cost-effective provision of services. The
responsible Government authority, Direccao Nacional de Aguas (DNA),
will develop a new role in regulating and monitoring the performance
of the private operator(s). Local communities will be systematically
consulted in order to promote local involvement in the design and
eventual execution of project sub-components. In addition, the
project would involve non-governmental organizations in the
implementation of the rural and small town schemes.
Project Sustainability
8. Sustainability will depend on ensuring that the water supply and
sanitation options chosen respond closely to user needs and
willingness to pay, and subsequently for systems serving urban areas,
ensuring cost recovery, and for facilities in rural areas, ensuring
the community's sense of ownership and responsibility for operations
and maintenance. The employment of technologies which are appropriate
in the context of the technical, financial and human resource
capacities of the country is also essential to this effort.
Lessons from Past Operations
9. Ongoing IDA operations in support of water supply and sanitation
services have underscored the need for (i) clear legal and regulatory
frameworks, (ii) cost recovery to ensure sustainability, (iii) user
participation in the design and implementation of services, and (iv)
human resource development. The project will support all four. The
project will represent a new approach for the sector, characterized by
autonomous, privately managed water and wastewater systems regulated
by government, a model that has proved efficient in sector service
delivery throughout the world.
Poverty Category
10. The project is expected to impact positively a large number of
poor people, particularly women in peri-urban areas with currently
limited access to regular, clean or affordable supplies of water.
- 3-



Development of options ensuring access of the poor to basic services
at an affordable rate will be part of the policy dialogue with the
Government.
Environmental Aspects
11. The proposed project has been screened for environmental issues
and has been assigned to category B. A full environmental assessment
is being carried out and is feeding into the planning of the
investments. The project is likely to have a positive impact on
public health by improving the access to clean water at affordable
prices. At the same time, it will also increase the volumes of
wastewater generated, thereby increasing the need for properly
serviced septic tanks and sewerage systems in urban areas, and
improved sanitation planning in rural areas. It is proposed that the
project support the integrated planning of water and sanitation
services, in preparation for the proposed IDA supported local
government project which is the project vehicle proposed for te
provision of urban sanitation services. This is designed to enable
significant environmental health problems to be avoided. The project
will also promote improved management and conservation of Mozambique's
water resources.
Program Objective Categories
12. The primary program objective category for this project is basic
infrastructure and urban development. Secondary program objectives
are: poverty alleviation, health, environment, and private sector
development.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Also, an Environmental Data Sheet is available upon request from the
Public Information Center.
-4-



