Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-7225-KO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$2.0 BILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
March 19, 1998
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of March 13, 1998)
Currency Unit = Won (W)
$1.00          = W1,517
W1.00          = $0.0007
ABBREVIATIONS
ALM         - Asset Liability Management
BIS         - Bank for International Settlements
BOK         - Bank of Korea
Chaebols    - Conglomerates
DEC         - Development Economics, World Bank
EDI         - Economic Development Institute, World Bank
EIS         - Employment Insurance System
ERL         - Economic Reconstruction Loan
FSB         - Financial Supervisory Board
FSC         - Financial Supervisory Commission
FTA         - Fair Trade Act
FTC         - Fair Trade Commission
GDP         - Gross Domestic Product
GOK         - Government of Korea
IMF         - International Monetary Fund
IPO         - Initial Public Offering
KAMC        - Korean Asset Management Corporation
KDIC        - Korean Deposit Insurance Corporation
KFTC        - Korean Fair Trade Commission
KICPA       - Korean Institute of Certified Public Accountants
KOSDAQ    - Korea Securities Dealers Association
KSE         - Korea Stock Exchange
LDP         - Letter of Development Policy
M&A         - Mergers and Acquisitions
MOFE        - Ministry of Finance and Economy
MSB         - Monetary Stabilization Board
NPS         - National Pension Scheme
OBS         - Office of Banking Supervision
OECD        - Organization for Economic Corporation and Development
SAL         - Structural Adjustment Loan
SCL         -  Single Currency Loan
SME         - Small and Medium Sized Enterprise
SRO         - Self Regulatory Organizations
TA          - Technical Assistance
TOR         - Terms of Reference
WTO         - World Trade Organization
Vice-President:           Jean-Michel Severino, EAPVP
Sector Manager (Acting): Pieter Bottelier, EASPR
Task Manager:             Sri-ram Aiyer,.EACKO



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY .........................................................     iii
I.   PROGRESS SINCE THE ECONOMIC RECONSTRUCTION LOAN    1 ....
A. MACROECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS .1
B. PROGRESS ON STRUCTURAL REFORM                      .4
II. THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM                                                   7
A. STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK FOR REFoRm                      .7
B. FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM                        .9
C. CORPORATE SECTOR REFoRM .15
D. LABOR MARKET AND SOCIAL SAFETY NETS .19
E. EcoNoMIc MANAGEMENT AND INSTITUTIONS .23
III.  BANK GROUP STRATEGY .................         ......................... .............. 24
A. TIE BANK .................................................................  24
B. INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORPORATION (IFC)   ...................................... 26
C. MULTILATERAL INVESTMENT GUARANTEE AGENCY (MIGA)  ................... 27
D. COORDINATION WITH IMF AND ADB    .................................................... 27
IV. THE LOAN .27
A. LoAN ADMNISTRATION .28
B. BENEFITS & RISKS .28
C. IMPLEIENTATIoN & MoNroiNG. .30
V. RECOMMENDATION .30
ANNEXES:
ANNEX 1:  Letter of Development Policy
Attachment A: Matrix of Policy Actions
Attachment B: Selected Outcome Indicators
ANNEX 2:  Statistics
ANNEX 3:  Status of Bank Group Operations in Korea
ANNEX 4:  Korea--Bank-Fund Collaboration on Financial Sector Reform
ANNEX 5:  Korea at a Glance
This loan was prepared by a team led by Sri-ram Aiyer (task manager) and comprising: Zia Qureshi
(deputy task manager, macroeconomics); Noritaka Akamatsu, Laura Ard, Stijn Claessens, Clemente Del
Valle, and David Scott (financial sector); Aniruddha Bonnerjee, Robert Holzmann, Nicholas Prescott, and
Zafiris Tzannatos (labor market and social protection); Wei Ding (macroeconomics); Clifford Garstang
(legal); Shyam Khemani and Gerald Meyerman (competition policies); Geoffrey Lamb (economic
management and institutions); Behdad Nowroozi (accounting and auditing); and Douglas Webb
(corporate governance). Tony Ollero provided research assistance. Jorge Serraino and Rommel Velasquez
were responsible for administrative support and document processing.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






- 111 -
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:         Republic of Korea.
Amount and terms: US$2.0 billion-Single Currency Loan in US Dollars for 15 years including
5 years' grace, at an interest rate of 6-month US Dollar LIBOR (reset
semiannually) plus 0.75 percent, and with a service charge of 1.5 percent of
the loan amount, payable on effectiveness.
Description:       The proposed loan is a structural adjustment loan in support of the Republic
of Korea's program of structural reforms. It builds on the work initiated
under the Economic Reconstruction Loan, approved on December 23,
1997, the implementation of which is on track. The proposed SAL will help
Korea deal with the immediate foreign exchange crisis as well as support a
major program of structural reforms in the financial and real sectors to lay
the basis for Korea's eventual return to strong and sustained growth. The
loan is part of the internationally coordinated support package for Korea.
The SAL calls for continued maintenance of sound macroeconomic policies,
consistent with the macroeconomic framework agreed with the IMF. The
structural reform program it supports spans four important areas: financial
sector restructuring and development; corporate sector reform, including
reform of corporate governance and competition policies; labor market
reform and the strengthening of social safety nets; and institutional reform in
economic policy management. The Government's commitment to the
reform program supported by the loan is set out in the Letter of
Development Policy and its attachments (Annex 1).
Benefits and risks:  In addition to helping Korea overcome its immediate liquidity problems and
regain investor confidence, the proposed SAL will support a program of
wide-ranging and deep reforms aimed at bringing about a major
restructuring of the incentives and institutional framework to underpin
financial stability, improve efficiency and competitiveness, and enable Korea
to return to a path of high growth in the context of today's more integrated
and competitive global economy. The loan will support social programs to
cushion the impact of the crisis and structural adjustment on the poor and
the vulnerable. The international financial system also would benefit from an
early restoration of financial stability and recovery of growth in Korea.
A key risk to the program derives from Korea's still fragile macroeconomic
situation, and its continued vulnerability to shifts in investor confidence.
Despite the recent debt restructuring accord with foreign banks, Korea's
short-term external liabilities remain sizable. Its reserve position, though
improving, remains weak. The Bank intends to manage this risk by working



- Iv -
closely with the IMF, ADB, and Korea's other external partners. The
Government's firm policy response to the crisis is reassuring. The provision
of additional adjustment financing by the Bank, and the structural reforms
conducive to restoration of Korea's competitiveness that the proposed loan
would support, would give further comfort to the markets.
Another important risk arises from the weakness of the domestic banking
system. The economic downturn and the still high level of interest rates
could intensify the corporate debt problem and in turn the banking system's
distress. The proposed loan will mitigate this risk by expediting the process
of financial sector restructuring and corporate debt workouts.
There is also the risk that the structural reform program may be derailed by
the government changeover or a reduced urgency of reform if the external
financial situation improves appreciably in the short term. The strong
commitment to reform expressed by the incoming administration provides
assurance against this risk. The Letter of Development Policy has been
discussed with the incoming administration and reflects its program. The
new  administration's commitment to the reform  program  has been
evidenced by its policy announcements and its active efforts toward the
recent enactment of important reforms. Also, in all core areas of the reform
program, strong actions have been taken up-front. Korea's record in
implementing past agreements with the Bank has been excellent.
Finally, there is the risk that the economic downturn may be more severe
than currently expected, leading to an unraveling of political support for the
reform program. This risk is mitigated by the strong safety net measures
taken by the Government and the participatory approach it has followed in
developing important policy responses, as evidenced by the landmark
Tripartite Accord recently reached between labor, business and the
Government.
Poverty category:  N.A.
Estimated
disbursements:     The loan would be disbursed in a single tranche upon effectiveness.
Project ID Number: KR-PE-56235



REPUBLIC OF KOREA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
The proposed loan is a Structural Adjustment Loan in support of the Republic of
Korea's program of structural reforms. It builds upon the work initiated under the Economic
Reconstruction Loan (ERL) approved on December 23, 1997. The structural adjustment
program, prepared with the assistance of the Bank, is aimed at bringing about a major
restructuring of the incentives and institutional framework to underpin financial stability,
improve efficiency and competitiveness, and enable Korea to return to a path of robust and
sustained growth. The program includes actions to reduce the social costs of adjustment.
The loan is a single-tranche, fast-disbursing operation that is expected to be followed
by further structural adjustment loans linked to Korea's progress in implementing these
reforms and undertaking additional reforms in other areas.
I. PROGRESS SINCE THE ECONOMIC RECONSTRUCTION LOAN
A. MACROECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS
1.1   Since the approval of the ERL, significant progress has been made in stabilizing the
macroeconomic and financial situation.' Improvement in investor confidence is reflected in the
recent relative stability in the foreign exchange market and recovery in the stock market. The
exchange rate has recently hovered around W1600 per US dollar, up from a low of W1960 in
December. The stock market index has recovered about 45 per cent since the beginning of the
year. This improvement in market confidence reflects the Government's firm adherence to the
program of macroeconomic stabilization and its demonstrated commitment to implement
difficult structural reforms, including the recent legislation legalizing worker layoffs.
1.2   Market confidence has also been boosted by the debt restructuring agreement reached
with major foreign creditor banks in New York in late January, 1998, whereby up to $24
billion of short-term debt owed by Korea's financial institutions will be converted into longer-
term maturities of 1-3 years, backed by government guarantee. Within the framework agreed in
New York, agreements with individual participating banks are now being reached and are
expected to be finalized by early April. The prospective debt restructuring and the
improvement in the rollover rate for maturing short-term loans since December have served to
ease the pressure on the external financial position. A supporting factor has been the improving
current account position, which moved sharply into surplus during December-February. Usable
reserves had recovered to about $18.5 billion by end-February, from a low of $4 billion in
December.
Developments leading up to the financial crisis in the last quarter of 1997 were described in detail in the
President's Report for the Economic Reconstruction Loan (Report No. P-7214-KO), dated December 19,
1997.



REPUBLIC OF KOREA - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
1.3   Notwithstanding these positive developments, Korea's external liquidity position
remains very tight. Market confidence, though improved, is still fragile and vulnerable to
volatility. Even with full implementation of the debt restructuring accord, Korea's short-term
external debt would still amount to $43 billion, a multiple of its current usable reserves (data
on external liabilities are summarized in Annex 2, Table 5).
1.4   Macroeconomic policy faces two main challenges in the period ahead: to extend and
consolidate progress in dealing with the foreign exchange crisis; and to minimize disruption to
the real economy. This calls for continued firm adherence to the macroeconomic stabilization
program and speedy progress in addressing the problems in the financial sector. Reflecting the
improving investor confidence, interest rates have now declined to 20-24 percent from a peak
of 30-33 percent in December, and should continue to decline in the coming weeks provided
progress in restoring stability in the foreign exchange market continues. While the rates are still
high, and hurting the business sector, a more rapid lowering of the rates has to await further
improvements in currency stability and market confidence.
1.5   A matter of high priority, both for financial stability and restoration of domestic credit
supply to businesses, is to move swiftly on the resolution of troubled financial institutions and
the recapitalization and restructuring of those that are weak but viable. It is also important to
facilitate corporate debt workouts, within a market-based framework. Domestic corporate debt
is very high (estimated on the order of W380 trillion, or 85 percent of GDP), reflecting the
typically high gearing ratios of Korean firms. The current distress in the corporate sector
resulting from the plunge in domestic demand and a credit squeeze could mean that bank
portfolios could worsen before they begin to improve.
1.6   The Government has taken several steps to mitigate the impact of high interest rates
and limited availability of domestic credit, particularly on small and medium-sized enterprises
(SMEs) engaged in exporting. The Bank of Korea (BOK) has provided liquidity support to
illiquid financial institutions, while sterilizing its monetary impact. Banks have also been
assisted in reaching capital adequacy ratios through government purchase of impaired loans
and subscription to subordinated debt issues. In addition, BOK has increased the provision of
official export credit guarantees to SMEs. It has started an export financing scheme under
which it refinances commercial banks' Won-denominated loans to exporters, collateralized by
export bills. An expansion of BOK's rediscount facility for SMEs is under consideration.
Furthermore, more categories of financial institutions have been allowed to handle the
discounting of commercial paper. Recent data show that the sharp contraction in merchant
bank lending in December has been offset somewhat by increased lending by commercial banks
and other financial institutions, suggesting some easing of the domestic credit crunch. Also, it
was recently announced that banks, urged by the Government, will roll over maturing domestic
debt of SMEs until June to provide a breathing space.
1.7   The crisis and the stabilization policies it has necessitated have inevitably taken a toll on
the real economy. The Government is now projecting GDP growth of only 1 percent in 1998,
but negative growth remains a possibility. Unemployment and bankruptcies have risen sharply,
with the former projected to more than double to around 6 percent by year-end. However,
some pick-up in growth is projected to begin in the latter half of the year. Inflation is expected
-2 -



REPUBLIC OF KOREA - STRUCTURAL ADJUSMENT LOAN
to rise to about 10 percent on average in 1998 (key macroeconomic indicators are presented in
Annex 2, Table 1).
1.8   To cushion the impact of the crisis on the unemployed and the poor, the Government
has increased budget allocations for social safety net and unemployment-related expenditures
(by about 1.1 percent of GDP relative to the original budget for 1998). To limit the effect on
the fiscal position of the increased spending on social protection, and of the much weaker
growth outlook and exchange rate, the Government has taken measures to raise tax revenues
and reduce low-priority expenditures amounting to a total of about 2.5 percent of GDP relative
to the original 1998 budget, underlining its commitment to continued fiscal discipline.
Nonetheless, an overall consolidated central government fiscal deficit of 1.5 percent of GDP is
now projected for the year compared to a small surplus in the original fiscal program (Annex 2,
Table 3). In view of the weaker growth outlook, the projected deficit is appropriate. The
projected budget deficit includes about 1 percent of GDP in interest costs of capital injections
into the banking system. Total public support provided for bank restructuring to date amounts
to about 6.6 percent of GDP, financed mainly through bond issues (para. 2.23), a figure that is
likely to rise. The fiscal costs of banking system support, and the contingent liabilities arising
from government guarantee of private debt, would be a source of pressure on the fiscal
position in the period ahead.
1.9   The external current account is projected to switch to a surplus of at least $8 billion in
1998, or 2.5 percent of GDP. The initial post-crisis improvement in the current account has
resulted mainly from a large contraction in imports, reflecting falling domestic demand, a
sharply lower Won, and reduced access to trade finance. Increasingly, however, exports are
expected to respond to the improved competitiveness resulting from the large real exchange
rate depreciation. In volume terms, exports are projected to increase by 16 percent in 1998.
Muting the dollar impact of the rise in exports, the terms of trade are likely to remain a
negative factor in the balance of payments, though declining by a smaller amount (a projected 6
percent) than the average 11 percent annual decline over the past two years caused by weak
prices of Korea's major exports, especially semiconductors (Annex 2, Table 1).
1.10  Usable reserves are targeted to rise to about $40 billion by year-end, equivalent to 2.9
months of imports. Part of the targeted increase in reserves would come from the surplus in the
current account and a strengthening of the capital account as a result of the short-term debt
restructuring and some recovery in foreign direct investment and portfolio inflows. These,
however, would still leave a financing gap of about $26 billion for 1998 as a whole, to meet the
reserve target for the end of the year. As Korea's credit rating improves, the Government plans
to issue sovereign bonds to raise about $7 billion. The remaining gap of about $19 billion is to
be filled through official financing within the framework of the overall international support
package of about $57 billion from multilateral and bilateral sources agreed in December 1997.
About $8 billion is expected to come from bilateral assistance from countries associated with
the second line of defense. The remainder of about $11 billion will be obtained from the JIM,
World Bank and the ADB (the balance of payments and external financing requirements are
presented in Annex 2, Table 2).
1.11  Implementation under IMF's three-year stand-by arrangement, as amended in late
December, is on track. The first quarterly review under the arrangement was completed, and a
-3-



REPUBLIC OF KOREA - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
tranche of SDR 1.5 billion contingent upon satisfactory completion of that review released, on
February 17. To date, Korea has made purchases of SDR 11.2 billion out of a total of SDR
15.5 billion allowed under the stand-by arrangement.
B. PROGRESS ON STRUCTURAL REFORM
1.12  The Government has made substantial progress on the structural reform program
supported by the ERL, and is indeed ahead of the envisaged reform schedule in several
respects. Recognizing the urgency of reforms, the outgoing and incoming administrations have
collaborated actively in pushing through the reform agenda at a fast pace. To build public
support for the reform effort, many of the reforms have been prepared through a process of
discussion with those affected by the reforms. This was especially evident in the preparation of
the reform of labor laws, which involved extensive tripartite discussions involving
representatives of employees, employers and the Government. To accommodate a heavy
legislative agenda implied by the reforms, special sessions of the National Assembly have been
held. In all this, the authorities have demonstrated their resolve to implement difficult structural
reforms required in response to the crisis and the weaknesses it has laid bare.
1.13  In the area of financial sector restructuring, which constituted the bulk of the ERL
program, the authorities have taken forceful measures to contain the immediate dangers of
disruption to the financial system. At the same time, steps have been taken to lay the basis for
undertaking a broader and more comprehensive strategy for financial sector restructuring,
enhancing competition in the sector, and strengthening prudential regulation, supervision and
market discipline-an agenda to be implemented in the next stage of the reform program and
supported by the proposed SAL. In December, the Government passed 11 new laws or
amendments to existing laws relating to the financial sector which were envisioned in the ERL
program. Public support was provided during the last two months to strengthen bank balance
sheets. The process of resolution of troubled banks moved forward in accordance with the
timetable envisaged. The Government closed ten merchant banks and took effective control of
the two major distressed commercial banks and recapitalized them through equity injections.
Major measures taken in the financial sector since the ERL are summarized in Box 1.
1.14  The Government has implemented substantial financial sector liberalization and
accelerated the opening of capital markets and the financial services industry to foreign
investors. The ERL envisaged raising the aggregate ceiling on foreign ownership in listed
Korean companies to 55 percent by end-1998, but that action has already been taken. The
Government is now targeting the elimination of aggregate ceilings on foreign investment in
Korean equities altogether by end-1998. The Government has also advanced the
implementation of reforms relating to the preparation of consolidated financial statements for
associated companies in business groups and the phase-down of the use of cross debt
guarantees by companies within business groups (Box 2).
- 4 -



REPUBLIC OF KOREA - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Box 1: Key Financial Reform Measures since the ERL
*  The Bank of Korea Act has been amended to provide for greater independence of the central bank in
setting monetary and credit policy.
* A new supervisory structure has been enacted, consolidating various supervisory functions--
covering banks, non-bank financial institutions and capital markets-in one body under the direct
supervision of the Prime Minister's Office. The powers of supervisory authorities to intervene in
and resolve troubled financial institutions have been clarified and enhanced.
*  The Government has bound itself under the WTO financial services agreement to the financial
services liberalization measures agreed earlier with the OECD.
*  The Government assumed control of Korea First Bank and Seoul Bank. Existing shareholders'
stake in the two banks has been written down to 7 percent of their original stake and new capital has
been injected by the Government to restore these banks' capital adequacy. Outside experts are being
hired to assess asset quality and perform diagnostic audits and investment banks are being invited to
develop privatization strategy for these two banks, to be completed substantially by mid-November.
*  The Government suspended the operations of 14 merchant banks in December and called for
rehabilitation plans of all merchant banks. Following a first round of review by an independent
evaluation committee, the Government revoked the licenses and ordered the closure of 10 merchant
banks in early February. A "bridge" merchant bank has been established to pay out depositors and
dispose of assets of the closed banks.
*  Public support has been provided to potentially viable banks to strengthen their balance sheets. The
asset management company (KAMC) has purchased about half of impaired loans at a discount to
face value. The Government has subscribed to subordinated debt issued by commercial banks (to
raise capital ratios by 1-2 percentage points).
*  To encourage foreign investment in domestic financial institutions, the four percent limit on
individual foreign ownership in any commercial bank has been abolished. The purchase of bank
equity by a single foreign bank is now permitted without limit, but requires approval at three stages:
10, 15 and 33 percent.
*  The Government liberalized capital markets including: fully opening to foreign investors the
domestic bond market and money market instruments issued by non-financial institutions; raising
the aggregate limit on foreign investment in equities of listed firms from 26 to 55 percent; and
eliminating restrictions on corporate foreign borrowing with longer maturities.
1.15  In other areas of structural reform  including corporate governance, competition
policies, labor market and social protection, the ERL envisaged the development of a vigorous
medium-term reform agenda to be implemented in the next phase of reforms and supported by
a follow-up World Bank operation. Good progress has been made on this front and the result
of that progress is a strong program of structural reforms that is described in the next section
and that is to be supported by the proposed SAL. The authorities have already made a strong
start on implementing this program by passing on February 14 a number of related laws in the
special session of the National Assembly (Box 2).
- 5-



REPUBLIC OF KOREA - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Box 2: Reform Bills Passed by National Assembly on February 14, 1998
*  Tax Exemption and Reduction Control Act: provides tax breaks for restructuring of firms,
including exemption of SMEs from capital gains tax on sale of real estate used to repay debt to
financial institutions, and on transfers of real estate through M&A.
*  Bank Act: increases the ceiling on bank ownership of other firms' equity from 10 percent to 15
percent, or higher subject to FSC approval.
*  Corporation Tax Act: advances removal of the tax exemption regarding interest costs of excessive
borrowings as losses and expenses from year 2002 to 2000,
*  Foreign Direct Investment and Foreign Capital Inducement Act: permits takeovers of non-strategic
companies by foreign investors without government approval, and raises the foreign stock
ownership ceiling without approval by the Board of Directors from 10 percent to 33 percent.
* External Audit of Joint Stock Corporations Act: accelerates introduction of consolidated financial
statements for corporate groups from the year 2000 to 1999, and requires an audit selection
committee for listed companies and affiliates of large business groups.
*  Securities Exchange Act: strengthens minority shareholders' rights by lowering the threshold for
exercising those rights, for example for filing a shareholders' representative suit from 1 to 0.05
percent of outstanding shares, and for inspection rights from 3 to 1 percent. Liberalizes M&As by
eliminating mandatory tender offer requirements, and raising the ceiling for stock repurchase from
10 percent to 33 percent. Listed companies will be required to have at least one outside director.
*  Antitrust and Fair Trade Act: prohibits any new cross debt guarantees and eliminates all existing
cross debt guarantees by the end of March, 2000.
*  Bankruptcy Act: concentrates in district courts the authority over involuntary bankruptcy and
composition and reorganization procedures that was formerly divided.
*  Composition Act: strengthens implementation process by introducing an administrator of asset
preservation, imposing on debtors the obligation to report on implementation, and requiring
evaluation of debtors' implementation by creditors.
*  Reorganization Act: expedites the process by setting deadlines, promoting courts' expertise by
creating an administrative body, and enhancing creditors' role by creating a creditors' committee.
*  Basic Employment Policy Act: authorizes the Ministry of Labor to implement unemployment
measures, including vocational training to promote employment and financial support to cover
living costs and medical care costs for the unemployed.
*  Employment Insurance Act: reduces minimum contribution period from 12 to 6 months temporarily
until June 30, 1999; increases minimum duration of benefit period to 60 days and minimum amount
of Job Search Allowance from 50 to 70 percent of minimum wage.
* Labor Standards Act: legalizes layoffs under M&As and to avoid financial difficulties.
*  Manpower Leasing Act: introduces manpower leasing services for selected jobs requiring
professional knowledge, skills and experience.
*  Trade Union and Labor Relations Adjustment Act: notification of trade unions will be handled by
local governments.
* Wage Bond Guarantee Fund Act: entitles those laid off at bankrupt firms with more than five
workers to a sum equal to three months' pay from a state-managed compensation fund from July 1.
*  Labor Welfare Fund for Small and Medium Enterprises Act: extends use of the Labor Welfare
Fund to cover school and medical care expenses.
- 6 -



REPUBLIC OF KOREA - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
II. THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
2.1   The medium-term structural reform program that Korea has embarked on reflects its
policymakers' clear recognition that the response to the crisis must not just deal with its
immediate symptoms but address its root causes.
A. STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK FOR REFORM
2.2   The objectives of Korea's economic reform program are fundamentally twofold:
* to restore macrofinancial stability while limiting the costs to the real economy and
the impact on the vulnerable; and
* to strengthen the economy's structural foundation for the resumption of robust and
sustained growth.
The Government recognizes that the achievement of these objectives requires:
-  staying the course on the macroeconomic stabilization program;
e  pressing ahead resolutely with reforms that address the underlying structural causes
of the crisis, including a radical restructuring of the incentives and institutional
framework; and
* strengthening the system of social safety nets.
2.3   Korea has an impressive record of economic growth over the past three decades. The
recent crisis, however, has revealed vulnerabilities that must be addressed to prepare Korea for
continued success in the next stage of development. These vulnerabilities arise partly from
internal weaknesses and excesses in the Korean economy-unsound financial system practices
and weak regulatory and supervisory framework, high leveraging, failure of corporate
governance, excessive government intervention in business, policies inhibiting competition,
wage increases outstripping productivity growth. The vulnerabilities arise also from external
changes that have greatly altered the global context in which the Korean economy must
operate today-globalization, increased international mobility and potential volatility of capital,
more open and competitive international trade markets. These changes in the global context
both raise potential rewards to reforms that make countries financially more sound and
industrially more competitive, as well as increase the price they must pay for failure to act. For
Korea especially, an important challenge is the emergence of new competitors, notably China.
2.4   Addressing these vulnerabilities and rising to the new challenges calls for a radical
restructuring of the incentives and institutional framework in the Korean economy, one that
fosters financial soundness, increases corporations' exposure to market discipline, enhances
competition (domestic and foreign), and opens up the labor market to increased flexibility.
Such a shift is necessary to underpin financial sector stability, increase corporate sector
efficiency, and restore Korea's competitiveness and foothold in export markets. The Korean
economy has many strengths-vast reservoir of human knowledge, skills and capital
accumulated over several decades of growth, and strong habits of thrift and hard work. An
improved incentives and institutional framework, more in tune with today's economic
-7 -



REPUBLIC OF KOREA - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
imperatives, would allow Korea to effectively reengage and redeploy these strengths and
reemerge as strong and successful in the coming decade of the next century as it has been in
recent decades.
2.5   The medium-term structural reform program that the Government of Korea has
prepared, in close cooperation with the World Bank, is motivated by this strategic vision. The
ERL supported the first stage of this reform program, focused on financial sector restructuring.
The proposed SAL would support the next stage of this medium-term reform program,
substantially advancing the agenda for a comprehensive restructuring and strengthening of the
financial sector, which remains a centerpiece of the overall reform program, and initiating
major actions in other key reform areas. The SAL calls for continued maintenance of sound
macroeconomic policies, consistent with the macroeconomic framework agreed with the IMF.
The structural reform program it supports spans four important areas:  financial sector
restructuring and development; corporate sector reform, including reform of corporate
governance and competition policies; labor market reform and the strengthening of social
safety nets; and institutional reform in economic policy management. Together, these structural
reforms imply a fundamental restructuring of the incentives and institutional framework
influencing the behavior of all major actors in the economy-banks, enterprises, labor, policy
makers. These reforms will be deepened and extended further in the next stages of the
Government's medium-term  reform  program, which are expected to be supported by
additional structural adjustment lending by the Bank.
2.6   Details of the specific actions that form part of the SAL-supported structural reform
program are set out in the Policy Matrix attached to the Government's Letter of Development
Policy (Annex 1, Attachment A). The key elements of the reform program are:
Financial Sector Reform
* Expediting the resolution of troubled financial institutions and the recapitalization
and restructuring of the weak but viable ones, within a clear overall strategic
framework for financial sector restructuring including appropriate burden-sharing
and transparent provision of public support.
* Improving the framework for the workout of troubled corporate debt.
* Strengthening the regulatory and institutional framework for bank prudential
management and supervision.
. Promoting the development of capital markets, by strengthening market
infrastructure and regulatory framework for equity and bond markets and
encouraging the development of institutional investors.
Corporate Sector Reform
* Adopting accounting, auditing and reporting standards consistent with international
best practice, and shifting the responsibility for standard setting and oversight from
government to independent professional bodies.
*  Strengthening the responsibilities and accountability of corporate boards, increasing
outside participation, and enhancing minority shareholder rights.
*  Introducing more efficient, market-based bankruptcy procedures.
-8-



REPUBLIC OF KOREA - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
*  Strengthening the Fair Trade Act and its enforcement, including ensuring the full
application of the FTA to the process of chaebol restructuring.
*  Liberalizing rules and regulations on foreign investor participation in both corporate
and financial sectors, including through mergers and acquisitions.
*  Designing a regulatory regime to promote private participation in infrastructure
sectors.
Labor Market and Social Safety Nets
*  Improving labor market flexibility to facilitate enterprise restructuring and
redeployment of labor, including through legalizing layoffs and strengthening
employment services.
*  Strengthening social protection for workers by extending the coverage of
unemployment insurance and benefit schemes.
*  Protecting pro-poor expenditures in the budget to cushion the impact of adjustment
on the poor, and improving the targeting of these expenditures.
.  Strengthening the pension system, by securing income support for the needy
elderly, improving the transparency and efficiency of public pension fund
management, and laying the foundation for a reform toward a privatized and funded
pension system.
Economic Management and Institutions
-  Reorganizing economic policy functions between the Ministry of Finance and the
Offices of the President and Prime Minister to support improved and better
coordinated economic management.
-  Strengthening  the  institutional arrangements  for debt and  asset-liability
management.
3  Implementing a major consolidation and refocusing of government ministries to
improve efficiency and reduce costs.
2.7   In all of these areas, the program includes substantial up-front actions. Prior actions
(taken before Board presentation) are identified in the Policy Matrix (Annex 1, Attachment A)
by an asterisk (29 in all). All of these actions have now been taken, many as part of the reform
bills passed by the National Assembly on February 14 during its special session (Box 2).
Further elaboration of the deep and wide-ranging reforms in the above four areas is provided in
the following sections.
B. FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM
2.8   In the financial sector, expediting the resolution of troubled financial institutions is
clearly an urgent priority. But the reform agenda must also encompass measures to strengthen
the sector's regulatory and institutional framework, to underpin sound development of the
financial system over the longer term.
-9-



REPUBLIC OF KOR  - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENTLOAN
Framework for the Financial Sector
2.9   A number of changes have been made in the last two months which will strengthen the
regulatory and institutional framework for the financial sector. A new supervisory structure
was enacted in late December 1997, consolidating various supervisory functions-covering
banks, non-bank financial institutions and capital markets-in one body (Financial Supervisory
Board and Financial Supervisory Commission, FSB/FSC) under the direct supervision of the
Prime Minister's Office. The Bank of Korea Act has been amended to provide for greater
independence of the central bank. Through the Financial Industry Restructuring Act of
December 1997, the Government has enhanced the powers of supervisory authorities to
undertake examination of troubled financial institutions and to intervene in and resolve such
institutions. Written procedures covering the operating processes, transfer pricing, asset
valuation, asset sales and bid processes, and governance of the Korean Asset Management
Corporation (KAMC) have been issued. Legal changes have been made to consolidate and
improve depositor protection schemes.
2.10  To promote competition and lower barriers between subsectors within the financial
sector, the Government has allowed all domestic commercial banks and investment trust
companies to handle the discounting of commercial paper, a main source of activity for
merchant banks which had the sole right to issue commercial paper. Prudential rules for
merchant banks limiting connected lending have been tightened. In general, rules for merchant
banks are being harmonized with other financial institutions.
2.11  To increase competition from foreign banks, and to encourage the inflow of foreign
management expertise and capital into the banking system, the Government will soon issue
clarifying guidelines governing foreign investment in financial institutions, including through
M&As, and will allow foreign banks and brokerage houses to establish subsidiaries by March
31, 1998. Restrictions on commercial bank ownership have been eased, and purchase of bank
equity by a single foreign bank is now permitted without limit, but requires approval at three
stages: 10 percent, 25 percent, and 33 percent. The Government has bound itself under the
WTO financial services agreement to the financial services liberalization measures agreed
earlier with the OECD.
2.12  Looking ahead, the Government is committed to formulating an overall strategy for the
development of a market-based, efficient, competitive, and sound financial system. This
strategy will serve to guide decisions taken as part of system recapitalization and restructuring.
Moreover, the strategy will aim at significant further improvements in the regulatory and
supervisory framework for the provision of financial services by all financial institutions, with
the aim of enhancing competition (including foreign competition), upgrading financial
institution governance, strengthening prudential regulation, and ensuring systemic soundness.
2.13  As part of the strategy, market discipline will be promoted by upgrading accounting,
auditing and reporting by financial institutions to international standards (see Accounting,
Auditing and Reporting, paras. 2.32-2.36). The Government has announced that commercial
banks will be required to report publicly on a quarterly basis (current reporting is semi-annual)
with effect from the third quarter of 1999, and that this quarterly reporting requirement will be
extended to other financial institutions as soon as possible thereafter. In consultation with
- 10-



REPUBLIC OF KOREA - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
market participants, the Government will strive to improve regulations and harmonize the
regulatory regime for comparable financial services for all financial institutions, including
specialized and development banks, by the end of 1998. Priority areas of improvement will be
regulations covering loan classification and provisioning requirements, connected lending,
foreign exchange positions, prudential controls on short-term external borrowing, accounting
of trusts, and mark-to-market accounting.
2.14  The Government will substantially upgrade financial sector supervision, in part by
implementing a comprehensive institutional capacity building program for the new FSC/FSB.
An in-depth review will be undertaken of major foreign supervisory and regulatory regimes
integrating banking, securities and insurance supervision. A Presidential decree on supervisory
standards is under preparation and is expected to be released soon. The provision of deposit
insurance will be improved through the full consolidation of the various deposit insurance
agencies, bringing all schemes under one agency. Also, steps will be taken to improve the
governance structure of banks, including provisions relating to appointment, responsibilities
and accountability of directors and managers. The Government has recently announced a
policy of non-intervention in bank management, including the appointment or approval of
directors and managers. In all these efforts, the Government will engage, in close cooperation
with the World Bank, expert technical assistance.
Banking System Restructuring
2.15  Deep-seated weaknesses in Korea's banking system have been revealed by the current
crisis. Merchant banks were the first to be affected by the crisis, with many banks
experiencing severe liquidity problems. Since then, significant progress has been made in
dealing with the troubled merchant banks. The Government suspended the operations of 14
merchant banks in December 1997, and requested rehabilitation plans of all merchant banks
(data on the Korean financial system are summarized in Annex 2, Table 6). Also, the KAMC
bought about W3 trillion of impaired loans from merchant banks during November and
December, while the Korean Deposit Insurance Corporation (KDIC) reimbursed depositors in
the suspended merchant banks in the amount of W5.5 trillion. Following a first round of review
by an independent evaluation committee, the Government revoked the licenses and ordered the
closure of 10 merchant banks in late January, 1998. A complete assessment of all remaining
rehabilitation plans is under way and merchant banks failing to pass will have their licenses
revoked. The processes for evaluation and closure of merchant banks have adequate built-in
safeguards to ensure that only viable banks are allowed to continue to operate. Adequate rules
and procedures have been developed for the bridge bank-which will take over the assets of
insolvent merchant banks-such that it can effectively perform its functions as liquidator, asset
manager, and deposit insurance paying agent. The Government is committed to closing all
unviable merchant banks by April 30, 1998. Supervision will be strengthened for those banks
allowed to remain open.
2.16  Commercial banks have also been seriously affected by the crisis, which exposed
vulnerabilities that had been developing for some time. According to data from the Office of
Banking Supervision (OBS), non-performing loans of commercial banks as of end-'1997
amounted to about W23 trillion, or about 6 percent of their total loans, a figure that will likely
rise. Commercial banks posted a net loss for 1997 of about W8 trillion (excluding the Korea
-11 I -



REPUBLIC OF KOREA - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
First Bank and Seoul Bank). Given the weaknesses of data and the large problems in the
corporate sector, the capital adequacy of individual banks is difficult to ascertain accurately.
Preliminary data from OBS suggest that only about half of all commercial banks will have met
capital adequacy requirements as of end-1997, but even this may understate the problem as
these data tend to have significant backward-looking rigidity in situations of financial distress
and do not fully reflect recent and future quality deterioration.
2.17  The Government has assumed effective control of the two commercial banks most
affected by the financial crisis-Korea First Bank and Seoul Bank. Existing shareholders' stake
in the two banks has been written down (to 7 percent of their original stake) and equity
injections of W3 trillion have been made by the Government to recapitalize them. Outside
experts are being hired to assess asset quality and perform diagnostic audits, and investment
banks are being invited to develop privatization strategy for these two banks, to be completed
substantially by November 15. Other commercial banks' capital was reinforced at end-1997
through the subscription by the Government to subordinated debt issued by them (equivalent
to capital injections between 1-2 percent of assets). The assumption of impaired loans from
some banks by the KAMC also supported bank balance sheets. Such loan purchases by the
KAMC now total W17.2 trillion, including purchases from commercial banks, merchant banks
and some specialized institutions.
2.18  The authorities have now adopted more intensive supervision of commercial banks and
are in the process of reviewing the viability of all banks. Commercial banks will have to report
by March 31, 1998, their capital adequacy-including provisioning for any impaired assets-
based on data as of end-1997. Commercial banks which do not meet capital adequacy
standards as of end-1997 (i.e., those with capital adequacy below the 8 percent BIS target) are
required to submit by April 30, 1998, rehabilitation plans indicating how they will meet capital
adequacy targets by June 30, 2000. Rehabilitation and recapitalization plans will be reviewed
by a committee involving various government agencies and private sector participants, and this
is expected to be completed by end-June, 1998.
2.19 The processes followed for verifying commercial banks' compliance with capital
adequacy targets are being strengthened. The authorities have announced detailed requirements
for the rehabilitation plans of commercial banks, including the sources and amounts of new
capital, the intended changes (if any) in management and ownership, and detailed business
plans. They recognize that extensive due diligence of asset values by third-parties is necessary
to support the identification of weak institutions and that improved guidelines are needed
regarding actions to be taken in case of non-compliance with targets. Significant financial and
operational restructuring of most commercial banks is anticipated, possibly including employee
layoffs.
2.20 Bank restructuring will be facilitated by steps being taken to improve the framework
for the resolution of troubled corporate debt. In that regard, the Government has clarified the
prudential and tax treatment of restructured debt. The ceiling on bank ownership of non-
financial firms' equity has been raised to facilitate debt-equity swaps.
2.21  While commercial banks' capital has been reinforced and supervision intensified, there
remain concerns in the market-given the large problems in the corporate sector and existing
- 12 -



REPUBLIC oF KOREA - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
weaknesses of data-about the ability of a number of banks to strengthen their capital
sufficiently to meet the set capital adequacy targets in the future. This in turn is negatively
affecting banks' access to (foreign) funds. The program of recapitalizing and rehabilitating
troubled financial institutions, requiring loan write-offs and making capital adequacy
requirements more effective, is putting pressure on banks to further reduce lending, and has
made even healthier financial institutions reluctant to lend. This in turn is aggravating the
domestic credit crunch. Alleviating this credit crunch while strengthening capital positions calls
for the development of a comprehensive approach to resolving the commercial banks' (and
other financial institutions') difficulties, which takes into account the impact of prospective
corporate (particularly chaebo[) debt restructuring on their portfolios.
2.22  In order to ensure that actions to deal with troubled financial institutions take place
within a coherent strategic framework, a Special Task Force endowed with adequate powers
has been entrusted with the responsibility of coordinating the development and implementation
of the overall financial sector recapitalization and restructuring strategy. The Task Force will
work in consultation with the Bank and other international expertise. Detailed implementation
of the strategy will be the responsibility of an adequately staffed bank restructuring unit being
established under the newly created FSB. The financial sector restructuring strategy will
incorporate policy objectives which include promoting transparency, ensuring proper burden
sharing by shareholders and subordinated creditors, and quickly selling back to the private
sector any institutions and assets acquired by the Government in the process. In that context,
the Government will ensure that the KAMC and other agencies involved in providing public
support make such support available only as part of approved recapitalization/rehabilitation
plans or liquidation. Strict accounting, operating, and internal control procedures for these
agencies will be implemented.
2.23   The Government has undertaken to account for all public support to financial
institutions in a transparent manner, recording not only interest costs in the budget but also
reflecting the debt incurred in the overall public debt figures. Public support to date for
financial sector recapitalization and restructuring (from KAMC, KDIC and other sources),
including current commitments for 1988, is officially estimated at about W30 trillion (6.6
percent of GDP), financed predominantly through bond issuance.
Capital Market Development
2.24  The Government is committed to developing a much larger role for bond and equity
markets in the financial system, thereby shifting some risks away from the banking system and
leading to improved liability structures for non-financial firms. It also expects to see an
improved evaluation of the expected profitability of new investments and the financial
performance of firms as a result of more efficient and deeper bond and equity markets.
Promotion of a stronger institutional investor base (investment vehicles with public
participation such as mutual funds and private pension funds) is expected to further stimulate
capital market development and also to contribute to improved corporate governance. The role
of government in regulating financial markets will be rationalized, and much of the oversight
will be delegated to self-regulatory agencies, with the enhanced supervisory structure
(FSC/FSB) providing overall oversight and enforcement. As a result of these changes, the
ability of the financial sector to withstand shocks should improve greatly over time.
- 13 -



REPUBLIC OF KOREA - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
2.25  The Government.has taken a number of measures recently to develop the capital
markets. Important changes have been: a full opening to foreign investors of the domestic bond
market and of money market instruments issued by non-financial institutions; raising of
individual and aggregate limits on foreign investment in equities; and elimination of restrictions
on foreign corporate borrowing with maturities longer than three years (with the liberalization
of borrowing with shorter maturities to be reviewed later in the year). Regulatory
improvements in the equity market have included the abolition of issue volume and dividend
control by the Govermment, liberalization of pricing of new issues including IPOs, and
rationalization of government interventions in the secondary market. The Government has
established a task force (including private sector experts as well as public authorities) to
develop additional measures to promote the primary and secondary bond markets and the
equity markets.
2.26 Additional reforms in the bond market will be pursued leading to a more market-based
determination of the interest rate, a better term structure and market deepening, including a
lengthening of maturities. The government bond market will be further developed by
centralizing the issuance of various types of government bonds, standardizing new government
instruments and lengthening their maturities, and making issuance and secondary-market
trading more transparent and market-oriented (including the reduction of obligatory purchases
of govermnent bonds), so that the market can serve as a benchmark for corporate bonds and
other capital market instruments. The provision of public financial support for banking system
recapitalization and restructuring will involve the raising of substantial amounts of public
financing through bond issues. These need to be so designed as to support the longer-term
objectives of bond market development. The development of the domestic bond market needs
to be an integral element of the overall strategy for public debt and asset-liability management
(see Debt and Asset-Liability Management, para. 2.67). A more developed domestic bond
market would help reduce reliance on external debt.
2.27 The Government will promote an active network of market-makers, formed by
institutions with adequate capital and risk management capacity, which will help foster a liquid
market for government and other bonds; and encourage the development of an interdealer
brokerage system, which is well synchronized with market-makers, to further promote trading
and provide liquidity. New instruments such as housing bonds are expected to be introduced.
Other types of capital market instruments, including mortgage bonds and mortgage-backed
securities, will also be encouraged.
2.28  In the equity market, the Government will further liberalize the issuance of new equity,
while tightening disclosure requirements, adopt measures to improve secondary market
trading, and clarify rules governing M&A transactions. Equity market development should help
reduce the high gearing ratios of Korea's corporates over time. Another objective will be to
enhance the access of small businesses to equity finance.
2.29 The Government will upgrade bond and equity market infrastructure by promoting a
stronger credit rating agency industry, rationalizing and strengthening trading, clearing and
settlements systems, and improving the disclosure and dissemination of financial information by
corporates (see Accounting, Auditing and Reporting, paras. 2.32-2.36). Improvements in the
regulatory regime will include the rationalization of prudential regulations and minimum capital
- 14 -



REPUBLIC OF KOREA - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
requirements for brokers according to the risk they take, and reform of rules important for
providers of market liquidity (such as short-selling and securities borrowing and lending
arrangements). The capital market industry will be strengthened by liberalizing entry rules for
financial institutions, promoting greater competition, and improving supervision. To increase
the transparency of markets, for all financial institutions mark-to-market accounting of
securities will be introduced by the end of 1998.
C. CORPORATE SECTOR REFORM
2.30  The corporate reform agenda comprises two main elements: reform of corporate
governance; and strengthening of competition policies.
Corporate Governance
2.31  The Korean financial crisis is in part a consequence of a failure of corporate
governance in the financial and real sectors. Corporate groups, already vulnerable through high
leverage of their balance sheets, continued right up to the onset of the crisis in late 1997 to
commit to heavy investment programs and to provide new and often excessive guarantees for
borrowing by associated companies. The normal disciplines capable of constraining such risky
behavior (effective regulation based on reliable financial information; close monitoring by
boards of directors and shareholders; and the threat of bankruptcy) were largely muted.
Regulators and common investors alike were unable to fully detect the emerging problems in
the corporate and financial sectors because of the inadequate quantity and poor quality of
available information on the financial status of companies. Though the Government had
recognized these weaknesses in the incentive and monitoring systems, the changes made prior
to December last year were neither sufficiently ambitious nor timely to improve the situation.
2.32 Accounting, Auditing and Reporting. A key area of reform is the improvement of
accounting and auditing standards and practices. The financial information provided by
corporations and financial institutions to regulators, shareholders and the general public needs
considerable upgrading. The Government has already taken some steps in that direction. The
External Audit Law has been amended to require that financial statements of associated
companies in business conglomerates (chaebols) be prepared on a consolidated basis.
Implementation rules and standards will now be issued which will become effective no later
than 1999. The Government has also committed itself to a more fundamental reform of-the
regulatory and institutional framework governing accounting and auditing and the adoption of
standards consistent with international best practice.
2.33  The Government will rationalize the institutional framework for setting standards and
regulating and overseeing the accounting and auditing profession, disengaging itself from these
responsibilities and assigning them to independent and self-regulating professional bodies. An
independent and self-regulating KICPA will be responsible for sponsoring the establishment of
an independent accounting standard-setting body comprising members of the accounting
profession, business, government and academia. The KICPA will also be responsible for setting
auditing standards, regulating and overseeing the accounting and auditing profession, and
ensuring implementation of standards consistent with international best practice. To effect
- 15 -



REPuBLIc oF KoREA - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
these changes, the Government will amend the External Audit Law and other applicable laws
and rules.
2.34 The Government has announced that financial statements of listed companies, banks
and other financial institutions, as well as all joint companies with assets in excess of W7
billion, must be prepared and audited in accordance with standards consistent with
international best practice beginning with the year 1999. This will require revision of
accounting and auditing standards to make them consistent with international best practice, and
revision of relevant laws and rules to ensure implementation of the upgraded standards. The
revised standards will include significant improvements in asset classification, loss and income
recognition, presentation of financial statements, and financial disclosure.
2.35  Improved financial reporting will be buttressed by the strengthening of internal and
external audit. The internal control structure of listed companies, banks, other financial
institutions and all joint stock companies will be strengthened, and the responsibility of boards
of directors for overseeing the internal audit function and selecting external auditors will be
enhanced. To prepare this reform, a study will be carried out on the introduction of audit
committees of boards of directors in Korea in accordance with international best practice, to be
completed by end-September, 1998.
2.36  The reforms in the accounting, auditing and reporting framework outlined above are
far-reaching, and should contribute greatly to enhancing financial transparency and
accountability and instilling increased market confidence in the integrity of financial
transactions and disclosure.
2.37 Role and Accountability of Corporate Boards. Complementing improved financial
disclosure, directors and minority shareholders need to play a more active role as monitors of
corporate performance. In the past, boards of directors of large companies have been
dominated by insiders, been large in number with resultant diffuse responsibility, and as a
consequence been passive supporters of the wishes of controlling shareholders. As Korea seeks
to encourage greater foreign participation in its equity markets and to foster chaebol
restructuring, it will be important to bring about a fundamental change in the role of corporate
boards in order to improve their monitoring function and overall effectiveness as well as their
accountability to minority shareholders. The Government now will require that at least one
outside director be appointed to the boards of listed companies and financial institutions. This
will bring a more independent voice to corporate decision-making. The Government has also
set up a working group to prepare changes to the Commercial Code, including strengthening
the duties of directors.
2.38 While Korean law does allow shareholders to sue the company for breach of duty by
the board of directors, the legal duties owed by directors are narrowly defined and do not
specify standards of performance. This is a significant obstacle to shareholder activism. An
individual shareholder, even quite a large one, faces a variety of barriers to monitoring
performance of boards of directors. The National Assembly has approved a law strengthening
minority shareholder rights by lowering the present threshold applicable to listed companies for
the exercise of such critical rights as the right to commence a representative action (from 1
percent to 0.05 percent of outstanding shares) and to make proposals at a general meeting and
- 16 -



REPUBLIC OF KOREA - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
inspect company records (from 3 percent to 1 percent). The Government will also undertake a
study of the implications of introducing class action law suits by shareholders of listed
companies. These reforms, coupled with measures to increase participation in the securities
market by foreign and institutional investors, should substantially enhance the accountability of
corporate management.
2.39  Reform of Insolvency Laws. Until recently, debtor and creditor relations in Korea
have been intimately influenced by the Government, which sought to maintain market stability
and industrial growth by inhibiting contentious debt collection and by actively promoting
voluntary schemes of rescheduling. As a result of the economic crisis and in view of the
planned move toward more market-oriented banking practices, the Korean economy has
already seen an increase in insolvency proceedings under its laws on Bankruptcy, Composition
and Corporate Reorganization. Such proceedings in the past have been criticized as
cumbersome and slow. Furthermore, especially with respect to proceedings involving large
corporations, public policy interests have outweighed rational economic decisions. The
Government has recognized the need to reform the legal framework for insolvency in order to
ensure efficiency and transparency, a reform rendered all the more urgent by the large-scale
corporate sector restructuring necessitated by the crisis.
2.40  To strengthen the legal framework, the National Assembly has recently approved
legislation amending the three insolvency laws, which will resolve jurisdictional conflicts, build
administrative capacity, expedite procedures, enhance creditor participation in the
reorganization process, and establish economic criteria for the initiation of the reorganization
process. Also, the Government has committed to reviewing its laws on insolvency by the end
of 1998 with a view to further enhancing efficiency through harmonization.
Competition Policies
2.41   Strengthening the Fair Trade Act. Korea first enacted the Fair Trade Act (FTA) in
1981 but it has generally been ineffective in enhancing domestic competition. The industrial
sector is highly concentrated and its competitiveness has declined in recent years. The
Government has controlled many aspects of the economy and has directed the economy
through measures such as price controls, credit rationing, barriers to foreign investment and
other policies encouraging anti-competitive practices. These distortions played a role in firms
making risky investment decisions and becoming sluggish in their response to changing global
market conditions. Had the Korean economy been more integrated into the global economy,
with higher levels of foreign direct investment, firms would likely have been far more capable
of coping with the current crisis, or even avoiding it. Only relatively recently has Korea taken
steps to lower trade and investment barriers and to enhance the powers of the Korean Fair
Trade Commission (KFTC) to limit anti-competitive conducts.
2.42  The KFTC has made progress in defining a number of policy areas where specific steps
need to be taken to make the application of the FTA more transparent and to streamline the
administrative enforcement procedures. It has worked closely with the Ministry of Finance to
reduce the use of cross debt guarantees by associated companies within conglomerates.
Legislation has recently been passed that prohibits any new cross debt guarantees and requires
the elimination of all existing cross guarantees by end-March, 2000. Also, KFTC is conducting
- 17 -



REPUBLIC OF KOREA - STRUCTURAL ADJUSYMEN LOAN
studies to identify laws and regulations presently on the books which may limit competition or
create obstacles to the entry of new competitors.
2.43  The FTA is a law of general application but large sections of the economy are
exempted from its full application based on other laws. According to the KFTC, there are at
least 69 laws and 73 regulations that significantly limit competition in particular industries or
products. Moreover, the economic concentration provisions of the FTA are applicable only to
the thirty largest business groups (chaebols) ranked according to total asset size. Little
attention is paid to individual markets and the level of economic concentration in product
markets. The FTA and all related regulations need to be strengthened in such a manner as to
promote market efficiency rather than aiming solely at large business groups. The provisions of
the FTA must be made fully and uniformly applicable to all economic sectors, to assist in
establishing a level playing field for domestic and foreign firms.
2.44  The Government has agreed to undertake a detailed review of the FTA, establishing a
joint public/private sector committee to recommend amendments to the law to strengthen its
market efficiency objectives, make its provisions fully and universally applicable, including to
parastatals and public entities, increase investigative powers and sanctions, and provide for
appropriate consumer protection.
2.45 Ensuring a Competitive Framework for Corporate Restructuring. The FTA
mandates the KFTC to play a major role in the restructuring of the Korean corporate sector in
response to the current crisis. The Government has agreed that in such restructuring no
business combinations or other transactions will be permitted which reduce market
competition. The entry into or acquisition of divested chaebol operations by new domestic
firms or foreign investors will be fostered. To facilitate the process of corporate restructuring,
regulations on foreign investor participation in M&As are being liberalized. Foreign investors
have been allowed to undertake hostile takeovers, with the ceiling on the amount of stock
foreigners can acquire without approval of the company board raised from 10 percent to one-
third. The KFTC will prepare comprehensive guidelines for M&As by end-July, 1998.
2.46 Liberalizing Foreign Investment. In compliance with commitments made under the
ERL, Korea has raised ceilings on aggregate foreign ownership in listed companies to 55
percent, and has undertaken to eliminate aggregate ceilings on foreign investment in Korean
equities altogether by the end of 1998. Further steps will need to be taken to ensure policy
consistency and to eliminate conflicts among various laws and regulations. For instance, action
is needed to allow foreign shareholders and directors to be subject to the same obligations and
exercise the same voting and management rights as Korean shareholders and directors.
2.47  Promoting Private Participation in Infrastructure Sectors. In the monopolized
infrastructure services and utilities, there is a need to design a regulatory framework to
promote competition and foster domestic and foreign private market entrants. In discussions
held with the Government, the need to plan and undertake regulatory reform and promote the
privatization of certain infrastructure services was clearly recognized, and the Government has
agreed to prepare an official position paper regarding these matters in the near future. The
Government has also announced that it will advance the privatization of a limited number of
state-owned enterprises and has agreed to announce its detailed policy in this regard.
- 18 -



REPUBLIC OF KOREA - STRUCTURAL ADJUSMENT LOAN
2.48 Strengthening Korean Fair Trade Commission. The foregoing reform agenda will
place significant institutional stress on the KFTC. Current staff capacity will not allow effective
implementation of these programs without significant technical assistance. The Government
has agreed to develop an institution-building strategy for the KFTC in cooperation with the
Bank, including a technical assistance program, to enhance its ability to inmplement competition
law and policy in accordance with international best practice.
2.49  To enhance investor confidence and provide timely information to the market, the
KFTC must conduct analyses and publish findings on corporate restructuring and the state of
competition in Korea. The Government recognizes the need to make more market data
available and has agreed to strengthen the policy analysis and evaluation capacity of the KFTC.
In-depth studies of market structure and other elements affecting competition will be
undertaken and made available to the public. Indicators related to entry and exit of firms,
changes in regulations, import penetration, foreign direct investment, M&As and other
competition-related variables will be monitored and disseminated.
D. LABOR MARKET AND SOCIAL SAFETY NETS
2.50  The labor market will have to become more flexible to accommodate needed structural
change. At the same time, the social protection system needs to be improved, involving both
the strengthening of social safety nets to mitigate the social costs of adjustment and the reform
of the pension system to make it more equitable, efficient and sustainable.
Labor Market Reform
2.51  Labor Market Flexibility. Rigid employment security provisions in the formal labor
market have prevented Korean firms, especially large establishments, from adjusting to
structural change. The Labor Standards Act of March 1997 sought to ease restrictions on
dismissals but the effectiveness of the relevant provision (Article 31) was suspended for two
years. In February 1998, a historic tripartite accord was reached between Government,
employers' and workers' representatives to repeal this suspension, and to clarify the justifiable
reasons for redundancy, including M&As in financially troubled firms. This has now been
approved by the National Assembly. This important measure will help expedite structural
change by allowing worker layoffs in declining industries. Pent-up unemployment has been
estimated to reach 20 percent in some medium technology sectors and over 40 percent in
lower technology business. The unemployment rate has already almost doubled from pre-crisis
levels to reach 4.5 percent (or 934,000 workers) in January 1998, and some forecasts
anticipate a rise to 6.3 percent or 1.4 million workers by year-end. Two-thirds of the increase
in unemployment is expected to come from those previously employed in firms that go
bankrupt or shrink, with the rest coming from school leavers.
2.52 Unemployment Countermeasures. The Government plans to implement an array of
measures to accelerate reemployment and provide support to those who remain temporarily
unemployed. Transitional unemployment will be addressed by strengthening employment
services. An expansion of public employment offices is underway, but these tend to cater only
to a minority of workers with better skills. Last year they placed fewer than 200,000 workers
while private employment offices placed 1.8 million workers despite operating under a series of
- 19 -



REPUBLIC OF KOREA - STRUCTURAL ADJUSMENT LOAN
regulatory restrictions. The Government intends to relax such regulatory restrictions.
Legislation has recently been passed to allow the operation of private manpower leasing
services for certain occupations. Furthermore, the Government plans a tenfold increase in
expenditures on active labor market policies, such as retraining and employment subsidies, to
Wi.1 trillion in 1998. As these policies have high unit costs and may impose significant
deadweight losses, the Government will undertake a review of their cost-effectiveness and
financial sustainability.
2.53  Prefunded unemployment insurance coverage through the Unemployment Benefits
Scheme under Korea's Employment Insurance System was extended at the beginning of 1998
to all 5.7 million employees in firms with 10 or more employees. The Government plans to
extend coverage to firms employing more than 5 workers in July 1998, thus bringing 0.5
million additional workers into the system. These measures would still leave the majority of
workers uncovered by unemployment benefits if they become jobless. To address this coverage
gap, the Government will undertake a feasibility study of options to expand coverage of the
Unemployment Benefits Scheme to workers in firms with fewer than 5 employees by January
2000. As a transitional measure, the Government could consider introducing a noncontributory
budget-financed unemployment allowance to provide income protection to the potentially large
number of unemployed workers without insurance. The required annual budgetary outlay for
offering unemployment assistance to 500,000 workers at W100,000 for six months would
amount to only WO.3 trillion. Besides expanding unemployment insurance coverage, the
Govermnent is planning enhancements in the benefit structure. In order to maintain the
financial viability of the unemployment benefits scheme, the Government will introduce an
adjustable payroll contribution rate consistent with the changes in the benefit structure and the
rising risk of unemployment.
2.54 To complement these income protection measures, the Government will secure
workers' rights under the retirement allowance system for private sector workers whereby
firms must pay one month's salary for each year of service upon termination of employment.
The frequency of nonpayment of these severance claims rose from 35,000 workers in 1996 to
83,000 in 1997, and could well double in 1998. The Government will assign workers' claims
priority creditor status, and pre-finance them through a public compensation fund to be
established with financing from employer contributions and other sources.
2.55  Labor Standards and Monitoring. The Labor Standards Act grants workers
important rights, such as equal treatment, prohibition of forced labor and violence, safety and
health. The Government plans to extend coverage of these legal provisions to workers in firms
with fewer than five workers in January 1999. Particular efforts need to be made to eliminate
regulation-induced gender differences so as to reduce gender inequality and ensure that the
costs of adjustment do not fall unduly upon female workers. Such regulations include
restrictions on hours of work for female workers and maternity provisions that that are
financed solely by the employer. The Government will review these regulations and remove
those found to have gender discriminatory effects in the labor market. Maternity benefits, for
example, should become part of the broader employment insurance system.
2.56  Improved coverage and quality of labor regulations need to be underpinned by better
labor market information on nearly half of the workforce employed in establishments with
- 20 -



REPUBLIC oF KOREA - STRUCTURAL ADJUS7MENT LOAN
fewer than five workers or on non-regular contracts. The Government will introduce a new
annual earnings survey of small-scale establishments in November 1998, which will help in the
design of more effective measures of social protection for the most vulnerable workers during
the structural adjustment process. The Government plans to undertake a strategic policy study
next year to provide the basis for an integrated system of active and passive labor market
policies and to eliminate those found to be ineffective and inefficient.
Protecting the Poor
2.57  In the past, Korea has successfully relied on rapid growth and full employment to
provide an adequate standard of living for the population. Recent estimates indicate that
poverty incidence among urban households fell from 20.4 percent in 1975 to 7.4 percent in
1995. Income support programs targeted to the poor include means-tested provision of
Livelihood Protection and Medical Aid financed by a combination of central and local
government funds. Livelihood Protection offers a differentiated package of cash and in-kind
benefits for food, fuel and fee exemption for junior high school. Beneficiaries of Livelihood
Protection are also eligible for Medical Aid, which provides free medical care to those who
cannot work, and partially subsidized care for the able-bodied. However, actual coverage of
these antipoverty programs appears to be only a fraction of the poor, and the value of the
social benefits is much lower than the poverty line. In 1996, Livelihood Protection covered 3.3
percent of the population, while Medical Aid reached 3.8 percent. As the economy will at least
temporarily be unable to provide full employment, it is especially important for the
Government to step in now to strengthen these antipoverty programs.
2.58  Wrenching structural changes will impose new hardships on vulnerable groups and
Korea may soon be faced with rising numbers of people falling into poverty. The Government
is committed to increasing budgetary expenditures sufficiently to protect in real terms the level
of government expenditure on the targeted antipoverty programs, including livelihood
protection and medical aid, taking into account any increase in the magnitude of the poverty
problem. The Government will strengthen the information base for poverty monitoring by
updating the official poverty line used in targeting the antipoverty programs and by developing
a multipurpose national household survey system to assess changes in the level and distribution
of living standards. This will lay the foundation for a proper national poverty profile, a
comprehensive evaluation of the effectiveness and efficiency of antipoverty programs, and
formulation of measures to improve the targeting of antipoverty interventions.
Pension System Reform
2.59  Until recently, only military, civil servants and private school teachers were covered
under occupational pension schemes. For private sector workers the "retirement allowance"
assumed the role of retirement income provision. With the introduction of the National Pension
Scheme (NPS) in 1988, pension coverage was provided for the first time to the majority of
employees and part of the self-employed, with full old-age benefits starting to be disbursed in
2008. The initial modest contribution rate for workers of 3 percent of payroll, increased to 6
percent in 1993 and 9 percent in 1998, however, buys the average worker a gross replacement
rate of 70 percent after 40 years of contributions. In consequence, while the NPS is currently
running substantial annual surpluses (almost 2 percent of GDP in 1997), accumulating a
- 21 -



REPUBLIC oF KoREA - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
reserve fund of about 7 perceilt of GDP by August 1997, this benefit-defined, pay-as-you-go
system is not fully funded and to date has accrued an estimated implicit debt of around 30
percent of GDP. The fund reserves are predominantly used by a special treasury account to
finance lending operations to the Government, public enterprises, and other public entities.
This background and the current financial crisis set the stage for needed reforms of the pension
system: securing income support for the elderly in the short run; enhancing transparency and
efficiency of pension fund management; and securing an efficient, equitable and financially
sustainable pension system in the long run.
2.60  In the short run it is important to secure income support for the elderly. Since the NPS
does not yet disburse old-age income benefits, new support measures for the needy elderly are
called for. The scheduled introduction of a non-contributory and means-tested "social pension"
in mid-1998 for individuals aged 65 and above, financed from general revenue, is therefore an
important step. This will provide income support to some 450,000 elderly and, while providing
a very modest amount, will help those with no or few own resources to cope better with the
crisis. Also, despite the current crisis, the Government should stick to its long-planned
extension of pension coverage to the urban self-employed and to workers in firms with fewer
than 5 employees. The Government recognizes that extension of coverage must be supported
by actions to improve the sustainability of the pension system. Accordingly, in a recent public
communication, the Government has indicated clearly that adjustments in the contribution rate
and benefit structure must take place in an upcoming reform.
2.61  Partially funding a public scheme through the accumulation of a reserve fund is a useful
device to reduce the long-run contribution rate needed to assure financial viability in the face of
population aging. Achieving this goal requires the earning of market interest rates on invested
funds. The beneficial macroeconomic impact is enhanced if the funds contribute to capital
accumulation rather than government consumption. Worldwide experience shows that these
objectives are difficult to achieve if the funds are held captive in government accounts.
Recognizing the limitations of the present arrangement, the Government has agreed to phase
out borrowing from pension fund reserves in the form of direct credits and to phase in
borrowing through the sale of marketable government bonds. The intermediation of pension
funds through the financial market should contribute to financial deepening, and the improved
transparency should foster better governance. To enhance the efficiency gains, the Government
will reorganize pension fund asset management through introducing stronger accountability,
professionalism and competitiveness.
2.62  The Government recognizes the need to reform the current pension scheme to make it
financially sustainable and more efficient and equitable. Reform proposals made by the
National Pension Reform Committee and the Ministry of Health and Welfare both point in the
right direction, calling for a rise in the retirement age and a reduction in the generous
replacement rate. But both proposals ignore the additional economic gains which may be
achieved through a more fundamental reform giving private management and funded pensions
a larger role in the system. A fully funded pension pillar would contribute significantly to the
development of financial markets in Korea. Moreover, the broad-based operation of pension
funds could provide the equity capital needed to reduce the high gearing of enterprises that
contributed to the current economic crisis. To investigate the different reform options, and to
- 22 -



REPUBLIC oF KOREA - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LoAN
draw from the rich global experience with pension reform, the Government will establish a
Task Force to prepare a paper on pension reform for broad-based political discussion.
E. ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT AND INSTITUTIONS
2.63   The crisis has focused attention on the need for change in the organization and
management of Korea's public sector. The complex relationships of the past between
government, the financial system and business (and in particular the chaebols) need to be
untangled and put on a more transparent, arm's length basis. The crisis has accelerated and
given political urgency to a re-evaluation of the structure and style of Korea's government
system. Fundamental changes in public administration and institutions have therefore quickly
become central to reform, driven partly by a shift in the political agenda toward more open and
less interventionist government, and in part by the fiscal exigencies of crisis resolution. These
initiatives for reform have been part of informed discussion in Korea for some time: with the
changed circumstances, they are being pursued with considerable speed and energy. The SAL
will provide support for the initial stages of what will necessarily be a long process of public
sector reform.
2.64   Full recovery from the crisis demands major improvements in the management of
economic policy, and in particular much more systematic, careful and timely management of
Korea's external public and private liabilities-weaknesses in which were a major cause of the
crisis. It is also essential that the public sector not only bear its share of the pain of economic
adjustment, but at the same time is refocused away from the interventionist past toward a new
facilitating role in the market economy. Reforms of this depth take time but key steps are
already under way. The Government Reorganization Reform Committee was formed on
January 7, 1998, with the task of drafting proposals for restructuring and reform of
government administration. A bill revising the Government Organization Act was passed by
the National Assembly on February 16, 1998.
2.65   Institutional Framework for Economic Policy-Making. To ensure high-level
oversight, effective inter-agency coordination and rigorous discipline in budget policy,
responsibility for overall planning and budgeting will be transferred to a new Budget Planning
Office, which will be led by a minister-level official, under the Office of the President. Its major
function will be to work out guidelines on the budget and formulate fiscal and administrative
reform policies. Responsibility for detailed implementation of national budgetary policy will be
assigned to an independent Budget Agency reporting to the Ministry of Finance and Economy.
The Agency will be headed by a vice-minister level official and will deal with budget
formulation, implementation and management.
2.66   Coordination of other economic policies that cut across agency boundaries will also be
improved. The Prime Minister's Office will assume responsibility for coordinating policy
toward financial institutions and will also have expanded powers for broader national economic
policy coordination. On public sector personnel policy, control and coordination will be
assigned to a new Ministry of Administration and Internal Affairs.
2.67   Debt and Asset-Liability Management. Given the critical importance of Korea's
indebtedness, a key objective is to build a robust institutional capacity for debt and asset and
-23 -



REPUBLIC OF KOREA - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTIMENT LOAN
liability management, strengthening debt monitoring and integrating it into a policy framework
which also incorporates borrowing strategy and reserves management. A debt management
office will be set up with responsibility, and capacity, for upgrading debt monitoring (including
monitoring private sector debt). A systematic coordination mechanism will be established for
defining the external and domestic borrowing strategy and improving asset-liability
management, taking into account their linkages to macroeconomic and prudential management
and domestic securities market development. This will require close coordination between the
agencies involved, with clearly defined mandates. This work has already started, with advice
and technical assistance from the Bank.
2.68   Streamlining of Public Administration. The revised Government Organization Act
provides for a radical restructuring of government to effect efficiencies and cost savings, and to
reinforce the intended shift away from extensive state involvement in economic life. Ministerial
mergers and abolitions will reduce the number of minister-level positions from 33 to 24 and
cabinet-level positions from 21 to 17. The railroad and postal services will be turned into
public corporations. The initial reorganization is already under way, and the entire program of
restructuring and staff redeployment will be implemented over the next two years. In all, the
consolidation and refocusing of ministries and agencies is expected to reduce the number of
central government employees by about 11 percent.
MII. BANK GROUP STRATEGY
A. THE BANK
3.1   The structural reform program described in the preceding section is grounded in a
medium-term framework. The Bank proposes to support this medium-term reform effort
through a series of structural adjustment loans linked to progress on the reforms. As part of the
$57 billion international support package for Korea from multilateral and bilateral sources
agreed in December 1997, the Bank undertook to provide up to $10 billion in assistance over a
period of two years. The proposed SAL in the amount of $2 billion is the second Bank loan to
be provided within this framework, following the $3 billion Economic Reconstruction Loan
(ERL) disbursed in December.
3.2   The Bank program is designed to support Korea's strategic priorities in the wake of the
crisis: restoring macrofinancial stability while minimizing the costs to the real economy and the
impact on the vulnerable; and addressing the underlying causes of the crisis through a program
of structural reforms that would lay the basis for Korea's eventual return to high and
sustainable growth. Accordingly, the planned lending program includes a series of fast-
disbursing loans that would both provide quick liquidity to strengthen Korea's external
financial position and support the needed structural reforms while cushioning the impact on the
poor and the vulnerable.
3.3   The Government recognizes that a major restructuring of the incentives and
institutional framework is needed to deal with the problems in the financial and corporate
sectors and to sustain strong and stable growth in today's more integrated and competitive
global economy. Also, the system of social protection needs to be strengthened to limit the
- 24 -



REPUBLIC oF KOREA - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
social costs of adjustment. Building on the ERL, the proposed SAL supports reforms in four
areas central to this effort: financial sector restructuring and development, including capital
market development; corporate sector reform, including corporate restructuring and reform of
corporate governance and competition policies; labor market reform and strengthening of
social safety nets; and institutional reform in economic policy management. Follow-up
structural adjustment loans would support a deepening of reforms in these areas. The proposed
SAL also sets the stage for reforms in other, related areas to be supported by subsequent
SALs, including privatization of selected state-owned enterprises and regulatory reform to
open infrastructure sectors to private investors.
3.4   In the design and implementation of these reforms, many of which require specialist
technical expertise, the Bank will provide technical assistance, both in the process of
preparation and supervision of the lending operations and through economic and sector work
on selected topics that would strengthen the analytical underpinnings of these operations.
Proposals for economic and sector work and technical assistance are being discussed with the
authorities. Two priority areas of technical assistance, where the Bank is already providing
support, are financial sector restructuring and the design of a framework for corporate debt
restructuring with appropriate incentives and a market-based approach. The need for further
large-scale technical assistance financed through a technical assistance loan will be reviewed in
the course of our dialogue. Possibilities for EDI involvement in training and dissemination
activities, in collaboration with Korea's well-regarded think tanks, are also being explored.
Proposals include holding of seminars, with the support of EDI and DEC, on lessons learned
from the Korean crisis in the areas covered by the SAL.
3.5    An important element of the Bank's program of support will be the strengthening of
Korea's system of social protection. Of immediate priority are measures that would cushion
the short-term impact of the crisis and structural adjustment on the poor and the vulnerable-
protection of pro-poor expenditures in the budget, measures to assist workers losing jobs. But
the Government has also expressed interest in Bank support for a longer-term agenda of
actions that would produce lasting improvements in Korea's system of social protection. These
include the strengthening of the informational base for poverty monitoring and targeting;
improvement of the unemployment insurance system and related labor market information; and
reform of the pension system, including related reform of health insurance. This agenda would
be supported both within the framework of the SALs and through technical assistance and
other non-lending services.
3.6   Delivering a high-quality, high-speed program  of this magnitude will require a
substantial commitment of staff and budgetary resources. The Bank has moved swiftly to
respond to the client's needs in a crisis situation. The first $3 billion loan was disbursed within
three weeks of the Government's request. The proposed SAL also has been prepared on a very
fast track. The monitoring of macroeconomic and financial developments has been
strengthened. A new Korea country department was created in January 1998, for an initial
period of two years. It will be located in the field to maximize client responsiveness and
achievement of results on the ground. While the core country team will remain small, best
available expertise will be tapped from all over the institution to staff strong task teams,
supplemented by outside expertise. This was the model followed in the preparation of the
- 25 -



REPUBLIC OF KoREA - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
proposed SAL. The financial sector work is being conducted by a team from the new Special
Financial Operations Unit.
3.7   The country assistance program will be fleshed out further in the coming weeks
through discussions with the new Government. Based on these discussions, a short and
focused country assistance strategy (CAS) will be prepared, setting out the planned lending
and non-lending activities and their sequencing within an overall country strategic framework.
3.8   Of the loans made by the Bank to Korea prior to its graduation from Bank borrowing
in FY95, involving a total commitment of about $8.7 billion, nine remain active, with an
undisbursed balance of about $350 million. Their implementation status is rated as either
"satisfactory" or "highly satisfactory." Prior to the ERL, outstanding loans to Korea amounted
to $1.9 billion. The status of Bank Group operations in Korea is detailed in Annex 3.
B. INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORPORATION (IFC)
3.9   Currently, IFC has equity investments in four Korean financial institutions involving a
total investment of $19.5 million (at cost). IFC has direct equity investments totaling $12.1
million in four industrial companies. Also, an amount of $0.9 million has been invested by IFC
in the equity of smaller companies under an agency equity line extended to a Korean financial
institution. One of the companies in IFC's portfolio in the financial sector has recently
experienced serious difficulty. IFC is reviewing this investment as this company is also a
partner in several other IFC projects.
3.10  The crisis has placed severe pressure on local businesses, many of which are otherwise
sound and competitive. IFC can help provide private sector solutions to the Korean financial
crisis by implementing model transactions to supply new debt and equity financing, and to
restructure existing debt, as needed. Several staff have been reassigned to work on Korea, and
an experienced Korean advisor has been recruited to provide additional support. The Korea
program will require substantial investment in time and resources to gain sufficient
understanding of the country environment and potential clients. A small IFC staff will be co-
located in the World Bank's new Resident Office for an initial period of two years.
3.11  IFC's program will focus on both financial and manufacturing sectors. In the financial
sector, IFC has undertaken substantial due diligence related to sizable potential new
investments (up to $300 million) in two premier banks. IFC is also working to establish two
new investment funds, a private equity fund focusing on corporate restructurings and the other
a venture capital fund. Another potential project would provide one or more local merchant
banks with additional liquidity by securitizing and selling a block of lease receivables. In the
manufacturing sector, IFC has visited over 30 private firms and is currently developing a short-
list of companies for potential investment. Priority is being given to mid-size, export-oriented
companies that have good fundamental business prospects, but are constrained by inadequate
equity and/or liquidity problems.
- 26 -



REPUBLIC OF KOREA - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
C. MULTILATERAL INVESTMENT GUARANTEE AGENCY (MIGA)
3.12 Korea joined MIGA in April 1988. So far, MIGA has not issued any guarantees in
Korea. M:IGA has received one Definitive Application for a financial sector project and three
Preliminary Applications for projects in the manufacturing sector and hotel business,
representing potential investments of $123 million. Korea has benefited from MIGA's technical
assistance and promotional services. Over 80 Korean organizations are users of MIGA's
Internet-based market place, IPAnet, which promotes investment in emerging markets by
serving as an on-line information exchange among public and private organizations. M4IGA
plans to build and strengthen its relationship with the Korean Trade and Investment Promotion
Agency (KOTRA). It will continue to offer its full range of services to Korea, in investment
promotion and in capacity-building for public and private organizations involved in investment
promotion, for which there is likely to be increased demand in the wake of the recent crisis.
D. COORDINATION WITH IMF AND ADB
3.13  The Bank has been working closely with the IMF since the onset of the crisis, in
monitoring macroeconomic and financial developments, advising the Government on the
response to the crisis, and coordinating our support. The preparation of the SAL has been
coordinated closely with the Fund stand-by arrangement to ensure consistency and
complementarity, with active collaboration between the two staffs both at headquarters and in
the field through parallel missions. Implementation under the 3-year, SDR 15.5 billion stand-by
arrangement is on track (para. 1.11). Given its mandate, the Fund has taken the lead in the
dialogue on macroeconomic stabilization measures. The Fund has also spearheaded the
dialogue on trade policy and capital account liberalization. In the financial sector, both the
Bank and the Fund have been actively involved, with the division of labor guided by their
respective mandates and comparative advantage (details of Bank-Fund collaboration in the
financial sector are provided in Annex 4). The Bank has taken the lead in other areas of
structural reform, including corporate sector reform (corporate restructuring, corporate
governance, competition policies), labor market reform and social protection, and public
institutional reform.
3.14  As part of the $57 billion international financing package for Korea from multilateral
and bilateral sources, the Asian Development Bank (ADB) undertook to provide up to $4
billion in adjustment financing and $15 million in technical assistance in support of financial
sector restructuring and development. Of the $4 billion committed, $3 billion has so far been
disbursed. As with the IMF, the World Bank is coordinating closely with the ADB in its
financial sector work.
IV. THE LOAN
4.1   The proposed loan is consistent with the Bank's country assistance strategy outlined
above. The Government has prepared and submitted a Letter of Development Policy (Annex 1)
requesting Bank support for a strong structural adjustment program aimed at restoring
financial stability and laying the basis for resumption of robust, sustainable growth. The reform
program, prepared in close cooperation with the Bank, is described in detail in the Policy
Matrix attached to the Letter of Development Policy.
- 27 -



REPUBLIC OF KOREA - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
A. LOAN ADMINISTRATION
4.2   Terms and Conditions. At the request of the Government, the proposed loan would
be a Single Currency Loan in US Dollars, with a fifteen-year maturity including a five-year
grace period. The loan amount proposed is US$2 billion. The interest rate on the loan would
be six-month US Dollar LIBOR, reset semiannually, plus 75 basis points. A service charge of
1.5 percent of the loan amount would be payable on effectiveness, financed out of loan
proceeds and amortized over the life of the loan. Standard terms would apply to commitment
fee and prepayment. The Borrower would be ineligible for current or future waivers of interest
or commitment charges.
4.3   Disbursement. The Government will open and maintain a deposit account with the
Bank of Korea (BOK). Upon effectiveness, the Government will submit a simplified
withdrawal application to the Bank, against which the Bank will disburse loan proceeds in one
tranche into the Deposit Account. Disbursements will not be linked to specific purchases, and
supporting evidence for disbursements is therefore not required. The proceeds of the loan will
not be used to finance expenditures typically excluded under the Loan Agreement (military,
drugs, nuclear, etc.).
4.4   Accounts and Audit. Upon the Bank's request, the Government will have the Deposit
Account audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and will furnish to the Bank a
certified copy of the audit report no later than four months after the Bank's request.
B. BENEFITS AND RISKS
4.5   Benefits. In addition to helping Korea overcome its immediate liquidity problems and
restoring investor confidence, the proposed SAL will support a major program of structural
reforms in the financial and real sectors. The reforms encompass four important areas: financial
sector restructuring; corporate sector reform, including reform of corporate governance and
competition policies; labor market reform and the strengthening of social safety nets; and
institutional reform in economic policy management. Together, these reforms imply a radical
restructuring of the incentives and institutional framework influencing the behavior of all major
actors in the economy-financial institutions, enterprises, labor, policy makers-a
restructuring that would foster financial soundness, increase corporations' exposure to market
discipline, enhance competition (domestic and foreign), and open up the labor market to
increased flexibility. This shift is necessary to underpin financial sector stability, promote
increased real sector efficiency and competitiveness, and lay the basis for Korea's return to a
path of strong and sustained growth in the context of today's more integrated and competitive
global economy.
4.6   The proposed loan will support social programs to cushion the impact of the crisis and
structural adjustment on the vulnerable. Besides the provision of support to the poor to tide
over a difficult period, the reform program will make lasting improvements in the social safety
net-unemployment insurance system, targeting of poverty programs-and initiate a reform of
the country's pension system.
- 28 -



REPUBLIC oF KOREA - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
4.7   In sum, the proposed SAL, which forms part of an intemationally coordinated support
package for Korea, will both help Korea cope with the immediate financial crisis and assist in
the necessary post-crisis remodeling of its economy. The intemational financial system will also
benefit from a quick restoration of financial stability and recovery of growth in Korea.
4.8   Risks. A key risk to the program is that despite the recent accord with creditor banks
to restructure up to $24 billion of short-term extemal debt, market confidence may not be
adequately restored for some time, leaving Korea vulnerable to market volatility, including
from further contagion in international financial markets. The amount of short-term external
debt remains sizable, and the reserve position, though improving, remains weak. The Bank
intends to mitigate these risks by working closely with the IMF, ADB, and Korea's other
extemal partners. The Govemment has shown firmness in the implementation of the
macroeconomic and financial stabilization measures, and the implementation of the IMF-
supported stabilization program is on track. The provision of additional adjustment financing
by the Bank through the proposed loan, and the structural reforms conducive to restoration of
Korea's competitiveness and foothold in export markets that the loan would support, would
provide further comfort to the markets.
4.9   The fragility of the domestic banking system is another important source of risk. The
risk is compounded by the still high level of interest rates, which increase the likelihood of
more defaults among enterprises and therefore of further distress in the banking system. The
proposed loan will mitigate these risks by expediting the process of financial sector
restructuring, and by improving the enabling environment for corporate debt workouts.
4.10  Another risk is that the Govemment changeover-the new administration assumed
office on February 25, 1998-may delay implementation of reform measures agreed upon with
the outgoing Govemment. It is also possible that a favorable market response generates short-
term success that reduces the urgency of, and thereby the will to, reform. The strong
commitment to reform expressed by the incoming administration provides assurance against
these risks. The Letter of Development Policy and the Policy Matrix have been discussed with
the incoming administration and reflect its program. The new administration's firm
commitment to the reform program has been evidenced by its policy announcements and its
active effort toward the passage of important reform legislation in the recent special sessions of
the National Assembly. Also, in all core areas of the reform program, strong actions have been
taken up-front.
4.11  Furthermore, there is a risk that the economic downtum could be more severe than
currently assessed, increasing social distress, and leading possibly also to a polarization of
political groups. This may cause some derailing of the reform process. These risks are
mitigated by the strong measures the Govermment has taken to strengthen the social safety net
and the participatory approach it has followed in designing important policy responses, as
evidenced by the landmark Tripartite Accord recently reached between representatives of
labor, business and the Governent.
- 29 -



REPUBLIC OF KoREA - STRucTuRAL ADJusTMENT LoA
C. IMLEMENTATION AND MONITORING
4.12 Korea has a strong track record in the implementation of its undertakings with the
Bank. Implementation of the ongoing portfolio of nine investment projects is consistently rated
as either satisfactory or highly satisfactory. Commitments under the ERL are being complied
with in a timely fashion. The proposed loan which supports a heavy agenda contains strong
prior actions in the form of legislation or other policy measures in all the key areas of reform.
These actions, identified by asterisks in the Policy Matrix attached to the Letter of
Development Policy (Annex 1, Attachment A), have already been taken.
4.13  The reform program that the proposed SAL supports is grounded in a medium-term
framework. In addition to the prior actions, the Government will take a number of
complementary measures whose implementation will be spread out over time. These measures
are also identified in the Policy Matrix, together with monitoring indicators that will be used to
track progress on their implementation (Annex 1, Attachment A). Moreover, a set of indicators
has been identified to monitor the effects of the policy reforms supported by the proposed loan
(see Annex 1, Attachment B entitled "Selected Outcome Indicators"). In some of the areas
where the envisaged policy reforms are of a technical nature, the Policy Matrix explicitly
allows for the provision of technical assistance on a continuous basis from the Bank or other
sources.
4.14 The Letter of Development Policy (section on "Reporting to World Bank") includes an
undertaking to provide the Bank relevant and timely information on all areas covered by the
program to facilitate monitoring of progress. The location of the Bank's Korea department in
the field also would facilitate effective monitoring. Furthermore, the dialogue with Korea on
follow-up operations would be focused on extending and deepening the process of structural
reform to restore and sustain Korea's competitive position and return the economy to a high
growth path. That dialogue would also provide the occasion to monitor progress on
implementation of the preceding operations, including this SAL, and their outcomes. The need
for any further large-scale technical assistance for specific sectors with financing from the Bank
or other sources will be reviewed in the course of our dialogue.
V. RECOMMENDATION
5.1   I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles of Agreement of the
Bank and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Sven Sandstrom
Washington, D.C.
March 19, 1998
Annexes
- 30 -



KOREA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
ANNEX I
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
February 27, 1998
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.,
Washington, D.C., 20433
Dear Mr. President:
SUBJECT: PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Letter of Development Policy
1.    Since the approval of the Economic Reconstruction Loan by the World Bank in
late December 1997, we have made significant progress in stabilizing the macroeconomic
and financial situation and advancing our structural reform efforts. Improvement in
investor confidence is reflected in the recent relative stability in the foreign exchange
market and recovery in the stock market. This improvement in market confidence reflects
our Government's firm adherence to the program of macroeconomic stabilization as well
as demonstration of our commitment to implement difficult structural reforms. A
significant positive development has also been the debt restructuring agreement reached
with major creditor banks last month whereby up to $24 billion of short-term external debt
owed by Korean financial institutions will be converted into longer-term maturities. The
earlier rollover of maturing short-term external liabilities and the prospective debt
restructuring have served to ease the pressure on our external financial position. A
supporting factor has also been our improving current account position.
2.    Notwithstanding these encouraging developments, our external liquidity position
remains very tight. Market confidence, though improved, is still very fragile, and
vulnerable to volatility. We know that we must continue to adhere strictly to the
macroeconomic stabilization program and press ahead resolutely with reforms that address
the structural weaknesses exposed by the crisis. Our objective is twofold: to restore
macroeconomic and financial stability while minimizing disruption to the real economy and
the impact on the socially vulnerable; and to strengthen the economy's underlying



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 23
structural foundation for the resumption of robust, sustained growth. The Economic
Reconstruction Loan from the World Bank has provided important support to these
efforts. I am happy to report that progress on reforms supported by that loan has been
good. We are now ready to move on to the next stage of reforms, and have prepared a
strong structural adjustment program, developed in close cooperation with the World
Bank, which I outline in the next section. We seek continued World Bank support in our
implementation of this program.
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
3.    Building on the Economic Reconstruction Loan, our structural adjustment
program recognizes that fundamental reforms are needed in the incentives and institutional
framework to prepare Korea's economy for the next stage of development and in the
context of important changes in the global economy. We are confident that the Korean
economy will reemerge as strong and successful in the coming decades of the next century
as it has been in recent decades, provided that these reforms are implemented. In addition
to sustaining sound macroeconomic management, our structural adjustment program for
which we seek World Bank support spans four important areas of reform: financial sector
restructuring and development; improvements in corporate governance and competition
policies; labor market reform and the strengthening of social safety nets; and institutional
reform in economic management.
4.    Details of our reform program and the specific actions we will take are set out in
matrix form in Attachment A. In the following paragraphs, allow me to highlight some
important aspects of our program and report on recent progress.
Financial Sector
5.    Expediting the resolution of the troubled financial institutions is an urgent priority,
but our reform agenda also encompasses important measures to strengthen the regulatory
and institutional framework to underpin sound development of the financial system over
the longer term.
6.    Financial Sector Recapitalization and Restructuring.   We have made
substantial progress in dealing with troubled merchant banks, and have closed ten on
February 17. We are reviewing the commercial viability of all other merchant banks using
expert technical assistance. We have imposed substantial losses on the owners of two
major commercial banks, injected public resources to stabilize their capital position, and
have temporarily assumed ownership control over them. We will invite internationally
recognized investment banks for consultations on means to privatize these banks, and will
hire expert advisors to assist in their privatization and sale, which we expect to complete
substantially by November 15. We have enhanced the powers of supervisors to intervene
in and resolve troubled financial institutions, and will continue to clarify the procedural
framework for dealing with troubled institutions and adopt a structured approach to
intervening weak institutions. We have adopted more intensive supervision of all



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 23
commercial banks and have requested commercial banks which do not meet capital
adequacy standards as of end- 1997 to provide recapitalization and rehabilitation plans.
7.    In the process of identifying weak financial institutions, we will take into account
the probable impact of necessary corporate debt restructuring. We understand that
significant financial and operational restructuring of commercial banks will likely be
required, possibly including employee lay-offs, and will certainly involve a cleanup of
impaired assets. We are improving the framework for corporate debt workouts, and have
clarified the prudential and tax treatment of restructured debt.
8.    We understand that a clear and transparent process for resolving troubled financial
institutions, starting with the two major banks, is crucial to restoring market confidence.
In consultation with the World Bank, we will develop an overall strategy for financial
sector recapitalization and restructuring. This strategy will incorporate policy objectives
which include promoting transparency, providing public resources only in the context of
approved recapitalization and restructuring of the recipient institutions, purchasing assets
at estimated market value, and quickly selling back to the private sector any institutions
and assets acquired by government in the process. Through this process we expect that the
level of foreign participation in the financial system will increase, recognizing that foreign
investment will bring enhanced management practices, new technologies, and additional
capital into the financial system. We will account for all support to financial institutions in
a transparent manner, recording not only the interest costs in the budget but also reflecting
the stock of debt incurred. We will enforce strict accounting, operating, and internal
control procedures for KAMC and other agencies involved in government support to
financial institutions.
9.    Financial Sector Development  We will formulate an overall strategy for the
development of a market-based, efficient, competitive, and sound financial system. This
strategy will serve to guide decisions taken as part of system recapitalization and
restructuring. Moreover, we expect this strategy to lead to significant improvements in the
regulatory framework for the provision of financial services by all financial institutions,
with the aim of enhancing competition (including foreign competition), upgrading financial
institution governance, beefing up prudential regulation and ensuring systemic soundness.
As part of the strategy, we will tighten regulations relating to connected lending and the
accounting of trusts. We will promote market discipline by upgrading accounting, auditing
and reporting by financial institutions to international standards. The provision of deposit
insurance will be improved through the consolidation of the various deposit insurance
agencies. We will strive to harmonize the regulatory regime for comparable financial
products and services. We will substantially upgrade the effectiveness of financial sector
supervision, in part by implementing a comprehensive institutional capacity building
program for the new FSC and FSB. The Government has also announced that formal and
informal government approval, permission and control over the managerial decisions of
banks no longer exists. In these efforts, we will work in close cooperation with the World
Bank and other expert technical advice.



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 23
10.   We expect a much larger role for bond and equity markets in the financial system,
thereby shifting some risks from the banking system and leading to improved liability
structures for non-financial firms. We also expect to see an improved evaluation of the
expected profitability of new investments and the financial performance of firms. A more
developed and better-governed institutional investor base is expected to further stimulate
capital market development. In order to improve the securities market regulatory regime,
we will ensure independence (and accountability) of securities regulatory authority and
strengthen the role of KSE and other securities industry SROs (including strengthening
prudential rules and their enforcement). As a result of these changes, the ability of the
financial sector to withstand shocks will be greatly improved.
11.   We are committed to developing more efficient and deeper capital markets. We
have already taken a number of important measures recently, including opening capital
markets to foreign investors and removing important impediments to their participation.
The government bond market will be further developed by standardizing new government
instruments and lengthening maturities, and making issuance and trading more transparent
and market-oriented, so the market can serve as a benchmark for corporate bonds and
other capital market instruments. We will promote other types of capital markets
instruments, such as mortgage bonds and mortgage-backed securities. We will also
liberalize the issuance of new equity and adopt measures to improve secondary market
trading. We will upgrade the market infrastructure for bond and equity markets by
strengthening the credit rating agency industry, rationalizing and strengthening trading,
clearing and settlements systems, and enhancing the disclosure and dissemination of
information by corporates. The capital market industry will be strengthened by liberalizing
entry rules for financial institutions, promoting greater competition, and improving
supervision. To increase the transparency of markets, we will introduce for all financial
institutions mark-to-market accounting of securities.
Corporate Sector
12.   Our corporate sector reform agenda comprises two main elements: reform of
corporate governance; and the strengthening of competition policies.
13.   Corporate Governance. We recognize that a robust market economy with open
and competitive domestic markets depends heavily on the interplay of a variety of
incentives and monitoring mechanisms in the corporate sector. A key element is easy
availability of high-quality financial information concerning the financial position of major
institutions in the financial and real sectors. Corporate management should prepare and
distribute to regulators and shareholders timely and accurate financial statements to enable
creditors and investors to make reliable judgments concerning financial risk. Boards of
directors and shareholders should be active monitors of corporate performance. External
auditors should provide meaningful opinions on the reliability of those financial
statements. Moreover, a reliable bankruptcy system is needed to expedite financial and
corporate sector restructuring and the reallocation of assets to their best use, and reduce
creditor uncertainty as to the recoverability of their investments.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 23
14.   We are committed to improving the quality and reliability of key financial
information provided by corporates and financial institutions to regulators, shareholders,
and the general public. To that end, we will rationalize the institutional framework for
setting standards and regulating and overseeing the accounting and auditing profession,
assigning these responsibilities to independent and self-regulating professional bodies. We
will revise accounting and auditing standards to require that financial statements of all
listed companies, financial institutions, and large joint stock companies be prepared in
accordance with accounting and auditing standards consistent with international best
practice beginning with the year 1999. Action has been taken to require consolidated
financial statements for associated companies, and implementation rules will be issued to
make this effective no later than next year. In addition, we will strengthen the internal
control structure of companies and financial institutions and the oversight responsibilities
for internal audit and selection of external auditors. These are fundamental reforms, and
will go a long way in enhancing financial transparency and accountability and instilling
increased market confidence in the integrity of financial reporting.
15.   In order to complement improved financial disclosure, we will strengthen the
duties of directors to act in the best interests of the company, require the use of outside
directors on boards, and increase the accountability of directors to shareholders for their
actions. In this way, we expect to sharpen the focus of directors on their responsibilities to
monitor management and to improving the performance of the companies they serve. We
will also improve the rights of minority shareholders to inspect company records and to
make proposals at a general meeting.
16.   The Government recognizes the urgent need to reform the legal framework for the
reorganization and liquidation of insolvent corporations. To that end, we have revised
insolvency laws to resolve jurisdictional conflicts, build administrative capacity, expedite
procedures, enhance creditor participation in the reorganization process, and establish
economic criteria for the initiation of the reorganization process.  In addition, the
Government will review laws on bankruptcy, composition and reorganization with a view
to harmonization and enhancing efficiency.
17.   Competition Policies. We recognize the need to increase the adaptability and
flexibility of the Korean economy. To enhance the competitiveness of Korean industry, we
are committed to fostering open and fair competition and have agreed to strengthen the
Fair Trade Act (FTA) and all related regulations to promote market efficiency. In addition,
we will appoint a joint private/public committee to recommend amendments to the FTA
and identify measures in order to strengthen the market efficiency objectives, make the
provisions of FTA fully and uniforrnly applicable to all economic sectors, and establish a
level playing field for domestic and foreign firms. To enhance investor confidence and
provide timely information to the market, the Korean Fair Trade Commission (KFTC) will
strengthen its Policy Analysis and Evaluation capacity for the purpose of conducting in-
depth studies of market structure and other elements affecting competition, including
adequate authority to collect data and publish findings.



ANNEX I
Page 6 of 23
18.   In the restructuring of chaebols, we will not permit business combinations or other
transactions that substantially reduce competition in a given market. We will ensure equal
economic opportunities for all Koreans, and foster entry into and/or acquisition of
divested chaebol operations by new domestic or foreign firms. To facilitate the process of
corporate restructuring, we are developing comprehensive guidelines for mergers and
acquisitions, and will increase foreign participation in M&As.
19.   In compliance with our commitment to the World Bank in the Economic
Reconstruction Loan, we have already raised the ceilings on aggregate foreign ownership
in listed companies to 55%, and we will eliminate the aggregate ceiling on foreign
investment in Korean equities altogether by the end of 1998. We will take the necessary
steps to allow foreign shareholders and directors to be subject to the same obligations and
exercise full voting and management rights as Korean shareholders and directors. We will
shortly announce our policy toward privatization and regulatory reform that will promote
competition in the provision of infrastructure services.
Labor Market and Social Protection
20.   We are determined to implement wide-ranging labor market reforms to
accommodate needed structural change, while at the same time building a stronger and
more durable social safety net so as to mitigate the painful social costs of structural
adjustment.
21.   Labor Market Reform. In order to promote labor market flexibility, we have
repealed the two-year suspension in effectiveness of Article 31 of the Labor Standards Act
permitting employment adjustment for managerial reasons, and clarified specifically what
those reasons are. At the same time, in order to facilitate quick redeployment of labor, we
have enacted legislation to allow the operation of private manpower leasing services, and
we will relax restrictions on the private provision of job placement services. We will
underpin these labor market reforms with measures to protect vulnerable groups by
expanding workers' legal rights. As of January 1999, necessary measures will be taken so
that the relevant articles of the Labor Standards Act (including those for women workers
and workers below the age of 18 years) will cover employees in establishments with fewer
than 5 workers.
22.   These flexibility measures will be augmented by interventions to improve labor
market functioning. We will increase the number and quality of public employment offices
while making sure that these complement instead of crowd out private employment
offices. We will extend the coverage of our labor market information systems to monitor
the effects of adjustment on the less privileged workers, by introducing an annual earnings
survey covering those employed in small scale establishments with fewer than 5 workers.
23.   We will strengthen social protection for workers by extending coverage of the
Employment Insurance Scheme to workers in establishments with more than five
employees by mid-1998. In addition, we are committed to accelerating further extension
of the Unemployment Benefits Scheme to workers in firms with fewer than five workers



ANNEX I
Page 7 of 23
as early as possible. The financial viability of these improvements in coverage will be
assured by adjusting the payroll contribution rate consistent with any changes in the risk of
unemployment and in the benefit structure. We will undertake a strategic review of the
scope for improving the cost-effectiveness of all major components of the Employment
Insurance System. To complement these income protection measures, we will secure the
availability of the "retirement allowance" for workers separating from financially troubled
firms by giving claimants priority creditor status, and will establish a public compensation
fund that pre-finances these claims.
24.   Protecting the Poor. We recognize that adjustment to the crisis will impose new
hardships on vulnerable groups and that we may soon be faced with rising numbers of
people falling into poverty. Therefore, we are especially determined to strengthen
measures to ease the social costs of adjustment on the poor. The Government is
committed to maintain constant in real terms the level of public expenditure per
beneficiary on major antipoverty programs, including the livelihood and medical aid
programs. We are also committed to expand in real terms the total budget allocations to
antipoverty programs proportionately with any increase in the prevalence of poverty due
to the crisis. We will strengthen the information base for poverty monitoring and targeting
by updating the official poverty line used in targeting the antipoverty programs, and by
developing a multipurpose national household survey system.
25.   Pension System Reform. We are determined to secure adequate income support
for the elderly. Therefore, we will implement a new non-contributory and means-tested
social pension for individuals aged 65 and above to be financed from budgetary resources.
We also plan to implement the extensions of coverage of the national pension system to
urban self-employed and to workers in establishments with fewer than 5 employees. In
that context, we have communicated clearly the fact that the current system is financially
unsustainable and that in an upcoming reform an adjustment in the contribution and benefit
structure must take place. We will take steps to enhance the transparency and efficiency of
pension fund asset management. We have agreed to gradually phase out government
borrowing from pension fund reserves in the form of direct credits and to phase in
borrowing in the form of sale of marketable government bonds. We recognize the long-
term need for a comprehensive reform of the pension system. We will establish a new
Government Task Force to draft a White Paper on Pension Reform, to be discussed in a
tripartite forum, to investigate the financial sustainability, equity and efficiency of the
current system, together with reform options including integration of the retirement
allowance in a funded and privately managed defined-contribution plan:
Economic Management and Institutions
26.   Full recovery from the crisis demands major improvements in the management of
economic policy, and in particular much more systematic, careful and timely management
of Korea's external public and private liabilities-weaknesses in which were a major cause
of the crisis. It is also essential that the public sector not only bear its share of the pain of
economic adjustment, but at the same time is refocused away from the interventionist past,



ANNEX I
Page 8 of 23
toward a new facilitating role in the market economy. All these demand fundamental
institutional reforms. Reform of this depth will take time, but key steps are already
underway. The Government Organization Reform Committee was formed on January 7,
1998, with the task of drafting proposals for restructuring and reforming of government
administration. The Government Organization Act was revised by the National Assembly
on February 16, 1998. The revised law provides for a radical restructuring of govemment
to effect efficiencies and cost savings. Ministerial mergers and abolitions will reduce the
number of minister-level officials from 33 to 24, and cabinet-level ministers from 21 to 17.
The initial reorganization is already underway, and the entire program of restructuring and
staff redeployment will be implemented over the next two years.
27.   To ensure high level oversight, responsibility for overall planning and budgeting
will be transferred to a new Budget Planning Committee, which will be led by a minister-
level official, under the Office of the President. Its major function will be to work out
guidelines on the budget and formulate financial and administrative reform policies.
Responsibility for detailed implementation of national budgetary policy will be assigned to
an independent Budget Agency reporting to the Ministry of Finance and Economy and
headed by a vice-minister level official. Control of public sector personnel policy will be
assigned to a new Ministry of Administration and Internal Affairs. The Prime Ministers'
Office will assume responsibility for supervision of financial institutions and will have
expanded powers of national policy coordination.
28.   Given the critical importance of Korea's indebtedness, a key objective is to build a
robust institutional capacity for external debt and asset and liability management,
strengthening debt monitoring and integrating it into a policy framework which also
incorporates borrowing strategy and reserves management. This will require close
coordination between the agencies involved, with clearly defined mandates. This work has
already started, with advice and technical assistance from the World Bank.
Reporting to World Bank
29.   It is our intention to work closely with the World Bank in the implementation of
our structural adjustment program. We will continue to provide periodic reporting on key
indicators for the financial sector as agreed under the Economic Reconstruction Loan. To
facilitate monitoring of progress with reforms, we will provide to the Bank relevant and
timely information on the implementation of policies in all areas covered by the structural
adjustment program and summarized in the attached Policy Matrix (Attachment A). Also,
we will provide information on selected indicators (Attachment B) to help monitor the
effect of the policy reforms.
30.   Consistent with normal fiscal accounting conventions, the proceeds and use of
World Bank loans will be fully accounted for as part of the consolidated central
government budget. Moreover, we confirm that we have implemented our prior
commitment under the Economic Reconstruction Loan to halt all directed lending and new
policy loans. The interest subsidy will be borne by the budget in a transparent manner.



ANNEX I
Page 9 of 23
New budgetary procedures have been implemented to ensure that there is public
disclosure of all fiscal assistance offered to financial entities.
Signed
Chang-Yuel Lim
Deputy Prime Minister and
Minister of Finance and Economy
Attachments:
A: Matrix of Policy Actions
B: Selected Outcome Indicators



Matrix of Policy Actions
Objective                                  Policy Measure                                      Monitoring Indicators
1. Macroeconomic Framework
Restoration of financial      Sound management of macroeconomic policies--fiscal, monetary,    Adherence to the agreed macroeconomic framework
stability and resumption of  debt management, exchange rate policies--within an agreed medium-
robust, sustained growth     term framework
2.   Financial Sector
2.1  Strengthening the Regulatory
and Institutional Framework.
Implement financial sector   * Endow the Special Task Force at MOFE (and its successor later at  Task Force fully operational and actively carrying
restructuring within a coherent,  FSC) with adequate powers to coordinate the development and  out its mandate.
well-coordinated sector      implementation of financial sector recapitalization and restructuring
strategic framework.         strategy, under mandate set in consultation with the Bank.
Develop an overall strategy for financial sector recapitalization and    Strategy developed in consultation with the Bank.
restructuring, with assistance of World Bank and other international  Issuance of written policies and guidelines on
expertise.                                                   financial restructuring consistent with that strategy.
Strengthen the legal and     * Adopt legislation acceptable to Bank to give supervisory    Law adopted.
institutional framework for the   authorities increased power to intervene and resolve troubled
resolution of troubled financial  institutions.
institutions.                Adopt a resolution mechanism for insolvent financial institutions,    Insolvent institutions dealt with consistently and in
including receivership procedures and policy on subsequent    accordance with well-defined procedures.
divestiture.
Improve the framework for    Establish a framework to facilitate workouts between creditors and    Establishment of the workout framework and its
troubled debt resolution.    corporations.                                                 transparent application to individual cases.
Issue clear guidelines on the prudential and tax treatment of  Regulations issued and published.
restructured debt.
Improve the regulatory       * Announce timetable acceptable to Bank for upgrading bank    Public issuance of regulatory accounting principles
framework.                   accounting, auditing and reporting to intermational standards (see  (RAP) and standards consistent with international
also Corporate Governance below).                            best practice. Establishment of legal auditing
responsibilities.
* Announce a policy of requiring financial institutions to close  Policy announced.
books and report publicly on a quarterly basis at the earliest date
possible.



Objective                                 Policy Measure                                     Monitoring Indicators
Improve and harmonize prudential and market practice regulations    Regulations for deposit-taking institutions (including
applicable to deposit-taking institutions.                  merchant banks) harmonized.
Tighten regulations relating to connected lending and accounting of   Rules on connected lending and trusts tightened.
trusts
Strengthen supervision.      As part of the process of establishment of FSC/FSB, and an  Institution-building strategy agreed with Bank.
institution- building strategy agreed with Bank, undertake in-depth    Report issued. TA in place for FSC/FSB. Policies and
review of foreign major-market supervisory and regulatory regimes   procedures issued.
integrating banking, securities and insurance supervision and adopt
appropriate policies and procedures for risk-oriented supervision.
Improve governance of banks   Review and improve governance structure of banks (including  Necessary changes in laws, regulations and
and other financial institutions.  provisions relating to appointment, responsibilities and liabilities of   guidelines.
directors and managers).
* Confirm notification to banking industry of the Government  Adherence to such policy.
policy of non-intervention in bank management, including the
appointment or approval of directors and managers.
Further develop deposit     Implement the consolidation of the various deposit insurance  Adoption of appropriate guidelines, policies.
insurance.                   schemes.
Increase foreign participation    Accelerate removal of ceilings on foreign investment in banks, other  Liberalization of foreign investment/ownership limits
in banks and capital market,    financial institutions and listed companies.             as agreed.
incl. M&As.
2.2  Resolution of Merchant Banks
Clarify processes for        * Put in place the following to the satisfaction of the Bank:  Appropriate notification to merchant banks.
evaluation and closure of         - Written instructions for due diligence review.       Demonstrated integrity of rehabilitation plans.
merchant banks, ensuring only     - Arrangement of internationally recognized firms to conduct
viable banks allowed to             rehabilitation plan evaluations.
operate.                          - Adoption of standardized templates for review of
rehabilitation plans and recommendations.
- Application of clear standards and instructions to merchant
bank evaluations, providing the basis for well-documented
decisions on closure or continuation of operation.
- Establishment of a process to monitor conditionalities
placed on merchant banks allowed to continue to operate,



Objective                                    Policy Measure                                          Monitoring Indicators
including capital adequacy thresholds.
Require the merchant bank      * Implement the following actions to the satisfaction of the Bank:  Legal review, policies, procedures prepared.
closure and asset transfer          - Evaluate the legal basis for closure and asset transfer, and
process to be conducted in a           take steps procedurally and legislatively to address potential
transparent and judicious              legal vulnerabilities. Legally establish the order of creditor
manner.                                repayment.
- Clarify Bridge Bank's role as liquidator, asset manager, and
deposit insurance paying agent.
- Prepare procedures for revoking the license, closing the bank,
physical control, inventory/due diligence, and asset
valuation. If external bids allowed, establish when external
bids will be accepted after license. revocation.
- Establish how funds realized from asset sales will be
distributed.
Close all unviable merchant banks.                               Closure of unviable merchant banks by April 30.
All surviving merchant banks to meet capital adequacy guidelines                                                          9 
already agreed.
Strengthen supervision policies and practices for those allowed to
remain open.
2.3   Resolution of Korea First Bank
and Seoul Bank.
Complete the resolution of     Hire internationally recognized advisors on TOR acceptable to the  Contract with advisors by March 31.
these two banks.               Bank to develop strategy for privatizing these two banks.
Send out notification to internationally recognized investment banks   Contract with investment banks by March 31.
for assistance in the privatization and sale of these banks on TOR
acceptable to Bank.
Assess asset quality of these banks and perform diagnostic audits.  Issuance of notification inviting tenders for due
Commit to particular strategy to privatize and sell (by Nov. 15).  diligence and external audits by internationally
Undertake cost reduction plans, staff layoffs and management     recognized firms.
reconfiguration prior to sale. Further layoffs and reconfiguration
allowed after sale. Commit not to inject new public funds in these
banks after Jan. 31, except to maintain minimum liquidity to service
liabilities. Bring in foreign investors who will provide expertise and
capital inflow.



Objective                                  Policy Measure                                      Monitoring Indicators
2.4  Commercial Banks
Improve the quality of data on   Hire internationally recognized firms on TORs acceptable to Bank    Contracts with firms by March 31.
commercial bank portfolios   for external audits, including diagnostic reviews, of all commercial
and assessment of capital    banks.
adequacy.
Intensive supervision of capital adequacy of all commercial banks    Evidence of application of new, stronger standards.
(including validation of fixed asset valuation, and enforcement of
improved provisioning and loan classification standards).
Assess viability of banks.    * Require that all banks not meeting BIS capital adequacy standards  Rehabilitation plans prepared.
on 12/31/97 provide recapitalization and rehabilitation plans of
sufficient scope and detail acceptable to Bank. Same condition to
apply to those not meeting these standards on 6/30/98 and
subsequent reporting dates.                                                                                           :
Verify viability and take    * Hire internationally recognized firms on TORs acceptable to Bank  Contracts with firms.
enforcement actions.         to assess recapitalization and rehabilitation plans.
Implement graduated enforcement policies (per new law).      Closure of unviable banks.
Close unviable banks.                                                                                                t
2.5  Transparency of Government
Support.
Appropriately record all public   * Account for all past support to troubled financial institutions and    Actual recording/reporting of public support in this
support to troubled financial    corporates in a transparent manner, recording not only interest costs   manner in fiscal accounts and public debt figures.
institutions and corporates.  in the budget but also reflecting the stock of debt incurred by
government and related agencies in the overall public debt figures.
Provide a report on these estimates to the Bank.
Continue this accounting practice.
Clarify procedures for public    * Announce policy that, with effect from the date of the policy  Policy announced.
support.                     announcement, KAMC and other agencies involved in government
support will provide such support only as part of approved
recapitalization/rehabilitation plans or liquidation.
It shall be government policy that KAMC will purchase assets at  Policy announced.
estimated market value, and that assets will be sold back to the
private sector as rapidly as possible.
Enforce sound principles for    * Issue written procedures for KAMC and Bridge Bank operating  Procedures and guidelines issued.
KAMC and Bridge Bank         process, internal control, transfer pricing, asset valuation, asset sales



Objective                                  Policy Measure                                      Monitoring Indicators
operations.                  and bid process (where applicable) and governance.
Regular disclosure of financial position, including an independent    Implementation of these procedures and guidelines:
valuation of assets. External audits by internationally recognized  financial reports, audits.
firms. Capital and borrowing structure clarified and funding
instruments standardized. Institutional capacity improved, including   Improvements in governance structure and technical
through inclusion of private sector in governance structure.  capacity, including through use of TA.
2.6  Capital Markets
Promote competition between    Review and harmonize regulatory regime for alternative providers of  Progress on harmonization of regulatory regime to
different financial service  savings vehicles and their lending and investment policies to reduce   reduce market segmentation.
providers to improve the      financial market segmentation and barriers to competition.
efficiency of intermediation
and spur the diversification and
deepening of the financial
system.
Implement debt market reform    * Establish a task force (including private sector experts as well as    Establishment of a task force.
conducive to more market-    public authorities) to study policies to promote primary and  Primary and secondary market activity indicators.
based determination of the    secondary debt market.
interest rate/term structure and   Regularize announcement of government securities.
market deepening, including a   Standardize maturities and instruments while developing the longer
lengthening of maturities.   end of the yield curve.
Reduce auction of government bonds through obligatory purchases.
Consider issuing KDIC bonds in the market including auction
(instead of issuing to BOK).
Explore possibilities of increasing issuance of T-bills to replace
MSB currently issued by BOK.
Improve bond market information, trading and clearing systems, and
promote an active inter-dealer broker market.
Develop the equity market to    * Establish a task force to review appropriateness of current market  Task force established.
reduce the gearing ratio of  configuration.                                                Implementation of the indicated actions.
firns and broaden access to  Increase transparency of equity market regulations and reduce
equity finance.              discretionary power of regulators.
Liberalize IPO regulations while tightening requirements for
disclosure.
Promote competition among broker-dealers by enforcing regulations
against fixing. Rationalize prudential regulations and minimum
capital requirements for brokers according to the risk they take.
Promote KOSDAQ and enhance small business access to equity



Objective                                  Policy Measure                                      Monitoring Indicators
finance
Enhance investor confidence in  Ensure independence (and accountability) of securities regulatory  Steps toward these improvements in the securities
the securities market.        authority and strengthen the role of KSE and other securities  market regulatory regime.
industry SROs (including strengthening prudential rules and their
enforcement).
Promote the development of    Encourage the creation and supervision of investment vehicles with   Develop an enabling legal framework satisfactory to
institutional                public participation such as mutual funds and private pension funds,  the Bank.
investors/contractual savings    and remove restrictions on the exercise of their voting rights (subject  Establishment of sound regulatory and supervisory
institutions.                to prudential rules on the proper use of these rights) to improve  regime for institutional investors/contractual savings
corporate governance.                                         institutions.
Removal of limits on rights issues by financial
institutions.
3.   Corporate Sector
3.1  Corporate Governance
Improve the quality and      Rationalize the institutional framework for setting standards,  Amend Law on External Audit and all other
reliability of key financial  regulating, and overseeing the accounting and auditing profession so  applicable laws and rules to effect this change.
information provided by banks  that an independent and self-regulating KICPA is responsible for:
and corporations to regulators,  sponsoring and setting up an independent accounting standard
shareholders, and the general    setting organization comprising members of accounting profession,                                               t l
public.                      business, government and academia; and for setting auditing
standards, regulating and overseeing the profession, and ensuring
implementation of the standards consistent with international best
practice.
* Announce that financial statements of listed companies, banks and  Revise accounting and auditing standards to make
other financial institutions, as well as all joint stock companies with  them consistent with international best practice, and
assets in excess of 7 billion Won, will be required to be prepared and  revise relevant laws and rules as necessary to require
audited in accordance with standards consistent with international    that financial statements be prepared and audited in
best practices and standards beginning with the year 1999.    accordance with such standards beginning with the
year 1999. This will include significant
improvements in asset classification, loss and income
recognition, presentation of financial statements, and
financial statement disclosure.
Issue implementing rules for consolidated financial
statements for majority owned companies and
combined financial statements for all major



7  0   Objective                              iMe re                                           Monitort ingdicators
commonly controlled enterprises, such rules to be
effective not later than 1999 and applied without
exemption.
Strengthen the internal control structure of listed companies, banks,   A study to be conducted on the introduction of audit
financial institutions and all joint stock companies and the related  committees of the boards of directors in Korea in
responsibility for the oversight of the internal audit function and  accordance with international best practice. This
selection of external auditors.                              study will be completed by Sept. 30, 1998, under
TOR acceptable to Bank.
Promote effective monitoring    Boards of directors of listed companies, banks and other financial  Submit legislation to the National Assembly to
of corporate performance by    institutions, and large corporations to be effective decision-making    strengthen duties of directors to act in the best
boards of directors and      bodies responsible for acting in the best interests of the company.    interests of the company.
shareholders.                                                                              Require that listed companies, banks and major
government enterprises subject to the Act on the
Management Reform and Privatization of Public
Enterprises include at least one outside director on
their boards of directors.
Preparation of a study of the role and function of
boards of directors as users of corporate financial
information and monitors of company management.
Directors to be responsible to companies and shareholders for their   Submit legislation to National Assembly to
actions.                                                      strengthen minority shareholder rights by lowering
substantially the threshold for exercising these rights:
e.g., the right to file shareholder representative suits;
the right to make proposals at a general meeting; and
the right of inspection of company records.
Preparation of a study of the implications of
introducing class action law suits by shareholders of
listed companies.
Introduce market-based       * Submit to National Assembly insolvency laws (bankruptcy,    Appropriate amendment of laws.
bankruptcy procedures and    composition, and corporate reorganization) to resolve jurisdictional
facilitate efficient liquidation    conflicts, build administrative capacity, expedite procedures,
of insolvent corporations.   enhance creditor participation in the reorganization process and
establish economic criteria for initiation of the reorganization
process.



Objective                                  Policy Measure                                      Monitoring Indicators
Review laws on bankruptcy, composition and reorganization, with a  Preparation of study by end- 1998 under TOR agreed
view to harmonization and enhancing efficiency.               with Bank and thereafter enactment of appropriate
legislation.
3.2  Competition Policies
Foster competition and       * Government will issue a policy statement announcing the      a. KFTC will publish information on chaebol M
efficiency in the financial and   following measures regarding the restructuring of chaebols,  &A, divestitures and restructuring within 30 days of
industrial sectors.          ensuring the full force and application of the FTA, to increase  the transaction being permitted/disallowed.
accountability and transparency and provide equal economic    b. will provide Bank with a detailed report and
opportunity:                                                  analysis of all such cases notified and considered, in
*  shall not permit business combinations which substantially  a format to be agreed with the Bank prior to July 31,
reduce competition in a given market.                     1998.
*  shall foster the entry and/or takeover of divested chaebol
operations by new domestic or foreign firms.
*  shall publish information on the reasons and factors considered
in permitting/disallowing business combinations among the
chaebols.
*  further reduce the use of mutual guarantees by
affiliates/subsidiaries.
* Government will appoint a joint private/public Committee, with    Draft and adopt appropriate legislation in accordance
TOR acceptable to Bank, to recommend amendments to the FTA    with best practice acceptable to Bank prior to July 31,
and identify measures which:                                  1998.
* strengthen the market efficiency objectives
* make its provisions fully and uniformly applicable to all
economic sectors, including the parastatals and public entities
* increase investigative powers.
* increase sanction powers of KFTC.
* provide appropriate consumer protection.
* Government will issue a policy statement indicating it will take    a. KFTC to provide information satisfactory to the
active steps to reduce public and private barriers to entry and exit  Bank regarding application of the FTA; its
and, in monopolized infrastructure services and utilities, design a    application to national and foreign firms.
regulatory framework to promote competition, through such     b. Prepare an official position paper on regulatory
measures as fostering new domestic and/or foreign private sector  reform and privatization of infrastructure services in
market entrants.                                              accordance with international best practice prior to
July 31, 1998
Strengthen the operational   Government will enable KFTC to strengthen its Policy Analysis and   a. Appropriate decree issued.
capacity of KFTC             Evaluation capacity, on TOR acceptable to Bank, for the purposes    b. KFTC to prepare work plan acceptable to Bank



Objective                                  Policy Measure                                      Monitoring Indicators
of conducting in-depth studies of market structure and other  prior to April 30, 1998.
elements affecting competition, including adequate authority to  c. KFTC to develop and publish indicators affecting
collect data and publish findings.                            competition such as entry and exit of firms, changes
in regulations, import penetration, foreign direct
investment, M & A activity, etc.
Develop comprehensive merger guidelines applicable to all sectors    KFTC to prepare such guidelines, acceptable to the
of the economy and other areas such as inter-firm collaborative  Bank, prior to July 31, 1998.
agreements.
Adopt measures to promote transparency in KFTC operations,    KFTC will report the number of interventions,
guidelines for case selection, publishing of case information, and  dissemination of public position papers related to
advocacy.                                                     regulatory reform and fostering competition.
* Develop strategies for institutional development of KFTC to  KFTC will provide Bank with detailed progress
enhance its ability to implement competition law and policy in  report, prior to July 31, 1998.
accordance with best practice, including a detailed technical                                                       a
assistance program acceptable to Bank.
4.   Labor Market and Social                                                                                                                          0 
Safety Net
4.1  Labor Market
Improve labor market          * Repeal the 2-year suspension in effectiveness of Article 31 and  Govemment will submit bill to National Assembly in
flexibility and facilitate   clarify definition of dismissal for managerial reasons.       Feb. 1998.
redeployment of labor.
*Allow operation of private manpower leasing services.       Government will submit bill to National Assembly in
Feb. 1998.
* Commitment to relax legal restrictions on the private provision of   New Presidential Decree revising the Employment
job placement services.                                       Security Act in March 1998.
Improve the functioning of the  Increase number and quality of public employment offices to  By June 30, 1998, complete review of the
labor market.                complement private employment services.                       effectiveness of public employment services.
Develop a cooperative operational framework for
public and private providers.
Improve labor market information systems to monitor effects of  Conduct an annual earnings survey covering
adjustment and facilitate evaluation of reforms.             establishments with fewer than 5 workers starting



Objective                                Policy Measure                                    Monitoring Indicators
Nov. 1998.
Improve targeting, contain costs, and eliminate programs of the  Prepare strategic policy report by December 1999
Employment Insurance System found to be inefficient        with a view to improving the Unemployment Benefit
Scheme and to creating a more efficient Employment
Security System and Job Ability Development
System.
Increase worker protection.  Expand coverage of the Employment Insurance System to firms  Extended coverage implemented by July 1998.
with 5 or more workers.
* Commitment to expand coverage of the Unemployment Benefits   Complete by end- 1998 a feasibility report assessing
Scheme to firms with fewer than 5 workers as early as possible.  options to expand coverage by January 2000.
Ensure financial sustainability of the Unemployment Benefit  Adjust the payroll contribution rate consistent with
Scheme                                                     changes in the benefit structure and the
unemployment rate.                                i 
Secure funding for retirement allowance and wage arrears in  Necessary change in law enacted in February 1998.
financially troubled firms. Give claimants priority creditor status and                                         t
establish a public compensation fund which pre-finances these
claims. The fund is to be financed from employers contributions and
other sources.
Apply labor standards to all workers.                      Expand coverage of relevant sections (including
those for women and workers below the age of 18) of
the Labor Standards Act to those in establishments
with fewer than 5 workers in January 1999.
Reduce gender inequalities in   Review regulations that impose high costs on women's employment.  Examine labor regulations and programs affecting
the labor market.                                                                       women including the possibility of moving the
responsibility of paying maternity and related
benefits from the employer to a fund financed by
social insurance contributions; discuss review
findings with stakeholders by December 1999.
4.2  Protecting the Poor
Improve poverty monitoring.    Establish a consistent official poverty line to be used in means-  Publish report by March 1999.
testing antipoverty programs.



Objective                                 Policy Measure                                     Monitoring Indicators
Develop a multipurpose national household survey system linking    Develop a multipurpose household survey data set in
household income and expenditures to utilization of social services.   1998.
Prepare a complete national poverty profile analyzing the   Publish poverty profile report in 1999.
magnitude, causes and consequences of poverty.
Improve targeting of public  * Commitment to maintain constant in real terms the level of public  Allocate adequate budget in 1998.
antipoverty programs.       expenditure per beneficiary on major antipoverty programs,
including the livelihood program and the medical aid program.
* Commitment to expand in real terms the total budget allocations    Allocate adequate budget in 1998.
to antipoverty programs proportionately with any increase in the
prevalence of poverty due to the crisis.
Undertake a thorough review of the effectiveness and efficiency of   Hold national workshop on findings in 1999.
antipoverty programs based on the multipurpose national household
survey.                                                                                                        c 
Rationalize targeting of antipoverty programs so as to mitigate the    Announce program of improvements following
impact of the crisis on the poor.                           national poverty workshop by end- 1999.
4.3  Pension System
Securing income support for    * Implement the planned non-contributory and means tested "social  Allocate adequate budgetary resources in 1998 to
the elderly.                 pension" financed from general budget for individuals aged 65 and   implement the plan.
above.
Implement the planned extension of coverage of the national pension  Issuance of appropriate decree no later than October
system to urban self-employed and to workers in establishments with  1, 1998.
fewer than 5 employees.
* Communicate clearly that the sustainability of the current system    Press communication on the need to improve
needs to be improved and that in an upcoming reform adjustments in  sustainability of the current system prior to extension
the contribution and benefit structure must take place.     of coverage.
Improving transparency and   * Agreement to gradually phase out government borrowing from  In consultation with the Bank, announce by June 30,
efficiency of pension fund   pension fund reserves in the form of direct credits and to gradually    1998, an implementation timetable, which includes
management.                  phase in government borrowing from pension fund reserves in the    appropriate revision of the Public Fund Management
form of sale of marketable government bonds.                Act.
Strengthen the tri-partite asset management committee for the  Necessary change in law enacted before July 1,1998.



Objective                                  Policy Measure                                      Monitoring Indicators
national pension reserve fund, responsible for strategic decisions of
asset allocation and determination of benchmarks for risk and return.
Strengthen the professional investment unit in the National Pensions  Training of staff of investment unit in international
Corporation in charge of the daily investment decisions according to  financial institutions.
the portfolio envelope and benchmarks from the committee.
Outsource a rising part of the investment decisions to private asset    Publication of a quarterly performance report by
management firms selected in a transparent and competitive manner.  1999.
The investment unit is in charge of performance monitoring and
supervision, and reports investment performance on monthly basis.
Securing an efficient, equitable  Initiate no pension reform without costing and broad-based political
and financially sustainable   discussion.
pension system in the long run.
Establish a Government Task Force to draft a White Paper on   Establishment of the Task Force by October 1998.
Pension Reform, with TOR to investigate the financial sustainability,
equity and efficiency of the current system together with reform  Draft of the White Paper to be discussed in a tri-
options, including:                                           partite forum by 2000.
1. the integration of the national pension system with the other three
occupational pension schemes,
2. splitting the current national system into a basic and earnings-
related component, and
3. the integration of the retirement allowance in a funded and
privately managed defined-contribution plan.
5.   Economic Management and
Institutions
Improve the institutional    Implement the proposed reorganization of economic policy      Necessary legislation passed and directives issued,
framework for economic       functions between MOFE and the Offices of the President and the  specifying agency responsibilities and coordination
policy making.               Prime Minister to support improved and better coordinated      mechanisms.
economic management.
Improve debt and asset liability  Within a time-bound schedule: set up an external debt management   An external debt management office established.
management.                  office with responsibility, and capacity, for upgrading debt   Improved coordinating mechanism  on external
monitoring (including monitoring private external debt); establish a   borrowing strategy and ALM instituted.



Objective                                Policy Measure                                    Monitoring nditators
systematic coordination mechanism among the agencies involved,    TA availed.
with clearly defined mandates, in determining external borrowing
strategy and improving external asset-liability management (ALM)
and linkages to macroeconomic and prudential management; and
avail TA on TOR acceptable to Bank to support this upgrading of
debt and asset-liability management
Streamline public           Implement the proposed consolidation and refocusing of government Necessary legislation passed, directives issued, and
administration.             ministries to improve efficiency, clarify and decentralize  reform work program specified
responsibility, and strengthen accountability.
Note: Entries with an asterisk denote prior actions, to be taken before Board presentation.
( I



ANNEX 1 - Attachment B
Page 23 of 23
SELECTED OUTCOME INDICATORS
Periodic reporting on indicators for supervision of the financial sector will continue as
agreed under the Economic Reconstruction Loan. To facilitate monitoring of progress with
reforms, relevant and timely information will be provided to the Bank on the implementation of
policies in all areas covered by the structural adjustment program and summarized in the attached
Policy Matrix (Attachment A). Under the Structural Adjustment Loan, the Republic of Korea also
agrees to provide to the World Bank in a timely manner the following information pertaining to
selected outcomes of the agreed policy measures:
Macroeconomic Framework
* Consolidated central government budget, including revenues, expenditures and financing.
* Balance of payments.
* National accounts.
Financial Sector
* Total loans sold by KAMC and the Bridge Bank.
* Number of debt workouts/debt restructurings conducted by the banks that submit
rehabilitation plans.
Fiscal costs of public support to the banking system, with appropriate breakdowns (by
source of support, instruments of support, and type of beneficiary).
* Other financial sector indicators as agreed under the ERL, e.g., nonperforming loans,
provisioning, capital adequacy ratios, etc.
Corporate Sector
* Results of chaebol restructuring, based on information available to KFTC.
* Debt-equity ratios in the 30 largest chaebols.
* Number of business activities undertaken by major chaebols.
Labor Markets
* Number of workers laid off for urgent managerial reasons.
* Number of workers covered under the Employment Insurance Scheme (EIS).
* Utilization of unemployment benefits under the EIS.
* Utilization of active labor market measures to promote re-employment (e.g. training) under
the EIS.
* Utilization of other special unemployment countermeasures (e.g. soft loans for the
unemployed).
Economic Management and Institutions
* Comprehensive data on external debt (public and private).
* Number of employees in the civil service.



KOREA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
ANNEX 2
STATISTICS
Table 1: Korea: Macroeconomic Framework, 1992-98
1992      1993      1994      1995      1996   1997 st  1998 Proj.
Real GDP growth (percent change)                  5.1       5.8       8.6        8.9       7.1       5.9       1.0
Consumption                                     6.8       5.3       7.0       7.2        6.9       3.0      -2.3
Grossfixedinvestment                           -0.8       5.3      12.0      11.7        7.1      -5.5     -21.1
Stockbuilding                                  -0.5      -1.0       1.4       -0.5      0.9       -2.7       0.5
Net exports                                     1.7       1.4       -1.7      0.5       -0.3       8.8       9.0
Saving and investment (in percent of GDP)
Gross domestic investment                      36.6      35.1      36.1      37.0      38.2       35.4      30.1
Gross national saving                          35.1      35.2      34.9      35.1      33.3       33.4      32.7
Current account balance                        -1.5       0.1      -1.2      -2.0      -4.9       -2.0       2.5
Prices (percent change)
Average CPI inflation                           6.2       4.8       6.2       4.5        4.9       4.5       9.5
End-period CPI inflation                        4.5       5.8       5.6       4.7        4.9       6.6       7.4
GDP deflator                                    6.1       5.1       5.5       5.6        3.4       3.1       6.3
Exchange rate (Won/U.S.$) (ave.)              780.7     802.7     803.5     771.3     804.5      949.9
Government Budget (in percent of GDP)
Revenues                                        18.3      19.4      20.1      20.7      21.9      21.8      22.6
Expenditures (including bankrestructuring costs)  19.0    19.1      19.7      20.3      21.6      22.1      23.4
Balance                                         -0.7       0.3       0.5       0.3       0.3      -0.4      -0.8
Overall balance                                 -0.7      0.3        0.5       0.3       0.3      -0.4      -1.5
Money and credit (end of period)
M3 growth                                      21.8       19.0      24.7      19.1      16.7      15.6       12.5
Reserve money growth                           10.9      27.5        9.2      16.3     -12.2     -12.5       13.9
Three-yearcorporatebondyield                   16.2       12.6      12.9      11.7      12.6      29.0       15.0
Trade (percent change)
Export volume                                   8.4       6.8       14.9      23.8      18.9      24.2       16.0
Import volume                                   2.0       6.5       21.5      21.1      12.6       3.1      -6.5
Terms of trade                                   ---      4.4        1.2      -3.5     -11.7     -10.9      -5.9
Balance of payments (in billions of US$)
Exports, f.o.b.                                75.2      80.9       93.7     123.2     128.3     137.5     143.8
Imports, f.o.b.                                77.3      79.1       96.8    -128.0    -143.6    -140.3    -125.0
Current account balance                         -4.5      0.4       -4.5      -8.9     -23.7      -8.9       8.0
Reserve cover 1/                                2.2       2.5        2.6       2.5       2.0       0.6       2.9
Exteinal debt (billions of US$)
Total extemal debt2'                             ..         ..        ..        ..    160.7      154.4     175.4
Of which: Short-term                             ..         ..        ..        ..    100.0       68.4      43.1
Extemal debt in percent of GDP                    ..        ..        ..        ..      33.1      34.5      55.1
Source: Bank of Korea
1/ Months of imports of goods and nonfactor services; excludes BOK deposits at overseas branches and subsidiaries of Korean banks.
2/ Includes offshore borrowing of domestic fmnancial institutions and debt contracted by overseas branches of domestic financial institutions.



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 6
Table 2: Korea: Balance of Payments and Financing Requirements, 1993-98
(in millions of U.S. dollars)
1993      1994      1995       1996   1997 Est.      1998 ioj.
Current account balance                   385    -4,531    -8,948   -23,716    -8,850             7,953
Trade balance                           1,860    -3,145    -4,747   -15,306    -2,808           17,995
Exports                              80,950    93,676   123,203   128,303   137,567          142,962
Imports                              79,090    96,822   127,949   143,609   140,375          124,967
Services and transfers (net)          -1,476    -1,385    -4,201    -8,410    -6,041           -10,042
Capital account balance                 2,610      9,146    15,987    23,741   -27,394           -3,806
Direct investment                       -540    -1,318    -1,880    -1,981    -2,932              500
Portfolio investment                  10,725     6,805      8,518    11,207    10,679           5,000
Net official borrowing                                      -519       -485       -500           -500
Net private medium and long-term capital                                         7,000         19,394
Trade credits                         -2,021     3,163      3,096     4,310       -591          -1278
Net private short-term capital                                                  -9,700        -26,222
Deposit money banks l/                -3,449     2,591      4,014     5,721   -23,963               0
Other                                 -1,285       374      3,685     3,490       -582           -969
Errors and omissions                    -820    -2,470    -1,446       1479    -6,806             268
Overall balance                         2,994      4,615     7,039        25   -36,244            4,147
Financing                                   ...       ...       ...        ...   15,900          25,853
IMF purchases/repurchases 2/              ...        ...       ...       ...   10,900            5,153
World Bank/ADB funding                    ...        ...       ...       ...    5,000            5,700
Support from official bilateral creditors  ...      ...        ...       ...         0          8,000
Market borrowing by government             ...       ...       ...       ...         0           7,000
Remaining financing gap                   ...        ...       ...       ...         0              0
Change in reserves (- increase) 3/     -3,009    -4,614    -7,039         -25    20,344         -30,000
Memorandum items:
Current account balance
(as a percent of GDP)                   0.1      -1.2       -2.0      -4.9       -2.0            2.5
Usable gross reserves                                      29,412    29,437      9,093          39,093
Usable reserve cover (months of
imports of goods and nonfactor
services)3'                             2.5       2.6        2.5       2.0        0.6            2.9
Ratio of short-term debt
to usable reserves4                                                      3.4       7.5             1.1
Source: Bank of Korea
1/ Adjusted upward to include the impact of foreign currency liquidity support by the Bank of Korea to overseas branches of DMBs.
2/ Gross purchases from IMT in 1998 are programmed at $7.9 billion.
3/ Adjusted to exclude the impact of foreign currency liquidity support by the Bank of Korea to overseas branches of DMBs.
4/ Including IMF, offshore borrowing of domestic financial institutions and debt contracted by overseas branches of domestic
financial institutions.



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 6
Table 3. Korea: Summary of Consolidated Central Government Operations, 1992-98
1992    1993    1994    1995    1996  1997 Fst. 1998 "'j-
(in trillions of won)
Total revenue                                      43.8    51.5    61.7    72.8    85.5    92.6   103.1
Central govenmment revenue                         43.8    50.7    61.1    72.1       84.2    91.5   101.7
Tax revenue                                      35.4    39.4    47.2    56.8    65.0    69.9    76.1
Social security contributions                     2.4      4.1      4.6      5.4      7.4     8.3    11.0
Nontaxrevenue and capital income                  6.0      7.2      9.3      9.9    11.8    13.3    14.6
Public enterprises' special accounts revenue        0.0      0.8      0.6     0.7      1.3      1.1      1.4
Expenditures                                       45.5    50.7    60.3    71.6    84.4    94.2   103.1
Central government expenditures                    45.0    49.0    60.1    71.1       82.4    91.7    99.9
Current expenditures                             35.4    39.1    45.7    49.9    55.4    63.4    70.4
Capital expenditures and net lending              9.6      9.9    14.4    21.2    27.0    28.3    29.5
Public enterprises' special account expenditure     0.5      1.7      0.2     0.5      2.0      2.6      3.2
Bank restructuring costs 11                                                                              3.6
Consolidated central government balance            -1.7      0.8     1.4      1.2      1.1    -1.6    -3.6
Interest costs on IBRD/AsDB loans 2                                                                      0.8
Additional unemployment and social expenditure 31                                                        2.6
Overall consolidated central government balance    -1.7      0.8     1.4      1.2      1.1    -1.6    -7.0
(In percent of GDP)
Total revenue                                      18.2    19.3    20.2    20.7    21.9    21.8    22.6
Central government revenue                         18.2    19.0    20.0    20.5    21.6    21.5    22.3
Tax revenue                                       0.1    14.8    15.5    16.1        16.7    16.4    16.7
Social security contributions                     1.0      1.5      1.5      1.5      1.9     2.0      2.4
Nontaxrevenuesandcapitalincome                    2.5      2.7      3.0      2.8      3.0      3.1     3.2
Public enterprises' special accounts revenue        0.0      0.3     0.2      0.2      0.3      0.3      0.3
Expenditures                                       18.9    19.3    20.2    20.3    21.6    22.1    22.6
Centralgovemmentexpenditures                       18.7    18.4    19.7    20.2    21.1    21.5    21.9
Current expenditures                             14.7    14.7    15.0    14.2    14.2    14.9    15.4
Capital expenditures and net lending              4.0      3.7      4.7      6.0      6.9     6.6      6.5
Public enterprises' special accounts expenditure    0.2      0.9     0.5      0.1      0.5      0.6      0.8
Bank restructuring costs 1'                                                                              0.8
Consolidated central government balance            -0.7     0.3      0.5      0.3      0.3    -0.4    -0.8
Interest costs on IBRD/AsDB loans 21                                                                     0.2
Additional unemployment and social expenditure 3/                                                        0.6
Overall consolidated central government balance    -0.7     0.3      0.5      0.3      0.3    -0.4    -1.5
Memorandum item:
NominalGDP(intrillionwon)                       240.7   266.8   305.4   352.0   390.0   425.8   457.1
Source: Ministry of Finance and Economy
1/ Interest cost on capital injections into the banking system.
2/ Interest cost on IBRD/AsDB loans have not yet been included in the revised budget.
3/ Expenditures agreed to in the Tripartite Accord after finalization of the revised budget.



ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 6
Table 4. Korea: Reserve Money and Financial Survey, 1992-98
(in billions of won; end of period)
1992     1993      1994      1995      1996   1997 Est.  1998 ">j.
Bank of Korea
Net foreign assets              13,530    16,395    20,303    22,707    24,940    -3,300    28,340
Assets                        14,391    17,412    21,607    23,356    25,570    10,010    50,830
Liabilities                     -861    -1,017    -1,304     -649      -630   -13,310   -22,490
Net domestic assets              4,577    6,685     4,901     6,598       782    25,819    -2,698
Public sector                 -1,403    -1,762    -3,197    -4,307    -3,991     2,266     4,839
Private financial sector      32,170    36,788    37,132    37,233    37,372    85,529    63,212
Other items                  -26,190   -28,341   -29,034   -26,327   -32,599   -61,976   -70,748
Reserve money                   18,107    23,080    25,204    29,306    25,722    22,519    25,642
Financial survey
Net foreign assets               6,007     9,156    9,421     5,198       470   -22,777    -1,895
Net domestic assets            292,271   345,777   433,242   521,819   614,491   733,672   801,920
Public sector                  8,764    11,248    11,384     8,979     9,616    10,092     7,182
Private sector               299,390   352,872   443,855   528,981   631,652   783,884   863,814
Other items                  -15,883   -18,343   -21,997   -16,141   -26,776   -60,303   -69,076
Total liquidity (M3)           298,277   354,933   442,663   527,017   614,962   710,895   800,025
Memorandum items:
Reserve money
Twelve-month percent change     10.9      27.5       9.2      16.3    -12.2    -12.5        13.9
M3
Twelve-month percent change     21.8      19.0      24.7      19.1      16.7      15.6      12.5
Source: Bank of Korea, Monthly Statistical Bulletin.



ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 6
Table 5. Korea: Stock of Extemal Liabilities by Maturity and Borrower, 1996-97
(in billions of U.S. dollars)
1996                1997
Short-term  liabilities                                                          100.0                68.4
I.   Financial institutions                                                   78.0                 43.8
A.  Domestic financial institutions 1/                                   65.2                 28.9
Resident domestic financial institutions 2/                       26.2                 11.7
Offshore banling of domestic financial institutions 3/            12.7                  8.7
Overseas branches and subsidiaries                                26.3                  8.5
of domestic financial institutions 4/
B.  Branches of foreign banks 5/                                         12.8                 14.9
II.  Corporations 6/ 7/                                                       22.0                 24.7
Long-term liabilities                                                             60.7                86.0
1.   Financial institutions                                                   44.7                 50.3
A.  Domestic financial institutions                                      41.5                 46.3
Resident domestic financial institutions                          27.7                 29.9
Offshore banking of domestic financial institutions                 8.5                 9.2
Overseas branches and subsidiaries                                 5.3                  7.3
of domestic financial institutions
B.  Branches of foreign banks                                              3.2                 4.0
II.  Corporations                                                              13.6                17.6
III. Public sector                                                             2.4                 18.0
Total                                                                            160.7               154.4
Source: Bank of Korea, and Ministry of Finance and Economy.
I/ Includes commercial banks, specialized banks, merchant banks, and development institutions.
2/ Includes commercial paper, call money, refinance, and term loans.
3/ Domestic financial institutions' short-term offshore borrowings, excluding interoffice account borrowings.
4/ Domestic financial institutions' overseas branches and subsidiaries short-term borrowings (including call
money and term loans), excluding interoffice borrowings from other Korean overseas branches, and deposits.
According to intemational standards, nonresident institutions would normally not be included in extemal debt
statistics, which are based on residency. The data in the table exclude the nonresident deposits in the overseas
branches and subsidiaries of domestic funancial institutions. These deposits are measured through a sample
survey, the last of which was at the end of Sept. 1997, when they were unofficially estimated at $11.S billion.
5/ Includes nonresident deposits, call money, refinance, term loan and interoffice account borrowings.
6/ Includes trade credit, loans for oil imports, and advance receipts of exports.
7/ In line with intemational standards, these data exclude nonresident subsidiaries of Korean corporations. Based
on a biannual survey of Korean corporations, the obligations of these subsidiaries at end-June 1997 were
unofficially estimated at $23.7 billion (excluding borrowing from domestic fmancial institutions, overseas
branches and subsidiaries).



ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 6
Table 6. Assets of the Korean Financial System (end-November 1997)
in billion won    in percent of total
financial system assets
Deposit money banks                                800,834             59.32
15 Nation-wide commercial banks                    304,912             22.59
Trust accounts of comnmercial banks                277,317             20.54
Korea Housing Bank 2/                               33,264              2.46
10 Regional commercial banks                        57,169              4.23
49 Foreign bank branches                            39,977              2.96
4 Specialized banks                                 88,194              6.53
Industrial Bank of Korea                        31,768              2.35
National Agricultural Cooperative Federation    45,202              3.35
National Federation of Fisheries Cooperatives    5,257              0.39
National Livestock Cooperatives Federation       5,968              0.44
Nonbank financial institutions                     549,171             40.68
3 Development Institutions                         127,285              9.43
Korea Development Bank                          91,913              6.81
Export Import Bank of Korea                     16,054              1.19
Korea Long-Term Credit Bank                     19,318              1.43
Investment Institutions                            176,042             13.04
30 Merchant banks                              70,237               5.20
25 Investment Trust Companies                   99,769              7.39
Korea Securities Finance Corporation             6,036              0.45
Savings Institutions                               154,466             11.44
Mutual Credits                                  58,792              4.35
Mutual Savings and Finance Companies            37,897              2.81
Credit Unions                                   19,156              1.42
Community Credit Cooperatives                  29,434               2.18
Postal Savings                                   9,187              0.68
35 Life Insurance Institutions                      91,378              6.77
Total Financial System                           1,350,005            100.00
Source: Bank of Korea
1/ Trust account business is carried out by the commercial banks but classified
by the BOK as non-bank financial intermediation.
2/ Korea Housing Bank became a conmmercial bank in August 1997.



ANNEX 3
Status of Bank Group Operations in Korea
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference
Between expected and           Last ARPP
Loan or    Fiscal                                                        Original amount in $ million   | actual disbursements a/     Supervision rating /b
Project ID     Credit No.  Year   Borrower                      Purpose              IBRD      IDA  Canceled      Undisb.        Orig.      Frm Rev'd  Dev Obj Imp Prog
Number of Closed Loanslcredits:124
Active Loans
KR-PE-4170   IBRO 36130   1993 Rep. of Korea           PtrlOist & Sec Mgmt.         120.00     0.00      0.00      25.21        25.21          25.25      S         S
KR-PE-4171    IBRD 36120   1993  Govt. of Kroea        Environ. Research& E          60.00     0.00      0.00      15.62        12.27           0.00      S         S
KR-PE-4169   IBRD 35900   1993  ROK                    Seoul & Kwangju Sewe         110.00     0.00     4925       28.31        77.56          28.33      S         S
KR-PE-4174   IBRD 36940   1994  GOK                    Env Tecnology Devel           90.00     0.00      0.00      14.24         13.42           0.00    HS         S
KR-PE-4168   IBRD 36930   1994  GOK                    Sci & Tech Educ Sect         190.00     0.00      0.00      65.90         14.22          0.00    HS          HS
KR-PE-4172   IBRD 36890   1994  Korea Government    FinciIntermediation             100.00     0.00      0.18        1.46        -1.36           0.00    HS         S
KR-PE-35079  IBRD 38300   1995  GOK                    Waste Disposal Proje          75.00     0.00      0.00      65.45        33.63            0.00     S          S
KR-PE-4175   IBRD 38280   1995  Korea Govemment    Pusan UrbTransp. & Mg            100.00     0.00      0.00      70.87        37.72            0.00    HS         HS       c
KR-PE-4173   IBRD 37930    1995  Korea Government    Ports Dev & Environ            100.00     0.00      0.00      60.87        40.20            0.00     S         S 5
Total                                                                           945.00     0.00     49.43      347.93       252.87          63.58
Active Loans Closed Loans       Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                 547.64     10,184.41    10,732.05
of which has been repaid:                        0.19      6,095.47    6,095.66
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                 895.38      4,091.64    4,987.02
Amount Sold:                                         0        131.51     131.51
of which repaid:                                   0        131.51      131.51
Total Undisbursed:                              347.93         2.69      350.62
al Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b/ Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio Performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS = highly satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory,
HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23,1994.



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
STATEMENT OF IFC's COMMITTED AND DISBURSED PORTFOLIO
(In US$ million)
Committed                      Disbursed
FY Approval            Company          Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1968/74/76/77/78/80/90/    KLTCB              0.00   13.37    0.00    0.00    0.00   13.37    0.00    0.00
94/98
1971/74/76/79/80/82/85/    HanaBank           0.00    2.17    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.17    0.00    0.00
89/91/94/97/00
1974/76/77/79/80/84/85/    LG Electronics     0.00   11.43    0.00    0.00    0.00   11.43    0.00    0.00
87/88/89/91/92/93/96
1977/79/87/90           KDLC                  0.00    1.22    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.22    0.00    0.00
1983/91                 KDIC                  0.00    1.72    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.72    0.00    0.00
1985                    KDIC-Seoshin         0.00      .31    0.00    0.00    0.00     .31    0.00    0.00
1985                    KDIC-SK Chemical    0.00       .12    0.00    0.00    0.00     .12    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                   0.00   30.34    0.00    0.00    0.00   30.34    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan  Equity   Ouasi  Partic
1988                  GOLD STAR (12)RI        0.00    2.62    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:          0.00    2.62    0.00    0.00



KOREA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
ANNEX 4
KOREA -- BANK-FUND COLLABORATION
ON FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM
Bank-Fund collaboration, both in Washington and in the field, has been close since
November 1997. Allocation of work has been guided by the mandate of each institution and the
comparative advantage of their respective staff. At times, limited availability of staff has been a
constraint in allocating specific tasks between the two institutions given rapid development of
events, but overall collaboration has been smooth, with partly overlapping missions in the field
and staff from either or both institution present in Seoul practically all the time since the crisis.
Overall Restructuring Strategy
Bank and Fund staffs have worked together in assisting the authorities in the overall
design and monitoring of the broad aspects of the strategy, and will continue to do so.
Merchant Banks
The Fund and the Bank have provided advice and technical assistance in this area. The
Fund will monitor the process of analyzing banks' restructuring plans until the process is
completed in March, 1998. The Bank will continue working in this area from that point onwards,
in consultation with Fund staff on any aspects that have monetary or fiscal implications.
Two Troubled Commercial Banks
The Bank and the Fund have been working jointly in this area, insisting on the write-off of
existing shareholders' equity, displacement of responsible management, and government
recapitalization with the view of selling off these banks. The Bank will work with the authorities
in the operational restructuring and sale of the two banks, in consultation with Fund staff on any
aspects that have monetary or fiscal implications (such as fiscal support).
Other Commercial Banks
The timetable for the recapitalization of these banks had initially been agreed under the
Fund- supported program adopted on December 4, 1997. Bank and Fund staffs have worked
together in refining this element of the program. Bank staff will provide technical assistance and
monitor the operational and financial restructuring of the sector, consulting with Fund staff on any
aspects that have monetary or fiscal implications (such as fiscal support).



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
Legislation
Fund staff provided comments in December 1998 on the impending legal reforms, in
consultation with Bank staff. Staffs from both institutions will continue to coordinate any future
work in this area.
Bank Supervision and Regulation
Fund staff has been providing and will continue to provide assistance on this area, in
consultation with Bank staff.  Bank staff will support the institutional development and
effectiveness of the supervisory authority, in cooperation with the staffs of the Fund and the ADB.
Development of Primary and Secondary Markets for Securities
Given the close linkages of this issue with monetary and fiscal policies (Fund
responsibility) and other capital market issues (Bank responsibility), the Fund and Bank staffs will
cooperate in this matter. Fund staff will concentrate on government and Bank of Korea (BOK)
issues as far as they relate to monetary and fiscal policy, and the Bank staff on regulatory,
institutional and other issues, and on private sector issues.
Lender of Last Resort and Other Financial Support to Financial Institutions
Fund staff will continue to monitor and provide advice regarding the provision of liquidity
support by the BOK. The Bank and Fund staffs have worked together in monitoring and
providing advice on any provision of solvency support, and will continue to do so, and will work
together on mechanisms for support to the corporate sector.
Reserve Management
Fund staff will continue to monitor and provide advice in this area
Disposal of Assets and Liabilities of Closed Institutions
Bank staff will assist the authorities in this area, in consultation with Fund staff.
Deposit Insurance Agency
Bank staff will assist the authorities in this area, in consultation with Fund staff.



KOREA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
ANNEX 5
COUNTRY AT A GLANCE                                                  1128198
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              East    High-
Korea     Asia  income        Development diamond*
Population mid-1996 (mi/lions)                        45.5    1,726       918
GNP per capita 1996 (USS)                            10,680      890   25,760                  Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions US$)                              486.4    1,542    23,651
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (IX)                                         1.0      1.3       0.7
Labor force (X)                                          ..      1.3      0.9      GNP                               Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                            per                           enprimary
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)
Urban population (% of total population)                82       31        78
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        72       68        77
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                 9       40         7
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               ..       ..        ..                Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                  89        77       94
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                     2        17      < 5
Gross pimary enrollment (% of school-age population)    95       117      103           -Korea
Male                                                  95       120      103                 High-itcome g__p
Female                                                96      116       103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1985      1995     1996
GDP (billions US$)                           21.2     94.3    456.4    484.8       Economic rattos
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                 27.0      29.6     37.0     38.2              Openness of economy
Exports of goods and services/GDP            27.8     34.1      33.1     32.4
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   18.5     30.9      36.0     34.2
Gross national savings/GDP                   18.0     28.5      35.2      33.3
Current account balance/GDP                  -8.9     -0.8      -2.0     -4.9                                  In//t\\
Interest payments/GDP                           .        ..                        Savings                     tnvestment
Total debt/GDP                                  ..       ..        .     33.1X
Total debt service/exports                   12.9     27.3       5.5      6.0
Present value of debt/GDP                       ..
Present value of debt/exports                  ..                                              Indebtedness
1975-85  1986-96     199       1996  1997-05
(average annual growth)                                                               -     Korea, Rep.
GDP                                 7.2       8.0      8.9       7.1        ..              High-income group
GNP per capita                      5.4       7.0      7.4       5.6
Exports of goods and services      11.7      10.8     24.0      14.1        .
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1988     1995      1996      Growth ratesof outputand investment(%)
(% or GDP)
Agriculture                                  24.1      12.5      6.5       6.3    20
Industry                                     33.4     41.0      43.3     42.8    15
Manufacturing                              26.1      29.3     26.8      25.8    10I
Services                                     42.5     46.5      50.1     50.9      a
Private consumption                          70.4     59.0      53.8     55.2             91   92   93   94   95   9e
General government consumption               11.1     10.1      10.3     10.6
Imports of goods and services                36.3     32.8      34.1     36.4                 GDI         GDP
(average annual growth)                  19765-   1986-96      1995      1996      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Agricuiture                                   1.0      0.8       3.7      3.5    25
Industry                                     13.1      9.0      10.0      7.3    20
Manufacturing                               13.4      8.6     10.8       7.4              \
Services                                      6.2      8.5       8.7      7.4
Private consumption                           6.2      8.3       8.4      6.1      5
General govemment consumption                 4.6      6.2       1.0      7.1      o      l
Gross domestic investment                     8.3     11.2      10.3      9.4             91   92   93   94   95   93
Importsofgoodsandservices                     9.1     14.4      22.0     14.8           -Exports          Imrts
Gross national product                        6.9      8.1       8.7      6.9
Note: 1/ The above data are from the central data base and have not been revised by the Country Department.
21 1996 data are preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 2
Korea
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
D)omestfc pnces                             1975      1988     1995      1996      Inflation%
(% change)                                                                        12
Consumer prices                              25.2      2.4       4.5      5.0    10
Implicit GDP deflator                        26.1      5.6       5.6      3.4      6
Govemment finance                                                                  4
(% of GDP)                                                                         2
Current revenue                              15.2     20.7      20.3     21.5             91   92   93   94   95   96
Current budget balance                         ..      5.9      6.1       7.3              -     GDP def.  -C-CPl
Overall surplus/deficit                      -2.0      0.7       0.3      0.3
TRADE
(millions USS)                              1975      1985     1995      1996      Export and import levels (bill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                         4,945   30,282   125,058   129,715    ISo
Clothing                                     ..        ..   4,958    4,221       140
Footwear                                                     1,506     1,236     120
Manufactures                                  ..       ..  106,743  107,175      100
Total imports (cif)                         7,274   31,136  135,119  150,339   s0
Food                                                         595       725       6
Fuel and energy                               ..       ..  19,013   24,284       20
Capital goods                                 ..       ..  49,437   54,675        o
Export price index (1990=100)                 31        89      114       114          90  91  92   93  94  96  96
Import price index (1990=100)                 34        97      115       115               nExports     MImports
Terms of trade (1985=100)                     87       100      102        90
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(millions US$)                              1975      1985     1995      1996     Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services               5,799   32,038   149,446   156,987    1
Imports of goods and services               7,543   30,554  155,834   182,758
Resource balance                           -1,745    1,484   -6,388  -25,771    |
Net income                                  -369   -3,183   -2,276    -2,498    -1 t      |93
Net current transfers                          ..       ..                       -2
Current account balance,                                                         | 
before official capital transfers        -1,889     -758   -8,948  -23,716
Financing items (net)                       2,254      950    15,988   23,741      4t
Changes in net reserves                     -365      -192   -7,040       -25    |8
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)         786.0  2,900.7  32,712.1  34,073.1
Conversion rate (locaU/USS)                 484.0    870.0    771.3    804.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1994      1995     1996
(millions USS)                                                                    Composition of total debt, 1994 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       29,480   54,542    78,438
IBRD                                      1,723    2,380    2,163     1,841
IDA                                        113       85        82        79                   A:2380   s: 85
Total debt service                          4,449    7,923        .,       *-                              0 635
IBRD                                       211      773       630      527                                 E: 8313
IDA                                          2        4         4        4        G:13890
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              ..
Official creditors                           ..
Private creditors                            ..
Foreign direct investment                    6    -1,318   -1,880    -1,981
Portfolio equity                             0    7,276    8,518    11,207                             F: 17690
World Bank program
Commitments                                  ..       ..                        A- IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              254       282      144       210     B - IDA    D - Other mutilateral  F - Pnvate
Principal repayments                        67       592      464       389     C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                  187      -310     -320      -179   1_
Interest payments                          146       186      169       139
Net transfers                               41      -496     -489      -318
Development Economics                                                                                               1/28/98



