Report No. PID6882
Project Name                     Korea-Structural Adjustment Loan
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Project ID                       KRPE56235
Borrower                         Republic of Korea
Implementing Agency              World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Date PID Prepared                May 3, 1998
Board Date                       March 26, 1998
Background
1.      Country and Sector Background
The Korean economy has demonstrated strong performance for more than three
decades. Since the mid-1960's, the country's gross domestic product (GDP) has
grown at an average of 8.2 percent annually. Between 1991 and 1995, the
economy expanded at about 7.5 percent per annum, unemployment was kept at less
than 2.5 percent, and the current account deficits were in the 1 to 2 percent
of GDP range. Throughout this period the government budget was in surplus in
all but two years and inflation remained in the single digit range.
However, this favorable performance masked weaknesses. Although government
intervention enabled Korea to grow rapidly over the last decades and become an
advanced industrial economy, it also preserved a protected and inefficient
financial sector as well as a highly leveraged and concentrated corporate
sector. Beginning in the early 1990s, Korea's export performance also came
under intense competition in the labor intensive sectors. Korea responded by
relocating production to ASEAN countries and China and by investing heavily in
technology-intensive sectors. Thus, in recent years, Korea has invested
heavily in a narrow spectrum of "strategic" export industries, such as
automobiles and electronics, making it vulnerable to demand and price changes
in a few industries. In 1996, a severe cyclical downturn hit the electronics
sector, and this, combined with the slowdown in other export lines, dealt a
significant terms of trade blow to Korea's economy. As a result, the current
account deficit more than doubled to 5 percent of GDP.
With the eruption of the financial crisis in Thailand, attention focused on
some of the underlying weaknesses of the East Asian economies, and in October
1997 Korea also became the victim of regional contagion. It lost market
confidence and was no longer able to attract sufficient amounts of new credits
and roll over its existing obligations. On November 19, 1997, the Government
formally approached the International Monetary Fund for assistance.
2.      Objectives
The SAL builds on the work initiated under the Economic Reconstruction Loan
(ERL), approved on December 23, 1997. The SAL will help Korea deal with the
immediate foreign exchange crisis as well as support a major program of
structural reforms in the financial and real sectors to lay the basis for
Korea's eventual return to strong and sustained growth in the context of
today's more integrated and competitive global economy.



3.      Description
The SAL calls for continued adherence to sound macroeconomic policies,
consistent with the macroeconomic framework agreed with the IMF, and supports
structural reform in the following areas: financial sector restructuring and
development; corporate sector reform, including reform of corporate governance
and competition policies; labor market reform and the strengthening of social
safety nets; and institutional reform in economic policy management. The loan
is part of the internationally coordinated support package for Korea.
4.      Financing
The loan is a single tranche loan of US$ 2 billion. It is a single currency
loan in US dollars for 15 years including 5 years' grace, at an interest rate
of 6-month US dollar LIBOR (reset semiannually) plus 0.75 percent, with a
service charge of 1.5 percent of the loan amount, payable on effectiveness.
5.      Implementation
Korea has a strong track record in the implementation of its undertakings with
the Bank. Implementation of the on-going portfolio of nine investment projects
is consistently rated as either satisfactory or highly satisfactory.
Commitments under the ERL are being compiled in a timely fashion. The SAL,
which supports a heavy agenda, contains strong prior actions in the form of
legislation or other policy measures in all the key areas of reform. Since the
reform program proposed under the SAL is grounded in a medium-term framework,
in addition to prior actions the government will take a number of measures
whose implementation will be spread out over time. A set of indicators has
been identified to monitor the effects of the policy reform supported by the
SAL, and although the SAL is a single tranche operation, the dialogue with
Korea on follow up operations would also provide the occasion to monitor
progress on implementation of the preceding operations--including this SAL--
and their outcomes.
6.      Sustainability
The past 30 years have built a fundamentally strong economy with enormous
physical capital resources, human resources and technological capacity, If new
reforms can reconstruct the basis for allocating capital and opening markets
to new competition, the country has the potential to rebound quickly.
7.      Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Korea has a strong track record in the implementation of its undertakings with
the Bank.
8.      Poverty Category
N.A.
9.      Environmental Aspects
N.A.
10.     Program Objective Categories
Structural reform.
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
- 2 -



Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending September 25, 1998.
- 3 -



