Document of             f ir   fD
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2472a-CO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR THE
SECOND (CARTAGENA) URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 18, 1979
This doc_mmt bos a restrieted distribelon and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offical duties. Ib cent_s my not otherwise be disclosed witbout Worid Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Average Calendar 1978 (estimate)      Mid-1979 estimate
Currency Unit   =   Peso - Col$              Col$
US$1            =   Col$39.32                42.40
Col$            =   US$0.0254                 0.0236
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BCH          -   Banco Central Hipotecario
BP           -   Banco Popular
CAIP         -   Integrated Pre-School Care Center
CDV          -   Centro de Desarrollo Vecinal (Neighborhood Development
Center)
CORELCA      -   Corporacion Electrica de la Costa Atlantica
DNP          -   National Planning Department
DRI          -   Integrated Rural Development Program
ELECTRIBOL   -   Electrificadora de Bolivar
EPMC         -   Empresas Publicas Municipales de Cartagena
EPZ          _   (Cartagena) Export Processing Zone
ICBF         -   Institute of Family Welfare
ICCE         -   Institute of School Construction
ICT          -   Instituto de Credito Territorial (National Urban
Housing Authority)
IDB          -   Inter-American Development Bank
IGAC         -   Instituto Geografico "Agustin Codazzi" (National
Geographic Institute)
INSFOPAL     -   Instituto Nacional de Fomento Municipal
IPC          -   Program of Integration of Services and Community
Participation
MAC          -   Basic Module of Health Care
PAN          -   National Food and Nutrition Program
PHIZSU       -   Plan for Integrated Servicing of Substandard Urban
Areas
SENA         -   Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje (National Training Service)
SIP          -   Secretaria de Integracion Popular
UPAC         -   Unit of Constant Purchasing Pov(er
UNDP         -   United Nations Development Programme
UPE          -   Employment and Productivity Unit
ZFIC         -   Zone Franca Industrial y Commercial de Cartegena
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
SECOND (CARTAGENA) URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Colombia
Amount:              US$13.5 million equivalent
Terms:               Pepayment in 17 years, including four years of grace;
interest at 7.9% per annum.
Relending Terms:    The Colombian peso equivalent of the loan proceeds
would be made available to the Instituto de Credito
Territorial (ICT) and other implementing agencies,
pursuant to several agreements on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank.
Project
Description:       The project includes essential components entrusted to
executing agencies and optional components to be carried
out by individual households or community groups with
technical and financial assistance from ICT. It would
consist of physical upgrading of, provision of water
supply, sewerage and electricity services in, and support
during 1979-1983 of social programs in, the Southeast
Zone of the City of Cartagena and the nearby village of
Pasacaballos, with an aggregate population of over
95,000, whose average income ranks in the 10th lowest
percentile of Colombia's urban income distribution.
Special arrangements would be made to provide for
(a) coordination of project execution, including activities
and services to be delivered after facilities' completion;
(b) channelling of funds and (c) recovery of investments.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:                                             US$ million equivalent
Local  Foreign  Total
A.   Land Filling                        1.2    1.2       2.4
B.   Street Drainage                     1.3    0.7      2.0
C.   External Drainage                   2.4    1.3      3.7
D.   Utility Infrastructure
Off-site Water Trunk Mains       0.4    0.2       0.6
Primary Water Mains              0.4    0.2       0.6
Primary Sewerage                 0.2    0.2       0.4
Electricity Networks             0.5    0.4       0.9
Subtotal D                    1.5    1.0      2.5
E.   ICT Loans
Regularization of Land
Tenure                         0.2      -      0.2
Public Services and
Neighborhood Improvements    2.8    0.3         3.1
Housing Improvements             0.7    0.1       0.8
Sites and Relocation             1.3    0.1       1.4
Subtotal E                    5.0    0.5      5.5
F.   Community Facilities
Land                             0.4      -       0.4
Construction                     0.9    0.5       1.4
Equipment                        0.3    0.2       0.5
Training                         0.2    0.1       0.3
Subtotal F                    1.8    0.8      2.6
G.   Project Management                  0.5    0.1      0.6
H.   Technical Assistance                0.3    0.1      0.4
I.   Design and Supervision              1.1    0.2      1.3
Base Costs (Subtotal A-I)   15.1    5.9    21.0
Physical Contingencies           2.7    1.1      3.8
Price Contingencies              7.6    2.9    10.5
TOTAL PROJECT COST            25.4    9.9    35.3



- iii -
Financing Plan:                                            US$ million equivalent
Local Foreign Total
A.   Internal Sources          _
1.  National Budget   29        10.3      -       10.3
2.  ICT                 23       8.1      -        8.1
3.  ELECTRIBOL           2       0.7      -        0.7
4.  EPMC                 1       0.2      -        0.2
5.  Local Government   2         0.5      -        0.5
Subtotal       57      19.8      -       19.8
B.   External Sources
1.  IBRD Loan           38       3.6    9.9       13.5
2.  IDB Grant            5       2.0      -        2.0
Subtotal       43       5.6    9.9       15.5
TOTAL         100      25.4    9.9       35.3
Estimated
Disbursements:                                     US$ million equivalent
FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84
Annual                    3.0    3.5    3.1    2.4    1.5
Cumulative                3.0    6.5    9.6   12.0   13.5
Rate of Return:       16% on quantifiable project benefits, accounting for
60% of project costs.
Appraisal Report:   Report No. 2255b-CO, dated April 18, 1979.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA FOR THE
SECOND (CARTAGENA) URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Colombia, for the equivalent of US$13.5 million to help
finance the Second (Cartagena) Urban Development Project. The loan would
have a term of 17 years, including four years of grace, with interest at 7.9%
per annum. The Colombian peso equivalent of the loat proceeds would be made
available to Instituto de Credito Territorial (ICT) and other executing agen-
cies, to help finance the project components for which each of the agencies
would be responsible, pursuant to several agreements on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. Recovery arrangements are described in paragraph
64 below.
PART I: THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report on Colombia (2235-CO) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in January 1979. An updating mission visited Colombia
during February 1979 and is preparing its report. Its findings are sum-
marized below. Country data sheets are provided in Annex I.
Background
3.        During the past two decades, Colombia has made substantial progress
in the transition from a predominantly rural and agricultural economy made
up of largely self-contained regions to a more integrated urban-industrial
economy. The productive base of the economy has been widened appreciably,
and there has been substantial diversification of production in both the
agricultural and industrial sectors. These improvements have been accompanied
by rapid growth of non-traditional exports and by the development of a
modern sector relying to a considerable extent on imported inputs. As a
result, the country has become less dependent on coffee as a source of
foreign exchange earnings, and fluctuations in domestic economic conditions
resulting from unpredictable shifts in world coffee prices, while still
considerable, have become more manageable. Although substantial progress
has been made during the past two decades, Colombia is still only partially
developed with a limited modern sector superimposed on a large, traditional
and economically poor base. Per capita income is low by developed world
standards, the maintenance of high employment is a persistent problem, and in
1975 an estimated 55.0% of the rural and 24.0% of the urban population had
incomes under the relative poverty level as defined by the Bank.
4.        Colombia's population growth rate declined sharply in the past
two decades; from well over 3% in the 1950s, to about 2.8% in the early 1970s



- 2 -
and to an estimated 2.1% at present. 1/ This was in large part the result
of a rapid decline in the crude birth rate; one of the most pronounced declines
ever recorded in a Latin American country. Rising per capita income, rapid
rural/urban migration, expanded economic opportunities for women and increased
effectiveness of family planning programs are included among the factors
responsible for the lower birth rate. Although rural/urban migration slowed
from the early 1960s on as progress was made in eliminating the widespread
violence in the countryside, approximately 64% of the current population lives
in urban centers and there are now 16 cities with populations exceeding
100,000 persons. Colombia's population is not considered excessive relative
to the country's resource base. Economic growth will have to average around
7%, however, especially in the directly productive and service sectors, in
order to increase employment at a pace sufficient to keep up with growth of
the labor force.
5.        Available information--while scanty--suggests that some improvement
has occurred in income distribution and welfare of the lowest income groups
in Colombia since the 1950s. These gains were probably the consequence of
several factors, including migration of surplus labor from rural to urban
areas, rapid growth of employment in high productivity jobs in industry and
the services and reduced population growth. Policy efforts, particularly
since 1967, have been directed increasingly toward improving the welfare of
the poorest 50% of the population. These efforts have emphasized both
employment generation and greater public investment in health, education,
nutrition and urban development. The Bank has strongly supported these
efforts. Continued emphasis on growth of the productive sectors of the
economy, on industrial decentralization and on programs to encourage small-
scale industry and agriculture should provide increased employment oppor-
tunities and higher real wages for unskilled and semi-skilled labor in both
rural and urban areas. Further improvement in the public services provided
to the poor should reinforce these trends and raise the level of welfare of
this segment of the population.
6.        The Colombian authorities introduced a dramatic change in develop-
ment strategy in 1967, shifting emphasis from the then existing protectionist
policy of import substitution to measures designed to expand and diversify
exports. These policies were highly successful in expanding exports, thereby
alleviating the foreign exchange constraint and making possible a substantially
higher level of investment. As a consequence, real GDP rose by an average
6.5% annually between 1967-1969 and 1974, well above the historical average.
Merchandise exports in current prices expanded nearly threefold during this
period, and most significantly, non-traditional exports became an increasingly
important source of foreign exchange earnings, in part compensating for slow
growth of receipts from coffee exports. By 1974, non-coffee exports comprised
56% of total merchandise exports, up from about 30% in 1967.
1/   Estimated 1978 growth rate.  This rate differs from that given as the
most recent estimate in the Social Indicators Data Sheet (Annex I) which
is an average for early 1970s.



- 3 -
7.        Despite the growth of output and the diversification of exports,
the country faced some potentially serious problems at the time the new
administration took office in 1974. Weakening balance of payments in part
related to the slowdown of growth in the industrial countries, loss of
self-sufficiency in petroleum production, deterioration of the public
finances, accelerating inflation, and declining investment threatened to
reduce growth of output and employment. As a consequence of these develop-
ments, the Government introduced an economic stabilization program which
combined basic reforms of the fiscal, monetary, and trade systems with
measures aimed at accelerating long-term economic growth.
8.        In an effort to strengthen the public finances, the Government
undertook a comprehensive tax reform designed to improve the progressivity
and elasticity of the tax system. Some of the distortions which had deve-
loped in the financial system caused by forced investment requirements
placed on financial institutions and by differential tax treatment of
financial instruments were eliminated. Interest rates were raised in an
effort to increase private savings and improve resource allocation. In
order to increase the efficiency of the economy through greater reliance on
market forces, price controls on a number of industrial and agricultural
products were removed, thereby providing greater stimulus for increasing
production. Modifications in petroleum pricing policy aimed at regaining
self-sufficiency in the production of crude petroleum by improving incen-
tives for exploration and exploitation were introduced. Concurrently, the
Government initiated policies designed to reduce the subsidy on local
consumption of petroleum products, which eventually led to a 220% increase
in gasoline prices by 1978. Tariff levels and non-tariff barriers to trade
were reduced significantly in order to increase competition and the effi-
ciency of domestic firms. While these reforms were successful in improving
the public finances and reducing inflation in 1975, they also served to
reduce economic growth and the slowdown of domestic economic activity which
began in 1974 continued through most of 1975.
Recent Economic Developments
9.        During the past three years, the Colombian economy has been
dominated by developments in the external sector. As the result of a
serious frost in late 1975 affecting Brazil's major coffee producing area,
coffee exports from that country declined sharply triggering a fourfold
increase in the world price of coffee by mid-1977. This caused Colombia's
export earnings from coffee to increase to nearly US$1.8 billion in 1977
from US$764 million in 1975, and produced an unprecedented rise in incomes
and demand in the country's rural areas. Lagging supply of consumer goods,
particularly basic foodstuffs--the production of which was adversely affected
by drought conditions in most of the country's interior--failed to keep pace
with rising demand and inflation accelerated from 24% in 1975 to 44% in the
twelve months ending June 1977. Inflation in Colombia has been moderate
relative to that experienced by other countries in the region, seldom
exceeding an annual rate of 20%. The acceleration of inflation which took
place during the period, therefore, was unprecedented in recent history, and
efforts to lower the rate of inflation have dictated economic policy since
that time.



- 4 -
10.       The authorities responded rapidly by introducing a broad range
of fiscal, monetary and trade policies designed to gain control over the
explosive increase in prices. Beginning in late 1976 reserve requirements
were raised and rediscounting and public sector borrowing from the Central
Bank were discouraged. The authorities temporarily suspended their policy of
periodically adjusting the exchange rate and prices of petroleum products.
In January 1977, a 100% marginal reserve requirement was placed on increases
in commercial bank deposits exceeding the December 31, 1976 level. To delay
the impact of rising foreign exchange receipts on the monetary base, exporters
were required to accept 90-day US dollar denominated certificates of exchange
in lieu of cash payment for their exports. In order to sterilize a portion of
the increase in foreign exchange earnings from coffee exports, the Coffee
Federation agreed to invest a large portion of its receipts in Central Bank
bonds, the proceeds of which were frozen in a special account. To increase
supplies in the domestic market, a number of measures were taken to liberalize
imports.  Food imports by the state marketing agency, IDEMA, were increased
sharply.  In addition, restrictive fiscal measures were introduced to curb
growth of aggregate demand and in 1977 the Treasury registered an overall
budgetary surplus for the first time in recent years.
11.       As a consequence of these measures and a favorable second semester
harvest, inflation declined sharply beginning in July 1977. By the end of
the year, the annual rate of inflation had fallen to 29%. With inflation
subsiding, periodic exchange rate adjustments and gasoline price increases
were reintroduced. With few other exceptions, however, the stabilization
policies were continued in effect throughout 1978 and by year end inflation
had subsided to an annual rate of 17.8%.
12.       Because of the lack of dynamism in world markets, slow growth in
agricultural production, capacity constraints in the industrial sector and
a decline in real investment, the Colombian economy expanded only moderately
in 1976 and 1977. Growth of real GDP increased from 3.8% in 1975, to 4.6%
and 4.8% respectively in the subsequent two years. The higher growth was
a direct result of the expansion of domestic demand brought about by the
rise in incomes of coffee producers. Output in the trade and personal
services sectors of the economy (including transport and communications)
responded strongly to the rising demand, while agricultural output, because
of the drought, rose by only 2.2% p.a. on average for the 1976-77 period.
Industrial sector output rose by only 5.4% p.a. during this period, despite
the strong growth in domestic demand. Because growth occurred in the rela-
tively labor intensive sectors of the economy -- personal services, trade,
transport and communications and manufacturing -- the urban unemployment
rate had declined to an estimated 8% by the end of 1977, from an average 12%
during the early 1970s. In addition, there is evidence of labor shortages
and rising real wage rates in rural areas during this period, and it is
believed that rural unemployment also declined.
13.       Preliminary estimates for 1978 show a strong increase in real
GDP resulting primarily from continued stimulus to aggregate demand from
high coffee receipts and from an expansion of investment. In addition,
favorable weather conditions permitted a sharp recovery in agricultural



output. Real GDP growth is estimated at 8% for the year, with agricultural
production estimated to have grown by as much as 9% over the low level of
1977. While coffee prices fell considerably in 1978 from their 1977 levels,
this decline was more than offset by expanding export volume as Colombia
undertook a more aggressive coffee export policy. Consequently, receipts from
coffee exports rose to nearly US$2.1 billion for the year. The accompanying
rise in domestic demand and a modest recovery in export markets caused manu-
facturing and transport and communications to grow by 8.5% each and trade
(including commerce) by 9.0%. Construction activity, which had continued at
a low level during the past several years, recovered strongly in 1978, partially
as a result of an increase in speculative demand arising from an inflow of
funds from contraband activities. Only the mining sector, in which output
fell by 2.3% as a result of declining oil production, failed to show signifi-
cant growth in 1978. Open unemployment in urban areas is estimated to have
fallen to 7.6% by June 1978.
14.       Colombia's balance of payments was also highly favorable in 1978,
continuing the trend of the previous three years. Largely as a result of
the increase in coffee exports, although non-coffee exports rose modestly
(7.0%) in real terms also, Colombia's net official international reserves
rose by US$664 million, reaching US$2,493 million by the end of the year,
equivalent to about nine months imports of goods and non-factor services.
This increase in reserves occurred despite a nominal 25% increase in import
payments, reflecting the rise in domestic demand, continued overvaluation
of the exchange rate and liberal import policies. There were few significant
modifications in trade and exchange rate policies in 1978. The slow rate
of peso devaluation was continued during the first three quarters of the
year, but accelerated in the fourth quarter when the pace of reserve accumu-
lation began to slow. In general, trade and exchange rate policies were
directed towards reducing the impact on the monetary base of reserve accumula-
tion by delaying the monetization of export receipts and advancing import
payments. These measures complemented monetary policies which were aimed at
restraining growth of the money supply.
15.       Colombia's public finances generated a large surplus in 1978
thereby permitting the Government to relax somewhat the policy of fiscal
restraint which formed part of its anti-inflationary program during the
previous two years. Current savings of the public sector rose to an
estimated 6.0% of GDP, compared with 5.5% of GDP in 1977, and covered about
90% of public sector investment. Both the Central Government 1/ and the
consolidated decentralized agencies increased their savings in 1978,
the former by 29% and the latter by 153%. The strong increase in savings
of the decentralized agencies, which rose to 1.4% of GDP from 0.7% in 1977,
was the result of increased charges for the services they provide and of
restraint on current expenditures. Large increases in customs duties and
in sales taxes brought about by the growth in domestic demand were the main
factors responsible for the increase in savings of the Central Government.
As a consequence of this improved financial situation, public sector fixed
1/   Comprised of the National Government, the National Highway Fund and the
Social Security Agencies.



-6-
investment rose during the year, reaching 6.9% of GDP compared with 6.3% of GDP
on average for the 1975-77 period. Some of the heaviest investment took place
in the development of hydropower and in the petroleum sector, for both explora-
tion and development.
16.       Despite continuation of the stabilization programs largely unchanged
from last year, the rate of inflation accelerated sharply in January 1979,
followed by a more moderate increase in February. On an annual basis, infla-
tion had reached 21.2% by the end of the latter month. At the same time, the
international price of coffee fell sharply, prompting the Government to take
measures to avoid a large financial deficit for the Coffee Federation. In the
past, such deficits were financed in part through recourse to the Central Bank.
The Federation, an autonomous entity which manages the domestic and external
marketing of Colombia's coffee, purchases coffee from producers at a fixed
price in pesos and then sells it on the world market. Since the Federation
stands ready to purchase all coffee offered at the fixed price, it also bears
the financial burden of stock accumulation in periods of declining world prices.
After paying taxes and marketing costs equivalent to nearly 25% of the inter-
national price, the Federation could not sustain the high domestic purchase
price given the lower world coffee price without incurring huge losses. To
avoid this, the domestic purchase price of coffee was lowered by 12% and
the exchange certificate system was abolished for coffee exports. This latter
measure will result in the conversion to cash over the next several months of
around Col$10 billion in outstanding exchange certificates. To offset the
monetary impact of this measure, reserve requirements on term deposits of
commercial banks and financial corporations are to be increased gradually over
the next few months, to 25% from 20% at present, and prior import deposit
requirements have been raised substantially, to 95% from 40% and 60% previously.
In addition, the interest rate on dollar denominated certificates issued by
the Central Bank was raised to 14% from 7% in an attempt to absorb some of the
funds flowing from the exchange certificates. In a separate measure, retail
gasoline prices were increased in mid-March and Sunday sales of gasoline were
outlawed. Gasoline prices have been raised by 67% since September 1978.
Development Strategy and Prospects
17.       The development strategy embodied in the 1975-78 Development Plan
aimed at accelerating the rate of growth of GDP and at distributing the
benefits of such growth more equitably. This was to be achieved by increasing
the allocative efficiency of the economy through greater reliance on market
forces, by providing incentives for increasing private sector investment, by
expanding economic and social infrastructure, and by improving public services
provided to the poorest half of the population. Substantial progress has
been made in carrying out this strategy during the past four years. Public
sector investments have focused increasingly on projects designed to alleviate
rural and urban poverty and on expanding and improving infrastructure. Compre-
hensive integrated rural development and nutrition projects aimed at increasing
incomes and welfare of the lowest income groups have been introduced. Urban
development projects designed to provide improved services and employment
opportunities to residents of slum areas in Colombia's major cities have been
initiated. These programs have been complemented by policies to encourage the
development of small- and medium-scale enterprises and to decentralize industry
away from the three largest cities. This latter policy, together with credit
programs aimed at increasing output and employment in agriculture, have been
designed to alleviate rural poverty and reduce rural/urban migration. Public



-7-
sector infrastructure investments have been concentrated on improvement and
extension of highway and communications systems. Special priority has been
given to the development of domestic energy sources to reduce the country's
growing dependence on imported oil.
18.       Increased emphasis on provision of improved social services is re-
flected in the increased proportion of total National Government expenditure on
education, health, and water and sewerage systems, which rose from 33% in 1974
to 38% in 1977. The economic dislocations caused by the coffee boom and the
need to concentrate economic policy on short-term management problems have
limited expansion of public and private investment and required temporary
suspension of some of the measures designed to free the price system and
stimulate growth of non-traditional exports.
19.       The Government, which took office in August 1978, intends to continue
with essentially the same development strategy as the previous administration.
Under this strategy, economic growth is to be promoted through expansion of
non-coffee exports and through measures to stimulate investment and increase
the efficiency of resource allocation. This Government proposes to give
greater emphasis to expansion of economic and social infrastructure, however,
with particular stress on improving transport and communications networks.
Improvement in transport and communications infrastructure is expected to
encourage increased inter-regional trade which, together with alleviation of
the foreign exchange constraint, should further stimulate investment and
economic growth. Measures to encourage industrial decentralization have been
introduced to complement the actions taken to unify regional markets.
20.       Rapid expansion of domestic energy resources is to be given high
priority with the view to regaining self-sufficiency in energy as early as
possible. Even under the most optimistic assumptions regarding development
of such resources, however, Colombia will continue to rely heavily on energy
imports until the mid-1980s when exports of coal and natural gas are expected
to reduce the country's net energy deficit. Small scale agriculture and
industry will continue to receive strong support through credit, and low
income rural areas are to be helped through rural electrification, health
and education programs and through expansion of feeder road projects.
Innovative programs such as the integrated rural development (DRI) and
nutrition projects financed by the Bank are expected to receive continued
high priority. Public investment programs in education, health, water and
sewerage and urban development (especially those directed at alleviating
urban poverty) are to be continued as well.
21.       Given the country's strong resource base and its high level of
international reserves, Colombia should be able to achieve annual real GDP
growth averaging about 7% during the 1979-83 period. Maintenance of this
level of growth will require rapid expansion of non-coffee exports and high
savings and investment rates. Public sector investment is expected to expand
faster than GDP during this period because of the large proposed programs
for infrastructure, social services and energy development. Financial require-
ments for this higher level of investment will be substantial and public
sector savings will have to be sustained at the current high levels. Given
the expected decline in coffee revenue, improvements will be required in the
administration and collection of non-coffee taxes, and additional tax measures



- 8 -
may be required. Of equal importance is the continued upward adjustment in
prices charged for the goods and services provided by the public decentralized
agencies. Growth of non-coffee exports, especially of manufactured goods,
will no doubt be strongly influenced by the rates of economic growth of
Colombia's major trading partners, but appropriate domestic incentives will
also play an important role. In this regard, it is expected that Colombia will
follow an exchange rate policy designed to maintain the competitiveness of
Colombian exports and that additional export promotion measures will be
adopted to encourage both product and market diversification.
22.       Greater efforts to increase efficiency and production in the agricul-
tural and industrial sectors will also be needed to complement incentives given
to non-traditional exports. Programs to meet these needs in the agricultural
sector, including integrated rural development, expansion of farm credit, im-
proved research and extension services, and upgraded marketing facilities, are
already in place and will need to be strengthened. Further development of
the country's capital markets is expected to increase private savings and im-
prove the allocation of financial resources, thereby providing the basis for
more rapid growth of industry. Ongoing and future infrastructure investments
by the public sector should facilitate improvements in economic efficiency and
lead to more rapid growth of output and employment in both industry and
agriculture.
23.       Projections of Colombia's energy balance indicate a rapidly growing
deficit that is expected to reach significant proportions in the early 1980s
in the absence of an aggressive energy development program. To avoid the con-
straint on growth that large scale shortages of energy would entail, high
priority is being given to the development of additional energy sources. The
strategy which is being pursued is to reduce the nation's dependence on petro-
leum as an energy source by developing substitutes such as hydropower, coal
and natural gas. Major projects are being executed and others prepared to
expand hydroelectric power generation and incentives are being given to pri-
vate foreign companies for accelerated exploration and development of the
country's petroleum, coal and natural gas potential. Exports of coal and
natural gas are expected to offset a large portion of the petroleum imports
projected for the mid to late 1980s. Conservation of existing resources
resulting from higher energy prices is expected to slow the growth in energy
demand. While the total investment cost of future energy development is still
being determined, preliminary estimates indicate that the required investment
could run as high as US$8.0 billion in current prices over the next decade.
Even under the most optimistic assumption regarding foreign private investment,
suppliers' credits and domestic resource mobilization, external long-term
financing of about US$4.0 billion would be required in this sector alone
during this period. Any significant delay in implementing the country's
energy development program would most likely have serious adverse repercus-
sions on future economic growth.
24.       Because of the expected continued decline in world coffee prices,
accelerating oil imports and the high import content of future investment
projects, the current account of the balance of payments is expected to be
in deficit throughout the early to mid-1980s. Increased mineral exports
including coal, natural gas, and nickel, and completion of the large invest-
ments in energy development are expected to relieve the pressure on the



- 9 -
balance of payments by the late 1980s. Colombia is expected, therefore, to
continue to be a large net importer of capital for some time to come. Its
future external resource requirements reflect the need to supplement domestic
savings in order to carry out the public sector investment program and to
provide increasing amounts of foreign exchange to finance required imports
of capital and intermediate goods. Assuming that the Colombian authorities
permit a drawdown of international reserves to the equivalent of three months'
imports in the years immediately ahead, gross external capital requirements
are projected at US$6.3 billion between 1979 and 1983, or an annual average
of about US$1,260 million. About half of Colombia's capital inflow during
this period is expected to be provided by official multilateral and bilateral
sources, with commercial financial credits becoming increasingly important.
25.       Colombia's public external debt repayable in foreign currency
amounted to US$4.2 billion at the end of 1978, of which US$2.7 billion
was disbursed and outstanding. The Bank/IDA share of this external debt
was 29% and is expected to rise to 31% by 1983, before declining to 29%
again by 1985. Although the public debt service ratio fell during the past
two years as export growth accelerated, this ratio is expected to increase
from 10.3% in 1978 to about 14.7% in 1983. Balance of payments prospects
beyond 1980 will depend heavily on the timely development of domestic
energy sources and on progress made in executing several natural resource-
based export oriented projects currently under preparation. Given the
expected continuation of sound economic and financial management and timely
execution of the country's energy program, it should be possible to prevent
the external sector from again becoming a constraint on economic growth and
to maintain Colombia's creditworthiness for the required external borrowing.
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
26.       The proposed loan, the 78th to be made to Colombia, would bring the
total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to US$2,036.7 million (net of cancella-
tions). Of this amount, US$1,602.6 million is now held by the Bank; IDA made
one credit of US$19.5 million for highways in Colombia in 1961. Disbursements
have been completed on 46 loans and the IDA credit. IFC has made investments
and underwriting commitments of US$53.66 million in 24 enterprises and now
holds US$18.14 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans
and the IDA credit as of January 31, 1979, and IFC investments as of February 28,
1979. The Annex also contains summaries on the execution of the 31 on-going
projects.
27.       Since FY68, Bank lending in Colombia has become more diversified
and has been concentrated on production-oriented programs and activities which
emphasized social as well as economic benefits. Eight of the eleven agricul-
tural loans have been made since then, nine of the twelve loans for industry,
all three loans in the education sector, all seven loans for water supply
and sewerage, one loan for a nutrition project and one loan for an urban
development project. This compares with only ten loans since FY68 in the
power and transport sectors.



- 10 -
28.       Bank lending to Colombia in FY78 consisted of loans for nutrition
improvement, water and sewerage, urban development, power generation and
interconnection, development finance companies and development of an export
processing zone, totalling US$354.6 million equivalent. In addition to the
proposed project, the FY79 program includes the recently approved aviation
development and Mesitas hydroelectric projects and proposed loans for water
and sewerage, nickel mining and processing, and agricultural credit for land
reform beneficiaries. Work is also under way in medium-city water supply
systems, slum improvement, transportation, further mining development, power,
including rural electrification, oil exploration, industry, including small
scale enterprises, and small farm development for possible consideration by
the Executive Directors during the next two years.
29.       The proposed Bank lending conforms closely with the Government's
development strategy. To help Colombia develop domestic sources of energy,
a substantial part of the proposed lending would be for hydropower. The Bank
intends to assist the development of coal mines and petroleum, which hold
potential in helping Colombia meet part of its energy requirements and in
diversifying exports. Bank involvement in the energy sector would help
mobilize additional external financing as some of the projects would require
co-financing. Other future loans would finance agriculture and industry to
assist the Government in its efforts to raise overall productivity, incomes
and employment, and to strengthen and diversify exports. Closely related to
these objectives would be the proposed Bank lending for transport infrastruc-
ture. In this context, we are assisting the Government in preparing a rural
and feeder roads project to. integrate the more backward areas of the country
into the modern economy. Other loans under preparation for highways, ports
and railroads are aimed at helping Colombia handle larger volumes of non-
traditional exports and the imported inputs on which the modern sector of
its economy relies for expansion. Finally, a relatively large number of loans
are being prepared in support of the Government's efforts to help the lowest
50% of the Colombian population. The proposed projects for urban development
and slum improvement, rural electrification, small farm development, credit
for land reform beneficiaries and water supply and sewerage are principally
designed to improve the standard of living of the poor.
30.       The operations of external lenders in Colombia are shown in Annex I.
While IBRD, IDB and AID provided about 75% of total external financing to
Colombia in the 1961-72 period, their share has decreased since then to approxi-
mately 50% for the 1975-77 period. Like the Bank, IDB and AID have given
increased emphasis to social projects. For instance, the IDB has assisted
projects in low cost housing, urban and rural development, agrarian reform,
university education, water supply, and land erosion control; in the future
IDB proposes to assist Colombia in its plans to develop sources of domestic
energy and to expand the activity of the productive sectors to help generate
increased employment. AID has supported programs in education, urban develop-
ment and small farm development. More recently, it has moved to small project
loans aimed chiefly at improving the distribution of income. AID is now
phasing out its aid program in Colombia.



- 11 -
PART III - THE LOW-INCOME URBAN SECTOR IN COLOMBIA
Background
31.       Urbanization trends in Colombia have been marked by rapid growth and
by dispersal of population among an unusually large number of urban centers.
About 64% of the population now lives in cities, defined as communities
of at least 2,500 inhabitants. If present trends continue, this proportion
could reach 86% by 1990. Moreover, only 33.5% of residents of cities with
10,000 or more people live in Bogota, a much lower figure than for the capital
cities of Venezuela (56.1%), Argentina (63.7%), and Peru (84.2%). Unlike
other countries of comparable size and development, Colombia has several
fairly large urban centers. Sixteen cities have more than 100,000 inhabitants.
Bogota has about 3 million, Medellin 1.5 million, Cali over 1 million,
Barranquilla over 700,000, Cartagena about 400,000 and Bucaramanga, Manizales
and Pereira each have about 300,000. Industrial development has concentrated
around the four largest cities which, together, account for over 80% of the
industrial employment and output of the country.
Service Levels, Income, Unemployment and Housing
32.       Average living conditions in the urban centers are better than in
the rural areas, largely as a result of the Government's program to expand and
improve basic public services. In 1974, for example, 90% of all households
with electricity were in the urban areas, as were 88% of those with piped
water and 96% of those with sewerage connections. Nevertheless, one-fourth
of the urban population still does not have direct access to water and two-
thirds lack sewage disposal facilities. However, in the four largest cities,
the situation with respect to basic services is, on average, more favorable
at all income levels.
33.       Unemployment and under-employment continue to be serious problems
in the urban sector, although the situation has improved recently. The highest
unemployment rate is among people under 25 years of age (60% of the urban
unemployed in 1973) and among females. About 40% of the urban unemployed are
heads of households. Unemployment is higher among those having primary
education or less (23% unemployed) than for those with secondary and higher
education (11% unemployed).
34.       One of the disturbing aspects of urban growth in Colombia has
been the significant housing deficit. A recent survey by one of Colombia's
major public agencies, Instituto de Credito Territorial (ICT), found that in
69 cities surveyed, 41% or 4.5 million of the population lived in substandard
housing conditions, while 13% or 1.4 million lacked title to the land. The
urban poor obtain land either by takeover or fraudulent land sales ("pirate
subdivisions"). Land takeover is promptly followed by community organization
so as to effectively articulate demands on municipal governments. If settlers
are not allowed to stay, arrangements for resettlement are often made.
"Pirate subsidivisions" are those started by promoters who purchase plots
and subdivide them without municipal consent because the plots lack basic



- 12 -
services.  The promoters disappear as soon as the land is sold.  It has been
estimated that more than one-half of the 1972 population of Bogota lived in
"pirate subsidivisions". Since the houses are built on land to which the
occupants receive no legal title, because the final deeds are not executed or
cannot be registered, the improvement of the property, which often is quite
valuable and represents an impressive savings effort, cannot be used as
collateral to obtain credit.
Causes of Urban Poverty
35.       Successive governments in Colombia have concentrated their develop-
ment efforts on two interrelated goals: (a) achieving self-sustaining economic
growth; and (b) expanding employment opportunities. Over the last two decades
considerable progress has been achieved. Between 1960 and 1976 the GNP per
capita in current dollars rose from US$210 to US$640, while employment in-
creased by nearly one-half in the same period. Significant advances were
also made in a variety of social services, including the expansion and con-
solidation of the education sector and the spread of potable water supply
and health services. The decline in population growth has also contributed
to an improvement in the standard of living of a large number of Colombians
(see paragraphs 3-4 above).
36.       Poverty has continued and in some cases increased, despite the
progress achieved. The sluggish growth of agriculture and the insufficiency
of non-farm employment opportunities have prevented a large segment of the
population from participating in productivity and income gains. In the urban
sector, poverty has been accentuated by the continuing influx of people from
the countryside who cannot find employment; they often lack education or
technical skills. A study carried out by the Universidad de los Andes found
that in 1973 six out of every ten urban unemployed were born outside the city
surveyed. The lack of urban employment opportunities has led to a large
number of under-employed, who are mostly engaged as street vendors and, at
best, obtain subsistence income in the informal sector. Additionally,
nutritional deprivation, poor shelter, lack of safe water and deficient
sanitation often result in diseases which go untreated because of inadequate
health facilities. Thus, the vicious cycle of low productivity, poverty and
unemployment continues regardless of increased opportunities available.
Government Policies
37.       Like its predecessor, the present administration is committed to
programs that assist the poor and it is allocating an important share of
public funds to finance them. It is continuing all the programs started
under the previous administration and proposes to implement some of its own,
such as providing agrarian reform beneficiaries with sufficient technical
assistance and development credit. To increase productivity and incomes in
rural areas and make less compelling the urge to migrate to the cities, the
Government continues to carry out the National Food and Nutrition Program
(PAN) and Integrated Rural Development Program (DRI), which are assisted by
two Bank loans. The DRI includes the upgrading of social services with the
purpose of reducing the disparities between rural and urban amenities. This



- 13 -
program is being assisted by the Canadian International Development Agency
(CIDA) and the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) in addition to the Bank.
The DRI is being complemented by the National Food and Nutrition Program
(PAN), which seeks to reduce malnutrition among the poorest 30% of the
population. The rural two-thirds of PAN beneficiaries are generally landless
and therefore benefit only indirectly from DRI.
38.       In the urban sector, the Government is continuing to give priority
to water supply, sewerage and public health programs. At present, water supply
and sewerage programs are being carried out in 15 departmental capital cities
and in 37 small towns. A National Health Plan was started in 1975 and now
covers almost one-half of the urban regions of the country. The Government
is also promoting integration of the more backward regions into the national
economy through increased and better distributed industrial credit and through
development of medium- and small-scale industry. Additionally, the Government
is providing telecommunications facilities in smaller towns which lack such
service and in June 1977, the Bank approved a US$60 million loan for this
purpose.
39.       While these programs are essential, the previous administration
recognized that in the short run they were unlikely to lead to a substantial
betterment of the living conditions of the urban poor. It designed, therefore,
the Integrated Services and Community Participation Program (IPC) - which
seeks to attack the causes as well as the symptoms of urban poverty. IPC's
basic philosophy is that improvements in the standard of living of the urban
poor can be sustained over time only if a reasonable increase in their incomes
takes place through increases in their productivity, which in turn depends
upon improved nutrition, health, education and sustained employment of the
members of the same household. IPC's other basic approach is the realization
that the urban poor have an impressive capability for community organization,
and that only by enlisting this capability can integrated urban poverty pro-
grams be successful. IPC, therefore, involves the urban poor in management
and coordination of multisectoral activities which constitute the basis of
the program, i.e., social services, infrastructure, communal enterprise devel-
opment, and credit. The present administration is supporting IPC and it is
exploring ways to accelerate it (see paragraph 42 below).
40.       Besides the IPC program, special lines of credit for public utilities,
home improvements, and legalization of tenure together with provision of com-
munity facilities and technical assistance are administered by ICT. Established
in 1939 to provide construction loans for the agricultural labor force, ICT's
focus was altered in 1942 to include urban housing. By 1956 the agency was
concentrating solely on urban development and moderate-income housing. Although
it has more experience in conventional housing programs, ICT has attempted,
especially during the past five years, to address the housing problems of
low-income groups through construction of "social interest" housing. Low-cost
homes are built under ICT self-help and direct construction schemes. In
addition, ICT has a program to assist business enterprises with worker housing
programs, and another program provides for the sharing of construction costs
with a private financing agency. In addition to its central office in Bogota,



- 14 -
24 regional offices are located in departments and territories throughout
Colombia. The Banco Central Hipotecario (BCH), a Government mortgage bank,
serves customers in the urban middle- and upper-income brackets and, like
ICT, also participates in direct construction.
Bank Involvement with the Urban Poor
41.       The Bank has financed a growing number of projects designed to
(a) raise the living standards of the lowest income segments of Colombia's
urban population, (b) expand employment opportunities in urban centers and
(c) strengthen those institutions which appear better suited to help achieve
the above objectives. Over the last decade, the Bank has made seven loans
for water supply and sewerage projects in Bogota and in 17 other medium and
small cities, for a total of US$254.3 million equivalent. Two of those loans
were made to the National Institute for Municipal Development (INSFOPAL). Two
more are currently under consideration for INSFOPAL (proposed to cover 23
cities) and for the city of Bogota. Water supply and sewerage facilities for
the city of Cartagena are included in the second and proposed third loans to
INSFOPAL, in addition to those included in the project proposed in this
report. Two other Bank loans, aggregating US$20.5 million equivalent, were
made in FY75 and FY77 to support the lending and technical assistance programs
of Corporacion Financiera Popular (CFP), the major Colombian institution
involved in financing small-scale industry, and a third is currently under
consideration. Bank support for the development of an Export Processing Zone
(EPZ) in Cartagena resulted in the approval of a US$15 million equivalent loan
late in FY78. The EPZ project is expected to have a significant impact on
employment generation in the Cartagena metropolitan area and will directly and
indirectly benefit the target population of the proposed project. Bank
assistance for power (21 loans totalling US$610 million equivalent) and
industrial development (10 loans to development finance companies totalling
US$383 million equivalent) have also contributed to improve public services
and increased employment among the urban poor.
42.       In addition, the Bank is supporting the aforementioned IPC program
(see paragraph 39 above) with a US$24.8 million equivalent loan approved in
FY78. This project, designed to reach about 550,000 urban poor in 23 cities,
includes the construction of community centers to improve the delivery of
educational, health, child and family welfare services with increased community
participation; promotion and organization of, and technical assistance and
credit for, small enterprises; extension of water supply services; a credit
program for home construction and improvement; and a program of land tenure
regularization. The loan became effective only recently and both the complexity
of the project and the wide geographical area it covers have made for a slow
start. Monitoring and evaluation systems, though, are being set up to enable
the Secretaria de Integracion Popular (SIP) and the Bank to follow the project's
progress, evaluate its impact on intended beneficiaries and redesign this and
future projects in light of the lessons learned.



- 15 -
PART IV: THE PROJECT
Project Background
43.       The proposed project had originally been included as a component
of the Bank's first urban development project (see paragraph 39 above).
Because of its unique physical environment, the Cartagena component required
more technical studies and, eventually, it was decided to turn it into a
separate project although closely following the approach used in the first
one. The project was appraised in April 1978. However, the Bank and ICT
agreed subsequently upon a modified approach, (described in paragraph 48
below), which resulted in reduced investment costs and enhanced prospects of
replicability. Negotiations were held in Washington during March 1979 with a
Colombian delegation headed by Mr. Alfredo Solarte of the National Planning
Department, which also included representatives of the Ministry of Finance
and of ICT. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 2255b-CO) of April 18, 1979, is
being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
44.       The Department of Bolivar, whose largest city, capital and port is
Cartagena, has experienced an acceleration in growth in recent years. However,
concentrated as it is in capital-intensive manufacturing and other activities
which, except for tourism, use relatively little labor, this growth has not
resulted in enough jobs to absorb all the new entrants into the departmental
labor force. To establish a strategy for controlling migration into Cartagena
and orient the development of the Cartagena region, the Department created
the North Bolivar Regional Planning and Development Council in August 1977.
Assisted by UNDP, the Regional Council has begun preparation of a comprehen-
sive development plan for the North Bolivar region. Although still in the
formative stages, the plan is expected to include development strategies for
14 smaller towns surrounding Cartagena, so that they may become viable recep-
tion centers for migrants. One such town is Pasacaballos, located next to
the area where the EPZ project is being implemented (see paragraph 41 above).
Consequently, improvements for Pasacaballos were drawn up in advance of
specific proposals for the 13 other towns, and are included in the proposed
Bank project.
45.       A high-productivity, capital-intensive refining and manufacturing
sector, combined with expansion of facilities to accommodate tourism, have
been the main sources of Cartagena's recent growth. The current population
of about 400,000 is expected to increase to about 650,000 by 1990. The labor
force in manufacturing grew at about 6% a year during the 1970s and now
accounts for about 35% of the employed population. However, many jobs have
gone to workers from other major cities, recruited for their greater skills
and experience, rather than to Cartagena residents who often end up in low-
paying jobs in the informal sector or among the unemployed. This situation
should improve somewhat as training and work force upgrading programs are
carried out within the EPZ project and in the proposed project. For the
present, however, Cartagena has taken on even more the appearance of a "city
of low-income settlements." The qualitative housing deficit (i.e., the number
of substandard dwelling units) has probably increased from an estimated 11,900
units in 1964 to 13,500 today.  About three quarters of these units are in



- 16 -
the South-East Zone of the city, where the project would be located.
Although expanding relatively rapidly in recent years, the construction
sector in Cartagena has concentrated primarily on luxury apartments and
hotels to accommodate tourism. Accordingly, neither middle-income nor
low-income housing needs have been met over the past two decades. Efforts
of the Cartagena branch of ICT to serve these income ranges, however, have
been gradually increasing. Over the past two years ICT/ Cartagena has
completed or begun construction of about 4,000 units, including 1,350
finished houses in the US$2,500 to US$4,000 range, in locations throughout
the city.  A major middle-class housing and upgraded commercial center is
being built in the Chambacu urban renewal area near downtown. At a site
south of the city, ICT plans to build an additional 5,000 single family and
multifamily units, many of which will likely be acquired by higher-level
workers at the EPZ. ICT/Cartagena has also given increased attention to
low-income housing and integrated community development and productivity in
closer cooperation with training and social service agencies (see paragraph
40 above).
Housing Conditions in the S.E. Zone and Pasacaballos
46.       Over several decades about 355 ha of mud flats along the shore of
the Tesca lagoon in southeastern Cartagena (see map IBRD 13509R) have been
settled by squatters. Today, this area's population numbers approximately
80,000 persons, of whom, only 25% currently have access to piped water and
less than 10% to sewerage. Although in money terms S.E. Zone families live
quite cheaply, they nonetheless pay a high price in terms of repercussions
from the unhealthy and precarious living conditions they must face. Dwellings
are subject to tidal incursions and lie in the path of storm water runoff
from hills immediately behind the area. Even during the dry season, domestic
effluents crisscross the area and often form large pools of stagnant water.
Since the average depth of the swampy area adjacent to the lagoon is no
more than 20-40 cm, settlers have gradually filled lots through their own
labor. Timber shacks have been erected on the small islands of fill thus
formed. However, the level of the areas so consolidated remains too low for
efficient runoff of surface water or for installation of utilities. This
situation is aggravated by several outfalls which discharge sewage from
residential districts at the edge of the lagoon, causing pollution of the
flood waters. Except for a recently completed community service center in
the western-most sector, existing educational, health and institutional
facilities are insufficient. Compounding these difficulties is the lack of
secure land title. Most residents possess, at most, a certificate of occu-
pancy, with the largest group having no written evidence of tenure whatever.
Conditions in Pasacaballos (see map IBRD 13509R) are not significantly better.
With the imminent development of the EPZ located about half a kilometer from
Pasacaballos, the need to plan for the orderly expansion of the community has
become more acute.
Project Concept and Objectives
47.       A number of studies and proposals to overcome the problems created
by illegal settlement of the S.E. Zone have been produced since then, one of
which--an updated master plan for Cartagena in 1974--recommended eradication



- 17 -
of the slum dwellings and relocation of residents. In 1975 it was agreed that
a policy of minimal eradication would be pursued, subject to technical studies
to establish the feasibility of on-site upgrading.
48.       During project preparation it was agreed that some components, par-
ticularly those providing levels of service beyond a basic threshold, should
be designed as options to the beneficiaries. The components of the overall
improvement program were consequently defined as either essential, to be
carried out by an executing agency, or optional, to be done by the communities
or individual households on a "contract-in" basis. In addition to land fill-
ing, essential works include physical environmental improvements such as
external drainage canals and utility infrastructure, which are the minimum
needed to bring physical environmental conditions of the project areas up to
the level which the majority of the city's neighborhoods presently enjoy.
Optional features include secondary utility networks, individual connections,
and loans for housing construction and improvement, which residents would be
able to contract for as their finances permit, incurring charges within their
means. This project design places a greater degree of responsibility upon
the residents for the overall improvement levels in their neighborhoods. If
perceived mostly as a result of the residents' own decisions, it is expected
that the implementation of the upgrading works as well as of the subsequent
social programs would stand a better chance of securing the enthusiastic
community support which is viewed more and more as critical to the success
of any program aimed at low-income groups. It is also believed that the
residents' propensity to invest their limited savings would be enhanced if
the choices are theirs. As a by-product, the smaller demands this approach
imposes on limited official resources would permit a larger degree of replic-
ability.
49.       In Pasacaballos, on-site rehabilitation would be supplemented by
integrated programs of training, technical assistance and job placement. hlow-
ever, unlike the S.E. Zone where the population has been relatively stable,
that of Pasacaballos is on the verge of a major increase as the EPZ begins
operations. Thus, besides installation and renovation of services in cur-
rently built-up sections of the community, the emphasis is on extension of
services to areas of new settlement.
Project Description
50.       The project would consist of physical upgrading and provision of
services and would support social programs to be carried out during 1978-1983
in the S.E. Zone of Cartagena and in Pasacaballos. It would consist of:
(a) land filling in the S.E. Zone project area to raise
the level of streets and house lots;
(b)  canalization of main drains to coivey external storm
water from the hinterland, through the S.E. Zone project
area, to the lagoon and construction of street drainage
works in the S.E. Zone;



- 18 -
(c) road improvements and minor drainage works in Pasacaballos;
(d) installation of utility infrastructure including primary
water and electricity networks in the S.E. Zone and in
Pasacaballos and primary sewerage networks in the most
consolidated areas of the S.E. Zone;
(e) loans and technical advice from ICT/Cartagena for
(i) regularization of land tenure; (ii) construction of
secondary water distribution networks, water and elec-
tricity connections, and neighborhood improvements;
(iii) housing improvements; (iv) purchase of serviced
and unserviced sites; and (v) house construction thereon;
(f) cn struction of Community Development Centers (CDVs);
equipping of existing and new facilities; and a training
program for staff to be involved in the provision of
educational, health, and family and child welfare services.
Promotion and technical advice would be provided to private
and cooperative small enterprises, to assist them in gain-
ing access to the formal loan market through appropriate
financial intermediaries;
(g) project management to strengthen participating agencies; and
(.1 a program of cadastral improvements, a study of municipal
fiscal planning and engineering studies of water supply,
flood control and sanitation in the project area and environs.
51.       Filling in the S.E. Zone, which is being partially financed by a
US$2.0 million grant from the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), was
begun in November of 1977 and is expected to be completed by December 1979.
In the part of the S.E. Zone nearest the lagoon shoreline (known as the
.r;ahiIitation area), filling would be undertaken up to a level ensuring
protection of streets and house lots from flooding. At the northern edge
of the filled area, near the lagon shoreline, a reserve 50 m wide for an
eventual road would extend the length of the project area. Resettlement
F ramilies within the S.E. Zone would involve about 730 dwellings, half
or:tside of the project area itself and half to make way for street and commun-
facilities. Relocated families would be given a new lot and a housing loan.
Affected dwellings would represent about 7% of the existing S.E. Zone housing
stock. This is the minimum resettlement believed consistent with the orderly
growth of the area and is in line with the range of resettlement in other
Bank financed urban projects. Except for the few properties on which the
area residents already have property rights, all land in the project area
would be acquired by ICT through cession from the state. Existing occupancy
rights would continue to be recognized, and would be supported by a certifi-
cate of occupancy that can be converted to a full title subsequently.
Assurances have been obtained during loan negotiations that the Government
and ICT would take all necessary steps to ensure that transfers of land to
residents begin not later than January 1, 1981. (Section 3.01(a) of the
draft Loan Agreement and Section 2.07, draft Project Agreement).



- 19 -
52.       In order to supply the S.E. Zone project area with water, it is
necessary to lay a trunk main system. Two sections of the trunk main, the
first extending from near the El Bosque treatment plant northward to the
S.E. Zone and the second serving the eastern S.E. Zone, would be included
in the present project. A third section leading westward to storage tanks
beyond the project area would be financed out of the proposed third Bank
loan to INSFOPAL. For Pasacaballos, a 1 km main will link the distribution
network to a trunk main being extended from Cartagena to the EPZ, with Bank
financing (see paragraph 41 above). Secondary water and sewerage distribu-
tion networks and house connections and electricity connections would be
provided through individual ICT loans organized by community effort. Con-
struction of interlot drains at the back of house lots and paving of sidewalks
and pedestrian streets would also be financed under this component. Other
ICT loans would be made available to meet the cost of land tenure surveys and
title transfer connected with regularization of tenure, as well as for housing
improvements and purchase of sites for house construction.
53.       Four CDVs in the S.E. Zone and one in Pasacaballos would be con-
structed and equipped to provide physical facilities in an integrated complex
for the delivery of education, health, vocational training, family and child
welfare, and employment and productivity promotion services. Local staff to
provide these services would also be trained under a national program designed
in conjunction with the first Bank urban project. The CDVs would serve as the
chief coordination center of the project at the local level. Where facilities
already exist, their use would be maximized before new ones are constructed.
Project Execution
54.       Overall responsibility for project execution, coordination and
evaluation would be placed on ICT's Cartagena office where a project manage-
ment unit has been established and would be maintained until project com-
pletion to coordinate project implementation. The unit would consist of
a Project Manager, a social programs director, and a director of monitoring
and evaluation all satisfactory to the Bank. It would draw upon functional
divisions of ICT/Cartagena for financial, legal, loan processing and personnel
services, and would have its own expertise in technical management, contract
supervision, social development, and monitoring and evaluation. (Sec. 2.01(b)
of the draft Project Agreement). Each CDV will be staffed by a coordinator,
two social workers, an ICT loan promoter, and a small-enterprise development
promoter, in addition to suitably qualified staff in the required numbers
for the education, health, family and child welfare, and vocational training
facilities. Public utility mains and distribution networks would be con-
tracted for, and supervised by, ICT in coordination with Empresas Publicas
Municipales de Cartagena (EPMC), for water supply, storm drainage and sewer-
age, and with Electrificadora de Bolivar (ELECTRIBOL) for electricity,
particularly with regard to technical specifications. Upon completion of
these facilities, they would be turned over by ICT to EPMC and ELECTRIBOL for
operation and maintenance. ICT loans would be made to individual households or
to community groups in the case of public services and neighborhood improve-
ments such as the secondary water distribution networks. ICT would also



- 20 -
coordinate the project-related education, health, and family-welfare activi-
ties of the Ministries of Education and Health, the National Training Service
(SENA), the Institute of School Construction (ICCE), and the Institute of
Family Welfare (ICBF), as well as the cadastral improvements program to be
carried out by Instituto Geografico "Agustin Codazzi" (IGAC). These agencies
have had experience with similar programs and most are involved in the first
urban development project which has comparable objectives and operating
procedures. ICT would enter into agreements with the various participating
ministries and agencies covering the respective obligations of ICT and the
agencies concerning the project execution arrangements described above. These
agreements would be on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and would
be conditions of loan effectiveness (Sec. 2.02, draft Project Agreement and
Sec. 6.01(b), draft Loan Agreement).
55.       Monitoring of the housing improvement, social services, and physical
environmental upgrading components of the project would be undertaken by ICT/
Cartagena. Quarterly reports would be prepared by the monitoring staff of
ICT's project unit on the basis of systematically kept records of key indi-
cators of progress toward project goals. The reports would also include
results from a number of evaluation studies, to be carried out in agreement
with the Bank, designed to find out what changes in the economic and social
well-being of area residents can be ascribed to the project. (Sec. 2.06,
draft Project Agreement).
Cost Estimates
56.       Total project costs, including physical and price contingencies,
have been estimated at US$35.3 million equivalent, of which US$9.9 million
equivalent, or 28%, represent the estimated foreign exchange component.
Except for four external drainage canals whose costs were estimated from
contractors' bids, the costs of all other engineering work were estimated
on the basis of consultants' feasibility studies and preliminary designs
completed during January-February 1978, which were updated by post appraisal
missions (May 1978 and January 1979) and during negotiations. The estimated
amount of ICT loans was based on forecasts of effective credit demand.
Physical contingencies of 15% for the land filling and the off-site water
trunk main components, and of 20% on all other construction items have been
allowed. A total price contingency of 42% was included to cover expected
price inflation on all local and foreign cost components, except land acqui-
sition. 1/
Financing Plan
57.       The Bank loan proposed for this project would be for US$13.5 million
equivalent, repayable in 17 years, including four years of grace, at 7.9%
per annum.  The proposed amount, which would cover the estimated foreign ex-
change cost component and about 14% of local currency expenditures, would
I/   A more detailed breakdown is provided in the Loan and Project Summary
at the beginning of this Report.



- 21 -
represent a Bank contribution of about 38% of presently estimated total proj-
ect costs. This would be in line with the Bank's contribution to the first
urban development project and would constitute an adequate recognition of the
extraordinary effort the Government has been making to allocate budgetary
resources to social sector projects over the last three years. A grant of
US$2.0 million equivalent made by the IDB for the land filling component
would complete the financing from external sources. The Colombian Government
and its subdivisions and agencies would contribute the remainder of the
project financing equivalent to 57% of the presently estimated project cost.
Assurances on the timely provision of sufficient financing have been obtained
from the Borrower (Sec. 3.01(c), draft Loan Agreement) and will be received
from INSFOPAL, EPMC and ELECTRIBOL pursuant to the agreements referred to in
paragraph 54 above.
58.       Following substantially the pattern adopted for the first urban pro-
ject, the Colombian peso equivalent of the proposed Bank loan would be made
available, free of charge, to ICT and INSFOPAL, together with the national
budget funds, appropriated for the project. Within the utility infrastructure
component, 80% of the estimated cost of the off-site water trunk mains plus
100% of the estimated cost of the primary water and sewerage networks would be
made available by the Government to INSFOPAL. INSFOPAL would, in turn, make
the same funds available to ICT, free of charge, as required to construct the
trunk mains and water and sewerage network. The remaining 20% of the cost
of the trunk mains would be made available to ICT by EPMC from its internal
resources. Upon completion, the water and sewerage network would be trans-
ferred by ICT, free of charge, to EPMC for operation and maintenance. In
line with the procedures adopted for the first urban project, EPMC would re-
cognize a debt towards INSFOPAL equivalent to 40% of the construction costs
of both the trunk mains and distribution networks, repayable in Colombian
pesos over 17 years including four years of grace, at 18% per annum. The
remaining 40% of the trunk mains and 60% of the distribution networks would be
treated by EPMC as an equity contribution from INSFOPAL. The Government would
treat 60% of the cost of electricity distribution networks as an equity con-
tribution to ELECTRIBOL. The remaining 40% would be financed from ELECTRIBOL's
own resources. Funds made available to ICT, out of the proposed Bank loan and
the budget, for all other project components would be treated as Government
contributions to ICT's equity. Assurances concerning these arrangements have
been obtained from ICT (Sec. 2.02, draft Project Agreement).
Procurement
59.       Civil works contracts not exceeding US$750,000 equivalent would be
awarded through local competitive bidding using procurement procedures accept-
able to the Bank. Because of the large number of competent local contractors,
most such contracts will likely be won by local bidders. Contracts for civil
works estimated to cost US$750,000 equivalent or more would be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. In an
endeavor to start work before the 1978 wet season, contracts of about US$500,000
equivalent each for the first four external drainage canals were awarded under
local procedures acceptable to the Bank. Contracts for land filling awarded



- 22 -
to date have gone to the lowest bidders under local procedures acceptable to
the Bank. Construction of the CDVs (average cost US$500,000 equivalent) would
be carried out by ICT directly or hiring and supervising small private con-
tractors, as is being done in the first urban development project. Hiring
would be done on the basis of local competitive bidding or local shopping in
which at least three contractors are invited to bid for each contract. For
the ICT loans, materials would be procured by local competitive bidding or
local shopping, the ICT regional manager being authorized to award contracts
directly up to a value of Col$500,000 (about US$12,500 in 1978 prices) without
inviting bids. Contracts for the supply of equipment and materials estimated
to cost US$150,000 equivalent or more would be awarded through international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. Contracts under
US$150,000 equivalent but not exceeding, in the aggregate, the equivalent of
US$2.0 million would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding
procedures acceptable to the Bank. For bid evaluation purposes under interna-
tional competitive bidding, a margin of 15% or the value of the applicable
customs duties, whichever is lower, would be allowed for materials and equip-
ment manufactured in Colombia. Assurances concerning these arrangements have
been obtained from ICT (Section 2.04, draft Project Agreement). Consultant
services are estimated to require about 110 man-months, practically all
available in Colombia, at a cost of about US$1,700 equivalent per month.
Disbursements
60.       The Bank would reimburse the Government 40% of expenditures incurred
in land filling (net of the IDB grant referred to in paragraph 57 above),
civil engineering works, public utilities, consulting services, and the first
four years of project management. The Bank would also reimburse ICT 40% of
the amounts disbursed by ICT under loans for regularization of land tenure,
housing improvement, public services and neighborhood improvements, sites
purchases and relocation; in this case, however, disbursements would be
made against a certified statement of amounts lent and disbursed by ICT and
the pertinent documentation would be retained by ICT for review by Bank
supervision missions. The completion of land filling in each of the four
sectors of the S.E. Zone would be a condition of disbursement against expendi-
tures for other project works in the same sector. The Bank would finance
retroactively expenditures incurred after April 22, 1978 by (i) EPMC, not in
excess of US$20,000 equivalent, in the carrying out of engineering studies for
the S.E. zone water trunk main; (ii) ICT, not in excess of US$60,000 equivalent,
in equipping and furnishing the first CDV; and (iii) ICT, not in excess of
US$1.1 million equivalent in the construction of external drainage canals
(Schedule 1, paragraph 4, draft Loan Agreement). Disbursements are expected
to be completed during 1984.
Operations and Financial Performance of ICT
61.       Between 1942 and 1969 ICT constructed 150,000 housing units.  In
1971, ICT participation comprised 31.2% of the construction budget of the
country, but by 1974 its relative share had declined to 10.6%. This coincided
with a shifting emphasis toward lower cost housing, as well as greater partici-
pation in the construction industry by commercial banks, financial institutions,



- 23 -
and other private resources. As of December 31, 1977, ICT had US$360 million
equivalent in total assets. Of this amount, about 29% represented paid-in
capital, 57% long-term debt and 14% short-term debt. ICT has adopted an
inflation indexing system which, although it has fallen short of protecting
ICT's portfolio from inflationary erosion in the recent past, generates signif-
icant automatic increases in annual revenues. This has been accomplished by
dividing its lending system into two types of mortgage operations:
(a) Variable Interest Rate Loans aimed at middle-income groups
and financing housing on lots larger than 60 m . The
principal of the loan is divided into two tranches:
(i) the first tranche, limited to a maximum of 50% of the
loan, but progressively smaller as the size of the loan
increases, carries an interest rate of 7%;
(ii) the second tranche carries an interest rate which
increases with the rate of inflation, up to a maximum
of 25%;
(iii) the variable interest rate is the weighted average
of the interest rates for the two tranches.
(b)  Fixed Interest Rate Loans, aimed at the lower income groups,
carry an interest rate of 12%. These types of loans are
typically used to finance land tenure, home improvements,
neighborhood improvements and sites and services. An addi-
tional 2% is added to cover the cost of insurance, which
raises the final cost to the borrower to 14%. 1/
ICT plans to discontinue underwriting variable interest rate loans and concen-
trate its activities on the lower income groups. As a means of reducing the
early debt service payments on fixed interest rate loans, and to bring these
loans within the means of poorer families, ICT has adopted the graduated pay-
ment mortgage, wherein the amortization schedule is predicated on an annual
increase of 5% per annum in the amount of the monthly payments. This results
in smaller monthly payments in the earlier years and an increasing amortization
in later years. Assurances have been obtained that these terms shall apply to
all ICT loans to be made to the project beneficiaries (Section 2.01(c), draft
Project Agreement). The initial monthly payment has been used in calculation
of affordability (see paragraph 63 below), based on the premise that house-
holds will be able to accommodate the annual increases as incomes and the
percent of income devoted to housing rise over time.
1/ See paragraph 11 above concerning inflation trends.



- 24 -
62.       ICT's operating performance has been gradually weakening over the
last few years. The current ratio slipped from 1.6 in 1975 to 0.9 in 1977;
a ratio of 1.2 is generally considered the minimum required for adequate
short-term liquidity. ICT's decreasing profits resulted mainly from (a) high
borrowing costs and decreasing spreads due to higher than anticipated local
rates of inflation; and (b) the diminishing potential for interest rates
cross-subsidy resulting from an increase in the proportion of fixed interest
rate loans, which now account for about 50% of the total lending volume. ICT
expects to incur cash operating deficits during the 1979-1982 period which
would further weaken its overall financial structure and force it to depend
increasingly on continuous Government grants to ensure the cash flow required
to maintain its lending targets. However, ICT is considering various alter-
natives to strengthen its financial position. Included in the list of possi-
bilities is an increase in the funds it receives from its non-interest bearing
bonds that savings banks and insurance companies are required to purchase.
Assurances have been obtained that a study of the alternatives available to
strengthen ICT's financial condition will be undertaken and that a program
for the same purpose, which will take into account the conclusions of such
study, will be prepared by January 1, 1981 (Section 4.06, draft Loan Agreement
and Section 3.03, draft Project Agreement).
Affordability
63.       The table below demonstrates the affordability of the options
offered and the income groups served. Costs are in mid-1978 prices and in-
clude design, supervision and physical contingencies. Payments shown are
the minimum in accordance with the graduated payment system described in
paragraph 61. The sole mandatory charge--a capital development levy to cover
the cost of street drainage works--of US$2.82 per month initially, is afford-
able to families with incomes at the sixth percentile in the project areas.
Families may then, at their option, contract for public utilities, tenure,
and housing improvements in various combinations. Credits for regularization
of land tenure plus interlot drains, in addition to the capital development
levy, would, as one illustration, imply a monthly payment of US$4.58, afford-
able at the 12th percentile. Families purchasing individual water, sewerage,
and electricity connections in addition to the above items would be paying
US$14.15, which is affordable to families at the 68th percentile in the
project areas or at roughly the 12th percentile of the national urban income
distribution. Those contributing more labor than the average of 20% assumed
in calculations of capacity to pay for public services and neighborhood
improvements (interlot drains, sidewalks, and secondary water and sewerage)
would require smaller ICT loans and hence bear lower monthly payments.



- 25 -
Cost to Households and Affordability
(1978 prices)
Fully
Minimum        Intermed    Serviced   Infill    Plots in
Plot Option                Improvement./a  Upgradnlb         Lot  /c  Plot /d  S&S Areas/d
Services:                   Communal        Communal    Individual  Communal  Individual
Materials Loans:                No              No            No         No          No
1.  Cost to purchaser
(US$/   household-hh)   272             445          1,616        878        1,143
2.  Total monthly
payments (US$/hh) /e       2.82           4.58           14.15      9.16        11.94
3.  Minimum monthly
income required
(US$/hh)                  18.84           22.91         56.63      36.66        47.77
4.  Lowest Income
Percentile
Reached /f                 6               12            68        47           61
5.  Percent of invest-
ment going to
poverty group            100             100            80        100          100
6.  Number of house-
holds expected to
benefit g  --------12,000-------                       -------------1,500---------
/a   Development levy (street drainage)
/b   Development levy plus loans for regularization of tenure and interlot
drainage
/c   Items in lb plus individual water, sewerage, and electricity connections
/d   Serviced lots in Pasacaballos with individual water, sanitation, and
electricity
/e   Subject to 5% annual increase over the life of the loan
/f   Refers to population of project area.  56th percentile in project area
is approximately equal to 10th percentile of national urban income
distribution
/g   With other options, total number of households expected to benefit
= 14,350
Cost Recovery and Replicability
64.       The cost of all investments in public utilities would be recovered
through utility charges provided that, in the case of EPMC, these charges
would be consistent with agreements between EPMC and INSFOPAL arising out of
Bank loans to the latter. The cost of street drainage works would be recovered
through a capital development charge levied on the basis of front footage for



- 26 -
the properties located in the project area. The charge would be mandatory
but, at the option of the residents, could be paid as a lump sum or as part of
a conventional ICT home improvement loan over 15 years. Eligibility of the
residents for other ICT loans would be determined after including the capital
development charge as the first ranking constituent of the maximum permissible
debt service (up to 30% of family income) allowed under ICT lending procedures.
ICT loans would be recovered on the terms described in paragraph 61(b) above.
Assurances have been obtained that these costs would be recovered as described
above (Sec. 4.05, draft Loan Agreement and Secs. 2.01(c) and 2.02, draft Project
Agreement). These components represent 55% of total estimated project costs.
The balance of total project costs, represented by land filling, external
drainage, community facilities and project management and technical assistance,
could not reasonably be recovered from the direct project beneficiaries. Most
of these investments benefit a wider area and are therefore viewed as a
one-time effort that would be charged to national and municipal government
budgets. However, the upgrading elements financed by ICT loans have been
designed to be affordable to the final beneficiaries. On this bases, which
are affordable both to governments and the beneficiaries, the project is
replicable on a nationwide scale.
Benefits and Risks
65.       About 14,350 families (over 95,000 individuals) or slightly more
than half of Cartagena's population below the relative poverty minimum, would
benefit from the project through improved infrastructure, housing and community
facilities. The project would improve conditions of dwellings comprising
about three quarters of the estimated qualitative housing deficit (i.e., the
number of substandard units) in the city. Of the total project investment,
85% would generate benefits to families below the poverty level in Cartagena
(estimated at US$71.25 per household per month in 1976 prices). The project
extends initiatives of the residents themselves by establishing a structure
within which they may take steps at their own pace to improve their health,
productivity, and living conditions. Some project components, particularly
those which enhance the value of land and houses, would have a progressive
impact on the distribution of wealth. Others, such as education and health
services offered through the CDVs, job training, and maternal and child care,
primarily affect productivity or earning capacity and, hence, income. The
project recognizes the need for balanced increases in both health and income
as the principal means of improving the quality of life of poor urban families.
66.       Internal economic rates of return were calculated for (a) physical
environmental improvements, including the capital costs of land filling, street
gutters and curbs, the water trunk mains and networks, sewerage and electri-
city distribution networks, and ICT loans for interlot drainage and other
neighborhood improvements; and (b) the housing improvement program including
ICT loans for regularization of tenure, domestic public utility connections,
and home improvements. For the first element the rate of return was 15%; for
the latter, 21%. An overall rate of return of 16% was obtained for the com-
bined costs and benefits of these project elements, which constitute 60% of
total project costs. This return does not fall below 11% (the estimated oppor-
tunity cost of capital in Colombia) if benefits are decreased, or costs



- 27 -
increased, by 20%. It does not change significantly if unskilled labor and
foreign exchange are evaluated at shadow prices. External drainage works,
flood protection, and community facilities, which have diffuse, generalized
benefits to the city in addition to project beneficiaries, were the major
elements whose benefits were not quantified. At the same time, these
economic rates of return do not reflect some social benefits which, because
of limitations of data, could not be estimated with confidence.
67.       The major risk facing the project is whether optional components will
be taken up by residents at the expected rate. These features have been designed
to be as independent of one another as possible, so that families may contract
for each over time, as their financial circumstances permit. By the close of
disbursements it is expected that most project families will have chosen at
most one or two options. Many will simply continue payments on the single
mandatory charge (the capital development levy) until their incomes improve.
Conservative assumptions were made regarding the proportion of families from
which the effective demand was estimated. As a consequence, the risk of less
than full disbursements by the end of the project is considered small.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Colombia and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and ICT and the report of
the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Bank's Articles
of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
69.       Special conditions for the proposed loan have been referred to
throughout this Report and are summarized in Section III of Annex III.
70.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
71.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments                                         By I.P.M. Cargill
April 18, 1979



-28 -ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5 Pages
COLUMBIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
COLOMBIA                                                 /a
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                    - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            1138.9                                                     SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      224.8                                  MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   220.0        370.0     710.0           1066.7       867.2       1796.4
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      491.0        606.0      671.0            911.1       578.3       1525.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                         15.4         20.6       25.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 53.0 /f        60.3      64.3             57.9        46.2         52.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         14.0         18.0      22.0             25.6        50.8         27.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       71.0        93.0      111.0             77.6        93.3        116.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           46.6        46.6       44.1             42.0        42.9         34.8
15-64 YRS.                          50.4         50.4       52.7             52.2        53.5         56.0
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.0         3.0        3.2              3.7         3.5          5.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.9          2.9       2.8              2.7         2.5          1.6
URBAN                                6.0 /R       5.5 /h    4.5              4.3         4.7          3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       46.1 IL      44.3 /i   40.6 /i          35.8        37.8         27.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       14.7         11.0       8.8              9.1        10.8          9.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.2          3.2       3.1              2.6         2.5          1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..        115.4     177.3
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..       31.0             15.1        20.0         19.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970=100)               98.0        100.0     109.1            102.1       107.3        103.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     94.0        92.0       94.0            103.9       105.3        110.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            50.0        51.0       47.0             60.3        63.0         77.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        28.0         29.0       24.0             26.7        21.7         22.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       16.3           *-      12.1              8.7         8.0          1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    54.7           58.5      60.9             62.6        57.2         63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            100.0 /1      70.0      97.1             56.9        53.9         38.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        63.0       64.0             60.7        56.8         67.7
URBAN                                 ..        88.0       86.0             78.0        79.0         83.5
RURAL                                 *-         28.0      33.0             34.9        31.8         41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         47.0      48.0             61.1        30.9         70.3
URBAN                                 ..         75.0      73.0             80.3        45.4         90.7
RURAL                                 ..          8.0      13.0             25.4        16.1         38.3
POPUATION PER PHYSICIAN             2400.0      2170.0    2180.0            1899.3      2706.8       1310.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       3740.0      2040.0    1920.0            1220.1      1462.0        849.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              580.0       510.0      530.0            422.3       493.9        275.4
URBAN                                 ..          ..      320.0            258.2       229.6        129.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..    9670.0           2281.6      2947.9        965.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..         23.0      25.0              25.6       22.1         18.9
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 .,          6.0       5.9              5.2         5.2          3.9
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..               ..         5.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..        ..               ..         5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..           ..        ..              2.0         2.0          0.9
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..              2.1        1.5          0.8
RURAL                                 ..           ..        ..               2.7        2.7          1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               47.0 /f        ..         ..             51.2       64.1         59.2
URBAN                               83.0 If        ..        ..              77.3       67.8         78.0
RURAL                                8.0 If        ..         ..             12.8       34.1         12.5



- 29 -                                           ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5 Pages
COLOMBilA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
COLOMBIA                                                 /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME       INCOME
1960 Lb     1970 Lb ESTIMATE /b       REGION Ic   GROUP Id    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  77.0        98.0      105.0            103.5       99.8         97.6
FEMALE                77.0        100.0     108.0            102.9        93.3         87.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  12.0        23.0       36.0             37.2       33.8         47.8
FEMALE                11.0         22.0      36.0             37.9        29.8         42.6
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OP SECONDARY) 31.0 /k       21.0       17.0             14.7        12.8        22.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             38.0        38.0       33.0             32.8        34.9        25.4
SECONDARY                           11.0        17.0       19.0             17.8       22.2         24.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         63.0        73.0       81.0             74.9        71.8        96.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           7.0        11.0       15.0             26.9        12.4        32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         139.0       105.0      117.0            173.5       104.5       201.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          11.0        38.0         ..             69.4       28.1         97.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   56.0       109.0       69.0             72.8        45.2        70.9
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..        6.8              4.3         4.6          4.4
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      5100.0 If   6200.0    6700.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    18.9        24.6       24.6             21.4        25.7        17.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               47.0 /f     39.0         ..             37.8        46.2        38.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  19.2        21.0
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 30.6        29.7       29.7             30.8        33.8        33.7
HALE                                  49.8        44.9       44.7             47.2        48.1         50.8
FEMALE                                11.6        14.6       14.6             13.2        17.3        12.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.8          1.6       1.6              1.7         1.4          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   41.2 /f.l   31.9 L1   27.2                28.9        23.6        20.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  67.7 /f,l   60.1 /1   54.4                57.7       52.3         47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    2.1 /f,l    3.5 /1    5.2                 3.2         4.3         3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.8 /f,l   10.1 /1   14.3                10.7        13.1        13.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..            251.9       191.9
RURAL                                 ..          ..      145.0            200.6       193.1       157.9
EST IMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US5 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      154.0            403.1       319.8       448.8
RURAL                                 ..          ..      153.0            258.0       197.7       313.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..       24.0             24.8        19.8        23.2
RURAL                                 ..           ,.      55.0             65.2       35.1         54.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c  Latin America & Caribbean;  /d  Intermediate Middle Income (S551-1135 per capita, 1976);  le  Upper
Middle Income ($1136-2500 per capita, 1976); /f 1964; /g 1951-64; /h 1964-70; /i Official estimates
based on registration data show crude birth rate for 1960 as 39.0, average 1961-70 as 36.0 and average
1971-76 as 31.0; /L Registered only; /k Includes teacher-training at the third level; /1 Economically
active population.
September, 1978



30 -                                                ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5 Pages
DEFINITIONS OF 0OCIAL INDICATORS
v it 1 l hu ,!, Lhe d.La ore drawn from sources generally judged the most authoritative and reliable, it shoold ls. be noted that they may not be inter-
roltu  'I -1.  -t, aro-ble because of che lock of standardized definitions and concepts used by different countrieo in collecting the data.  The data are, nonetheless,
, -e-Lrh. orders of magnitude, indicate trends, and chanacterize  certain major differeeces between countries.
n;-dd;ocod grouLp averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, exclding the extreme values of the indicator and the most
'up p,        ct . r;  llrn in eacn   group.  Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not .nifersa  Due to lach of data,
. ..r...a       Capital Surplou Oil fEportera  and indicators of access to water and excreta disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty are
A pl   -weighted geometric means without the exclusion of eatreme values.
-  ad cq. kn)                                                              Population per hospital bed - total, urban, and rural - Population (total,
i    -Ico at ruia-cs area coaprisiag land area and inland waters,                          urban, sad rural) divided by their respectiv  sumber of hospital beds
c-ulta-'    - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily               available in public and private general and specialized hospital and re-
-penranntly for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                       habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
noe fc                                                                                   at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care are not included.  Rural hospitals, however, include health and medi-
Ii        ii iP;  ( 55) - (D? per capita estimates at current market prices,                cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
-lc-ated oy sane conversion mtethod as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accommodation and
onu7!., and 1977 data,                                                            provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of adniusionns to or discharges
cEcRi    r4            NPER CAPITA - Annual consumption of commercial energy                 from  hospitals divided by the number  of beds.
-'t ar  tlgnite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
- octricitv) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                    HOusING
Average size of household (persons per household) - total, urban, and rural-
.P A,'' rs >N.   'o _TLi STATIsTlC                                                          A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total poj otioi. rid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                     and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
ave rge nf tao end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 dsta.                            the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
lrh,.cr gopulstion (perccnt of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                    hold vary.
tion; dif cro.t definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                    Average nusber of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average sum-
of data arng cognItrio                                                                   ber of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
o-   u Dd itv                                                                      dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures and
Pen  g, _kn-- 'id-yaar population per square kilometer (100 heceares)                     unoccupied parts.
of  ctal area                                                                          Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Po   S  im  agricultura land - Computed uS sbove for agricultural land                    Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
oncl                                                                                     of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
LU,isaitc e atrannune (pernent) - Children (i-lb years), working-age
(15-f4 .eer-,  and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-               EDUCATION
coon pcpu  - ion                                                                      Adjusted enrollment ratios
ol,    - n '-: -at  rate (percent) -  notal, snd urban - Compound annual                Primary school - total, and female - Total and femal  enrollment of all ages
a-ocr   rates -  total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                       at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
aid ,         970-75.                                                                   populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
,      cthh rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                     different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
eon pupa.-Itics; ten-year arithamtic averagas ending in 1960 and                       cation enrollment may  acneed 100 percent singe some pupils are below or
i97, n,d five--ear u..rage ending in 1975 for mast recent estimate,                      above the official school age.
ua,i_uta (par toaand) - Annual deaths per thousand of aid-                        Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary educe-
-ra.-  p-u  t.an; ten-rear arithmetic averages ending in 1960 end 1970                   tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
Car  f- z--ocar average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate,                        vides general vccationat, or teacher training instructions for pupils
iCuos neptocuc tuon rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                   usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in ten corral aeproductive period if she experiences present age-                        excluded.
?,-ifi.u  fenti-ity rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                  Vocational enrollment (Percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, aid 1975.                                                                          clude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
an(mjlaunlcrne, - aconptors, on-l..  (thousands) - Annual numbse   of                     or as departments of secondary institutioss,
acoeptora of birth-control devices under .uspices of national family                  Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students eanrolled in
olatning crogran                                                                         primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the nors-
Far lv vlaoeti;cg - users (percent of married women) - Percentage of                       sponding levels.
martine  .ao-cen of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control             Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
dcvi..-  to all married women in same age group.                                         a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AL NiJTRITIOS                                                                      CONSUidPTION
'deta of no-d  roduction pon capita (1970-100) - Index number of per                    Passenger cars (per thouoand population) - Passenger cars comprise  otor cars
,a-.,It nnua  production aD all food Comsmodities.                                     seating less than eight persons; e:scludea amhulances, hearses and military
_ ,nocxtA supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from                   vehirles,
enco q- occivalant of net food supplies available in country per capita               Radio .egeivern  (Pen thousand population) - All types of receivers fan radio
en do".  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less                 broadcasts to general public per thousapd of population; excludes unliee.sed
ca. a-c, and =hanges in stock.  Net supplies enclude animal feed, seeds,               receivers in countries  and in years when registration of radio sets was in
tltie   sed  n food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                     effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since mast countries
qaiot-en-t  we.-  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-               abolished licensing.
rol a-t1'.--, and health considering environmental temperature, body                  TV receivers (pot thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to gemerat
.stoban-   age cod se-  distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coun-
ceit w- -tu   at icusehold le-el,                                                        tries and in years when registratiom of TV sets was in effect.
Inn  a=/"-  supplv of Pctoein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                  Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the average circula-
-    --a    a"t suppl  of co-d per day.  Net supply of food in defined ar               tin of "daily general interest newspaper"  defined as a periodical publi-
abn--   F.eqoire-raots for all countries established by USDA provide for                 cation devoted primarily to recording general nes.  It is considered to
d G--:I > .'oWtnce of 6h  grans of total protein per day and 20 gta05                   bh  "daily" if it appears at least four tiens a we.k
cF  -       c- - -d pulse protein, of which 10 gram  should be animal protein.        Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Based on the number of tickets
'I- $ 1-d-s uarc lower cthan those of 75 grams of total protein and                      sold during the year, including admissions ta drive-in cinemas and mobile
23 gdtoc  of  simal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                    units.
FAO to LIi Third World Food Survey.
Petr         ssary rtotein uupaly iron animal and pulse - Protein supply of food       EKPLOYMENT
d-i-id from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                      Total labor force (thousands) - Economically active persons, including armed
m_ld  'ages 1-h) mentaltty rate (par thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                  forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, students, etc.   Defini-
and in  age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group                               tions in various countries are not comparable.
Female (percent) - Female labor force as percentage of total lbkr force.
HtAT_H                                                                                   Agriculture (percent) - labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
nfe oupotacoc at birth (years) - Average number of yearn of life                          as per..ntage of tonal labor   ess.r
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                  Industry (Percent) - Labor force in mining, consroction, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                                electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
infant mortality rate  (par thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                  Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, sale, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                                female labor force as percentages of their respective populations.
iccos-  tc sate water (per-ent of population) - total, urban, and ruTal -                  These are ILO's adjusted participation rates reflecting age-Sen
Number of people (total, urban, and rtral) with reasonable access to                     strocture of the populatice, and long time trend.
oaf- cater supply (includes treated sooface waters or untreated but                   Economic decendency ratio - Ratio of population under 1S snd 65 usd over to
a.- - ., Lcd water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                       the labor forne in age group of 15-64 years.
atd -a  curly all s) 00 percertogas of their re-peotiv- populctions
or urban area a public fountain or standpost located mot more                     INCOME DISTRIBUTION
hs^ '00 'ters fron a hoose may be considered as being eithin re-                   Poncenttne of private inoc..e (both in cash and kind) reecivad by richast S
-        e-aho a-ass of Chat house.  In rural areas reasonable access would              percent, richest 20 peroent, poorest 70 percent, and poorest 40 percent
-    h -'-t the h--ueewifc  cc cmbers of the household do not have to                  of households.
. i Ptvportio .act  part of the day in fetching the fanily's
POVERTT TARGET GROIPS
a X c.. qicoual (percenc of population) - toal, urban, and            Estimated abaolute oent  injcose level (0s5  per capita) - urban and rural -
- co-ple (total, urban, and roral) served by e.Creta                     Absolota povorty income level is that income level bnlrw which a minimal
- contagec oi their r-op-ctivn populations.  Eenta                            nu-tritlonalle adequate diet plus essential non-food requirements is not
-rclude  te coilection cog disposa1, with or without                      affordable.
--  i me  tL ~ura  ocrh-eta ard waste-water by cater-borse systems                   istinutd rio                                 (US$ par capita) -  rban and rurel
--  f  ,it pricier and similar installations.                                    Rel a        tiia povet  iome I   is that income level less than one-third
f._  di,id.d by ..mb.C of provocy murn  nve
i - sicsan-,coiatioa divided by number of ynuctioisg                      per capita ponsonal ln:-or  of tha contr
-    E  qll _f ied Iron.  nredicol schF.ool at universityvmccl.      Estimated ci      cio     ew  aventooone level (Percent) - urban end rural
' 2 nur:X_eytt-  - Population divided by number of                         Percent of populatico  (urban and rural) who are either "absolur t  poor" or
p-           f-. gand ceralo goduaa norees, praccioal nurses, and                "relative poor" ohich.ber is greater.
Ecnonoic and Social DaCa Division
EtCnomic Analysis and Projections Department



ANNEX I
EC0NOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA                                                        Pege 4 of 5 Poles
(I. MilliNoD It US Dolicr-)
T967-69          ~A-tIa                                  fltNtesd                 P-ojectd               _A-era   An-1a Grteh R0,LC5                       A. Perc-n  of 
Averogo         1975             1916            1977             1978            1979             1983        (1967-69)-74   1976-78       1979-83        1975         1978           1983
NATIONAL ACCOUXTS                                                                 1076 Price.  and Etch.n.e N. ts.
Gros  NttoIO  Orodool                   9,660          14,567          15,236           15,971          17,249           1N,391          23,960             6.5          6.4          68          100.0         10.1.          100.0
ScOot Trot, Terms of Toadc '-t)           -751           -699            -                 697             122               78            -145              -            _            _            4.8           2.4            0.6
GrOoss Domestic Inome 8o,909                           I3.NA6          15.236           16b668            67 237         T86             23.815             7.4          7.7          6.6          95           102.4           99.4
000090s (IoC. NON)                      1,NP. C 11acievi 1  2,947       2,302            2,418           2,882            3,187           4,253               .5        11.9          1.5          14.1         1N.7            17 8
torocoo ...o.   N1) TO,                   419c)-       -2.297          -2.792           -3.999           336             -313            -3.789             6.3         IN. I         9.           15.9          1.51.
Nc---OoO.p                                  72           .250            -480             -681            -186               49             464              -            -            -            1.7           2.8            2 .0
.o.....t i-  --di--rco                  7,320          10,908          11.579           12.560          13,309          14,216           18,320            6.5           7.2          6.5          74.9         77.2            76.5
Inv slent  Expenditures )lncl.       1 661          2,740            3,177           3,427            3,876           4,302            5,959           11.7         10.5           8.5          18.8         22.5           24.9
-Z,0010000                          ,9            2,990           3657             4,18            4,362            4,2531          549              10.8          9.2          4.4          25.5         25.3            1.
N00i1 o1  avST    I                      1,509          2,824           3.399            3,881i          4,216            4,064           5,193            111          11. 2         6.2          19.4          24.4           18.7
MERL3AhOISE TRADE                                                                 A-uuI cats at Correct Price.                                                                                         A. Perce- t of To-1
0000001 00010                           29              53              611              827           1,281            1,414           12510.                        38.2         15.1         48.           47.4            41.9
-ter00di-  C. Goods (Excl. F-ele)       254             8093                             77             ,879           1 025            1 802           21.4          9.5          03.1         42.7          32 5            32.1
ad Rltd                 ril               3             15             129              194             253              434             783            11.2         48.9         16.9          1.1            94            140
MdN0.t  0  07                      60            219              214             335              291           _285               399           18.3         16.6          8.8         15.3           10.             7.01
0T-1                 p-o   (LIF)        60           1.425               7            2,128            2,704           3,238            5,611           18.4          24.4         14.7        100.0         101.1          100.0
Of           - 10000                    "IPduc  489  1.393            1.874           2,415            2,952           2,623            3,728            14.5         23.4          9.2         91.1          66.5            79.1
Of    ct9hN d Ooods                     (341)          (764)           I1292          (1,760)         12.084)          (1,771)         (2,044)         (11.71        (27.0)        (3 6        (44.)         (63.29          (403.4)
NTOa-t-oOd Goods                         117            324             381              381             446              505             986            22.3          6.0         18.2         18.9          13.5            7O9.
T0091 8I-OhOnd-Is  Eoports (FO0b)       606           1.717            235             2,796           3,298           31               4,714            16.2         20.9         10.8        100.0         100.0           100.0
107001 OrlTc l0de0                       21,2            73.9           100.0           141.4            135.0            129.1           154.7
000009 00100 00.9cc                      34,0            95.8           100.0            109.6           118.1           125.8            161.8
Te7sso of Ordo 00000                     62.2            77.1           10.            129.0           114.3            102.5            96.1
-ALOE  00DED EY SECTOR (-cto- C-oscl                        Atsl- -  ees aD   1916 _ P.1cc..  ed . Ech...e tRtes                                               A-C1g.e A-001 Growth Notes               As Pereo.t of Totol
A1011011.09                           2,923          4,145            4.224 424 333                    4 719           4'955            6,109            2.8           5.7          5.4         30 39                         20.7
00001cr>. 000 910001    2.427          3.93~     ~     ~~~~3 3.9313     4.887           4.434            4,744           8,430             t7            .2           79         28.3           297O.
Se aice.1                             4 249          5,558            5.945           6.347            6,829           7,233 9548                        5. 9          7.2          7.0         41.1          42.7           43.1
0T-1                                  9599          13,536           14,102          14.764           15,982          16,932           22,020            5.1          6.5           6.8        109.9         100.0           100.0
PU0LIC FINANCE                                                      A-1opt lets at tnant Peri...                                                                                                         As Pmreet of G00
(Cmntral Oooercrcnt)
Cooo Rcc  Ocelplo                     413          1,502            1,670           2,050            2,548           3,335            5,000           29.3          23.5         10.7         10.3          10.7            10.8
_____________________                IZ6z             702             730              936           6.109           f. 73z         72,314            18.l         21.0 7.5                   4.9           4.7             5.0
0          -00000  0i0891,            151                             919           1,119            1,439           1,603            2,686           26.2         25.1          13.8          5.5           6.0             5.0
O0h00  0)bli, Oc-cor SA9NiNg          434             167             -37              -80              19              -95            -155              -                                      I -  1.1
P11 icccor lGoelcert                  612             917           1,135           1,123            1,636           2,003            3,276            6.6          20.1         13.1          6.3           6.9             7.1
00L0C001  IM0ICATO-S                                      1965-70           1976-78        1979,83
(0090001 00r Poojod Sfloeo)
flocag- I000 (B-ced 00 Goose l0.eetlO
1I 0,001 l79  Ciacol d Ot  - Nsr)                    4.25             368            3i.16
E009l-ocoicll                                       1.28              .89           11
MorgiN-l Docc... o Sbvings NIce                         0.20            0.35            0.22
0-001-l Nstional S-0inE  NoNe                         0.14            0.40            0.20
INDnR FORCE AhD OUTFilT FER wokR  In Millioes  i of Tte6;  GreeNA  Nooc                                     06041.9AM AV0 P7RA0t)NC7h. ,                 1976-77                1978
1964           1973         1964           1973            1964-73                                                                                          ________
A1011011000                             2.427           2.051         47.3           30.2            -1.9                                              Alr C01009s                                     28.9                  26.5
I'dustry                                0.958           1 212         18.7           17.8             2.7                                              IoOoeIr. toO Ining                              10.8                 11.1
Service_                                 1.749          3.542         34.0           52.0             8.2                                              P.o9                                              5.5                22.8
00111                                  .5134            6.812        100.0          100,0            3.2                                               TO -osror e-d C- -n i...ien0                    24.2                 o0.3
ClOd                                10~~~~~~~~~~I.5     13.75
V.l.e  Added  -e 80k8r (1976 Prfcto *nd  Eeheere laced 1-.l1 fopeTdl900e0                                                                                   16.1                 15.4
In 1""I" 'lls                    A1 9f Ac-NOA              Cr8h R9.,                                                                                            108.1                100.0
194            1973             1964            1973           i964-71                                             6ONANCINN
. -,r cul--ra                     903          1,517               .,4           85.4            ;,9                                               71b09 Se-tcr 11-.En                            69.5                 73.4
10001900                            1,637         20i,2             135.2           148.6            3,7                                               ScOeroel  oo.rces                               11.7                 16.0
Sarvie                              1.1730        1.546              127.3       _90.                1.2                                               Ol0cr                                           18.6                 10.6
0ota1                               1,359          1.717            17              1DO,.             2.6                                              10t81 F1oOto6og                                100.0                111.0
79,l0 2, 1979



'4  '.58  2.115           "12           "3l,            3,991           3,- 1-32-277722 
I.M  - ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3.  7739
0.732739,                                                             7.24qt.22-  77,74
397           27I             297411         1773            1q7            -7)7                92           20                 2            29               92              22
7777771  707,72. 273)      .277           4.37            7,837~a         2,26            7,722           7.9             3779            3,7471
2.,07,377,~~~~ 72-07            -29   ~ ~ a22                 -72               13              483             67              520            -99             74              -67            -37             -76
.734    -113           ~~-23            -2635          -423             -74             .49             -6               28             30             -36              -4
7,7,7,.. 74.7,7              ..A1            ~~~       ~~.2    371         -..A               .9V8                             2 20                            99              20202
27  23  53             77              34              99              27~~~~~~~~~~~~4  729           162               23             09l             83
-34           -03              -)              933l           -932            -941            -73             -3M33                           -9               48             -3
-~~~  1fl  ~~~~~~  222    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~                      34  ~~~~~3fl                ThE~~~~"           464            73M9
6771           (7             77              77              -,      ~      -9                243             93)             222         -3
7737   2'79   3974   1,75   2976   994)     2,7,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"                                                                                       711,           -:1            1
777,7,77,7,7,, 77,34324,  -  -             -               -               - ~~~~~~~~~~~- -- -79  ----                                                                     -            2
773    432               0      ~      ~~~ 98            3             39              79
770                               .               -               -               -               -               -                -             7288 273  8997I678420
7,7777,   -                -                               -                                                0,3.827107.2,3,.  7797)                     377.3         322.3          337.8           777            77)            72.2           39~~~-9 2-  2  22.1 22.3 2-  2
7,177,77,77, ~~~7,7,7, ~~7,77.77,                                                       0,2,3 9.47,79,,27,977,7,)                  0)7.9          937. 7477.9797.0                            791.73         304.)          97.r~~~~~~~~1 



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 11
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of January 31, 1979)
(US$ million)
Loan                                                              Amount (less Cancellation)
Number  Year  Borrower                           Purpose            Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
46 fully disbursed loans and one IDA credit                        718.8      23.5 /1   --
680     1970  Colombia                           Roads              32.0                3.0
681      1970  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power                 52.3                 .2
738     1971  Empresas Municipales de
Palmira                         Water Supply        2.0                 .3
741     1971  Empresa de Acueducto y
Alcantarillado de Bogota       Water Supply       88.0                 8.4
849     1972  Instituto Colombiano de
la Reforma Agraria             Irrigation           2.2                1.0
860     1972  Instituto de Fomento
Municipal                       Water Supply        9.1                2.8
874      1973  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power                 56.0                9.4
903     1973  Banco de la Republica              Industrial Cr.   60.0                  1.0
920     1973  Colombia                           Education          21.2               12.0
926     1973  Ferrocarriles Nacionales           Railways           25.0                 .7
971      1974  Colombia                          Pre-Investment
Studies          8.0                3.5
1071    1975  Banco de la Republica              Industrial Cr.    5.5                   .1
1072    1975  Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Municipal                       Water Supply       27.0               17.1
1073    1975  Empresa Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones              Communications   15.0                  1.4
1118    1975  Colombia                           Rural Settlement 19.5                 11.2
1163    1975  Colombia                           Agriculture        21.0               17.3
1223    1976  Banco de la Republica              Industrial Cr.   80.0                 29.0
1352    1977  Colombia                           Rural Dev.         52.0               46.1
1357    1977  Banco de la Republica              Agricultural Cr. 64.0                 44.7
1450    1977  Empresa Nacional de                Communications   60.0                 60.0
Telecomunicaciones
1451    1977  Banco de la Republica              Industrial Cr.   15.0                 13.7
1471    1977  Colombia                           Highways           90.0               90.0
1487    1978  Colombia                           Nutrition          25.0               24.4
1523    1978  Empresas Municipales de Cali   Water Supply           13.8               13.8
1558    1978  Colombia                           Urban Develop
ment            24.8               24.8
1582 2/ 1978  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power                 126.0              126.0
1583    1978  Colombia                           Power              50.0               50.0



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 11
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of January 31, 1979) (Continued)
Number  Year  Borrower                          Purpose             Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
1593    1978  Zona Franca Industrial            Industrial
y Comercial de Cartagena         Export          15.0               15.0
1598    1978  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.  100.0               100.0
1624 /2 1979  Colombia                          Airports          61.0               61.0
1628 /3 1979  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                      Power             84.0       _       84.0
TOTAL                                           2,023.2      23.5
Of which has been repaid                          392.3       1.7
Total now outstanding                           1,630.9      21.8
Amount sold                         49.7
Of which has been repaid            21.4            28.3
TOTAL NOW HELD BY BANK AND IDA                  1,602-6      21.8
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                                                    871.9
/1   Includes exchange adjustment of US$4.0 million.
/2   Not yet effective.
/3   Not yet signed.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 11
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of February 28, 1979)
Type of          Amount in US$ million
Year               Obligor                    Business         Loan   Equity   Total
1959       Laminas del Caribe, S.A.           Fiber-board      0.50       -      0.50
1960-1965  Industrias Alimenticias
Noel, S.A.                      Food products   1.99   0.08         2.07
1961       Envases Colombianos, S.A.         Metal cans        0.70       -      0.70
1961-1968  Morfeo-Productos para el
Hogar, S.A.                     Home furniture  0.08   0.09        0.17
1961       Electromanufacturas, S.A.          Electrical
equipment      0.50      -       0.50
1962       Corporacion Financiera             Development
Colombiana                        financing         -   2.02       2.02
1962-1963  Corporacion Financiera             Development         -   2.04       2.04
Nacional                          financing
1963-1967  Compania Colombiana de             Textiles         1.98   0.15       2.13
1968-1969 Tejidos, S.A.
1964-1970  Corporacion Financiera de         Development
Caldas                            financing         -   0.81       0.81
1964-1968  Forjas de Colombia, S.A.           Steel forging       -   1.27       1.27
1966       Almacenes Generales de             Warehousing      1.00       -      1.00
Deposito Santa Fe, S.A.
1966       Industria Ganadera                Livestock         1.00   0.58       1.58
Colombiana, S.A.
1967-70-74 ENKA de Colombia, S.A.             Textiles         5.00   2.60       7.61
1969       Compania de Desarrollo de         Tourism              -   0.(1       0.01
Hoteles y Turismo, Ltda.
(HOTURISMO)
1969-1973  Corporacion Financiera del         Development         -   0.45       0.45
Norte                             financing
1969       Corporacion Financiera del         Development         -   0.43       0.43
Valle                             financing
1970       Promotora de Hoteles de           Tourism           0.23   0.11       0.34
Turismo Medellin, S.A.
1970-1977  Pro-Hoteles, S.A.                  Tourism          0.80   0.25       1.05
1973-1975  Corporacion Colombiana de          Housing             -   0.46       0.46
Ahorro y Vivienda
1974       Cementos Boyaca, S.A.              Cement           1.50       -      1.50
1975       Cementos del Caribe, S.A.          Cement           3.60       -      3.60
1976       Las Brisas                        Mining            6.00       -      6.00
1977       Promotora de la Interconexion
de los Gasoductos de la
Costa Atlantica S.A.            Utilities       13.00   2.00       15.00
1977       Compania Colombiana de Clinker, Cement and
S.A.                                Construction
Material       2.43      -       2.43
Total Gross Commitments                           40.31  13.35       53.66
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                            27.28   8.24      35.52
Total commitments now held by IFC                 13.03   5.11       18.14
Total undisbursed                                   -        -         -



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 11
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
1.   Ln No. 680 Highways VI; US$32 million, June 1970.
Effective date: March 29, 1971
Closing date:    original - November 30, 1974
current - November 30, 1980
The largest component of the project, the paving program, has
experienced considerable cost increases and delays. As of this writing,
six sections in the program are still under construction, requiring about
190 km of paving. Project completion is now expected for end-1980. The other
components of the project were completed with much less delay. The Government
is actively considering taking several actions to complete the program. As of
January 31, 1979, US$29.0 million (91% of the total) had been disbursed.
2.   Ln No. 738 Palmira Water Supply and Sewerage; US$2 million, May 1971.
Effective date: December 29, 1971
Closing Date:    original - March 1, 1975
current - December 31, 1979
As of January 31, 1979, about 85% of the loan amount was disbursed.
The original project works were completed at lower cost than originally esti-
mated. The savings in the loan of about US$450,000 are being used to finance
supplementary sewerage works which were already identified during project
appraisal.
3.   Ln No. 741 Water Supply (Bogota II); US$88 million, May 1971.
Effective date: August 16, 1971
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1978
current - December 31, 1980
All works are progressing satisfactorily and expected to be completed
by the end of 1980. Completion of the Chuza-Ventana tunnel section, however, is
expected to be completed by mid-1981. Disbursements up to January 31, 1979,
amounted to about 90% of the loan amount.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 11
4.   Ln No. 849 Irrigation (Atlantico II); US$5 million, June 1972.
Effective date: November 14, 1972
Closing Date:    March 31, 1978
The project is the second phase of a scheme to develop about 17,000
ha of seasonally inundated land for agricultural production. At the request
of the Government, US$2.8 million of the loan of US$5.0 million were cancelled
in February 1977. Work is continuing on additional feeder roads, tertiary
canal drains, waterfronts, land clearing, subsoiling and leveling. Two
contractors defaulted delaying work on the main drainage canal though a new
contract was recently signed. Settlement of farmers within the project areas
and the provision of technical assistance and farm credit have been making
inadequate progress. It is being considered to extend the closing date once
the Government provides appropriate assurances that the above delays and
problems will bew resolved.
5.   Ln No. 860 Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$9.1
million, October 1972.
Effective date: March 7, 1973
Closing Date:    original - September 30, 1976
current - September 30, 1978
As of January 31, 1979, about 70% of the loan amount was disbursed.
Management problems affected the initiation of the project, but progress has
since improved. Delay in receiving budgetary funds as a result of the
Government's economic stabilization measures also slowed down project execution.
Postponement of the closing date to September 30, 1980 is under consideration.
6.   Ln No. 874 Guatape II Hydroelectric Power Project; US$56 million,
January 1973.
Effective date: March 13, 1973
Closing Date:    original - December 31, 1978
current - December 31, 1979
The progress of the work has been generally satisfactory except for
delays in the resettlement of El Penol and Guatape villages because of the
villagers' reluctance to move into the new cities. This problem is now re-
solved and filling of the Santa Rita reservoir was carried out in May 1978,
three years behifid schedule. The revised project cost is substantially above
appraisal estimate, mainly occasioned by higher cost by the civil works. The
Borrower experienced financial problems but, since the start of 1978, adopted
substantial tariff increases and has been able to overcome them. Project
completion is now expected for June 1979. As of January 31, 1979, US$46.6 million
or 83% of the Loan amount had been disbursed.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 11
7.   Ln No. 903 Development Finance Companies V; US$60 million, May 1973.
Effective date: November 9, 1973
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1977
current - June 30, 1979
The loan is fully committed. Disbursements are expected to be
completed within the next few months. As of January 31, 1979, only US$1.0
million equivalent remained undisbursed.
8. Ln No. 920 Education III; US$21.2 million, July 1973.
Effective date: January 10, 1974
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1977
current - December 31, 1979
The execution of the project had been suspended in mid-1975 pending
redefinition of sector priorities by the Government. Project execution resumed
in 1977 but suffered continuous delays. In June 1978, the Government submitted
a proposal to reduce the scope of the project and to cancel a large portion of
the loan. However, the new administration, which came to office in August 1978,
retracted the proposal and decided to proceed with the project as originally
conceived. Project execution is now expected to proceed normally and total
project cost is projected to remain close to the appraisal estimate.
9.   Ln. No. 926 Sixth Railway Project:  US$25 million, August 1973.
Effective date: December 6, 1973
Closing date:  original - June 30, 1976
current - August 31, 1979
The freight traffic in ton-km has increased by 6% in 1978 over 1977,
whereas pass-km of passenger traffic is likely to show a decrease of about 12%
due to the discontinuance of several uneconomic passenger train services.
Freight tariffs increased by 25% in 1979; passenger fares are expected to
increase by 25% shortly. CNR's operating ratio improved to 122.0 in 1978 from
147 in 1976. Average long-haul and train load have increased; staff has been
further reduced to 10,895 by September 1978 as against the last appraisal
target of 11,200 in 1976. Locomotive availability has deteriorated to an
all-time low of 55% due to engine failures in certain types of locomotives and
the shortage of urgently required spare parts. At the same time, an acute short-
age of cash to buy spare parts, together with high debt service charges and
increasing operating costs aggravated the situation. The Government is assisting
the railways financially and is studying corrective measures. As of January 31,
1979 only about US$800,000 of the loan amount remained undisbursed.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 11
10. Ln No. 971 Preinvestment Studies Project; US$8 million, March 1974.
Effective date: June 27, 1974
Closing Date:    original - December 31, 1978
current - December 31, 1979
In spite of slow start, commitments are now proceeding at a satis-
factory rate. The Bank has approved 26 sub-projects and all sub-loans are now
underway. As of January 31, 1979, US$4.5 million or 56% of the loan had been
disbursed.
11. Ln No. 1072 Second Multi-City Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$27
million, January 1975.
Effective date: April 14, 1975
Closing Date:    June 30, 1980
There were substantial delays in making the eight subloans effective.
The last subloan (Barranquilla) was made effective on September 9, 1976.
After a slow start, project implementation is progressing satisfactorily in
most cities, although rapid project execution has been affected by the Govern-
ment's economic stabilization measures. Works under this loan are expected to
be completed by March 1980. As of January 31, 1979, US$9.9 million or 37% of
the Loan had been disbursed.
12. Ln No. 1073 Telecommunications III; US$15 million, January 1975.
Effective date: April 14, 1975
Closing Date:    Original - December 31, 1978
Current - June 30, 1979
Contracts for all Bank-financed goods have been awarded, and work
is proceeding satisfactorily. Though many of the project works have been
commissioned and are earning revenue, project completion is not expected until
June 1981 because of slow procurement and delays in building construction. As
of January 31, 1979, only US$1.4 million equivalent or 9% of the Loan remained
undisbursed.
13. Ln No. 1118 Caqueta Rural Settlement Project; US$19.5 million, June 1975.
Effective date: April 1, 1976
Closing Date:    October 31, 1979
The loan became effective on April 1, 1976, after a six-month delay.
Project execution has proceeded rapidly and some of the lost time regained.
Road and bridge construction is well ahead of schedule (79 km have been
completed). School construction, however, is behind schedule, while the
credit program is lagging as a result of inadequate budgetary flows. As of
January 31, 1979, US$11.2 million or 57% of the loan remained undisbursed.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 11
14. Ln No. 1163 Cordoba 2 Agricultural Development Project; US$21 million,
September 1975.
Effective Date:   March 30, 1976
Closing Date:      June 30, 1981
A few months after effectiveness, the Government decided to give
responsibility for project civil works to another agency. This decision
delayed the initiation of the project. Implementation is now proceeding
satisfactorily, but still behind schedule. As of January 31, 1979, US$3.7
million equivalent of the Loan amount had been disbursed.
15. Ln No. 1223 Sixth Development Finance Companies Project; US$80.0 million,
March 1976.
Effective Date:   September 1, 1976
Closing Date:      June 30, 1980
The loan is proceeding satisfactorily and is virtually committed.
As of January 31, 1979, about 64% of the Loan had been disbursed.
16. Ln No. 1352 Integrated Rural Development Project; US$52.0 million,
January 1977.
Effective Date: August 26, 1977
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The project is now in its third year of implementation and is fully
operational. The core components of credit, technical assistance and training
are exceeding targets and institutional coordination is effective. The
forestry and water supply components have suffered some delays. Administrative
procedures, such as procurement and disbursement, continue to present some
difficulties, but these are much less serious than in the first year. Control
and monitoring of the physical and financial progress of the project is
comprehensive, but there is not yet a sound basis for evaluation of the
project; special studies are scheduled for the fall of 1978 to improve this
situation. As of January 31, 1979, only US$5.9 million equivalent, or 11%, of
the Loan had been disbursed.
17. Ln No. 1357 Second Agricultural Credit Project; US$64.0 million, February
1977.
Effective Date: September 6, 1977.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1981.
Nearly all the funds assigned to medium and large farmers have been
committed. The Borrower has recently taken steps to speed up the commitment
of funds to small farmers which should be fully committed by 1980. Concern



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 11
over possibilities of diversion and substitution of funds led the Borrower to
substantially increase its end-use supervision. Also, inflation has come
down and interest rates have been recently raised to levels at which real
interest rates are positive. About half of funds for credit to agroindustries
have been committed for 48 subloans.
18. Ln. No. 1450 Telecommunications IV; US$60 million, July 1977.
Effective Date: October 3, 1977.
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982.
The project has been delayed as a result of a series of personnel
changes of the Borrower. Current activities are concentrated on the procure-
ment of project goods, the planning of cable networks, and design of buildings
to house equipment.
19. Ln. No. 1451 Second Small-Scale Industry Project; US$15 million,
September 1977.
Effective Date: February 14, 1978.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1980.
After initial delays in loan effectiveness due mainly to management
turnover, project implementation has gone smoothly and by March 1979 about
US$7.3 million of Bank funds had been committed. As of January 31, 1979,
US$1.3 million had been disbursed.
20. Ln. No. 1471 Highways VII; US$90 million, July 1977.
Effective Date: November 28, 1977.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The Project comprises three main programs: rehabilitation, main-
tenance, and vehicle weight control. The rehabilitation program has slipped
by about 18 months. Preliminary stabilization and drainage works are complete;
contracts for 14 of the 34 construction lots have been signed and some works
have commenced. The maintenance program has slipped 21 months and has yet to
commence. Proposals from consultants to assist MOPT in executing the program
are being evaluated. The vehicle weight control program has experienced
a 9-month delay but progress is now satisfactory. No disbursements have yet
been made but documentation to disburse about US$4.0 million are being
processed by the Mlinistry of Finance.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 11
21. Ln. No. 1487 Integrated Nutrition Improvement Project; US$25 million,
September 1977.
Effective Date: March 9, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Significant progress has been achieved in the major components of
health, nutrition education and water supply. Initial delays occurred in two
subsidiary components--home food production and food quality control--but
activities are now underway. Project management and coordination have been
sound, flexible and effective. Management and evaluation systems are operating
effectively.
22.       Ln. No. 1523 Second Cali Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$13.8
million, June 1978.
Effective Date: January 31, 1979
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Progress in design and tendering is slow and project implementation
has been delayed one year. EMCALI's financial position deteriorated during
the second half of 1978; the recent tariff increase will not be sufficient to
cover the forecast cash deficit in 1979 and the 3% rate of return for water
supply and sewerage covenanted for 1979 may not be reached. EMCALI's manage-
ment is considering the action which should be taken to solve this problem.
23.       Ln. No. 1558 Urban Development Project; US$24.8 million, July 1978.
Effective Date: December 1, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
The 1978 changes in Government led to corresponding staff changes in
the executing agency and to slow project start; implementation is now running
about 12 months behind schedule. Work is under way in six out of the 23 cities
and it is expected that ten more will come on stream this year.
24.       Ln. No. 1582 San Carlos I Hydro Power Project; US$126 million,
July 1978.
This loan was signed on July 14, 1978, and became effective on
April 5, 1979.
25.       Ln. No. 1583 500 kV Interconnection Project; US$50 million, July 1978.
Effective Date: October 17, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Project works have recently been initiated and are proceeding on
schedule.



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 11
26.       Ln. No. 1593 Cartagena Industrial Export Processing Zone; US$15
million, August 1978.
Effective Date: January 30, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1983
Project implementation has been delayed because of procurement
problems; now that a number of contracts have been signed, work is expected
to proceed without delay.
27.       Ln. No. 1598 Seventh Development Finance Companies Project;
US$100 million, July 1978.
Effective Date: November 28, 1978
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
About US$7 million has already been committed for subproject
financing, and an additional US$30 million is presently being processed.
28.      Ln. No. 1624 Airports Project; US$61 million, October 1978.
This loan was signed on December 29, 1978 but has not yet become
effective. Implementation is off to a good start and if effectiveness
is achieved before May, disbursements should be made as estimated.
29.       Ln. No. 1628 Mesitas Hydroelectric Power Project; US$84 million,
November 1978.
This loan was signed on April 9, 1979, but has not yet become
effective.
April 10, 1979



- 44 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
SECOND (CARTAGENA) URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:          36 months
(b)  Agency which prepared project:          Instituto de Credito Territorial
(ICT) under supervision of National
Planning Department (DNP)
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:        July 1975
(d)  First mission to review project:       February 1978
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:        April 10, 1978
(f)  Completion of Negotiations:            April 5, 1979
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:         September 30, 1979
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1.        Assurances have been obtained that:
(a) a project management unit will be maintained in ICT until project
completion, to ensure coordination of all agencies participating
in project execution, to monitor project progress and to evaluate
its results (para. 54);
(b) ICT will enter into agreements with the several ministries and
agencies participating in the project to provide for their
respective implementing responsibilities and for the channeling
of Government and Bank funds (paras. 54, 57 and 58);
(c) ICT loans to the project beneficiaries will be made on terms
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 61);
(d) 55% of total investment costs will be recovered (para. 64);
(e) transfers of land titles to project beneficiaries will start
not later than January 1, 1981 (para. 51);



- 45 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(f) reports will be prepared to monitor changes in the economic
condition of project beneficiaries (para. 55); and
(g) a study will be undertaken and a program will be prepared to
strengthen ICT's financial condition (para. 62).
2.        The execution and delivery of the agreements referred to in
paragraph l(b) above will be a condition of loan effectiveness (para. 54).






IBRD-13509R
ThptRh7onfb.p,.p,rd by tho WxddBo,,ko of    t   ttr4exrho  'oofwrxo                                                          COLOMBIA                          OCTOBER  1978
of  ,ooa r  of to ,opo,t to hkhl it 10 atttthod TOo ~O70n0Ot;ttiO  ,,d~                                                     BAN   IRADDr]9  7          N
bo;,*ido  rhown o thitS r, do -tr !otply, on the Pno o f MeWoWBomkoft it/                        CARTAGENA  URBAN   IMPROVEMENT  PROJECT
deXowx." .r,, jdg00000 eto 1.0e xsas,o of any twmiwy Ot *tt e,,,0xgm9ot o
tee0o0eacs of xOh hooodobda
Existing road to be improved
/  r  -   Proposed water trunk mains
Approximate limit of catchment area of
external drainage canals
Future roads
CAR/1BEANV           sEA                                                                                 External drainage ditches to be canalized
"-5 ,4  Project area (For details see IBRD 13510)
Main access roads
Secondary road
Built-up areas (City of Cartagena)
Other built-up areas
Air   t
KILOMETERS
/       I, 2               ,              \                                         M I L E S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 
MILES
re/<,,,,. -,   I  |   TlPsc<7  targoon  X                                                  To.Brronquillo
</zToltCa          LA POPA  _ _
,@, - ~~~~~~HILL  -/-
10'25
NDE~~~~~~~~
7 \ 0 . \ SA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N SEBASTIAN
9           \               \   ~~~    ~    ~ ~~EL AM A\
\\  A"\ /                \\                       \
oo    o                                                                                                           . t     I \
CAf ARISA  4'0M4'A                                                            fiw t3ge                                                                                V  \\ 
processingT \                                                                                                            7525
~~~VtNTStt,_:, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ 8  Co,bx li~                                        / , TONiA5
CARtBBEANV             SEA                                                                                                                                    & \  w-Carl4bean<;7  '-   Sea   tt*TO8l/^AAS
.              Q                                                            e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tono<io  i,sT 9         a
Export   t'                                                 j     k          stt~~~~~~~~ VE N E ZtJEA   ,
C i  a a    CO 1MB IA          MONS
)   \ .                    ~~~~7530'                                         LSi   L. R. U       <.*-         Miv SS



