Document of
The World Bank
FILE COPY
Report No. 2255b-CO
COLOMBIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND (CARTAGENA) URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 18, 1979
Urban Projects Department
This report may not be published nor may it be quoted as representing the views of the World Bank.
The World Bank does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Average Calendar 1978 (estimate)         1979-83 Average
Currency unit = Colombian peso (Col$)           Col$
US$1.00       = Col$ 39.270                     46.20
Col$ 1.00     = US$0.0255                        0.0216
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Met-ric System
GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCH              Banco Central Hipotecario
BP                Banco Popular
CAIP              Integrated Pre-School Care Center
CDV               Centro de Desarrollo Vecinal (Neighborhood Development
Center)
CFP               Corporacion Financiera Popular
CORELCA           Corporacion Electrica de la Costa Atlantica
DNP               National Planning Department
DRI               Integrated Rural Development Program
ELECTRIBOL       Electrificadora de Bolivar
EPMC              Empresas Publicas Municipales de Cartagena
EPZ               (Cartagena) Export Processing Zone
ICBF              Institute of Family Welfare
ICCE              Institute of School Construction
ICT              Instituto de Credito Territorial (National Urban
Housing Authority)
IDB               Inter-American Development Bank
IGAC              Instituto Geografico "Agustin Codazzi" (National Geographic
Institute)
INSFOPAL         Instituto Nacional de Fomento Municipal
IPC              Program of Integration of Services and Community Participation
MAC               Basic Module of Health Care
PAN              National Food and Nutrition Program
PHIZSU            Plan for Integrated Servicing of Substandard Urban Areas
SENA              Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje (National Training Service)
SIP               Secretaria de Integracion Popular
UPAC              Unit of Constant Purchasing Power
UNDP              United Nations Development Programme
UPE               Employment and Productivity Unit
ZFIC              Zona Franca Industrial y Comercial de Cartagena



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
SECOND (CARTAGENA) URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   SECTOR BACKGROUND .................................                   1
A.   National Urban Strategies  ......................               1
B.   Bank Involvement in Urban Sector ...             ............   2
C.   Development and Planning in the North
Bolivar Region ......       ....................             3
D.   Urbanization in Cartagena ......................                3
II.    THE PROJECT .........................................                7
A.   Project Concept and Setting ..................          ..      7
B.   General Description .          . ........................       8
C.   Detailed Features ..............................                9
III.    COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS ....            .......    19
A.   Cost Estimates .................................               19
B.   Financing Plan .................................               20
C.   Procurement .....................                              23
D.    Disbursement .......         ............................     23
IV.   MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION .......................    25
A.    Project Management .........         ....................     25
B.   Project Implementation .........................    28
V.    FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .................           .................    32
A.    Introduction ........        ...........................    32
B.    Special Aspects of ICT's Financial Structure ...              35
C.    Cost Recovery .................          .................    38
D.   Affordability           ..................................    41
E.    Replicability .................          .................    43
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that
visited Colombia in April 1978. The mission consisted of Messrs. B. Gouveia,
0. Grimes, E. Canessa, G. C. Guarda, R. Wildeman, and Ms. E. Sebastian.
Additional field work was undertaken in May 1978 and January 1979. The report
was prepared by the mission.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



VI.  ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS ....     ..............    43
A.  General Justification and Project Benefits         43
B.  Rate of Return Calculations       ..................  45
C.  Employment  Aspects  .................. ...........  46
D.  Urban Poverty Impacts ............. .............    47
E.  Constraints, Limitations, and Risks ........... .    48
VII.   SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS AND LOAN CONDITIONS   ......    48
ANNEXES
Annex 1.  ICT:  Administrative Organization of Headquarters
Annex 2:  Implementation Schedule
Annex 3:  Selected Documents and Data
Available in the Project File
PHOTOGRAPHS
MAPS



I. SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. National Urban Strategies
1.01      Colombia is predominantly an urban nation.  Over 60 percent of
its population now lives in cities, defined as communities of at least 2,500
inhabitants.   If present trends continue, this proportion could reach 86
percent by 1990. Unlike many other countries, particularly elsewhere in Latin
America and in East Asia, urban growth has not been confined to one or even a
few dominant centers. Bogota' in 1970 accounted for 33.5 percent of the
population of localities with 10,000 or more people, a much lower figure than
for the largest cities of Venezuela (56.1 percent), Argentina (63.7 percent),
and Peru (84.2 percent). With thirty cities at or above populations of
50,000, Colombia shows an unusually dispersed pattern of urban growth.
1.02      Depending upon perceptions of how much of this growth should be
concentrated in the four largest cities of Bogota', Medellin, Cali, and Barran-
quilla, successive administrations have placed varying emphasis on decentraliza-
tion. The concern of the 1966-70 government with redirecting growth away from
Bogota and decentralizing industry was reversed by the Pastrana administration
(1970-74), during which the reduction of disparities in income and service
levels among different groups of the population was pursued through the
encouragement of urban construction and other sectors with strong growth and
employment impacts. Institutional reforms in Colombian financial markets,
especially the introduction of savings accounts and certificates denominated
in Units of Constant Purchasing Power (UPACs) and hence indexed for inflation,
channelled large amounts of resources into urban housing. As a result, the
construction sector between 1970 and 1974 grew at a historically high annual
rate of 8.9 percent.
1.03      The Lopez administration (1974-78) was also concerned with reducing
the concentration of population and economic activity in the largest cities.
The National Food and Nutrition Program (PAN) and Integrated Rural Development
Program (DRI) assisted by two Bank loans are carrying out programs of basic
infrastructure, support services, and technology to increase productivity in
rural areas and, as a by-product, make less compelling the urge to migrate to
the cities. Incentives for industrial development are being offered to
encourage firms to locate in intermediate-sized urban areas. Recently this
encouragement appears to have been somewhat more selective, to achieve a
closer match between the firms' demand for labor and the skill levels of the
local labor force. Together with control of inflation, local employment
generation is in fact a major focus of current programs to improve living
conditions for the poorest 50% of the population.
Upgrading Programs
1.04      Additional elements of these programs aimed at upgrading the quality
of services in intermediate-sized and smaller cities are being carried out by
the Secretaria de Integracron Popular (SIP) and the Colombian urban housing
authority Instituto de Credito Territorial (ICT). The former supervises the
Program of Integration of Services and Community Participation (IPC) being



- 2-
supported by the Bank's first urban project in Colombia (see Staff Appraisal
Report No. 1681a-CO, April 10, 1978), for which a loan of $24.8 million
equivalent was approved by the Executive Directors on April 27, 1978. ICT,
following a comprehensive inventory of slum conditions in 69 Colombian cities, 1/
has established special lines of credit for public utilities, home improve-
ments, and legalization of tenure which together with provision of community
facilities and technical assistance are administered under the Plan for
Integrated Servicing of Substandard Urban Areas (PHIZSU).
B. Bank Involvement in Urban Sector
1.05      A number of Bank-assisted projects have had direct impacts on the
capacity of national institutions to foster increases in labor productivity
and improve living conditions in Colombian cities. Recent water supply and
sewerage and industrial finance projects are particularly relevant to the urban
sector and this project.
1.06      Thus far the Bank has made two loans amounting to US$36.1 million
to the national water supply and sewerage agency Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Municipal (INSFOPAL), to support water supply and sewerage projects in 15
medium-size cities and 30 towns. Cartagena was included in the second of these
loans (No. 1072-CO), and is carrying out works to increase water production
capacity in the city. A third loan to INSFOPAL, currently under consideration,
would improve further the efficiency of production and distribution networks
in 23 cities including Cartagena.
1.07      A loan to support the development of an Export Processing Zone (EPZ)
in Cartagena was approved by the Executive Directors on June 13, 1978 (Loan No.
1593-CO). This project is expected to have a significant impact on employment
generation in the Cartagena metropolitan area and will directly and indirectly
benefit the target population of the presently proposed project in the S.E.
Zone of Cartagena and the community of Pasacaballos located adjacent to the
EPZ. Two other Bank loans are supporting the lending and technical assistance
programs of Corporacion Financiera Popular (CFP), the major financial institu-
tion in Colombia involved with assisting small-scale industry.
1.08      As mentioned above, a loan for an urban project -- now being
executed -- which aims to improve the quality of services to the residents of
27 substandard areas in 23 intermediate size cities was approved by the
Executive Directors in April 1978 (Loan No. 1558-CO). The proposed project
in Cartagena, which had originally been included among these cities but was
subsequently made the focus of a separate project, closely follows the approach
to upgrading developed under the first urban project. Because of the unique
physical environment, the Cartagena project required more technical studies
and designs for civil works than the first project.
1/   Inventario de Zonas Subnormales de Vivienda y Proyectos de Desarrollo
Progresivo, Instituto de Credito Territorial, 1972.



- 3 -
C. Development and Planning in the North Bolivar Region
1.09      The Department of Bolivar, whose largest city, capital, and port is
Cartagena, lags slightly behind the rest of the country in per capita income
but in recent years has experienced an acceleration in growth. Based on a
national average of 100, the index of per capita GDP in Bolivar in 1964 was
88, compared with 159 in the Special District of Bogotd', 101 in neighboring
Atlantico department, 71 in the interior department of Boyaca, and 52 on the
Guajira Peninsula. Primary production (mainly commercial deep sea fishing),
trade, tourism, and particularly manufacturing, centered on the refining and
petrochemicals complex at Mamonal near Cartagena, have been the most dynamic
sectors since that time. Departmental GDP in nominal terms has expanded
slightly faster since 1950 than for the nation as a whole (5.7% vs. 5.2%), but
from 1970 to 1975 grew at over 8 percent annually.
1.10      Concentrated as it is in capital-intensive manufacturing and other
activities using relatively little labor, this growth has not resulted in
enough jobs to absorb new entrants into the departmental labor force. Un-
employment in areas of Bolivar outside Cartagena, which averaged about
24% at the time of the 1972 census, has encouraged an outflow of department
residents toward Cartagena and interior cities such as Medellin.  To elaborate
a strategy for controlling migration into Cartagena itself and orient the
development of the Cartagena region, the department created the North Bolivar
Regional Planning and Development Council in August 1977. Assisted by UNDP,
the Regional Council has begun preparation of a comprehensive development
plan for the region surrounding Cartagena. Although still in the formative
stages, the plan is expected to include strategies for provision of basic
services, community facilities, and employment in 14 smaller towns surrounding
Cartagena, so that they may become viable reception centers for migrants.
One such town is Pasacaballos, a community of 5,400 people located adjacent to
the proposed Bank-assisted Export Processing Zone (EPZ) south of Cartagena and
thus squarely in the path of expansion from EPZ operations. A program of
investments to improve the physical and social environment of Pasacaballos has
accordingly been drawn up in advance of specific proposals for the 13 other
towns, and is included in the proposed project.
D. Urbanization in Cartagena
Introduction
1.11      With a current population estimated at 400,000, Cartagena contains
about 40% of the residents of Bolivar department. Founded in 1533, the city
has had a long and often tumultuous history as the chief Atlantic transshipment
point for the mineral wealth of the Spanish colonial empire. Fortifications
surrounding the old city were begun in 1586 and completed two centuries later,
having meanwhile been destroyed several times by storms and pirate attacks;
today they enhance the city's attractiveness for tourists. From this fortified
central core, Cartagena has expanded northward and particularly to the south



- 4-
and east, where large numbers of squatters -- beneficiaries of the proposed
project -- have settled on floodplains adjacent to a tidal lagoon.
Income and Employment
1.12      A high-productivity, capital-intensive refining and manufaturing
sector whose output increased by over 200 percent from 1960 to 1975, combined
with expansion of facilities to accommodate the tourist industry, have been
the main sources of Cartagena's recent growth. The labor force in manufac-
turing grew at about 6% a year during the 1970s and now accounts for about
35% of the employed population. Private and government services comprised
an additional 42% in 1973 and absorbed 61% of the migrants to Cartagena who
succeeded in finding work.
1.13      Cartagena's economic advantages in employment over other small towns
and rural areas of the North Coast is such that despite this record of growth,
problems of labor absorption and poverty remain critical. Like the resident
population of Cartagena, migrants tend to be concentrated in younger age
groups and to have few marketable skills, resulting in a high dependency
ratio and, in turn, an economically active population of only 26.3 percent of
the total.  Of the 2,600 jobs at the refining, petrochemical, and caustic soda
complex at Mamonal, more than three quarters have gone to workers from other
major cities recruited for their greater skills and experience. Cartagena
residents often end up in low-paying or irregular jobs in the informal sector
or among the unemployed.
1.14      This situation should improve somewhat as training and work force
upgrading programs are carried out within the project to develop the EPZ
south of the Mamonal industrial center near the town of Pasacaballos (see
Map 13509R and Staff Appraisal Report No. 1973b-CO, May 24, 1978). Vocational
and on-the-job training programs developed by the National Training Service
(SENA) will help meet the specific manpower needs of the EPZ. The Cartagena
Industrial and Commercial Free Zone (ZFIC), managing entity of the EPZ, will
undertake a promotional effort to increase awareness of the skills demanded by
firms and of training opportunities in the Cartagena region, including the
S.E. Zone.
1.15      For the present, however, Cartagena has taken on even more the
appearance of a "city of low-income settlements." According to a 1977 estimate,
46% of Cartagena families had incomes below the Bank relative poverty minimum.
Nor has there typically been much scope for labor absorption in informal sector
pursuits; artisanal activity occupies only about 4 percent of the population
reported as employed. The major alternative to jobs with high skill require-
ments has been periodic wage employment in the service sector, particularly
domestic services, and in construction.
Construction and Housing
1.16      Cartagena's qualitative housing deficit (i.e., the number of sub-
standard dwelling units) has probably increased from an estimated 11,900 units
in 1964 to 13,500 today. About three quarters of these units are in the S.E.



-5-
Zone project area. Perhaps 500 other poor families have settled along the
brackish Juan Angola canal, in otherwise lower-middle to middle-income neigh-
borhoods. A few smaller settlements at the city's eastern periphery make up
the remaining squatter population.
1.17      Although expanding relatively rapidly in recent years, the construc-
tion sector in Cartagena has concentrated primarily on luxury apartments and
hotels to accommodate tourism. Private sector construction in 1971 accounted
for 60 percent of the amount invested in housing in the city, but only 11 per-
cent of the units constructed. Accordingly, neither middle-income nor low-
income housing needs have been met over the past two decades.
1.18      Efforts of the Cartagena branch of ICT (Colombia's urban housing
authority) to serve these income ranges have been gradually increasing. Over
the past two years ICT/Cartagena has completed or begun construction of about
4,000 units, including 1,350 finished houses in the US$2,500 to US$4,000
range, in locations throughout the city. A major middle-class housing and
upgraded commercial center is being built in the Chambacu urban renewal area
near downtown, where by May 1973 substandard dwellings had been eradicated
and 4,000 families relocated. ICT plans to build an additional 5,000 single
family and multi-family units at a 49 ha site south of the city acquired from
the Club Campestre, many of which will likely be acquired by higher-level
workers at the EPZ.
1.19      ICT/Cartagena has also given increased attention to low-income
housing, though on a smaller scale thus far. Originally the agency did not
consider its mandate as broader than technical and financial assistance in
low-cost housing construction. The emphasis at present is more comprehensive,
encompassing integrated community development and productivity in closer
cooperation with training and social service agencies.
Low-Income Settlements: The S. E. Zone and Pasacaballos
1.20      The S. E. Zone.  Taking advantage of the chance to live at a loca-
tion with excellent access to employment and markets, squatters over several
decades have settled about 355 ha. of mud flats along the shore of the Tesca
lagoon in southeastern Cartagena (see Map 13509R). Originally, the area could
be described as a linear swamp extending 6.5 km in length and about 400 m
wide, clearly defined by a sandbar which marks the actual shore of the lagoon.
Today its population numbers approximately 80,000 persons, more than half of
whom have lived in the area 9 years or longer.
1.21      In money terms, S. E. Zone families live quite cheaply.  A monthly
income which places a family in the 56th percentile of the S. E. Zone income
distribution ranks at the 10th percentile of the national urban distribution.
These families nonetheless pay a high price in terms of repercussions from the
unhealthy and precarious living conditions they must face. Their dwellings
are subject to periodic tidal incursions and lie in the path of storm water
runoff from hills immediately behind the2area.  Floor spice in the pre-
dominantly two-room dwellings of 20-50 m 2averages 5-8 m  per person, less
than the U.N. recommended minimum of 10 m per person.



- 6-
1.22      Prior to the filling operations begun in 1977, most of the area
was below flood level. Since the average depth of the swamp was no more
than 20-40 cm, settlers had gradually filled lots through their own labor,
by dumping dirt, stones, rice husks, and demolition debris. The mode of
settlement has tended to be incremental along the entire area and has evolved
in a finger-like pattern, sometimes reaching all the way to the sand bar along
the banks of several drainage ditches crossing the area (see photographs).
Timber shacks have been erected on the small islands thus formed.  Over time,
considerable improvements are made to the initial shack, which is often
plastered up if not replaced by light masonry structures, with neighboring
spaces also filled in.
1.23      However, the level of the areas so consolidated remains too low for
efficient runoff of surface water or for installation of utilities. Even
during the dry season, trickles of domestic effluents (from kitchen sinks,
outhouses, etc.) crisscross the area and often'form large pools of stagnant
water. During the rainy season, the combined effect of exceptionally high
tides in the lagoon and the heavy storm runoff from a vast hinterland makes
the majority of dwellings subject to flooding about five montlhs of the year.
This situation is aggravated by several outfalls which discharge sewage from
nearby residential districts, causing severe pollution of the flood waters.
1.24      Two parallel avenues (Don Pedro de Heredia and Pedro Romero) run the
length of the district, carrying heavy traffic flows to and from the city.
The perpendicular orientation of the drainage ditches and the avenues have
conditioned the general layout of the area, which has conformed fairly closely
to a gridiron pattern. Blocks average 100-150 m in length and about 40-60 m
in depth and are surrounded by rights-of-way varying in width between 15 and
50 m. A block will typically be subdivided into rectangular lots of an
average front of 8 m and a depth of 25 m. Houses sit next to the right-of-way
leaving the core of the block open, although clearly subdivided by fences
which identify the different backyards. In the more established neighborhoods,
front porches and trim are often added to the houses, along with some planting
and gardening.
1.25      Much of the zone still lacks utilities, which are generally limited
to a few standpipes along the main avenues and to provisional electricity dis-
tribution lines.  Other than the seven principal drainage ditches and the
runoff from inner districts, several other minor canals collect the dis-
charge from the area itself. Embankments along these canals are generally
inadequate and their courses irregular, often winding through settled residen-
tial blocks.  Except for the recently completed community service center
at La Esperanza in the westernmost sector, existing educational, health, and
institutional facilities are insufficient. Some very small-scale industrial
establishments, a diffused network of minimal retail establishments and a
radio-relay station account for the small share of land in nonresidential
use. Recreational areas are totally lacking.
1.26      Like the city as a whole, the S. E. Zone has a low labor force
participation rate, since an estimated 60% of residents are less than 20 years



old and fully one-fifth are five years old or less. School-age children 5-14
consequently make up a high proportion (35%) of the population. Employment
within the Zone is minimal, though there is good bus access to the city
center for those able to afford frequent trips. Compounding these difficul-
ties is the lack of secure land title. According to a 1977 survey conducted
by ICT, 78% of owners possessed at most a certificate of occupancy, with the
largest group having no written evidence of tenure whatever.
1.27      Pasacaballos.  Conditions in Pasacaballos (see Map 13509R) are
not significantly different from those of the S. E. Zone. Pasacaballos is a
semi-rural community of approximately 5,400 persons situated at the southwest
end of the Bay of Cartagena, where the Canal del Dique enters the Bay. The
area is exceedingly depressed, characterized by a high degree of poverty, poor
access to services, and substandard environmental conditions. Residents are
involved chiefly in subsistence fishing and agriculture, augmented by periodic
wage employment. In the design of the Baru tourism project, it was recognized
that the problems of Pasacaballos (located at the end of the road from Carta-
gena to Baru) would have to be addressed if balanced economic and social
development were to be achieved in the area. Development of the township was
therefore included in that project, which has, however, suffered a number of
delays. With the imminent development of the EPZ located about half a kil-
ometer from Pasacaballos, the need to plan for the pressures the community
will face in the immediate future has become acute.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Concept and Setting
2.01      Interest in solutions to the problems created by illegal settlement
of the S.E. Zone dates back to the 1965 Pilot Plan for Cartagena prepared
by the National Geographic Institute (IGAC), in which the possibility was
suggested of reclaiming the area with hydraulic fill from the lagoon. Since
then, studies and proposals have been produced by consultants retained by the
Municipality, the National Tourism Corporation, ICT, and the National Planning
Agency (DNP). One such proposal, an updated master plan for Cartagena carried
out in 1974 by consultants, maintained that the fill option was infeasible and
existing structures not worth preserving. It proposed eradication of the
slum dwellings and relocation of residents in new housing. Other proposals
entailed raising the level of houses and streets with quarried fill material
or fill from the lagoon, and draining and empoldering the area. These pro-
posals had the advantage of holding demolition of dwellings to a minimum,
though their technical feasibility had not been fully established.
2.02      In 1975, the Government agreed on a policy of minimal eradication
subject to technical studies to establish the feasibility of on-site upgrading.
For project implementation and administrative purposes the S.E. Zone was
divided into four sectors: I, II, III, and IV (see Map 13510R), totalling
105, 104, 112, and 34 hectares respectively. A further administrative divi-
sion roughly follows elevation contours: the conservation area (134 ha)



lies generally above elevation +1.5 m (the previous limit of the city's
sanitary boundary) and the rehabilitation area (221 ha) for the most part lies
below elevation +1.5 m, with about half of it below +0.5 m. The conservation
area has an existing inventory of about 4,000 dwellings, 20% of which are
sewered and 80% supplied with electricity. Much of the rehabilitation area is
permanently inundated, and most of the rest is subject to flooding. None of
the 6,000 dwellings in this area is served by water or sewerage and only a
part -- the neighborhood of Fredonia -- has electricity, albeit of a temporary
nature. Collection of solid waste, undertaken by the local water and sewerage
authority EPMC, is satisfactory.
2.03      During project preparation it was agreed that some components,
particularly those providing levels of service beyond a basic threshold,
should be designed as options to the beneficiaries. The components of the
overall improvement program were consequently defined as either essential, to
be carried out by the executing agency, or optional, to be done by the commun-
ities or individual households on a "contract-in" basis. In addition to land
filling, essential works include physical environmental improvements such as
external drainage canals and utility infrastructure. Optional features
include secondary utility networks, individual connections, and loans for
housing construction and improvement. Residents would thus be able to contract
for most features as their finances permit, incurring charges within their
means. The components of the overall program are presently being incorporated
into final urbanization plans and zoning and building standards for the area.
2.04      In Pasacaballos, on-site rehabilitation would also be supplemented
by integrated programs of training, technical assistance, and job placement.
However, unlike the S.E. Zone where the population has been relatively
stable, that of Pasacaballos is on the verge of a major increase as the EPZ
begins operations. Thus, in addition to installation and renovation of
services in currently built-up sections of the community, the emphasis is on
extension of services to areas of new settlement. By meeting the most urgent
needs for shelter space and services and feinforcing community organizations,
Pasacaballos would become more attractive both to its current residents and
to arriving migrants.
B. General Definition
2.05      The project would consist of physical upgrading and provision of
services and would support social programs to be implemented during the period
1978-1983 in the S. E. Zone of Cartagena and in the community of Pasacaballos.
The project would consist of the following:
(a) land filling in the S.E. Zone project area to raise the
level of streets and house lots;
(b)  essential civil engineering works to bring the physical
environmental conditions of the areas up to a minimum
threshold which the majority of neighborhoods in the



-9-
city presently enjoy. These include road improvements
in Pasacaballos; construction of street drainage;
canalization of main drains to provide external storm
water drainage from the hinterland through the S.E.
Zone project area to the lagoon; and the installation
of utility infrastructure including primary water and
electricity networks and primary sewerage networks in
the most consolidated areas;
(c) loans and technical advice to community groups and
individuals for the regularization of land tenure;
construction of inter-lot drains; paving of sidewalks
and pedestrian streets; installation of secondary water
and sewerage lines; house connections for water,
electricity, and sewerage; dwelling construction and
improvement; and purchase of serviced sites for house
construction;
(d) improved social services, including construction of
Community Development Centers (CDVs); equipping of
existing and new facilities; and a training program
for staff to be involved in the provision of education,
health, and family and child welfare services. These
community facilities would increase productivity and
employment through basic skill training related to job
opportunities to be created in the EPZ project and
the tourism industry. Promotion and technical advice
would be provided to private and cooperative small
enterprises, to assist them in gaining access to the
formal loan market through appropriate financial
intermediaries;
(e) project management and technical assistance to
strengthen participating agencies by financing equip-
ment, start-up expenses, and training programs for
project staff.  Engineering studies would also be
undertaken on critical aspects of water supply in the
S.E. Zone and sanitation in the project areas and the
city as a whole.
C. Detailed Features
Land Filling
2.06      Filling in the S.E. Zone was begun in November of 1977 and is ex-
pected to be completed by December 1979. These works, whose estimated cost
is Col$ 156.3 million (US$3.4 million), will be partly financed by a US$2.0
million grant from the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB). The area would



- 10 -
be filled up to a level ensuring protection of streets and house lots against
flooding. However, since the level depends in part on conditions at the
lagoon mouth at la Boquilla, it was agreed to give further attention to this
communication channel with the sea. A study of proposals for stabilization
works at La Boquilla has consequently been included in the technical assis-
tance component (see para 2.41).
2.07      In the conservation area filling would be limited to the minimum
required to grade the streets. In the rehabilitation area filling is being
undertaken by ICT using limestone obtained from a quarry some 8 km away. At
the northern edge of the filled area near the lagoon shoreline, a reserve 50 m
wide for an eventual road would extend the length of the project area. In
conjunction with filling operations, six small ditches which carry surface
water from within the project area would be piped or channeled.
Street Drainage
2.08      This component would support investments estimated at Col$174.3
million (US$3.8 million) in construction of street gutters and curbs in the
S.E. Zone, as well as road improvements and minor drainage works in Pasaca-
ballos. 1/
2.09      The streets in the S.E. Zone would serve as unpaved drainage channels
for storm water, discharging into the lagoon at an elevation sufficient to
protect against flooding (see paras 2.06-2.07). Concrete curbs or gutters
and curbs would be provided to all streets in the project area which lack them
(i.e., about 30% of the streets in the conservation area and all streets in
the rehabilitation area). Discharging into the gutters would be a series of
interlot drains, construction of which would be initiated by community effort
(see para 2.23).
2.10      In Pasacaballos approximately 3 km of road would be graded and
provided with open drains. This work would be concentrated on two primary
roads serving the central area of the town. One of these roads, extending
about 1.5 km from the Pasacaballos-Baru ferry to the Export Processing Zone
(EPZ) and linking the town to the Cartagena/EPZ main road, would be paved.
Minor drainage works, principally open ditches, would be constructed along
secondary streets as necessary to facilitate drainage of the main roads.
External Drainage
2.11      Under this component six drainage ditches that traverse the S.E.
Zone, conveying surface water from Cartagena's southeastern hinterland to
the lagoon, would be replaced by reinforced concrete canals (see Map 13509R).
A seventh watercourse, the Cano Chaplundum at the eastern end of the project
1/   Cost estimates in this chapter differ from those given in Table 3.1
in that they are inclusive of design, supervision, and contingencies.



- 11 -
area, which carries much higher flows, would be contained by levees. These
works, whose estimated cost is Col$244.4 million (US$5.3 million), are being
designed for the predicted 10-year flood calculated from the available rain-
fall data for the years 1970-1975. With filling underway, it is highly
desirable that storm water runoff be canalized to protect against erosion
of the fill and consequent siltation of the ditches. Contracts for the first
four of these canals, which lie in the area that is currently being filled,
have already been let by the government in an endeavor to have them completed
before the advent of the 1978 wet season. The contracts for these four canals
have been let in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank, and
retroactive financing is recommended (see para 3.11).
Utility Infrastructure
2.12       This component covers water trunk mains and primary water, sewerage,
and electricity distribution at a total estimated cost of Col$243 million
(US$5.3 million). Design of the water distribution system will update the
recommendations of the 1974 Water Master Plan for the city by extending
coverage to the whole of the project area. Design and installation will
accord with the minimum norms of ICT and with the standards of the Empresas
Publicas Municipales de Cartagena (EPMC). The sewerage system is being
designed to comply generally with the standards of the Instituto Nacional
de Fomento Municipal (INSFOPAL), with modifications approved by EPMC to suit
local conditions. The electricity networks are being designed in accordance
with the minimum norms of ICT and in consultation with and subject to the
approval of Electrificadora de Bolivar (ELECTRIBOL), the departmental elec-
tricity distribution authority.
2.13       Off-Site Water Trunk Mains.  In order to supply the S.E. Zone
project area with water, it is necessary to lay a trunk main system, which
in addition to serving the project area will also supply other parts of the
city. This consists of 1 km of pipeline leading from the storage tanks near
the El Bosque treatment plant northward to the Avenida Don Pedro de Heredia,
where it would branch westward into a main leading to storage tanks beyond the
project area, and eastward for a length of approximately 4.8 km (Map 13510R).
The first section of the trunk main, i.e., from the El Bosque plant to the
point where the main would branch out to serve the S.E. Zone, plus the 4.8 km
eastward extension, would be included in the present project and would cost
Col$ 55.7 million (US$1.2 million). The remaining westward extension would
be financed out of the proposed third Bank loan to INSFOPAL or by the national
Government.
2.14       To determine the appropriate diameter of the eastward main, an
engineering study has been commissioned. This study, which is proposed
for retroactive financing, has been included under the technical assistance
component (see para 2.38).
2.15       Pasacaballos residents are already served by a water distribution
network, but the water supplied is untreated and considered a health hazard.



- 12 -
The Pasacaballos portion of this subcomponent would bring treated water
to the town through construction of a 1-km length of main linking the
Pasacaballos distribution network to a trunk main being extended from
Cartagena to the EPZ under the Bank-assisted Export Processing Zone Project.
Since the pressure in the main at the EPZ will be too low to supply the town
adequately, provision has also been made for the installation of a pump and
construction of an overhead tank. The estimated cost of these works is Col$
11.5 million (US$250,000).
2.16      Primary Water Mains.  In the S.E. Zone primary water distribution
mains would be provided to the part of the conservation area that is not yet
served (approximately 35%), and to the whole of the rehabilitation area.
Secondary mains and domestic connections would be laid by community and
individual effort (see para 2.23). Primary mains already serving Pasacaballos
would be renovated and extended to a number of unserved areas. The total cost
of this subcomponent is estimated at Col$ 58.3 million (US$1.3 million).
2.17      Primary Sewerage.  Main sewage pipes would be installed in that part
of the conservation area of the S.E. Zone that is not yet served (approxi-
mately 80%), at an estimated cost of Col$ 41.1 million (US$890,000). These
pipes would discharge into sumps from which the sewage would be pumped into
five existing sewage collectors which in turn discharge into the lagoon.
Secondary (feeder) sewers and domestic connections would be completed by
community action and individuals. No waterborne sewage disposal system would
be provided in the S.E. Zone rehabilitation area or Pasacaballos during the
life of the project.  Instead, a program of intermediate sanitary facilities
(primarily pit latrines) would be implemented (see para 2.25).
2.18      For some time the Municipality of Cartagena has been contemplating
the construction of sewage oxidation ponds to treat the sewage discharged
into the lagoon from much of the rest of the city as well as from the S.E.
Zone. The Municipality's present proposals, based on a design made in 1975,
call for five oxidation ponds near the shores of the lagoon. These designs
were reviewed in February 1978 by a Bank preparation mission which concluded
that further studies are required to determine the optimum type, location,
and construction materials of the sewage treatment facilities. Provision
has accordingly been made in the technical assistance component for these
studies and for the final engineering design (see para 2.40).
2.19      Electricity Networks.  Electricity distribution networks would
be provided to those parts of both the conservation and rehabilitation areas
of the S.E. Zone not already served (i.e. 20% of the conservation area and
virtually the entire rehabilitation area). In Pasacaballos the electricity
distribution network would be extended to serve the entire township. Street-
lighting lamps and transformers would be installed on concrete posts, which
would support the high tension and low tension networks. The total estimated
cost of this subcomponent is Col$ 87.9 million (US$1.8 million).
ICT Loans
2.20      Under ICT s PHIZSU program, established in 1976, families in
designated substandard areas of Colombian cities may obtain credit for



- 13 -
regularization of tenure, public services, neighborhood improvements, and
housing improvements. Within the proposed project, supervised credits
for these purposes would be made available under PHIZSU loan procedures.
The criteria and operating procedures for these loans as proposed by ICT
are generally sound and provide an adequate basis upon which to develop
the program (see also para 4.12). They will be monitored closely and will
be subject to periodic review by the Bank and ICT. It is estimated that
on the basis of affordability and effective demand, at least 5,600 families
would avail themselves of one or more loans for the following purposes:
(a) regularization of land tenure; (b) public services and neighborhood
improvements; (c) housing improvements; and (d) serviced sites and relocation.
2.21      Regularization of Land Tenure.  A major aspect of ICT programs for
the progressive development of marginal settlements is the provision of secure
tenure for land and dwellings. This component estimated to cost Col$ 12.1
million (US$260,000) would meet the technical and administrative costs of land
tenure surveys connected with regularization of tenure, as well as legal fees
for the transfer of title to residents. To qualify, households in the S.E.
Zone and Pasacaballos must have lived in the area two years or longer and be
able to repay the credits, which bear interest of 12% plus 2% for insurance
with repayment terms of up to 15 years (see also para 4.12). As collateral,
ICT would be granted a lien on the property. Titles would be processed at an
average cost in 1978 prices varying from about US$21 to US$49, depending on
the extent to which initial surveying and property demarcation has already
been done or will be undertaken as part of civil engineering works. Some
properties with uncertain tenure status would be regularized as households
acquire title financed in a package with housing improvement credits.
2.22      Public Services and Neighborhood Improvements.  Extension of second-
ary public utility distribution networks, domestic connections, and construc-
tion of certain neighborhood improvements would be undertaken by community
groups utilizing PHIZSU loans to families and on-site technical advice and
supervision from ICT for this purpose. Domestic connections would be made by
families singly or in small groups, contracting out part or all of the work.
Families would be encouraged to connect to water and sewerage networks as
rapidly as their preferences and finances permit. Like other ICT loan cate-
gories, loans for these purposes would, in addition to the normal monitoring,
be reviewed at the halfway point of disbursements (see para 4.19).
2.23      Works to be financed under this component, whose total cost is
estimated at Col$ 297.9 million (US$6.5 million), include (i) construction
of interlot drains at the back of house lots draining rear yards; (ii) paving
of sidewalks and pedestrian streets; (iii) secondary water distribution and
connections; (iv) secondary sewerage and connections; and (v) electricity
connections.
(i) Interlot Drains: A series of interlot drains,
consisting of concrete slab channels with grading
of the adjacent earth fill as necessary, would be
constructed in the S.E. Zone. These drains would
discharge into the street gutters (para 2.09).



- 14 -
Based on anticipated effective demand, provision
has been made in the estimates for 30% of the
blocks in the conservation area and 60% in the
rehabilitation area to be drained in this manner.
(ii) Sidewalks and Pedestrian Streets: Construction
of sidewalks and of walkways along pedestrian
streets in the S.E. Zone would be carried out by
community groups. In the conservation area it
is estimated that effective demand exists for
sidewalks to be built along all streets being
provided with gutters and curbs (i.e., 30% of
the total; see para 2.09). Plans for the re-
habilitation area provide for vehicular streets,
main pedestrian streets which can also accommo-
date emergency vehicles, and secondary (exclusive)
pedestrian streets. Based on the estimated
effective demand, it is planned that about 40% of
both vehicular and pedestrian streets would be
provided with concrete sidewalks and walkways
respectively.
(iii) Secondary Water Distribution and Connections:
The primary water distribution mains that would
be provided to the 35% of the S.E. Zone con-
servation area not already served would be
supplemented by a secondary distribution network
and domestic connections. Secondary distribu-
tion mains and domestic connections would be
provided up to an expected coverage of 35% in
the S.E. Zone rehabilitation area and 40% in
Pasacaballos.
(iv) Secondary Sewerage and Connections: It is ex-
pected that secondary sewers and domestic con-
nections would be provided in the part of the
S.E. Zone conservation area not yet served (see
also para 2.17). Provision for intermediate
sanitary facilities in the S.E. Zone rehabilita-
tion area and Pasacaballos has been included in
ICT loans for housing improvements (para 2.25).
(v) Electricity Connections: It is expected that
domestic connections would be installed in the
20% of the S.E. Zone conservation area not al-
ready served, and that connections in the S.E.
Zone rehabilitation area and Pasacaballos would
be installed to meet the estimated effective
demand amounting to about 80% and 90% coverage
respectively.



- 15 -
2.24      Housing Improvements.  In addition to loans for regularization
of tenure and public services and neighborhood improvements, ICT supervised
credits would also be made available to families for home improvement pur-
poses. Based on estimated effective demand, it is believed that 2,000
households in the project areas would obtain loans in amounts ranging from
about US$350 to US$1,000 equivalent.
2.25      This component of Col$ 59.1 million (US$1.3 million) is designed to
assist eligible families in the target areas by providing small construction
loans for improvements to their dwellings, as well as for the installation of
sanitary facilities.   Most of the improvements would be done by the house-
holders or by semi-skilled artisans in the informal construction sector.
Technical advice would be supplied to families desiring it, and loans would
be closely supervised. Technical advice and social promotion would also
accompany loans for the installation of intermediate sanitation facilities in
the S.E. Zone rehabilitation area and Pasacaballos. This program would build
upon and improve current knowledge and practice, and would include an evalu-
ation of lined, wet-type pit latrines which have proved effective in use. To
the extent necessary, loans of this type would be given priority over those
for housing improvements. Research to establish guidelines and design stan-
dards has already begun, and would be supported by a study for which funds
have been included in the technical assistance component (see paras 2.17 and
2.39).
2.26      Sites and Relocation.  This component, whose estimated cost is Col$
133.6 million (US$2.9 million), would finance the provision of 715 infill lots
in the S.E. Zone rehabilitation area and 750 in Pasacaballos to accommodate
new families. In addition, construction loans would be provided to families
that would have to be resettled within the S.E. Zone as a result of the
proposed project improvements. No contractor-built core units would be
provided under any of these options except at the initiative of purchasers,
many of whom are expected to hire small-scale local contractors for dwelling
construction.
2.27      All 715 infill lots in the S.E. Zone rehabilitation area aVd 300 of
the 750 lots in Pasacaballos would be standard serviced lots of 72 m with
individual water, sanitation, and electricity connections. Average costs in-
cluding design and physical contingencies would be Col$ 48,164 (US$1,226) in
the S.E. Zone and Col$ 34,476 to Col$ 44,890 (US$878-$1,143) in Pasacaballos
for infill and newly urbanized locations respectively. The remaining 450 lots
in Pasacaballos would have access to nearby primary water and electriciiy net-
works. Infill and newly urbanized lots of this type would also be 72 m in
size and cost Col$ 25,180 (US$641) and Col$ 35,594 (US$906) respectively.
2.28      Resettlement of families within the S.E. Zone project area would
involve a total of about 730 dwellings, half presently outside the project
area nearer the lagoon and the other half on sites for future streets and
community facilities within the project area.  RelS cated families, who would
be given a basic lot of an average size of 70-80 m , would be provided with
a loan averaging about US$685 for construction of a dwelling. Affected



- 16 -
dwellings represent about 7% of the existing S.E. Zone housing stock, the
minimum resettlement believed consistent with the orderly growth of the area.
It falls within the range of resettlement in Bank-assisted upgrading projects
in other countries.
Community Facilities
2.29      Community Development Centers (CDVs) would be constructed and
equipped to provide physical facilities in an integrated complex for the
delivery of education, health, vocational training, family and child welfare,
and employment and productivity promotion services.  Local staff to provider
these services would also be trained under a national program designed in
conjunction with the first Bank urban project. The CDVs would serve as
the chief coordination center of the project at the local level. Where
facilities already exist, their use would be maximized before new ones are
constructed. 
2.30      Five CDVs are planned for the project areas at an estimated total
cost, including an imputed cost for land, of Col$ 226.7 million (US$4.9 mil-
lion). Each CDV will provide approximately 20,000 persons in the S.E. Zone
and about 10,000 in Pasacaballos with the following range of services:
(a) a 5-classroom primary school catering for 400 students
in two shifts. This school would also be used for adult
education and literacy programs. As part of the project,
existing schools in the area would be renovated or extended
where feasible to meet the demand not satisfied by the school
in the CDV;
(b) an urban health center, supporting four health care modules
(M4ACs) and capable of serving up to 30,000 persons. Each
health center would have a physician and a dentist in
attendance and would be staffed by 16 health promoters
("promotoras") in addition to four auxiliaries in the field
and four at the center;
(c) a family and child welfare center (CAIP) that would provide
preschool day care, nutrition, population, and family welfare
advisory and education programs for the residents of the area.
The CAIP would also serve as a resource center for a decentral-
ized program of day-care services provided in private homes or          
small subcenters by mothers;
(d) an employment and productivity unit (UPE) which would
aim to improve the skills of workers and the managerial
competence of small entrepreneurs in the area. This unit
would also promote new small enterprises and channel
feasible projects to the formal financial agencies. Provi-
sions in the first Bank-assisted urban project in Colombia
(Loan No. 1558-C0) for small enterprises to gain access to CFP



- 17 -
credit would be used in Cartagena, which would become eligible
for such programs on an equal basis with the other cities of
that project. Training and technical assistance would be
provided by the National Training Service (SENA). Services
offered by the UPE unit would be coordinated by a full-time
small enterprise promoter; and
(e)  common facilities for local administrative offices, community
meeting rooms, a community library and a sports area, all of
which would serve the other facilities in the complex.
2.31      Designs for these programs would follow national standards which
were appraised and agreed to under the first urban project.   The CDVs would
be constructed and equipped by ICT and transferred to the agencies who will
be responsible for delivery of the services. As a result of the project, the
participating agencies would need to increase their staffs in the project
areas by 92 persons in education, 150 in health and 50 in family and child
welfare. Training of new staff would be carried out under the project. The
agencies should have little difficulty in meeting these modest increases.
Agreements with the participating agencies on implementation and staffing
responsibilities would be conditions of loan effectiveness (see para 4.02).
Project Management
2.32      The project would strengthen the implementation capacity of parti-
cipating agencies, develop a monitoring capability within ICT/Cartagena, and
conduct an ongoing evaluation of project activities. A total of Col$ 52.4
million (about US$1.1 million) would support the establishment of a project
management team and monitoring and evaluation system, as well as expenses
of the CDVs during the first four years of operation.
2.33      The project management structure within ICT/Cartagena would consist
of a technical director, a director of social services, and a director of
evaluation, with the necessary supporting staff. This team would coordinate
and supervise both the technical and the social action aspects of the project.
A system for monitoring and evaluating the project would also be established,
with support for staffing, research to be carried out by consultants, and
publication of the results of the evaluation exercises. Operating expenses
of the CDVs would consist of salaries plus materials, equipment, and related
expenses for the following local field staff for each CDV: (a) a coordinator
of CDV operations; (b) a small enterprises promoter; (c) two promoters for
the community action public services program; and (d) a social worker.
Technical assistance
2.34      Under this component, whose estimated cost is Col$ 31.5 million
(US$680,000), technical assistance for cadastral improvements and municipal
fiscal planning would be provided and studies carried out on water supply
and sanitation in the project area and its environs.



- 18 -
2.35      Cadastral Improvements and Municipal Fiscal Planning.  The property
tax in Cartagena accounts for about 20% of revenues from local sources, but
could play a greater role if assessment procedures and tax administration were
improved. Even when updated, assessments of Cartagena properties are believed
to fall short of the full market value required by statute. Intervals between
reassessments have averaged 4-6 years in the recent past rather than the
stipulated two years. During these intervals it has not proved possible to
transfer to the cadastre updated information from sales records and owner
declarations of value for income tax purposes. Lacking recognized boundaries
and clear title, most properties in the project areas have remained outside
the cadastral rolls.
2.36      This subcomponent, which is estimated to cost Col$ 9.2 million
(US$198,000), will support the purchase of urgently needed surveying equip-
ment and vehicles under a five-year program of cadastral improvements to
which the National Geographic Institute (IGAC) will contribute technical
and administrative staff. During 1979, IGAC would survey and establish
assessments for about 12,000 properties in the project areas. At the same
time, assessments on the remaining properties in the city would begin to be
brought up to date and changes in value arising from improvements recorded.
All municipal properties including those in the S.E. Zone project area would
be placed on the same footing by 1982, prior to the citywide revaluation
scheduled for 1983. This program would be supervised by ICT under an agree-
ment to be entered into between ICT and IGAC covering the activities to be
carried out by IGAC within the agreed time frame and the resources to be
provided by IGAC and ICT through the project. The conclusion of the ICT/
IGAC agreement would be a condition of effectiveness.
2.37      In addition to the cadastral improvements program, a study of
municipal finance and planning in Cartagena would be undertaken to provide
the basis for more effective fiscal planning. The study would (a) assess
the performance of the tax system and recommend improvements in coverage,
collection, and administration; and (b) establish criteria for determining
appropriate means of financing city activities and of preparing and updat-
ing capital budgets. The estimated cost of the study is Col $1.7 million
(US$37,500) based on 20 expert months of local consultants' time.
2.38      Water Trunk Main Study.  This study will refine estimates in the
1974 Water Master Plan of the appropriate diameter of the trunk main serving
the S.E. Zone (para 2.14) in the light of likely future demand from both
within and beyond the project area. The study is being carried out and will
include the preparation of final engineering designs and contract documents.
Its estimated cost is Col $654,000 (US$16,400), based on 10 expert months of
local consultants' time.
2.39      Intermediate Sanitation Study.  Another study would examine the
applicability of intermediate sanitation measures in those areas in which
waterborne sewerage systems will not be installed in the near future. The
study will compare the features of solutions such as dry and wet pit latrines,
aqua privies, and septic tanks; identify the best practical designs for



- 19 -
preferred solutions; and carry out field tests and monitor the performance of
such solutions. The estimated cost of the study is Col$ 990,000 (US$21,500),
which is based on 12 expert months of local consultants' time over a two-year
period.
2.40      Sewage Treatment Study.  A third study, whose timetable is not
specifically related to execution of the project, would deal with the treat-
ment of sewage now discharged directly into the lagoon from a large part of
the city. Taking account of recent proposals for the construction of sewage
oxidation ponds (para 2.18) and of an ongoing study of pollution of Cartagena
Bay and environs undertaken by the Bolivar Departmental government, the study
would assess more broadly the feasibility of alternative treatment systems,
carry out field trials, and prepare engineering designs and contract documents
for the recommended solution. The estimated cost of the study is Col$ 9.9
million (US$215,000), of which US$75,000 would be for expatriate consultants
and the remainder is based on 65 expert months of local consultants' time.
2.41      Study of Proposals for Works at La Boguilla.  Provision has also
been made for a study estimated to cost Col$8.9 million (US$195,000) to
establish what modifications, if any, to designs for stabilization works of
the Ministry of Public Works are required to ensure stable flows through the
connecting channel and thereby to regulate more systematically the water
levels in the lagoon and provide protection against flooding of the newly
filled areas. The study would be supervised by ICT and is expected to be
completed within 18 months.
III. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
A. Cost Estimates
3.01      The total cost of the project is estimated at Col$ 1,631 million
(US$35.3 million), of which US$9.9 million, or approximately 28%, represents
the foreign exchange component. Base cost estimates are expressed in prices
as of mid-1978. With the exception of four of the external drainage canals,
estimated costs of which were obtained from contractors' bids, costs of
civil engineering works were estimated on the basis of consultants' feasi-
bility studies and preliminary designs. Estimates of ICT loans were based on
consultants' feasibility studies related to anticipated effective demand.
Base costs of community facilities and project management were obtained from
participating agencies or updated from detailed specifications prepared for
the first Colombia urban project (Loan No. 1558-CO). A physical contingency
of 15% was allowed on the land filling component and off-site water trunk
mains subcomponent. Because detailed engineering was generally not available
at the time of appraisal, however, a physical contingency of 20% of base cost
estimates was allowed on all other items except land for community facilities
and ICT loans for regularization of land tenure and housing improvements. A
total price contingency of 42% was included for expected price inflation of



- 20 -
18%, 16%, and 14% during 1978-80 and 12% thereafter (Programs Department esti-
mates) on all local and foreign cost items except land, including physical
contingencies. Cost estimates are given in Table 3.1 below.
B. Financing Plan
3.02      A Bank loan of US$13.5 million equivalent is proposed, which would
finance the foreign exchange requirements of the project and US$3.6 million
in local costs. The Bank would thus finance 38% of total project costs,
compared with 40% for the first urban project in Colombia (Loan No. 1558-CO).
The loan would be made to the Republic of Colombia and would be for a term
of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, at the prevailing standard Bank
interest rate. The Borrower would make the peso equivalent of the loan
available to the implementing agencies. Transfers of this type are in line
with government policy to strengthen the capacity of participating institu-
tions to implement and finance similar projects in the future.
3.03      The remainder of the financing plan includes contributions of
US$10.3 million equivalent from the national government and US$0.5 million
equivalent from the municipal government, which in total would cover 31% of
the project investment requirements. An additional US$8.1 million (23% of
total investment requirements) would be provided from the internal resources
of ICT, and US$0.9 million (3%) from the internal resources of the utility
enterprises EPMC and ELECTRIBOL. A contribution of US$2.0 million (5%) from
the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) would be expended on land filling.
Thus, the Colombian government, its subdivisions and agencies would provide
57% of the financing required. The financial commitments of each source would
be assured through agreements which would be conditions of loan effectiveness.
3.04      Within the utility infrastructure component, 80% of the estimated
cost of the off-site water trunk mains plus 100% of the estimated cost of the
primary water and sewerage networks would be made available by the Government
to INSFOPAL.  INSFOPAL would, in turn, make the same funds available to ICT as
required to construct the trunk mains and water and sewerage networks. The
remaining 20% of the cost of the trunk mains would be made available to ICT
by EPMC from its internal resources. Upon completion, the water and sewerage
networks would be transferred by ICT to EPMC for operation and maintenance.
ICT would not receive payment for these assets, but EPMC would, in line with
the procedures adopted for the first urban project, recognize a debt towards
INSFOPAL equivalent to 40% of the construction costs of both the trunk mains
and distribution networks, repayable in pesos at 18% interest over 17 years
including 4 years of grace. The remaining 40% of the trunk mains and 60% of
the distribution networks would be treated by EPMC as an equity contribution
from INSFOPAL. The Government would treat 60% of the cost of electricity
distribution networks as an equity contribution to ELECTRIBOL. The remaining
40% would be financed from ELECTRIBOL's own resources.



- 21 -
Table 3.1
COLOMBIA
Second (Cartagena) Urban Development Projlect
ProJect Cost Estimates
Col$ millions                  US$ millions             % Foreign
Local   Foreign   Total       Local   Foreign   Total       Exchange
A.  Land Filling                              55      56        1ll       1.2      1.2       2.4           50
B.  Street Drainage                           62      34         96       1.3      0.7       2.0           35
C.  External Drainage                        110      60        170       2.4      1.3       3.7           35
D. Utility Infrastructure
Off-Site Water Trunk Mains             18       12         30      o.4       0.2       o.6           40
Primary Water Mains                    18       12         30      0.4       0.2       o.6           40
Primary Sewerage                       12        8         20      0.2       0.2       0.4           40
Electricity Networks                   26       17         43      0.5       0.4       0.9           40
Subtotal D                         74       49       123       1.5       1.0      2.5           4o
~.ICT Loans
Regularization of Land Tenure           6        1          7      0.2        -        0.2           15
Public Services and
Neighborhood Improvements           130       11       141       2.8       0.3       3.1            8
Housing Improvements                   33        3         36      0.7       0.1       0.8            8
Sites and Relocation                   59        5         64      1.3       0.1       1.4            8
Subtotal I                        228       20       248       5.0       0.5      5.5            8
F. Community Facilities
Land                                   20      n.a.       20       o.4       n.a.      0.4            0
Construction                           43       23         66      0.9       0.5      1.4            35
Equipment                              13        7         20      0.3       0.2       0.5           35
Training                                8        5         13      0.2       0.1       0.3          35
Subtotal F                        84       35       119       1.8       0.8      2.6           29
G. Project Management                        22        5         27      0.5       0.1       0.6           20
H. Technical Assistance                      15        4         19      0.3       0.1       o.14          20
I. Design and Supervision                    46       12         58      1.1       0.2       1.3           20
Base Costs (Subtotal A-I)        696     275        971      15.1      5.9      21.0           28
Physical Contingencies                125       49       174       2.7       1.1       3.8           28
Price Contingencies                   350      136        486      7.6       2.9     10.5            28
TOTAL PROJECT COST                        1,171      460      1,631      25.4      9.9      35.3           28



- 22 -
Table 3.-
COLOMBIA
Second (Cartagena) Urban Development Project
Financing Plan
(amounts in Col$ million)
Total
Cost      - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -              Sources of Financing -  - - - - - - - - - - - -
National        Local
IBRD          IDB       Government   Government       ICT        EPMC      ELECTRIBOL
Amount  7,  Amount   %   Amount  7%  Amount   %  Amount  %  Amount  %   Amount   %               _
Land Filling                           156.3       28.8   18    84.3   54                                 43.2  28
Street Drainage                       174.3        69.7   40                  104.6   6o
External Drainage                      244.4       97.8  40                   146.6   60
Utility Infrastructure
Off-Site Water Trunk Mains           557         22.3   40                   22.3   40                            11.1   20
Primary Water Mains                   58.3       23.3   40                   35.0   60
Primary Sewerage                      41.1       16.4   40                   24.7   60
Electricity Networks                 87.9        35.2   40                   17.6   20                                         35.1    40
ICT Loans
Regularization of Land Tenure        12.1         4.8   40                                              7.3  60
Public Services and                  297.9      119.2   40                                            178.7  60
Neighborhood Improvements
Housing Improvements                  59.1       23.6   40                                              35.5  60
Sites and Relocation                 133.6       53.4   40                                             80.2  60
Community Facilities                   226.7       90.7   40                 109.5   48    26.5   12
Project Management                      52.4       21.0   40                                             31.4  60
Technical Assistance                    T1.S      12.6   40   -        -      18.9   60                                           - _    _   _
Total Project Cost            1 6R  R      618.8  338   84,3       5  479.2   29    26.5    2  376.3  23  11.1    1   35.1          2
US$ Equivalent                   35.3       13.5   a8    2.0       5    10.3   29      o.s   -2    8.1  P..    0.2    1    0.7      2



- 23 -
C. Procurement
3.05      Civil works contracts up to a limit of US$750,000 equivalent would
be awarded through local competitive bidding open also to foreign contractors,
using procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank. Because of the large
number of competent local contractors, it is expected that all such contracts
will be won by local bidders. Contracts for civil works above US$750,000
equivalent would be awarded through international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank guidelines.
3.06      To ensure efficient provision of services as bidding documents for
works in each sector of the S.E. Zone and for Pasacaballos become available,
contracts for the drainage canals and other civil works are expected to be
let separately. In an endeavor to have the works completed before the 1978
wet season, contracts of about US$500,000 each for the first four external
drainage canals were awarded under local procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Contracts for land filling awarded to date have gone to the lowest bidders
under local procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.07      Construction of the CDVs (average cost US$500,000) would be carried
out by ICT directly hiring and supervising small private contractors, as is
being done in the current Bank-financed urban development project in Colombia.
Contracts would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding or local
shopping in which at least three contractors are invited to bid for each
contract. For the ICT loans, materials would be procured by local competitive
bidding or local shopping, the ICT regional manager being authorized to award
contracts directly up to a value of Col$ 500,000 (about US$12,500 in 1978
prices) without inviting bids. With these arrangements, local procurement is
expected to occur in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
3.08      Contracts for the supply of equipment and materials in excess of
US$150,000 would be awarded through international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank guidelines. Contracts of under US$150,000 up to a total
amount of US$2 million would be awarded on the basis of local competitive
bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank. For bid evaluation purposes, under
international competitive bidding, a margin of 15% or the value of the appli-
cable customs duties, whichever is lower, would be allowed for materials and
equipment manufactured in Colombia. As is customary, water meters would be
procured through international competitive bidding.
3.09      Prior Bank review and approval of bidding documents for all civil
works contracts of US$750,000 equivalent and above and for equipment contracts
of at least US$150,000 equivalent would be required for contracts under the
project.
D. Disbursement
3.10      Disbursements under the proposed loan would be fully documented
except for loans disbursed by ICT for regularization of land tenure, housing



- 24 -
improvements, public services and neighborhood improvements, and serviced
sites and relocation. Disbursements for these loans would be made against
a certified statement of expenditures against amounts disbursed, and the
documentation for expenditures associated with such disbursements would
not be submitted to the Bank, but would be retained by ICT for review by
Bank project supervision missions. No disbursements would be made against
expenditures on land filling incurred prior to loan signing. The proceeds
of the loan would finance the following items:
(a) 40% of total expenditure for land filling (net of the
IDB contribution), civil engineering works, utility
infrastructure, and community facilities (except land);
(b) 40% of loans disbursed by ICT for regularization of land
tenure, housing improvements, public services and neighbor-
hood improvements, and serviced sites and relocation;
(c) 40% of total expenditure for project management and
technical assistance.
Completion of filling to the satisfaction of the Bank in each sector of the
S.E. Zone has been established as a condition of disbursement for works
undertaken in that sector.
3.11      Retroactive Financing.  Retroactive financing in an amount not
exceeding US$1.18 million equivalent is recommended for expenditure incurred
from April 22, 1978 in (a) construction of the four external drainage canals
for which contracts have been awarded (para 2.11); (b) equipment and mate-
rials for the first CDV; and (c) execution of the water trunk main study
(para 2.38). Contracts for the external drainage canals have been awarded
to the lowest bidders under ICT's normal procurement procedures.



- 25 -
3.12      The schedule of estimated disbursements is shown below:
IBRD          Cumulative IBRD
Quarter                disbursements      disbursements,       % Cumulative
Ending                 each quarter       end of quarter       disbursements
(US$ million)       (US$ million)
September 30, 1979          0.9                  0.9                 7
December 31, 1979            0.3                 1.2                 9
March 31, 1980               0.8                 2.0                 15
June 30, 1980                1.0                 3.0                22
September 30, 1980          0.9                  3.9                29
December 31, 1980            0.9                 4.8                36
March 31, 1981               0.9                 5.7                42
June 30, 1981                0.8                 6.5                48
September 30, 1981          0.8                  7.3                54
December 31, 1981            0.8                 8.1                60
March 31, 1982               0.8                 8.9                66
June 30, 1982                0.7                 9.6                71
September 30, 1982          0.7                 10.3                76
December 31, 1982            0.6                10.9                81
March 31, 1983               0.6                11.5                85
June 30, 1983                0.5                12.0                89
September 30, 1983          0.5                 12.5                93
December 31, 1983            0.4                12.9                96
March 31, 1984               0.3                13.2                 98
June 30, 1984               0.3                 13.5               100
13.5
IV. MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Management
4.01      The principal agency concerned with low-cost urban housing in
Colombia, the Instituto de Credito Territorial (ICT) through its regional
office in Cartagena, would be responsible for carrying out the project.
Public utility distribution networks would be contracted for and supervised
by ICT in coordination with EPMC and ELECTRIBOL, particularly with regard to
technical specifications. ICT would also coordinate the project-related



- 26 -
education, health, and family welfare activities of the Ministries of Educa-
tion and Health, the National Training Service (SENA), the Institute of School
Construction (ICCE), and the Institute of Family Welfare (ICBF), as well as
the cadastral improvements program to be carried out by IGAC. These minis-
tries and agencies have had experience with similar programs and all but IGAC
are involved in the first urban development project (Loan No. 1558-CO) which
has comparable objectives and operating procedures.  Agency responsibilities
for project implementation are listed in the following table.
Component                                 Participating Agencies
Street Drainage                        Instituto de Credito Territorial (ICT)
Water supply and sewerage              Empresas Publicas Municipales de
Cartagena (EPMC)
Electricity                            Electrificadora de Bolivar (ELECTRIBOL)
Construction of Community
Development Centers (CDVs)           ICT
Education                              Ministry of Education; Institute of
School Construction (ICCE)
Health                                 Ministry of Health
Family and Child Welfare               Institute of Family Welfare (ICBF)
Vocational Training and Small
Enterprises Development              National Training Service (SENA)
Cadastral Improvements                 National Geographic Institute (IGAC)
4.02      ICT would enter into agreements with the various participating
ministries and agencies covering the respective obligations of ICT and
the agencies. These agreements, drafts of which were available at negotia-
tions, would be on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and would
be conditions of loan effectiveness. Participating agencies would have
responsibility for the implementation of their respective components, and
each would provide the necessary personnel for staffing the facilities being
constructed under the project. Assurances were obtained during loan negoti-
ations that the participating agencies would assume responsibility for,
adequately staff, and operate the facilities under their control during the
life of the project.
Executing Agency--ICT
4.03      The national urban housing authority Instituto de Credito Terri-
torial (ICT), a semi-autonomous decentralized agency responsible to the



- 27 -
Ministry of Economic Development, has broad responsibilities for urbanizing
land, constructing housing, and offering credit and social and technical
services to its program beneficiaries. Established in 1939 to provide loans
for improvement of the living conditions of the agricultural labor force,
ICT's focus was altered in 1942 to include urban housing. By 1956 the agency
was concentrating solely on urban development and moderate-income housing.
ICT has had a great deal of experience with convential housing programs, but
has had less success in tailoring these programs to the needs of the lowest-
income groups. Particularly within the past five years, however, ICT has
attempted to address the housing problems of these groups through construc-
tion of "social interest" housing and Sore recently through the PHIZSU program
of upgrading in substandard areas of intermediate-sized and smaller cities.
4.04      The Banco Central Hipotecario (BCH), a government mortgage bank,
serves customers in the urban middle- and upper-income brackets and, like ICT,
also participates in direct construction. Low-cost homes are built under ICT
self-help and direct construction schemes.
4.05      ICT is governed by a six-person board appointed by the President of
the Republic. The National Planning Department (DNP) may participate in Board
meetings and can veto resolutions approved by the Board. This has had a posi-
tive impact and led to a broadening of ICT's financing under major national
loan programs to which the municipalities have access. In addition to its
central office in Bogota, there are 24 regional offices located in departments
and territories throughout Colombia to facilitate administrative procedures,
loan recovery operations, and project implementation. Activities are organ-
ized into four functional areas--technical, construction, finance, and admin-
istration--which report to the general manager through the offices of Organ-
ization Control and Planning. This organization structure is depicted in
Annex 1.
4.06      The central office has traditionally been responsible for policy
formulation, project design, and construction procedures. However, in the
current decentralized approach, regional branches are encouraged to develop
more autonomous programming and project development consistent with goals
and priorities established by the central office. As a result, each Depart-
ment in the country now has an ICT office as well as a local advisory board
comprised of representatives of public and private interest groups. Due in
part to some loss in communication between the central and regional offices,
but mainly because of the loss of leverage the central office can exert,
results of this decentralization effort have thus far been mixed.
4.07      The ICT regional office in Cartagena is responsible for ICT opera-
tions in the Department of Bolivar. The office is organized in a manner
similar to that of the head office in Bogotl (see Annex 1), with divisions
headed by subdirectors dealing with technical, financial, construction, and
administrative matters. Special units have also been set up to coordinate
all aspects of specific projects. The first of these was set up in 1976 to
manage the middle-income housing and commercial development of Chambacu near
the old city (see paragraph 1.18). These units are not self-contained but
draw upon the specialized services and expertise of functional divisions.



- 28 -
Their main purpose is to perform a coordinating role in complex projects, to
promote the aims of the project within ICT, and to develop an expertise in
certain specialized aspects of development.
Management Structure of the Project
4.08      ICT has established a project management unit in its Cartagena
office to coordinate the implementation of all aspects of this project.
The unit will be integrated into the structure of the office and will draw
upon the various functional divisions for financial, legal, loan processing,
and personnel services. The unit will have its own expertise in technical
management, contract supervision, social development, and monitoring and
evaluation. A Project Manager and a Director of Social Programs have been
appointed to the unit. Extension field staff and a monitoring and evaluation
officer would also be appointed under the project as agreed at negotiations.
In the appraisal mission's view, these arrangements would provide satisfactory
coordination and administration of the project. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the project management unit will be maintained during the
life of the project.
B. Project Implementation
Implementation Schedule
4.09      The Bank project would be implemented as shown in Annex 2.  In the
S.E. Zone, construction of four of the external drainage canals has already
begun. Laying of street gutters and curbs, interlot drains, and water dis-
tribution mains would be undertaken first in the conservation area, to allow
time for settlement of the fill in the rehabilitation area. Care will be
required in the coordination and phasing of various implementation activities,
especially the public utilities in relation to each other and to street
improvements. The staff to be hired under the Project Management component
would assist in this process.
Implementation Procedures
4.10      Civil Works.  The design, bidding, and construction of all civil
works will be the responsibility of ICT/Cartagena through the project manage-
ment unit. Following standard practice, designs and cost estimates for the
water and sewerage networks would be subject to the final approval of EPMC,
which would take over and operate the completed works. The electrical
installations would similarly be subject to the approval of ELECTRIBOL.. In
the design and construction of drainage and roads, close liaison with the
municipality is being maintained. The design and construction of the community
facilities will be carried out in consultation with the various participating
agencies. Consultants have been retained for all engineering designs, and
contract supervision would also be carried out by consultants retained by ICT
and under the overall direction of the project unit. These procedures should
ensure satisfactory execution of civil works components.



- 29 -
4.11      Equipment.  Equipment lists for all facilities have been drawn up
with the participating agencies. ICT would procure equipment in consultation
with and on behalf of the other participating agencies, and turn over completed
operational facilities to each agency.
4.12      ICT Loans.  Loans for regularization of land tenure, housing im-
provements, and public services and neighborhood improvements would be
administered through ICT's PHIZSU loan procedures as set forth in Acuerdo 4
(1977) and supervised by ICT field staff. Loans bear interest at the rate of
12% plus 2% for insurance. Amortization is on a monthly schedule under which
repayments increase at 5% per annum over the life of the loan. These programs
will be promoted by specially trained field staff operating out of the CDVs
in close collaboration with other CDV staff. Loans will be processed at the
Cartagena office of ICT using its normal criteria, which were reviewed by the
appraisal mission and found to be acceptable. Any change in lending criteria
or terms would be subject to consultation and agreement between ICT and the
Bank.
4.13      While home improvement subprojects would be carried out at the
initiative of residents, somewhat different procedures following current
practice would be adopted for subprojects relating to public services and
neighborhood improvements. The availability of credit and technical assistance
for the construction of local improvements would be publicized and promotion
with community groups carried out by the field promoters. When at least 80%
of the resident beneficiaries of an improvement project area agree to and
commit themselves to the program, specific subprojects are prepared. Community
members are encouraged to undertake works of high priority, such as water and
sanitation, prior to activities such as dwelling expansion. The subproject
is costed and its conformance with existing development plans verified.
4.14      The Community Action Committee (Junta de Accion Comunal) then
solicits the support of community members on the basis of proposed costs and
benefits. In addition to promotion, Community Action Committees are organized
and trained to take on responsibility for the organization and mobilization
of self-help contributions from residents, as well as for maintaining progress
of the works, monitoring costs and payments, and supervising use of the works
upon completion. Costs are allocated to those who request the service on
the basis of per front foot charges. All participating households sign a
commitment letter to ICT undertaking to accept their portion of the costs
and to repay through a mortgage to ICT, pledging their land or dwellings as
collateral.
4.15      Upon receipt of this commitment, the works are carried out either by
ICT through contractors, if the residents so desire, or by the community under
the direction of the Community Action Committee. Beneficiaries may make
a labor contribution of up to 40% of the cost of the works. When the works are
completed, definitive costs are determined and amortization of the debt is
started two months after completion.



- 30 -
4.16      Loans for housing improvements and lot purchase would be imple-
mented by ICT, which has had long experience with this type of program.
Loans for lot purchase and for construction of new houses on these and other
infill lots in the project areas will be processed by ICT using criteria
and procedures acceptable to the Bank. Any change in these criteria or
procedures would be made only after consultation and agreement between
ICT and the Bank.
4.17      Training.  Job training and basic skills improvement would be
undertaken through SENA's urban mobile program along the lines of the first
urban project. Technical assistance would be provided to individuals and
small enterprises in preparing projects in management and marketing and
gaining access to credit. Training of staff for the facilities would be
carried out by the respective agencies under agreements between ICT and each
agency. These agreements would cover such aspects as training, staffing, and
operation of the facilities.
Supervision
4.18      For a city the size of Cartagena, this project is relatively large.
Accordingly, while local agencies have the technical and administrative
capacity to carry out the project, the appraisal mission concluded that
adequate Bank manpower allocated to supervision was necessary during project
execution. An estimated 30 man-weeks of Bank staff and consultant time is
required for the first year of the project, reducing to 25 man-weeks for the
second year and 20 man-weeks for the third and fourth years. To the extent
feasible, supervision would be undertaken in parallel with supervision of the
first urban project and with preparation of future projects.
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.19      To ensure that information essential to project execution is pro-
vided to project managers, monitoring of the housing improvement, social
services, and physical environmental upgrading components of the project
would be undertaken by ICT/Cartagena. Quarterly reports would be prepared
by the ICT monitoring team on the basis of records systematically kept of
key indicators of progress toward project goals. The format of such reports
was discussed at negotiations. Themes to be treated in the reports, which
would be submitted to the Bank, include (i) the pace of construction of
project infrastructure; (ii) degree of participation in housing improvement
loans and repayment experience; (iii) pace of housing improvement and con-
solidation; (iv) impact of community participation; (v) appropriateness of
service standards and tenure arrangements; (vi) growth of small enterprises
and contractors; (vii) turnover of area residents; and (viii) demand and
payments for rental accommodations.  Commitments and disbursements under
each ICT loan category would be reviewed at the halfway point, in addition
to normal monitoring, to gauge the overall effectiveness of these programs
in reaching the intended beneficiaries.



- 31 -
4.20      The reports would also include results from a number of studies
designed to find out what changes in the economic and social well-being
of area residents can be ascribed to the project. Each of these studies,
to be financed under the Project Management component, is expected to take
four to six man-months to carry out. Studies are envisioned on the following
topics:
-    changes in family consumption and the percent of income
devoted to shelter, work trips, and other items;
-    direct and indirect emp1oyMent impacts of the project,
including improved access to jobs throughout the city
in addition to project-related employment;
--   changes in the health and nutrition status of the
area residents.
Local Participation
4.21      Among the objectives in implementation procedures for the project
is that of maximizing the degree of local participation. The implementation
of the project would be coordinated at the community level through five
Neighborhood Development Centers (CDVs) which would be constructed in the
project areas. Design, management, and evaluation of CDV programs would be
assured by a local management board composed of one representative from each
participating agency and three members of the community. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that each CDV will be staffed by a coordinator,
two social workers, a PHIZSU loan promoter, and a small-enterprise development
promoter, in addition to suitably qualified staff in the required numbers for
the education, health, family and child welfare, and vocational training
facilities.
4.22      In the delivery of health and family and child welfare services a
high degree of local participation is planned. Health services will be in
keeping with the national health plan and will be dependent on community-based
health promoters and auxiliaries operating out of the health center in the CDV
under the supervision of a physician. The health component will create about
160 jobs which are expected to be filled by residents of the project area, the
majority of whom would be women who would receive the necessary training.
4.23.     The project will also promote a community-based day care program to
be run by local mothers from their own homes. Training, equipment and super-
vision will be provided and the mothers will be paid. Approximately 100 jobs
which would all be filled by women, are expected to be created by the family
and child welfare components.
4.24      Once basic primary infrastructure has been installed by the execut-
ing agency, any further improvements would be dependent on local participation.
Locally based social workers, two per CDV, would work with Community Action
Committees to assist with preparation of neighborhood improvement projects
in line with overall development plans for the project area. Thus far this



- 32 -
system of local participation on a "contract in" basis has taken place on a
small scale, mainly at the initiative of local groups. The project aims to
strengthen these procedures and, through promotion and technical assistance
by field staff, to enlarge the scope of the program. This system also places
the decisions on priorities for development squarely within the community,
and supports works and activities for which there is a local demand.
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Introduction
5.01      As the most important agency concerned with low cost urban housing,
ICT constructs low-cost homes under self-help and direct construction schemes.
In addition, a workers' plan assists business enterprises with worker housing
programs, and another program provides for the sharing of construction costs
with a private financing agency. Funds are available from international
loans, ICT bonds (which must be purchased by companies with a taxable income
exceeding a stated figure), and deferred purchase payments.
5.02      In line with greater recognition of an integrated approach to the
solution of urban problems, the concept of providing housing has been
broadened to include other public service infrastructure such as water, sew-
erage and electricity. At the local level, EPMC is the major public agency
concerned with these services. Electricity, however, is distributed by
ELECTRIBOL, which is owned partly by the Municipality of Cartagena and partly
by Corporacion Electrica de la Costa Atlantica (CORELCA), the regional bulk
supplier of power. The electricity networks component of the proposed project
is quite small, representing about 5% of total investment costs or Col$ 87.9
million (US$1.9 million). Since the component creates no significant finan-
cial risk to ELECTRIBOL, its financial position has not been analyzed in this
report.
Instituto de Credito Territorial (ICT)
Past Finances
5.03      Between 1942 and 1969 ICT constructed 150,000 units, one-third of
them in the period 1966-1969. In 1971, ICT participation comprised 31.2% of
the construction budget of the country, but by 1974 its relative share had
declined to 10.6%. This coincided with a shifting emphasis toward lower cost
housing, as well as greater participation in the construction industry by
commercial banks, financial institutions, and other private resources.  As
shown in Table 5.1 below, ICT is large, having as of December 31, 1977,
Col$ 14 billion (US$360 million) in total assets. Of this amount, about 29%
or Col$ 4 billion (US$102 million) is in the form of paid-in capital, 57% or
Col$ 8 billion (US$204 million) is in the form of long-term debt, and 14% or
Col$ 2 billion (US$54 million) is represented by short-term debt.



- 33 -
Table 5.1
Instituto de Credito Territorial (ICT)
Summary Balance Sheets
(Col$ billions; end of year)
1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982
Assets
Current Assets             2.07   1.79   2.09   2.79   3.44   4.26   5.28   6.55
Loans Receivable           5.26   5.83   7.20   8.74  10.82  13.41  16.62  20.59
Housing Projects           2.99   3.24   4.27   5.33   6.67   8.33  10.42  13.02
Other                      0.20   0.29   0.30   0.33   0.41   0.49   0.58   0.72
Total Assets        10.52  11.15  13.86  17.19  21.34  26.49  32.90  40.88
Liabilities and Equity
Current Liabilities        1.29   1.74   2.44   2.81   3.44   4.23   5.19   6.39
Long-term Debt             4.42   4.64   5.66   9.85  12.42  15.58  19.45  24.21
Capital                   4.81   4.77   5.76   4.53   5.48   6.68   8.26  10.28
Total Liabilities
and Equity        10.52  11.15  13.86  17.19  21.34  26.49  32.90  40.88
Key Parameters
Current Ratio              1.59   1.03   0.86   0.99   1.00   1.01   1.02   1.03
Debt to Equity Ratio       2.22   1.60   1.96   2.18   2.27   2.33   2.36   2.36
Interest Rate Spread        -    -0.30  -2.10  -5.20  -7.30  -7.30  -7.10  -7.10
5.04      ICT's operating performance has been gradually weakening over the
last few years, with net profits decreasing from a high of Col$ 25 million
in 1976 to Col$ 10 million in 1977, marking the first year that ICT was
unable to generate sufficient funds to cover debt service and working capital
requirements. The effect of this is shown by an erosion of its liquidity
position which is reflected in the current ratio; having slipped from 1.6 in
1975 to 0.9 in 1977. A current ratio of 1.2 is generally considered the
minimum required for adequate short-term liquidity. ICT's decreasing profits
resulted mainly from (a) high borrowing costs due to higher than anticipated
local rates of inflation; (b) its failure to implement timely and adequate
increases in the interest rates charged to its customers; and (c) the dimin-
ishing impact of interest rate cross-subsidy which had characterized pre-
vious years (see para 5.10). The combined effect of this has resulted in



- 34 -
a decrease in the interest rate spread, dropping from zero in 1975 to -5.2%
in 1978, and averaging about -7.2% in 1979 and thereafter. Mortgage delin-
quency has not been a serious problem in ICT, which is indicative of prudent
underwriting and collection practices. The Cartagena portion of ICT's overall
lending portfolio, for example, has an arrears average of under 2.7 months,
which is about equal to the national average.
Future Finances
5.05      Looking forward, the financing requirements of ICT during the
period 1979-82 total US$863 million equivalent (Table 5.2). This amount
includes an outlay of US$35 million for the proposed project and other lending
operations of US$655 million, housing projects of US$167 million, and working
capital requirements of US$6 million. About 32% of requirements will be
financed from repayments of principal (collections, net of cash flow deficit),
14% from government transfers, and 54% from borrowings.
Table 5.2
Instituto de Credito Territorial (ICT)
Financing Plan
------------1979-2 --------------
millions         billions         %
US$             Col$
Application of Funds
Loan Disbursements
Proposed Cartagena Project           35.3            1.63            4.0
Other Programs                      654.8           30.19           75.9
690.1           31.82           79.9
Housing Projects                      166.8             7.69           19.3
Working Capital and Other               6.1            0.28             0.8
863.0           39.79          100.0
Source of Funds
Internally Generated Funds              3.2            0.15            0.4
Less Debt Service                      63.3            2.92             7.3
Net Internally Generated Funds        -60.1           -2.77           -6.9
Collections                           337.5           15.56           39.1
Government Transfers                  122.1            5.63           14.1
Deposits                              134.7             6.21           15.6
Borrowings                            328.8           15.16           38.1
863.0           39.79          100.0



- 35 -
5.06      The proposed Bank-financed component is quite small relative to
ICT's overall investment program shown in Table 5.2, representing only about
4% of total expenditures during the 1979-1982 period. It is, therefore,
unlikely that any change in ICT's financial position would significantly
affect the implementation of the project.
5.07      However, ICT's overall operating performance will continue to weaken
throughout the implementation period. Although total operating income is
expected to triple -- from Col$1. 7 billion in 1978 to Col$4. 7 billion by the
end of 1982 -- net income is expected to decrease from a high of Col$23 mil-
lion in 1978 to Col$10 million. in. 19Q2   -en after taking into account a
recent increase in lending rates). This will not be adequate to generate
sufficient funds from ICT's internal resources to cover debt service require-
ments and working capital needs. In this connection, it is expected that ICT
will have an accumulated cash operating deficit of about US$66 million during
the 1979-1982 period, which the government proposes to cover through grants of
about US$122 million. On the basis of the foregoing, ICT's liquidity position
should remain substantially the same over the next five years. However, ICT
is considering measures to strengthen its financial position, and will under-
take a study of the alternatives available to it (see para 5.13).
B. Special Aspects of ICT's Financial Structure
Mortgage Lending Operations
5.08      ICT has adopted an inflation indexing system which, although it
falls short of ensuring long-term financial viability, generates significant
automatic increases in annual revenues. This has been accomplished by divid-
ing the system into two types of mortgage operations:
(a) Variable Interest Rate Loans are aimed at middle-income
groups and finance the purchase of housing on lots
larger than 60 m2 whose value at the time the loan is
made exceeds Col$ 150,000. The interest rate is ad-
justed annually based on the following formula (this
concept differs from mortgage adjustment in that the
debt itself does not chang)!-
(i) the loan is divided into two tranches;
(ii) the first tranche is limited to a maximum of 50%
of the loan, becomes progressively smaller as the
size of the loan increases, and carries an interest
rate of 7%;
(iii) the second tranche progressively increases with
the size of the loan and the rate of inflation,
up to a maximum interest rate of 25%;



- 36 -
(iv) the variable interest rate is the weighted average
of the interest rates for the two tranches.
(b)  Fixed Interest Rate Loans are aimed at the lower
income groups and carry an interest rate of 12%.
These types of loans are typically used to finance
land tenure, home improvements, neighborhood improve-
ments and sites and services.  An additional 2% is
added to cover the cost of insurance, which raises
the final cost to the borrower to 14%.
5.09      ICT plans to discontinue underwriting variable interest rate loans
and concentrate its activities on the lower income groups. As a means of
reducing the early debt service payments on fixed interest rate loans, and to
bring these loans within the means of poorer families, ICT has adopted the
graduated payment mortgage, wherein the amortization schedule is predicated
on an annual increase of 5% per annum in monthly payments. This results in
smaller monthly payments in the earlier years and an increasing amortization
in later years. The initial monthly payment has been used in calculation of
affordability (see paras 5.22 to 5.25), based on the premise that households
will be able to accommodate the annual increases as incomes and the percent
of income devoted to housing rise over time (see para 5.26 for sensitivity
analysis of affordability).
Interest Rates
5.10      The recent high rates of inflation in Colombia (24% in 1975, 20% in
1976 and 35% in 1977) have put upward pressure on the cost of borrowings. As
a result, the average cost of borrowings for the enterprise as a whole has
climbed above the average interest rate on loans receivable (including vari-
able and fixed). In the past, a positive interest rate spread was assured
through cross-subsidy from the higher-yielding variable interest rate loans.
The potential for cross-subsidy is, however, diminishing as a result of the
increasing proportion of fixed interest rate loans, which now account for
about 50% of the total lending volume, up from about 30% in 1976. It is
expected that as ICT continues to expand its operations in low-cost housing,
its need for additional grants will increase.
5.11      Notwithstanding the recent high rates of inflation in Colombia,
the government has taken decisive measures to control inflation and some
progress is now apparent in reversing the previous trend.  With continued
good economic management, inflation is expected to decrease significantly
over the next few years, dropping to 16% in 1979, 14% in 1980 and 12% there-
after. It is therefore likely that the upward pressure on borrowing costs
should level out, and that ICT's interest rate structure could very nearly
turn positive by the end of the commitment period.
Outlook
5.12      ICT's expected cash operating deficit (para 5.07) has weakened
its overall financial structure, since it will increasingly depend on con-
tinuous government grants not only to create an artifically low cost of



- 37 -
borrowings to enhance its interest rate spread, and hence its operating
performance, but also to ensure an adequate cash flow to maintain its lending
targets.
5.13      However, ICT is also considering various alternatives to strengthen
its financial position. Included in the list of possibilities is an increase
in the funds it receives from its non-interest bearing bonds that savings
banks and insurance companies are required to purchase. Assurances were
obtained during loan negotiations that ICT will undertake a study of the
alternatives available to it for strengthening its financial condition. The
study would be available prior to January 1, 1981, by which time an action
program taking into account the study's conclusions will have been prepared.
Empresas Publicas Municipales de Cartagena (EPMC)
5.14      The proposed Bank-financed component, as shown by the table below,
is quite small relative to EPMC's overall investment program, representing
only about 9% of total expenditures during the 1978-1982 period. It is there-
fore unlikely that the implementation of the project would significantly affect
EPMC's financial position. For this reason and because a detailed analysis of
EPMC is being undertaken for the proposed third Bank loan to INSFOPAL, its
financial position and prospects have not been analyzed in detail in this
report.
Table 5.3
Empresas Publicas Municipales de Cartagena (EPMC)
Financing Plan
------ 1978-1982 -------
millions
US$        Col$        %
Application of Funds
Proposed Investments
Urban Projects                              2.9         130.0     9.4
Other                                     23.1       1,039.1    75.3
26.0      1,169.1    84.7
Working Capital Requirements                  4.7        214.9    15.3
30.7      1,384.0    100.0
Source of Funds
Funds Provided by Operations                 16.3        735.1    53.1
Less Debt Service                             5.8        261.5    18.9
Net Internally Generated Funds               10.5        473.6    34.2
Government Transfers and Reserves             1.6          74.0     5.3
Long-term Loans                              18.6        836.4    60.5
30.7      1,384.0   100.0



- 38 -
C. Cost Recovery
5.15      Cost recovery measures have been tailored to the low capacity
to pay of the area residents, and have been developed based on the follow-
ing objectives: (a) investments in public utilities would be recovered
through tariffs; and (b) for all other investments cost recovery would
be compatible with (i) the project beneficiaries' capacity to pay; and
(ii) the most expedient regularization of property rights. As a result,
it is expected that about 55% of total project costs would be recovered,
either from the beneficiaries or from the general revenues of the utility
enterprises. Investments in land filling, external drainage, community
facilities, and technical assistance, which account for the remaining 45%
of total project costs, are viewed as benefitting a wider municipal area,
and wodld be treated as a transfer of resources not recovered from the
project beneficiaries. Table 5.4 summarizes the cost recovery provisions
of the project.
5.16      The timing and magnitude of the cost recovery is, however, tied
in part to the filling operations already underway, and in part to the
enactment of measures giving ICT the legal right to acquire and dispose
of land in the project area. In this connection, the following guidelines
have been adopted.
(a) Chiefly because fill material has by tradition been pro-
vided free to the area residents, the costs of these
investments in the S.E. Zone (about US$3.4 million)
are being financed at no charge to the beneficiaries.
Since these works need to be completed before utility
infrastructure can be installed, completion of filling
in each sector of the S.E. Zone in a manner satisfac-
tory to the Bank has been established as a condition
of disbursement for works undertaken in that sector.
(b) Except for the few properties already owned by the
area residents in fee simple, it is expected that all
land in the project area will be acquired by ICT
through cession from the state. Existing occupancy
rights would continue to be recognized, and would be
supported by a quasi-legal title that can be converted
to a full title at a later date.  Assurances were
obtained during loan negotiations that the Government
and ICT will take all necessary steps to ensure that
transfers to residents begin not later than January 1,
1981.



3 9                                        Table 5.4
Schedule of Cost Recovery
(Col$ millions)
Transferred from               Cost Recovered by
ICT through         Utility Tariffs
Total  Central   Local    Capital    Loan
Component                  Cost    Gov't.   Gov't. Dev. Levy   Charges    EPMC   ELECTRIBOL
Land Filling                         156.3      156.3
Street Drainage                      174.3       22.3             152.0
External Drainage                    244.4      244.4
Utility Infrastructure
Off-Site Water Trunk  Mains          55.7                                            55 7
Primary Water Mains                 58.3
Primary Sewerage                    41.1
Electricity Networks                87-9                                                          87.9
ICT Loans
Regularization of Land Tenure       12.1                                    12.1
Public Services and
Neighborhood Improvements         297.9                                  297.9
Housing Improvements                59.1                                    59.1
Sites and Relocation               133.6                                   133.6
Community Facilities                 226.7      200.2    26.5
Project Management                    52.4       52.4
Technical Assistance                  31.5       31.5
Total Project Cost               1,al.8      707.1    26.5    152.0       502.7    155.1        87.9
US$ Equivalent (millions)           35.3      15.3    0h          3.3      10.9       3.3        1.9
Percentage                         100        43        2         9        31         9           6



- 40 -
5.17      The government has agreed to make the peso equivalent of the pro-
posed Bank loan available to the implementing agencies. Assurances were
obtained during loan negotiations that the proceeds of the Bank loan allocated
to each component, together with the national budget funds appropriated for
the same purpose, would be made available by the government to the implement-
ing agencies, and that these agencies would invest the funds and recover the
costs in a manner consistent with the procedures outlined below.
Costs Recovered Through Tariffs
Water and Sewerage Infrastructure
5.18      Within the utility infrastructure component, recovery of the costs
of off-site water trunk mains, primary water mains, and primary sewerage would
be the same as that adopted for the first urban project (Loan No. 1558-CO).
The covenants regarding financial rates of return and pricing policies agreed
by the Bank with INSFOPAL in respect of EPMC would be applied. In this
manner, 100% of the investment costs would be recovered through the general
revenues of EPMC.
Electricity Networks
5.19      A similar cost recovery mechanism would apply to on-site electricity
distribution networks. Tariffs would be set at levels sufficient to recover
100% of the cost of the networks through the general revenues of ELECTRIBOL,
which like water and sewerage would include subscribers from both within
and outside the project areas.
Costs Recovered from Beneficiaries
Street Drainage
5.20      The cost of this component would be recovered through a capital
development charge levied on the basis of front footage for the properties
located in the project area. The charge would be mandatory, but at the dis-
cretion of the residents could be paid as a lump sum or as part of a conven-
tional ICT home improvement mortgage at 12% interest (plus an additional 2%
for insurance) over 15 years. Eligibility of the residents for other ICT
loans would be determined after including the capital development charge as
the first ranking constituent of the maximum permissible debt service (up to
30% of family income) allowed under ICT lending procedures.
ICT Loans
5.21      Loans from ICT would be repaid on the basis of the graduated payment
mortgage described in para 5.09. No initial down payments would be required.
A flexible system would be introduced to allow the refinancing of loans, so
that borrowers can increase their debt before paying off previous loans, with
eligibility determined under the same criteria as described in para 5.20.



- 41 -
D. Affordability
5.22      Surveys undertaken since 1974 provide the most reliable recent
information on income and consumption in the project areas. According to
these surveys, residents have incomes of only about 60% of the average for
the city, and only about one-third the average for all Colombian cities.
Nevertheless, not all residents in the target zones are uniformly poor. The
S.E. Zone rehabilitation area , for example, lies in a flood plain and con-
tains many exceedingly poor families, while others a few hundred feet away
in the conservation area are somewhat better off. It is for this reason that
the project was designed to include several optional components in order to
preserve the broad socioeconomic mix of the community.
5.23      In calculating affordability, ICT has traditionally operated on
the premise that 30% of income of the head of household will be devoted to
housing. The appraisal mission, however, related housing expenditure to
household income more selectively for the purpose of judging affordability.
For the lowest 10% of families in the project areas it was felt that 10% of
household income allocated to housing-related items was a realistic figure;
this proportion would increase to 15%, 20%, and 25-30% for succeeding deciles.
5.24      The resulting comparisons of costs and capacity to pay in the project
areas are shown in Table 5.5. Costs are in mid-1978 prices and include design,
supervision, and physical contingencies. Payments shown are the minimum in
accordance with the graduated payment system described in para 5. 09.
5. 25     The sole mandatory charge (the capital development levy designed
to recover the cost of street drainage works) is affordable to families with
incomes at the 6th percentile in the project areas. Families may then, at
their option, contract for public utilities, tenure, and housing improvements
in various combinations, illustrations of which are provided in Table 5.5.
Credits for regularization of land tenure plus interlot drains, in addition
to the capital development levy, would for example imply a monthly payment of
180 pesos (US$4.58), affordable at the 12th percentile. Families purchasing
individual water, sewerage, and electricity connections in addition to the
above items would be paying 556 pesos (US$14.15), which is affordable to
families at the 68th percentile in the project areas or at roughly the 12th
percentile of the national urban income distribution. Those contributing more
labor than the average of 20% assumed in calculations of capacity to pay for
public services and neighborhood improvements (interlot drains, sidewalks,
and secondary water and sewerage) would require smaller ICT loans and hence
monthly payments. Purchase of an infill lot or acquisition of a relocation
loan for construction of a dwelling would boost the monthly payment into the
top five deciles. This is, however, still within the lowest 40% of the city
as a whole.



- 42 -                                                Table 5.5
COST TO HOUSEILDS AD AFlORDABILITY
Estimated                                                                           Lowest
Total      Effective                                 Total                 Minimum             Incomp
Cost A.   Demand       Cost oer Household    Monthly  Pament           Muthly Income    Percentile
(000)     (Households) ColS           US$       ColC US$                  OR        US$       reached h/
A   Development levy (street drainage)                  108 16       108l58       10,706        272       ill        2.82
B   Regularization of tenure                              5,166       3,039        1,700         43        17        0.43
C   Interlot drains Y                                    24,338       4,815        5,054        129        52        1.32
D   Sidewalks  /b                                        12,887       3,612        3,567        9A         37        0.94
E   Water - Primary Sgins                               33,284        7,422        4,484        114        22 c/
- secoudary mains lb                          18,740       3,700        5,064        129        52
--connection                                  17,298       3,700        4,675        119        48
122        3.10
F   Sewerage - Primary mains                             27,175       3,270        8,310        211        11 c/
- secondary mains /b                      33,119        3,270       10,128        258       105
- connection                              13,976       3,270         4,274        109        44
160        4.07
G   Electricity - Networks                               43,810       6,819        6,424      163          67 c/
- coonection                           15,044       5,632        2,671         68        27         2
94        2.39
H   Housing Improv ment Loan (average)                   29,816       1,600       18,635        4T4   1  194         4.94
A   (mandatory)                                                               10,706        272       111        2.82       740 d/   08.84             6
A+6                                                                           12,406        316       128        3.25       853  d/   21.72            9
A+B4C                                                                         17,460        445       180        4.58       900 e/   22.91            12
A+B+CiG                                                                       26,555        676       274        6.97    1,370  e/   3I4.88           42
A+B+C-+G+E                                                                    40,778      1,038       396       10.08    1,980  e/   50. 42           62
. F63,490  1,616       556         4.5    2,224  f/   56.63             68
A+B4C4G-+E+F40                                                                67,057                  593       150    2,372 Ff /    .17
A4B+C4G+E+F4D+H                                                               85,692      '                     20:04    2,623 'Xi   66.79            76
Serviced Lots                                                                                     |
- Infill basic level (Pasacaballos)               3,777         150       25,180        641       263         6.69El  1,315        33.1i8        42
- New basic level (Pasacaballos)                 10,678         300       35,594        906       372         9.47el  1,860       4t.36          60
- Infill standard level (Pasacaballos)            3,448         100       34,476        878       360         9.16 f/  1,440       36.66         47
- New standard level (Pasacaballos)               8,978         200       44,890      1,1143      469        11  4 fl  1 876       4T-77         61
- Infill standard level (SE Zone)                34,437         715       48,164      1226        504       12.83f/  2,016        51 .34         64
- Relocation loan (SE Zone)                      19,568         730       26,806        683       280         7.133/  1,400        }56s          45
a/  In mid-1978 prices including design, supervision, and. physical contingencies, for servicing the S.E. Zone.  Conversions to
USS are at estimated 1978 exchange rate of 39.27 peaos/US$.
b/  Based on average loan amount equal to 70X of cost of works,with 30% contributed by beneficiaries
c/  Estimated tariffs, based on water consumption of 20 m 3/month, sewerage charges 50% of water tariff, and electricity
consumption of 100 kwh/month.
d/  152 of income on housing-related expenditures
e/  20% of income on housing-related expenditures
f/  25X of income on housing-related expenditures
/   302 of income on housing-related expenditures
h/  Refers to population of aprt            area.  56th percentile in project area is approximately equal to 10th percentile of
national urban income distrAccution.



- 43 -
5.26      To determine the impacts on affordability of expected future rates
of inflation, a sensitivity analysis was performed. Costs and hence ICT
loan amounts were increased by the anticipated rate of price inflation, to
which was added 5% over two years as an average adjustment in monthly pay-
ments. The results indicated that the income percentiles reached do not
change appreciably under different assumptions about income growth. If
incomes rise 35% through 1983, the capital development levy is still afford-
able at the 9th percentile in the project areas. If incomes were to rise 25%,
the levy plus loans for regularization of land tenure and interlot drains
would remain affordable to all but the bottom quartile in the project areas.
E. Replicability
5.27      The government readily acknowledges that most of the residents
in the target zones have little job security or cash reserves, and that
they are usually ineligible for social security or other forms of public
income maintenance. Formal recognition of ownership in a plot and a dwell-
ing is thus viewed by the government as the single most important element
in family economic security, and should be obtained through work and savings.
5.28      However, the southeast zone of Cartagena, unlike most other urban
areas in Colombia, is located in a flood plain. The topography is such that
the area requires substantial investment t- upgrade the 1and to an urbanizable
condition. Given the relatively low income levels of the families in the
target zones, this means that all of the required investments could not
reasonably be recovered from the direct beneficiaries in the area. In some
cases, such as external drainage, the catchment of beneficiaries extends
outside the project area--to higher income neighborhoods which have no legal
obligation to pay for the investments. Therefore, the project contains
investments which the government views as a one-time effort and will not be
recovered. However, all of the normal interventions such as regularization
of land tenure and provision of services which would be required in future
upgrading projects have been designed to standards which are affordable to the
final beneficiaries and have procedures with a high probability of maximum
cost recovery. These interventions are fully replicable and in fact follow
existing ICT practice in upgrading programs being developed in other parts of
the country.
VI. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS
A. General Justification and Project Benefits
6.01      By encouraging low-income families to improve their own dwellings
and promoting their integration within credit markets and urban service
networks, the project provides a feasible alternative to eradication of
dwellings and resettlement of families to the far periphery of Cartagena.



- 44 -
Whatever success S.E. Zone residents have had in actually finding work,
their location has always provided good access to employment centers and
commerce and has been the ruling factor in their choice of where to live.
The present project extends initiatives of the residents themselves by estab-
lishing a structure within which they may take steps to improve their health,
productivity, and living conditions.
6.02      Some project components, particularly those which enhance the
value of land and houses, will have a progressive impact on the distribution
of wealth. Others, such as education and health services offered through
the CDVs, job training, and maternal and child care, primarily affect
productivity or earning capacity and hence income. The project recognizes
the need for balanced increases in both wealth and income as the principal
means of improving the quality of life of poor urban families. By providing
most services on a "contract-in" basis, the project design avoids a situation
in which increases in the value of capital assets--land and houses--outstrips
the capacity to meet charges on these assets out of current income. This
safeguards project beneficiaries from having to sell out because of inability
to make regular monthly payments beyond their means. With 84% of S.E. Zone
families and virtually all in Pasacaballos earning incomes below the Bank's
relative poverty minimum, the project is consistent with attempts to direct a
greater share of urban development benefits toward the urban poor.
6.03      Provision of water, sewerage, and electricity together with improve-
ments made on dwellings raise the quality of a particular site, thereby
raising sales or rental prices in the current market. From water supply
improvements in particular there are also well-known externalities, most
notably that people living in neighborhoods adjacent to the project areas are
less likely to contract communicable diseases as the health of project area
residents improves. A further externality likely to be realized within the
project is the reduction in the cost of serving nonproject areas with water
that will result from construction of the trunk mains and other project
facilities.
6.04      The project also offers residents a variety of options permitting
them to gain clear title to the land on which they live. Residents may obtain
a specific credit for legalization of tenure or may combine such a credit with
a home improvement loan. Promotion agents supervised by ICT within the
project will explain the steps required to obtain title, based on the extent
and accuracy of existing property descriptions. Families residing in the area
20 years or longer (roughtly 1%-2% of families in the S.E. Zone) will be told
how they may achieve title through adverse possession or "squatter's rights,"
at a modest legal fee.
6.05      Technical assistance to project management will have beneficial
impacts during project execution and lay the foundation for more efficient
resource allocation among municipal service agencies. Assistance in property
assessment and tax administration, for example, will permit more effective
application in Cartagena of the sound assessment guidelines drawn up by the
National Geographic Institute. Better cadastral administration should also
lead to higher property tax receipts and an improved fiscal capacity in



- 45 -
Cartagena as a whole. Enhanced taxable capacity may also lower the resistance
of municipal agencies such as the Valorization Office to undertaking projects
and recovering costs in low-income neighborhoods.
B. Rate of Return Calculations
6.06      Internal economic rates of return were calculated for (a) physical
environmental improvements to the S.E. Zone and Pasacaballos project areas,
and (b) the housing improvement program including ICT loans for regularization
of tenure, domestic public utility connections, and home improvements. An
overall rate of return of 16% was obtained for the combined costs and benefits
of these project elements, which include design, supervision, and physical
contingencies and constitute 60% of total project cost.
Physical Environmental Improvements
6.07      This component includes all capital costs of land filling, street
gutters and curbs, the water trunk mains and networks, sewerage and electricty
distribution networks, and ICT loans for interlot drainage and other neighbor-
hood improvements. Capital costs were inclusive of design, supervision, and
physical contingencies. An estimated opportunity cost of land was added to
the cost stream in year one, while a residual value of land based on an annual
increase in the real value of land of 5% over the project's life was added as
a final benefit. Annual maintenance expenses were estimated or obtained from
EPMC. Benefits to the provision of these internal improvements were judged to
be measured by changes in the value of plots receiving the services.
6.08      Based on these considerations, the internal economic rate of return
to physical environmental improvements was 15%. Were benefits to decrease or
costs to increase by 15%, the rate of return would fall to 12%. An equivalent
increase in benefits or reduction in costs would raise the rate of return to
19% in the former case and 20% in the latter.
Housing Improvements
6.09      In this case the rate of return calculation compared the capital
costs (inclusive of design, supervision, and physical contingencies) to be
financed with ICT loans for regularization of tenure, domestic public utility
connections, serviced sites and house construction, and home improvements,
plus an assumed maintenance outlay, with increases in the rental value of
dwellings the improvements would make possible. Current rental values in the
S.E. Zone vary from 300 pesos monthly near the shore of the Tesca lagoon to
500 pesos in intermediate areas, and up to 1,000 pesos per month along Avenida
Don Pedro de Heredia. If 500 pesos, or 6,000 pesos yearly, represents a rough
average for the S.E. Zone (300 pesos in Pasacaballos), a rate of return to
the housing improvement package may be estimated by comparing costs with the
difference between rental values on improved dwellings in comparable neigh-
borhoods elsewhere in the city and those prevailing in the project areas.
Improved dwellings comparable in most other respects bring about 1,200 pesos
per month in other parts of the city, and about 600 pesos in Pasacaballos.



- 46 -
There is presently no reliable way to gauge the price elasticity of demand
for housing in Cartagena. However, conventional practice as well as a number
of studies of housing markets in other developing and developed countries have
maiTtained that a value of minus one is a reasonable approximation. In such
a situation, the expected 7% increase in the stock of housing of this type
occasioned by the project will lead to a fall in market rentals of 7% maximum
and, on average, 3-1/2%. Increments of 700 pesos per dwelling in the S.E.
Zone and 300 in Pasacaballos adjusted downward by 3-1/2% were consequently
used in estimating benefits.
6.10      These ronideri-ations yielded an -nternal ^-c.n.mic_ rate of return
to this component of 21%. With increases or decreases of 15% in costs and
benefits, the rate of return changes as shown below:
IERR
15% decrease in benefits                13%
15% increase in costs                   14
15% increase in benefits                29
15% decrease in costs                   30
Combined Costs and Benefits
6.11      The combined internal economic rate of return on all quantifiable
project benefits was 16%. This return does not fall below 11% (the estimated
opportunity cost of capital in Colombia) if benefits are decreased or costs
increased 20%. It does not change if unskilled labor and foreign exchange are
evaluated at shadow prices. External drainage works, flood protection, and
community facilities, which have diffuse, generalized benefits to the city in
addition to project families, were the major elements whose benefits were not
quantified. Benefits as measured will somewhat understate the true benefits
to the extent that project cost components included in the calculations, such
as the water trunk mains, serve other parts of the city as well as the S.E.
Zone. Moreover, these economic rates of return do not reflect some social
benefits which, because of limitations of data, could not be quantified.
A social rate of return should be higher than the economic one since (a) a
large majority of the project beneficiaries (74%) live at consumption levels
below the Critical Consumption level estimated for Colombia, so that social
benefits would be above economic ones; and (b) a large share of the additional
incomes from employment creation should go to the same groups, thus lowering
labor costs in social terms as compared to costs in economic terms.
C. Employment Aspects
6.12      The project will provide opportunities to generate additional
jobs and increase effective demand among project area residents. Civil



- 47 -
engineering construction with scale economies such as utility installations
are expected to generate significant employment at a cost per man-year
among the lowest of any sector in Colombia. Community facilities would be
constructed with maximum participation of small contractors using local labor
and building materials. Small enterprises are similarly expected to account
for an important share of wages and salaries generated from housing improve-
ment credits. Considering also the labor content of materials used in con-
struction, self-managed house construction on the scale contemplated for the
S.E. Zone and Pasacaballos should stimulate the market for skilled and semi-
skilled informal sector craftsmen. Additional employment will result from
linkages with other sectors which use the income generated from construction
or provide inputs. The construction process itself is not expected to place
undue demands on scarce technical manpower in the Cartagena area.
6.13      Employment opportunities will also be improved through training.
In each CDV, Employment and Productivity Units (UPEs) will provide training
in basic skills through SENA's innovative Urban Mobile Program. The UPEs
will also foster the growth of small enterprises and improve the vitality of
existing ones by providing technical assistance and facilitating access to
formal credit institutions.
6.14      In screening of job candidates for the EPZ, the Zona Franca
Industrial y Comercial (ZFIC) will favor existing Cartagena residents over
migrants from the interior, and will make no attempt to recruit outside the
Cartagena metropolitan region. Some of the estimated 6,000 jobs to be created
in the EPZ are consequently likely to go to residents of the S.E. Zone and
Pasacaballos. Other project area families will benefit indirectly as the EPZ
absorbs labor elsewhere in Cartagena, freeing jobs they can compete for.
D. Urban Poverty Impacts
6.15      About 14,350 families (over 95,000 individuals, slightly more than
half of Cargagena's population below the relative poverty minimum) would
benefit from the project through improved infrastructure, housing, and com-
munity facilities. The project would improve conditions of dwellings com-
prising about three-quarters of the estimated qualitative housing deficit
(i.e., the number of substandard units) in the city. About 84% of households
in the S.E. Zone and virtually all in Pasacaballos earn incomes below the
urban poverty level of US$855 per household per year in 1976 prices.  If
project investments benefit poor families at each project site in the same
proportion, a total of US$30 million or 85% of the total project cost of
US$35.3 million is attributable to the urban poverty group.  Benefits of water
and sewer provision and upgrading of dwellings and neighborhoods will accrue
to the project area population. Similarly, returns from use of the social
facilities can be expected to accrue primarily to the poor. Assuming that the
Bank loan finances poverty- and nonpoverty-related expenditures in a manner
similar to that of the project as a whole, the percentage of urban poverty
lending is also 85% or US$11.5 million of the loan amount of US$13.5 million.



- 48 -
E. Constraints, Limitations, and Risks
6.16      The major uncertainty facing the project is whether optional compo-
nents, particularly the ICT loans for home improvements and public utility
connections, will be taken up at the expected rate.  In the S.E. Zone 80% of
consumption expenditure of the poorest families is for food. To have required
these families to spend 20% of income for housing when according to recent
surveys they are now spending 2%-3% is to cause disruption to their patterns
of living. For this reason the optional features have been designed to be
as independent of one another as possible, so that families may contract for
each over time as their financial circumstances permit. By the close of
disbursements it is expected that most project families will have chosen at
most one or two options. Many will simply continue payments on the single
obligatory charge (the capital development levy) until their incomes improve.
Conservative assumptions were made regarding the proportion of families
from which the effective demand was estimated. As a consequence, the risk of
less than full utilization of the loan by the end of the disbursement period
is considered small.
6.17      A second constraint on project effectiveness is the uncertain return
to SENA training programs, given the difficulties of labor absorption in
Cartagena. To some degree this can be mitigated by training and promotion
earmarked to specific demand by firms for labor or the output of labor-inten-
sive enterprise, such as ZFIC intends to undertake on behalf of EPZ firms.
VII.  SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS AND LOAN CONDITIONS
7.01      During loan negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a) the necessary counterpart funds would be made available
to the participating agencies, and that these agencies
would invest the funds and recover the costs in an
acceptable manner (paras 3.03-3.04, 5.18-5.21).
(b) ICT would lend for regularization of land tenure,
public services and neighborhood improvements, housing
improvement, and serviced sites and relocation on
terms and conditions outlined in Acuerdo 4 (1977)
utilizing the pricing systems and allocation pro-
cedures outlined in the above document. Any changes
in the terms and conditions for subloans to benefi-
ciaries in the project areas or the pricing and allo-
cation procedures would be subject to agreement
between the Borrower and the Bank (para 4.12, 4.16);
(c) ICT would be responsible for the management and
coordination of the project, and would establish a
project management unit with all necessary staff (para.
4.08);



- 49 -
(d)  participating agencies would assume responsibility for,
adequately staff, and operate the facilities under
their control during the life of the project (para
4.01). Commmunity Development Centers (CDVs) would be
staffed as outlined in para. 4.21;
(e)  ICT would undertake a study of the alternatives for
long-term financial viability available to it, and
by January 1, 1981 prepare a program for strengthen-
ing its financial condition taking into account the
study's conclusions (para. 5.13);
(f)  ICT would establish and carry out monitoring and
evaluation of the project, including studies of
particular aspects of the project's progress
(para 4.19-4.20);
(g)  Completion of filling in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank in each sector would be a condition of disburse-
ment for works to be carried out in that sector under
the project (para. 5.16 (a));
(h)  Empresas Publicas Municipales de Cartagena (EPMC)
would ensure that:
(i) as in the first urban project, tariffs would be set
at such levels as to ensure the recovery of 100% of
the costs of the investment, including the proportion
contributed directly by Government (para 5.18);
(ii) all conditions pertaining to agreements in force
with INSFOPAL shall be maintained (para 5.18).
(i) the Government would take all necessary steps, with ICT,
to ensure that transfers to residents begin not later
than January 1, 1981 (para 5.16(b)).
7.02      The following special conditions of loan effectiveness have been
specified:
(a)  ICT would enter into agreements satisfactory to the Bank with
the following participating agencies: Ministry of Health,
Ministry of Education, National Training Service (SENA),
National Institute of Family Welfare (ICBF), Instituto
Nacional de Fomento Municipal (INSFOPAL), Empresas Publicas
Municipales de Cartagena (EPMC), Electrificadora de Bolivar
(ELECTRIBOL), and the National Geographic Institute (IGAC)
(para 4.02).
7.03      With the assurances and condition indicated above, the project
is suitable for a Bank loan of US$13.5 million equivalent.



- 50
Annex 1
COLOMBIA
SECOND (CARTAGENA) URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INSTITUTO DE CREDITO TERRITORIAL IICT)
ADMINISTRATIVE ORGANIZATION OF HEAD QUARTERS
|BOARD OF DIRECTORS|
CONTROLLER GENERAL OF                                                                                          ADINSTATV                                           MINISTRY
THE REPUBLIC                                                                                                   COMMITTEE                                           OF
AUDITOR GENERAL                                                                                                                                                    ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
GEN ~ ~        EERIMNAE 
ORGANIZATION &,LGLOFC                                                                                PLANNING
CONTROL OFFICE                                                       OLEGA;OFFICE                    OFFICE
ORGANIZATION b'                                                           CONTRACTS                    PROGRAMING
METHODS SECTION                                                           SECTION                      SECTION
INTERNAL CONTROL                                                              P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LANNING aI
INTERNAL CONTROL                                                                                         PROJECTIONS
SECTION                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SECTION
| STUDIES     I
SECTION 
TECHNICAL                        CONSTRUCTION                                    FINANCIAL    |AO                                             ADNINISTRATIVE              PU_CHAIN
DEFARTMENT                       DEFARTMENT                                      DEPARTMENT                           CMT                 1   DEPARTMENT                 C
'DIREC                 ECONOMIC                         ACCOUNTANT          PRONLSOCIAL                        SSESSRIE
URBAN POLICY    URBEOMAN           SUPERVSI        ADMINISTRA- |TUDES                       CREDIT         GENERAL             PERSONNEL                          SYSTEMS          SERVICES
DEVELOPMENT       OPWRS           TIONSUIS                                                 EEA                                   WORK
SUB-STANDARDO     COORDINATION|                                         FINANCALY    | SECURITIES      |ACCOUNTING        |TRAINING         COORDINATIONS k|PORMIGF|PRHSN 
-ZC ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~POGAMN                              PURCHASING.N
FANCING        ARHI |TECTURE                                            COSTING         DEFAULTS           LOANS             BENEFITS        CO| MUNITY       DATA               STORES
AN: ]                                                                                  TREASURY             FALY             SOCA                              BENEFITS
U..C   EPLAN.NIN                                                                                                       EAT             WR
REGIONAL OFFICES S AGENCIES
.  AND )         ENGINEERING                                                                                                                                                   PUBLICATIONS 
t~    I-N.~   ~     E:N~..NE...NG       I ANTIOQUIA        11 MAGOALENA          21 ESP. URB. INTERVEN.
2 ATLANTICO        12 META              22 BARRANCABERMEJA
4  TECCH NOLOY       3 BOL!VAR          13 NARINO             23 GIRARDOTREOD
I_  EVALUATION   _    TECHNOLOGY  4 8OYACA        14 NORTE DE SANTANDER  24 GUAJIRA
5 CALDAS           IS OUINDIO           25 SAN ANDRES
B CAUCA            16 RISARALOA         26 CHOCO
7 CESAR           17 SANTANDER           27 TUMACO
8 CORDOBA          18 SUCRE
9 CUNDINAMARCA     15 TOLIMA
10 HUILA           20 VALLE DEL CAUCA
W-Id Ban.k - 17982



- 51 -
Annex 2
COLOMBIA
SECOND (CARTAGENA) URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Year   77        1978               1979               1980               1981              1982               1983
Quarter  4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4
S.E. ZONE
Land Filling                   _   -                -
Street Drainage                 _             _          l  _   _
External Drainage              air  _   _   _   _
Foreshore Protection                         WA                      IS 
Utility Infrastructure
Water Trunk Main                             F'                                 -                                   - III
Primary Water Mains
Primary Sewerage                                                              _ _
Electricity Networks                                                    s     a
ICT Loans
Land Tenure
Public Services and
Neighborhood Improvements
Housing Improvements                                                                          - _    _   _                                 -
Serviced Sites and Relocation                                                 _
Community Facilities
Construction
Equipment
Training                                                                                                            - I  ,  ,  =
PASACABALLOS
Streets and Drainage                               _s                                                                     _
UtilitV Infrastructure
Water Trunk Main                                  _5_
Primary Water Mains                              _                         s_
Electricity Networks
[CT Loans
Land Tenure
Housing Improvements
Public Services
Serviced Sites
Community Facilities
Construction
Equipment
Training
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                        l
KEY
V'AW      Engineering Design/Preparation
sEmlmonmuTendering/Selection and Bank Review
* iConstruction/Implementation                                                                                                 World Bank - 19141



- 52 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
COLOMBIA
SECOND (CARTAGENA) URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data
Available in the Project File
A.   Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
A. 1 Consultores del Caribe Ltda. Plan de Renovacion Urbana, Zona Sur
Oriental Cartagena. April 1974; 3 volumes. A teclhnical and economic
study of investment alternatives for the S.E. Zone.
A. 2 Departmento Nacional de Planeacion. Programa de Integracion de
Servicios y Participacion Comunitaria en Zonas Marginales Urbanas:
Zona Sur-Oriental Cartagena. September 1976. A survey of living
conditions in Cartagena and the S.E. Zone originally prepared for
the first Bank urban project.
A.3 Departmento Nacional de Planeacion,, Urban and Regional Development Unit.
Cartagena: Programa Zona Sur-Oriental. February 1977; January 1978;
April 1978.  Working documents on the project.
A.4 Departmento Nacional de Planeacion, Urban and Regional Development Unit.
Evaluacion Social del Proyecto de Erradicacion y Relocalizacion de la
Zona Sur-Oriental de Cartagena.  August 1976.  Costs and benefits of the
eradication alternative.
A. 5 Restrepo y Uribe Ltda. Estudios Geotecnicos Zona Sur-Oriental de
Tugurios de la Ciudad de Cartagena: Informe Preliminar. December 1975.
Contains results of soil surveys and an annotated bibiliography of
studies conducted up to that time.
A. 6 Restrepo y Uribe Ltda. Estudios de Recuperacion de las Zonas Vecinas
a la Cienaga de la Virgen en la Ciudad de Cartagena:  Informe Preliminar.
December 1975. Enumeration and description of surveys of needs and
priorities in the S.E. Zone.
A. 7 R. Obregon and J. Uzcategui. The Viability of Low Income Housing Programs
in Developing Countries.  June 1972. M.I.T. Master's Thesis that explores
housing conditions and policies in developing countries using the
Cartagena S.E. Zone as a case study.
A. 8 Hidroestudios Ltda. Diseno de las Obras de Adequacion de Terrenos;
Informe de Primera Etapa.  August 1977.  Preliminary feasibility study.



- 53 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
A.9  United Nations Development Programme, Office for Projects Execution.
Preliminary Assistance Mission Report.  June 1978.  Report on program
to establish planning framework for Cartagena region.
A.10 ICT/Cartagena. Censo de Propietarios de la Zona Sur-Oriental,
Sector II. 1977. Detailed survey of land tenure status and density
of dwelling occupancy among property owners in Sector II, S.E. Zone.
B.   ICT Reports:  PHIZSU Loan Program
B.1  PHIZSU:  Guia Metodologica.  September 1976.  Framework and rationale for
PHIZSU program of low-interest loans for housing and urban development.
B.2  Plan de Habilitacion Integral Zonas Subnormales.  1977.  Outlines
regulations and procedures under PHIZSU loans.
C.   Other Reports
C.1  J. Linnd Urban Public Finances in Developing Countries:  A Case Study
of Cartagena, Colombia. January 1975. Analysis of metropolitan finance
in Cartagena, prepared under Bank research project No. 670-70 ("Urban
Public Finance and Administration").
C.2  Lacydes Cortes Diaz.  Familia y Sociedad en Cartagena.  July 1971.
A study of houshold composition and behavior in Cartagena published
by the Economics Faculty, University of Cartagena.
C.3 F. Medina and A. Fulleda. El Mercado de Vivienda en Cartagena.
August 1970. Identifies relevant aspects of supply and demand for
housing in Cartagena.
D.   IBRD Appraisal MissionI Working Documents
D.1  Detailed cost estimates, project components.
D.2  Note on ICT Procurement Procedures.  E. Canessa.
D.3  Working Paper:  Boca de la Boquilla.  E. Canessa.
D.4  Note on Employment Impacts.  0. Grimes.
D.5  Calculation of Foreign Exchange Content.  E. Canessa.






COLOMBIA - CARTAGENA SOUTTI-EAST ZONE
-t -
Squatter development
reaching out towards                        v
sand bar in Sector III
d-4~~~~ ::, f  r,      .X
Plots being reclaied                /
by squatters in
Barrio Boston                           - i
di~~~tc  towards ,the...  ..  
Lag oo
:'^'-   (a.                                  '
View of Tabu drainage '_- dt;i,gL 
ditch towards the j
Lagoon






COLOMBIA - CARTAGENA SOUTH-EAST ZONE
Maria Auxiliadora
drainage ditch in                    '
the dry season
(Sector I-II)
k)
Filling operations
in progress 
(Sector II)
Boardwalks connecting
houses in Sector II                                                                             6
(Barrio Boston)           0
*    ~s      
| t~~
~.11k                  






IBRD-13509R
Tha map has be.,nprsesdby th. Wsrtd 6.nhs staff os,.nirelyfur the clb. ncenis                                            COLOL MBIA                       OCTOBER 1978
af the reaers of the repo.t t. ahiih it is attaohed Tha densnMnatWons used end thle                                 U B                                 PROEC
thoosttie  hlscn 0oelptdo/ stwt Ostf  th-tf theoydd o-f sirts                         /       CARTAGENA  URBAN    IMPROVEMENT  PROJECT
acceptance  of auth hbonmdrfeo.                                              J
Existing road to be improved
- - - ---Proposed water trunk mains
-  -J --- Approximate limit of catchment area of
external drainoge canals
Future roads
CAR/Bz-AN           SEA                                                                               External drainage ditches to be canalized
[7'&  )   eProject area (For details see IBRD 13510)
Moin access roads
____Secondary road
Built-up areas (City of Cartogena)
J (J              Other built-up areas
X   Airrr> 
KILOMETERS
\~~                                    ~ ~ t   2              3
MILES
resca    oa(7stTron                                                                     T r
ORICE$      LA POPA                                                                                                - -
10- 25'-
/iMGRANDEoa    ta is5                                                                   
TIERRA BOMIBA
ISLANO~~~~~~~~
10OZO,                                                                                                                                                URBACO
CA R188EAN            SEA                                                                                                                                & 50O"Go
C.
Export                                                                 (-2f N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ELZ UEILA  J
processing                                                                    Pcfc       ~     xoo-
5.                   ~~~~~~~BRA AZI L 
PASACABALLOS                                                             EUAEYOR]                   400x   Soo
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                             Krtt\iMI\ f 5
I)                                                                            -, ~~~~~~7-3-PER      m . x4.   I Io.
6 9 _ <   V  X   vKS  \  _   ,            ~~~~~f 






COLOAAla  A                                                                                    OCTOBER t9rn
:CAR:AENA VRA  IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Urbanization Plan
S~            L A GOON
V;:77'                                                                          5-w 3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tncrB-
F~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
CITY OF CARTFAGENJA
Fotirn paiiyheiol rood (opyron-nat-
doCon,~~~~~~~~~~~~beo0                                                                                                                 Main~~~~~~~~~~F,  p-des-i1 streeTs.w-t
c~~~~~oeaaf                                                                                                     Se~~~~~~~~~~~~~~= :cndar pedestia
EIZ(Area  for --reuity f-cilities
-                                                                                                         Earernal ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~drainge dirches to be canli-d
-r  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                                               Pc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ilt-up are- retabilrtato-cc
0'1_  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~            ~          ~           ~          ~         ~          Wi    Budt-up area - creuto c
5CoucOR~  ~     pptit                -  . 0nnnc                        on      ecnee                          zoo      4cc       coo      8c        cc                      Proiect area b-oudry
-    i.  rroncc                   e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~en                               O~~~~~TtERSa a                                                                                                                       a    a
-                                                                  ______________________________________________________                                                                                         siroacrest~~~~~300
ycyo                                                                                                                                                                                                                  i      a        a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EE 



