CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1694 CO
Project Agreement
(Second (Cartagena) Urban Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
INSTITUTO DE CREDITO TERRITORIAL
Dated August 31, 1979


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1694 Co
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 31, 1979, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and INSTITUTO DE CREDITO TERRITORIAL (hereinafter called ICT).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Colombia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirteen million
five hundred thousand dollars ($13,500,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that ICT agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as
are hereinafter set forth;
(B) the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan
Agreement will be made available by the Borrower to ICT and the
agencies and entities participating in the carrying out of the
Project; and
WHEREAS ICT, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01 (a) ICT, with the participation of the Minis-
terios and the Participating Entities, shall carry out the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate urban develop-
ment, health, nutritional, educational, administrative, economic,


﻿- 2--
-2-
engineering and financial practices, and shall provide, or cause
the Participating Entities to provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose. The Ministerios and the Participating Entities
shall participate with ICT in the carrying out of the Project
as indicated in the Annex to Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement as
such Annex may be amended by agreement between the Borrower and
the Bank.
(b) For the carrying out of the Project, ICT shall: (i)
until completion of the Project, maintain and operate, to the
satisfaction of the Bank, a Project Management Unit in its
office in the city of Cartagena; (ii) provide, or cause to be
provided, such unit, promptly as needed, with such qualified
and experienced staff (including extension field staff), faci-
lities, funds and other resources as shall be required for
the efficient operation thereof; (iii) without limitation upon
the provisions in (ii) hereof, employ in such unit a manager
for the Project, a director in charge of social programs and a
director in charge of monitoring and evaluation, all of whom shall
have qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank; and
(iv) take all such action as shall be necessary or advisable on
its part to ensure that each Sede included in Part A of the
Project is provided, promptly as needed, with such qualified and
experienced staff (including one coordinator, two social workers,
one loan promoter and one small enterprises promoter), facilities,
funds and other resources as shall be required for the efficient
operation thereof.
(c) ICT shall make loans under Part B (d) of the Project
which shall include, inter alia, the following terms and condi-
tions:
(i) interest on the outstanding principal of each
loan will be payable at the rate of fourteen per
cent (14%) per annum, inclusive of all applicable
commissions, taxes, charges or fees of any kind
whatsoever;
(ii) the repayment term will be not less than fifteen
years;
(iii) the amount of the monthly repayment installments
will be gradually increased over the life of


﻿- 3-i
-3-
the loan at a rate not exceeding five per cent
(5%) per annum;
(iv) the purchase price of lots financed by the loans
will be determined in accordance with criteria
satisfactory to the Bank; and
(v)   in matters other than those mentioned in subpara-
graphs (i), (ii) and (iii) hereof, the applicable
provisions of Acuerdo No. 004 of 1977, Resoluci6n
No. 1679, dated September 20, 1977 and Resoluci6n
No. 1946, dated October 23, 1977, will apply.
(d) In the carrying out of the Project, ICT undertakes
to: (i) follow at all times Decreto No. 184 of July 21, 1978, of
the Alcalde Mayor de Cartagena (Plan de Desarrollo del Municipio
de Cartagena 1978-1990); and (ii) take all such action as shall be
necessary or advisable to obtain such exemptions therefrom as
shall be appropriate for the carrying out of the Project.
Section 2.02. (a) ICT shall enter into contracts, satis-
factory to the Bank, with each of the Ministerios and the Partici-
pating Entities, for defining in detail the responsibilities
(including financial responsibilities), functions and admini-
strative procedures of ICT and each of such Ministerios and
Participating Entities in respect of the carrying out of the
Project.
(b) Pursuant to paragraph (a) above, ICT shall enter into
a contract, satisfactory to the Bank, with INSFOPAL and EPMC and
shall include in such contract provisions for:
(i) defining in detail the responsibilities (including
financial responsibilities), functions and admin-
istrative procedures of ICT, INSFOPAL and EPMC,
respectively, in respect of the carrying out
of Part B (b) of thz Project;
(ii) making available to ICT such portion of the amounts
made available by the Borrower to INSFOPAL in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph (c) of
Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement as shall be
necessary, in addition to the own resources of
EPMC, to cover the expenses of ICT in respect of
the carrying out of Part B (b) of the Project;


﻿-4-
(iii) transferring by ICT to EPMC, free of charge, upon
completion of Part B (b) of the Project, the water
supply and sewerage facilities included therein;
(iv) upon completion of such transfer, requiring EPMC
to: (a) repay to INSFOPAL an amount equivalent to
40% of the certified construction costs of the
facilities referred to in (iii) above as a loan at
an annual interest rate of eighteen per cent (18%)
per annum, inclusive of all applicable commissions,
taxes, charges or fees of any kind whatsoever, over
a period of seventeen years, including four years
of grace; and (b) register on its books, as an
equity contribution from INSFOPAL, an amount
equivalent to the difference between (1) the
balance of the certified construction costs of the
facilities referred to in paragraph (iii) above and
(2) 20% of the certified construction costs of the
water trunk main included in Part B (b) (i) of the
Project;
(v) requiring EPMC to establish and maintain water
supply and sewerage tariffs and other charges
for its services at levels sufficient to generate
enough revenues to cover EPMC's investment, oper-
ating and maintenance costs; and
(vi) without limiting the generality of the provisions
in (v) above, incorporating into such contract all
agreements regarding rates of return and tariffs
between EPMC and INSFOPAL on account of funds made
or to be made available to EPMC out of the proceeds
of any loan made by the Bank to INSFOPAL.
(c) ICT undertakes that it shall include in the contracts
referred to in paragraph (a) above provisions to ensure employ-
ment by the Ministerios and the Participating Entities of such
qualified and experienced staff as shall be required for the
efficient and timely carrying out of the Project.
(d) ICT shall exercise its rights under each of the con-
tracts referred to in paragraph (a) above in such manner as
to protect the interests of the Bank and ICT and to accomplish
the purposes of the Project and the Loan, and except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, ICT shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive such contracts or any provision thereof.


﻿-5-
Section 2.03. In order to assist ICT in the carrying out
of (i) the engineering and supervision of the works included in
Part B (b) of the Project, and (ii) the studies and training
included in Part D of the Project, ICT shall employ, or cause to
be employed, consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank and ICT.
Section 2.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of the
Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) ICT undertakes to insure, or cause to
be insured, or make adequate provision for the insurance of,
the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by the insured party to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank-may otherwise agree,. ICT shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds..of the Loan
to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) ICT shall furnish or cause to be furnished,
to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifi-
cations, reports, contract documents and work and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) ICT: (i) shall maintain, or cause to be maintained,
records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress
of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived
from it), to identify the goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives,
or cause them to be enabled, to visit the facilities and construc-
tion sites included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish or cause to be furnished,
to the Bank, at regular intervals all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,


﻿-6-
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expen-
diture of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) ICT shall: (i) pr.epare quarterly reports, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on
the carrying out of the Project; and (ii) furnish to the Bank
such reports promptly after their completion.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between ICT and
the Bank, ICT shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on: (i) the execution and initial operation of the
Project; (ii) its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived
from it; (iii) the performance by ICT and the Bank of their
respective obligations under the Project Agreement; (iv) the
performance by ICT and each of the other parties to the contracts
referred to in paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement of
their respective obligations under the applicable contract; (v)
the performance by INSFOPAL and EPMC of their respective obli-
gations under the contract referred to in Section 2.03 of this
Agreement; and (vi) the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Project and the Loan.
Section 2.07. (a) ICT shall take, or cause to be taken,
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction and operation of the facilities
included in the Project.
(b) ICT shall: (i) by October 1, 1979, prepare a program,
satisfactory to the Bank, for the transfer to residents in the
Project Area, of land in such Area; and (ii) by January 1, 1981,
start implementing the transfers of land under such program.
Section 2.08. (a) ICT shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views, or cause the Participating Entities to exchange
views, with the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project,
the performance of their respective obligations under this Agree-
ment and the contracts referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agree-
ment, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Project
and the Loan.


﻿-7-
(b) ICT shall promptly inform, or cause the Participating
Entities to inform, the Bank, of any condition which interferes
or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project,
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, the performance by
ICT of its obligations under this Agreement or the performance
by the parties to the contracts referred to in Sections 2.02
and 2.03 of this Agreement of their obligations under such
contracts.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ICT
Section 3.01. (a) ICT shall at all times manage its affairs,
maintain its financial position, plan its future expansion and
carry on its operations in accordance with appropriate administra-
tive, financial and urban development practices and under the
supervision of experienced and competent management assisted
by adequate, experienced and competent staff.
(b) ICT shall afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity
to comm.-,!t on any proposed reorganization of ICT which may affect
adversely the operations or financial condition of ICT or the
carrying out of the Project.
Section 3.02. ICT shall take out and maintain with responsi-
ble insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.03. ICT shall, jointly with the Borrower, carry out
a study of the alternatives available to it for strengthening its
financial condition, and, not later than January 1, 1981, prepare
a program for strengthening ICT's financial condition, taking into
account the conclusions of such study.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. ICT shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained.appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. ICT shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and


﻿-8-
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to
the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than
four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of ICT and the audit thereof as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. ICT shall include in the contracts to be
entered into with the Ministerios pursuant to Section 2.02 of this
Agreement, such provisions as shall be necessary to ensure that
the Ministerios shall establish and maintain records adequate to
reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained sound account-
ing practices, their operations, resources and expenditures
in respect of the Project.
Section 4.04. ICT shall include in the contracts referred
to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement such provisions as shall be
necessary to ensure that each Participating Entity shall:
(a) establish and maintain separate accounts on its records
to be used exclusively for the Project and to register in such
accounts all its receipts and payments for or in connection
with the Project, in accordance with sound accounting principles
and procedures consistently applied; and
(b) (i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a)
above and related statements for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii) furnish to the Bank and ICT, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after
the end of such entity's fiscal year, (A) certified
copies of such accounts and related statements
for such year as so audited and (B) the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and


﻿-9-
(iii) furnish to the Bank and ICT such other information
concerning such accounts and related statements
of such entity and audit thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.05. ICT shall take, and cause the Participating
Entities to take, all action, including the provision of funds
and resources, to ensure that the facilities and equipment
included in the Project are adequately operated, maintained,
renewed and repaired.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effec-
tive.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of ICT thereunder shall terminate on the date on which
the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms,
and the Bank shall promptly so notify ICT thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿- 10 -
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For ICT:
Instituto de Credito Territorial
Carrera 13, No. 18-51
Bogotg, D.E., Colombia
Cable address:
INSCREDIAL
BOGOTA
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of ICT, may be taken or executed by its
Gerente General or such other person or persons as ICT shall
designate in writing, and ICT shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the


﻿- 11 -
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ Alberto Favilla
Authorized Representative
INSTITUTO DE CREDITO TERRITORIAL
By /s/ Virgilio Barco
Authorized Representative


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B below, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2. For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, ICT shall prepare, or cause
to be prepared, and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and
in any event not later than 60 days prior to the date of avail-
ability to the public of the first tender documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. ICT shall provide the necessary information to update
such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3*   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured in accordance with the provi-
sions of paragraph 1 above: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. Cartagena price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to ICT (or the Ministerio or
Participating Entity, as the case may be) of inland freight and
other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.
4. For bidding purposes, goods to be procured in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 1 above shall be grouped in
such manner as shall be agreed between the Bank and ICT prior
to issuing the invitation to bid.


﻿- 13 -
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works estimated to cost not more than
the equivalent of $750,000 shall be procured in accordance
with local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the
Bank.
2.   Contracts for the purchase of goods (other than contracts
for the purchase of water meters) estimated to cost not more than
the equivalent of $150,000, up to an aggregate amount of
$2,000,000 equivalent, shall be procured in accordance with local
competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions in paragraph 1 above, civil
works under Part A (a) of the Project may be contracted on a
negotiated basis (after obtaining bids from at least three con-
tractors) or may be carried out by ICT by force account.
C.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Colombia may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Colombia if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of ICT and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Colombia equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Colombia.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
ItL


﻿-14-
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above,
the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be
further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A after
adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported goods offered in
each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison only,
an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the
importation of the goods offered in such group C bid; or (ii) 15%
of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs duties and
taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in such further
comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if
not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison
under paragraph 3 is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $750,000 or more and all contracts for
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, ICT shall furnish to the Bank,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, ICT shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of
the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the contract


﻿- 15 -
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request, The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform ICT and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, ICT shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the delivery to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform ICT and state the reasons for such
determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, ICT shall inform the Bank of
the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change order and
the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines that the proposal
would be inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, shall
promptly inform ICT and state the reasons for its determination.


