Doculment of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 17466
IMPLEMVENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
BEIRA TRANSPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT
(Credit 2065-MOZ)
March 10, 1998
Transport 1
Eastern and Southern Africa Region
Ttiis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
p,eRormance of their official duties, Its contents m,ay not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization,



C URRE-NCY EQUIVALENT
Monetary unit,=Metical (MT)
(MT/US$, period average)
1989        1990       1991"     1992       1993       1 994     1995      1996      1997*
744.9       929.1    1,434.5    2,516.5   3,874.2    6,038.6   9,024.3  11,293.8   11,655.0
(*) As of September
Source: International Financial Statistics, IMF.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB            African Development Bank
BCA             Beira Corridor Authority
BTCP            Beira Transport Corridor Program
LCAS            Country Ass istaihce gtr&tegy 
CFM             Caminhos de Ferro de Mo9amnbique
CFM(C)          Caminhos de Ferro de Mo9ambique (Centro)
CFM(N)          Carninhos de Ferro de Mo9ambique (Norte)
CFM(S)          Carninihos de Ferro de M69'Dfbique (Sul)
CIDA            Canadian International Development Agency
DANIDA          Danish International Development Assistance
DGIS            Direktoraat Generaal Internationale Samenwerking
-ERP       '    Eco)~Iimic Re~habilitation Program.
ERR             Economic Rate of Return
FINNIDA         Finnish International Development Agency
GOM             Government of Mozambique
IDA             International Development Association
MIS             Management Information System
MT              Me,trie Ton (1,000-Kg)
NEI             Netherlands Economic Institute
NORAD           Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation
NR.Z            National Railways of Zimbabwe
OECF            Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
RITES           Rail India Technical and Economic Services
ROCE            Retumn on Capital Employed
SADCC           Southern Africa Development Coordination Conference
SADC            Southern Africa Development Community
SAR             Staff Appraisal Report
SIDA            Swedish International Development Authority
TA              Technical Assistance
TEU             Transport Equivalent Unity (20 foot container)
ODA             Overseas Development Administration
UNDP            United Nations Development Program
USAID           United States Agency for Intern4tional Developmeiit
Vice President:                 Mr. Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Ms. Phyllis R. Pomerantz
Technical Manager:             -Mr. Yugupha,B. Crookegs
Task Leader:.r YaTsh P. Kda



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
BEIRA TRANSPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT
(CREDIT 2065-MOZ)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE.I
EVALUATION SUMMARY .i
INTRODUCTIOON.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS. .
FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED .-.-.-. ..                     ..      v
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .I
A. BACKGROUND ........................I
B. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES .3
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES        ..
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT        ..12
E. PROJECTSUSTAINABILITY .....................1  3
F. BANK PERFORMANCE ......................... . . .  .     .    .    .     .    . 14
G. BORROWER PRFORMANCE                              ..1 5
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME                            ..16
1. FUTURE OPERATIONS.17
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED ..................17..... ... .     .... ...   7
PART 11 - STATISTICAL TABLES                            .19
TABIE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS                       .19
TABLE 2: RELATED IDA CREDITS .20
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE .20
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATES AND ACTUAL .21
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .22
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION .25
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCILUDED IN PROJECT .28
TABL.E 8: PROJECT COSTS .29
TABLE 9: CREDIT PROCEEDS .29
TABLE 10: PROJECI FINANCING .30
TAI3LE H: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITI S .................................................3 ...................................... 3
TABLE 12: STFATIUIJS OF Ll'GAL COVENANTS IN CREDIT AGREEMENT ................   32
TAI31.l 13: BANK RlSOuRCEIS: STAFFINPUTS ................ 33
TA31E1]4: BANNK RESOuRCES: MISSIONS ................                            34
PART III - MISSION AIDE MEMOIRE ................                                    35
PART IV - BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR ................                       41
MAPS: IBRD Nos. 20102, 21356 and 28696
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
BEIRA TRANSPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT
(CREDIT 2065-MOZ)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Beira Transport
Corridor Project, for which Credit 2065-MOZ in the amount of SDR 31 million (US$40
million equivalent) was approved on September 14, 1989, signed on September 28, 1989,
and made effective on July 10, 1990.
The Credit was closed on June 30, 1997 one year later than the original closing
date. Final disbursement took place on February 2, 1998. A balance of SDR 9.9 million
was canceled on February 23, 1998.
The ICR was prepared by Yash Pal Kedia, Task Leader for the Project and
Gualberto Lima-Campos, Consultant and reviewed by Yusupha Crookes, Sector
Manager. Preparation of the ICR started during the Bank's final supervision mission in
April 1997.
The report is essentially based on material in the project file and data provided by
the Government of Mozambique.
This ICR was sent to the cofinanciers (CIDA, OECF and Spain) for comments, if
any, on February 18, 1998. No comments were received.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
BEIRA TRANSPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT
(CREDIT 2065-MOZ)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
INTRODUCTION
i.    Mozambique's location has traditionally made it a transit route for international
trade of its neighbors. Ports and railways in Mozambique were constructed to primarily
meet the needs of the neighboring landlocked countries. Prior to independence in 1975,
chronic trade account deficits on the balance of payments were mainly financed by the
surplus of the services account, the transport sector representing 90 percent of this
surplus. However, after independence in 1975 Mozambique's transit traffic steadily
declined from 20 million tons of freight (in 1973) to around 2.7 million tons in 1987.
The rehabilitation of the three main transport corridors (Nacala, Beira and Maputo) was
made a key element of 1985 Economic Rehabilitation Program (ERP), since these
corridors represented a potential source of employment and foreign exchange. They were
also of vital importance to the neighboring landlocked countries. In addition, in 1986
South Africa started to create obstacles to the transit transport traffic of its neighboring
countries and also hinted at the possibility of border closure. This added to the urgency
of restoring Mozambique's corridors as an alternative to the routes to South African
seaports.
ii.   In order to plan, supervise and coordinate the entire rehabilitation of the Beira
Transport Corridor (the Corridor) as well as to mobilize the required financial resources,
the Government of Mozambique (GOM) established in 1985 the Beira Corridor Authority
(BCA). In 1986, GOM presented a ten-year Development Program for the Beira
Transport Corridor called the Beira Transport Corridor Program (BTCP). The total cost
of the Program was initially estimated at US$600 million. The Bank reviewed the
Program along with other donors and the cost estimate was scaled down to US$345
million. The final cost was approximately US$425 million. BTCP was co-financed by
17 bilateral and multilateral donors including IDA.
iii.   The IDA-supported Beira Transport Corridor Project (the Project), a component
of BTCP, accounted for a total cost of US$73.8 million (both foreign and local). The
foreign components of the Project were co-financed by CIDA (Canada), OECF (Japan),
and Spain, and the local components by GOM. IDA's financial contribution was US$40
million, representing about 12 percent of BTCP's estimated cost. The Development
Credit Agreement (DCA) (Cr. 2065-MOZ) was signed on September 28, 1989. The
Credit was closed on June 30, 1997.



- ii -
iv.   IDA assistance to Mozambique started in 1985, after the country joined the
Bretton Woods Institutions. The First and Second Rehabilitation Credits focused
primarily on supporting the implementation of the country's Economic Rehabilitation
Program. The Beira Transport Corridor Project (Cr. 2065-MOZ) was the first IDA
investment operation in Mozambique's transport sector. This was followed by three
additional transport sector-related investment operations: (i) the First Roads and Coastal
Shipping Project (Cr. 2374-MOZ) approved in 1992 with the objective of developing the
institutional capacity of the road sector agencies and implementing policy reforms in the
trucking and coastal shipping sub-sectors; (ii) the Maputo Corridor Revitalization Project
(Cr. 2544-MOZ ) approved in 1993 with the objective of assisting GOM in restructuring
and revitalizing the Maputo port-rail system; and (iii) the Second Roads and Coastal
Shipping Project (Cr. 2599-MOZ) approved in 1994 with the objective of improving
road transport through rehabilitation of priority roads, resumption of regular maintenance
activities, and strengthening of the capacity of the road sector.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
v.-   Project Objectives. The Project objectives were the same as those of BTCP. The
primary objective of the Program/Project was to assist GOM to rehabilitate and upgrade
the Beira Transport Corridor in order to restore its cost efficient transit functions. The
secondary objectives were to: (i) help the Government achieve its objective of providing
cheap transport for the agricultural, productive areas along the Beira Corridor; and (ii)
facilitate capacity building by developing local semi-skilled, skilled, and managerial staff
with a view to gradually replacing the technical assistance program, and introduce
effective financial management in the Caminhos de Ferro de Moqambique (Centro)
(CFM (C)).
vi.   The Program/Project objectives were consistent with the Government's strategy
of structural adjustment grounded in the Economic Rehabilitation Program (ERP). They
were also in conformity with the Government's priorities for the transport sector, as
stated in the Economic Policy Framework of 1988-90. The objectives were also
consistent with the SADCC objectives at the time of regional integration and reduction of
dependence on South African trade routes. The objectives supported the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) at the time of appraisal, which focused on providing support
for Mozambique in developing a basis for sustainable growth, including establishment of
Mozambique's traditional role as a key transit corridor for landlocked neighbors.
vii.   However, the primary objective of restoring Beira Corridor's cost-efficient transit
functions was not adequately elaborated and its interpretation was left more or less to the
implementing agency. The focus of the implementing agency was less on improving cost
efficiency, but more on restoring the transit function through rehabilitation of
infrastructure and equipment. Moreover, BCA/CFM(C) were limited in achieving the
cost-efficient component of the objective since most key decisions with regard to
reducing costs and increasing traffic could not be taken without the concurrence of the
Caminhos de Ferro de Moqambique (CFM) headquarters in Maputo. By not focusing on



- iii -
the delegation of authority by headquarters and restructuring of the whole of CFM as
components of the project, the possibility of the objective being fully achieved was
considerably reduced.
viii.  Project Components. The Project comprised the following components/sub-
components:
* Capacity Building: (i) organizational restructuring; (ii) technical assistance to
run port and railway operations during the 1989-95 period; (iii) training for all
levels of staff in the port and railways; and (iv) upgrading of Operating and
Management Systems.
* Removing Operational Capacity Constraints: (i) rehabilitation of locomotives;
(ii) acquisition of main line locomotives; and (iii) acquisition of shunting
locomotives.
* Improving Financial Performance: (i) implementation of a railway/port cost
accounting system; (ii) installation of a Management Information System
(MIS); and (iii) studies for future investments.
ix.   Implementation Record. The Beira Transport Corridor Project was to a large
extent adequately carried out and merits a rating of Satisfactory. The freight traffic
handled by the Beira port-railway system increased significantly from 1986 to 1996:
(i) the port traffic from 1.0 million tons to 2.6 million tons, representing an average
annual growth of about ten percent; and (ii) the rail traffic from 0.4 million tons to 1.2
million tons, accounting for an average increase of about 12 percent per year.
Furthermore the number of containers handled in 1996 (33,875 TEUs) doubled as
compared to 1990.
x.    The Port productivity also improved substantially. The General and Bulk Cargo
Handling rates increased respectively from 17 tons/net gang hour in 1990 to 30 tons/net
gang hour in 1996, and from 22 tons/net gang hour in 1992 to 45 tons/net gang hour in
1996. Railway indicators pointed also towards a general productivity improvement.
However, the locomotive availability for both GM and GE locomotives declined.
xi.   Based on an estimated investment of US$345 million in BTCP and the above
benefits, the ERR was estimated at 14.1 percent. The actual cost of BTCP turned out to
be about 25 percent more than the original estimate. The benefits were also much lower
on account of the overall port and rail traffic being about 20 percent lower than the target.
The revised ERR (see Table I1) has been estimated at 8.6 percent. However, had the cost
of BTCP been restricted to the original estimate of US$345 million, ERR would have
been about 13.5 percent. Furthermore, there is considerable expectation that once the
Beira port-rail system is privatized as planned, both the port and rail traffic as well as
ERR could improve substantially.



- iv -
xii.  Physical objectives were substantially achieved. Fifteen new main-line
locomotives were added to the locomotive fleet: five GE diesel-electric locomotives
financed by OECF (Japan) and ten GM diesel-electric locomotives by CIDA (Canada).
In addition, six four-axle GE diesel-electric shunting locomotives were acquired with
IDA funds. The Project financed the acquisition of US$ 1.1 million of spare-parts and
technical assistance to carry out in Maputo a rehabilitation program of Romanian diesel-
hydraulic shunters for the entire CFM. Both spares and technical assistance were
provided to Caminhos de Ferro de Moqambique (Sul) (CFM(S)) in Maputo.
xiii.  Institutional development and public sector management objectives were
substantially achieved through: (i) organizational restructuring, (ii) training, (iii)
technical assistance, and (iv) upgrading of Operating and Managing Systems. These four
basic components accounted for more than 50 percent of the total Project cost. Overall,
results are quite encouraging and traffic levels have been maintained even after the
departure of the technical experts.
xiv.  Financial objectives were achieved to a large extent. The DCA established a
criteria based on the working ratio (total working expenses excluding depreciation
expressed as a percentage of gross operating revenues) to measure CFM(C)'s financial
performance during Project implementation. The 75 percent target established in the
Credit Agreement was achieved in 1995.
xv.   Although sector policy objectives were not foreseen in the Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR), the Project had a major impact on the understanding and formulation of
prospective sector policies. The implementation of the entire Program, including IDA-
supported components, had a beneficial impact on different environmental aspects. The
upgrading of infrastructure in and surrounding the port and railway terminal areas and in
some points of Beira's municipality, including street pavements and sewerage systems,
contributed to the improvement of living conditions of Beira's population. Although
private sector development objectives were achieved to a limited extent, the Project had a
positive impact on both Mozambique's and Zimbabwe's private sector. Some export
companies have been upgrading and expanding storage capacity in the port particularly
for oil, citrus and tallow.
xvi.  Major Factors Affecting the Project. Three factors within the Government's
control particularly affected the project: (i) inadequate delegation of authority by CFM
headquarters to CFM(C), (ii) GOM's reluctance to take a clear decision on staff
rationalization, and (iii) inadequate appreciation of share holders' responsibility by the
Government.
xvii.  Two major factors outside Government control affected the performance of the
Project. First, the Project attempted to improve the performance of CFM(C), a
component of CFM, without focusing on the entire organization. CFM headquarters
could not easily approve decisions regarding CFM(C)'s restructuring plan that were
considered too advanced vis-a-vis CFM's existing rules. Second, the result-center



v -
structure which was the linchpin of the restructuring of the organization was too complex
to implement in an environment with inadequate availability of trained staff and
inappropriate systems and procedures.
xviii. Project Sustainability. The Project's long-term sustainability would depend on
the Government's ability and commitment to implement innovative and sound policies to
preserve and more fully utilize the investments made under the Beira Transport Corridor
Program and to replace the expired equipment. Private sector involvement through long-
term concession agreements is certainly the most appropriate alternative to secure the
commercial viability and long-term financial sustainability of the Corridor. IDA and
GOM are already working towards that objective.
xix.  Bank Performance. The Bank's performance during identification, preparation
and appraisal was satisfactory on the whole, with considerable effort invested to assist
GOM to coordinate donors on the entire Program and to design the Project when the
Mozambican transport system was in total disarray. The Bank reviewed the BTCP and
produced an economic and financial evaluation (World Bank Report No. 6698) to provide
donors with a basis for discussions with GOM. The Bank's supervision performance was
satisfactory. During supervision, the Bank maintained a close monitoring of the Project
and helped the Borrower in identifying technical problems as well as in addressing
appropriate solutions, including strengthening the marketing effort and asset evaluation.
xx.   Borrower Performance. The Borrower's performance was satisfactory as regards
Project identification, preparation and appraisal with a documented commitment to
rehabilitate the Beira Corridor. The Borrower participated fully in discussions
concerning identification and contents of IDA-supported components. The Borrower met
all conditions of negotiations on time. The Borrower's performance during Project
implementation was overall satisfactory but varied with regard to different Project
activities. The Borrower's performance was satisfactory regarding physical components
but less satisfactory for institutional-building activities.
FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
xxi.  In May 1997, the Bank started discussions with the Borrower on the identification
of a Rail and Port Restructuring Project (RPRP). The Project will aim at addressing all
issues pertaining to the port and railway sub-sectors and restructuring of CFM in a
comprehensive manner. The three main objectives of RPRP would be to: (i) enable the
three port-rail systems (Beira, Maputo and Nacala) to achieve their full potential, thus
contributing to increased foreign exchange earnings and revenues for Mozambique and
reduced surface transport costs for the overseas exports/imports of the neighboring
countries; (ii) enable the three port-railway systems to operate in a cost-effective manner,
thus generating surpluses which would enable the railways and ports to become financially
self-sustaining and operate without any financial support from the government; and (iii)
create an efficient legal and regulatory framework which would encourage genuine inter-
modal and inter-route competition and enable not only the three port-railway systems to



- vi -
achieve the first two objectives but also other modes of transport to operate at their most
efficient levels.
xxii. The following lessons can be learned from the Beira Transport Corridor Project:
* The creation of BCA and the selection of a dynamic management and a
competent staff for specified periods of time to manage the Project and, of
course, the entire BTCP, was critical for the success of the Project. The
Project implementation benefited also from the fact that BCA was not part of
CFM(C) and was located in a separate building. Although the creation of
project implementation units is not widely recommended, in cases similar to
this Project, the main driving force had to come from outside. The entity being
restructured could hardly fit this role, staff at all levels being potential losers
in the short-term.
*  Ownership is an important element that contributes significantly to effective
project implementation and to the achievement of its objectives. With the
Project (and the entire BTCP) under effective control of BCA, it could
monitor its implementation effectively, despite a complex multi-donor and
multi-purpose environment.
* To be effective, a restructuring process should focus on the entire organization
of a corporation, even when different units are geographically separated.
Trying to reform CFM(C), a part of CFM, while keeping the rest of the
organization with the same old heavy structure and system, was a major
constraint in implementing the Project.
* In order to secure commercial viability and long-term financial sustainability
of ports and railways, future projects need to consider involvement of private
sector through all possible means including long-term concessions. Complex
bureaucratic structures and systems, rigid rules and procedures, and
continuing government interference make it almost impossible for
fundamental reforms to be achieved within the framework of public ownership
and management.
* A project design must be flexible enough to adjust to changes in the business
environment and lessen the risk of non-materialization uf assumptions. In
particular, the underlying assumptions must be continuously and critically
reviewed in order to ensure a realistic basis for project dimensioning. The
design of the Project was too risky to achieve its objectives since it focused
mostly on the traffic forecasts that did not occur. The investment level could
have been reduced or, at least, considerable part of it could have been phased
over a longer period and made contingent upon increase in traffic.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
BEIRA TRANSPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT
(CREDIT 2065-MOZ)
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND
1.    Mozambique' s location has traditionally made it a transit route for international
trade of its neighbors. Ports and railways in Mozambique were constructed to primarily
meet the needs of the neighboring landlocked countries. Prior to independence in 1975,
chronic trade account deficits on the balance of payments were mainly financed by the
surplus of the services account, the transport sector representing 90 percent of this
surplus. However, after independence in 1975, due particularly to: (i) inadequate
maintenance of the transport facilities; (ii) severe shortage of competent personnel
following the exodus of the Portuguese; and (iii) the violent internal conflict,
Mozambique's transit traffic steadily declined from 20 million tons of freight (in 1973) to
around 2.7 million tons in 1987. The loss of transit traffic contributed substantially to the
decline in Mozambique's GDP, which in 1986 was two thirds of that of 1974. Moreover,
by the mid-1980s, much of the economic and social infrastructure had been destroyed and
the Mozambican economy was on the verge of collapse.
2.    To reverse the decline in output, GOM launched in 1985 the Economic
Rehabilitation Program (ERP). The rehabilitation of the three main transport corridors
(Nacala, Beira and Maputo) was made a key element of ERP, since these corridors were:
(i) a potential source of employment and foreign exchange; and (ii) of vital importance to
the neighboring landlocked countries, in particular, Zimbabwe and Malawi, which
otherwise would have been constrained to utilize more distant ports resulting in a
significant increase in the transport costs of their exports/imports. In addition, in 1986,
South Africa started to create obstacles to the transit transport traffic of its neighboring
countries and also hinted at the possibility of border closure. This added to the urgency
of restoring Mozambique's corridors as an alternative to the routes to South African
seaports.
3.   In order to plan, supervise and coordinate the entire rehabilitation of the Corridor
as well as to mobilize the required financial resources, GOM established BCA in 1985.
During the 1986 Annual Meeting of the Southern Africa Development Coordination



- 2 -
Conference (SADCC), GOM presented for donors' consideration a ten-year
Development Program for the Beira Transport Corridor called BTCP. In this meeting
many donors, including the Bank, expressed their interest in financing the Program.
Three donor coordination meetings followed in which a financing pool of 18 donors was
set up.
4.    The BTCP involved the rehabilitation of the Port of Beira and the linking rail,
road, and oil pipeline facilities to Zimbabwe and Malawi borders and important
infrastructure and housing in the city of Beira. The BTCP was co-financed by 17
bilateral and multilateral donors2: Austria, Belgium, CIDA (Canada), DANIDA
(Denmark), FINNIDA (Finland), Italy, OECF (Japan), DGIS (The Netherlands), NORAD
(Norway), SIDA (Sweden), Spain, USAID (United States of America), ODA (United
Kingdom), the European Community, UNDP, AfDB, and IDA.
5.    The BTCP comprised four categories of sub-projects: railway, port, road, and
general. The main railway sub-projects were: (i) rehabilitation of the Beira-Machipanda
(Zimbabwe border) line; (ii) rehabilitation of track maintenance equipment; (iii) provision
of new radio telecommunications; (iv) acquisition of locomotives; and (v) manpower
development and training. The main port sub-projects comprised: a) dredging the
entrance channel; b) strengthening of the multipurpose and container handling terminal;
c) establishing a new oil terminal; d) reconstruction of the port railways; e) purchase of
equipment for multipurpose and container handling terminal; f) acquisition of tug and
pilot boats; and g) technical assistance to manage the Port. Road sub-projects included
mainly the upgrading of the road between Beira and Machipanda. The general sub-
projects comprised: i) rehabilitation of infrastructure and housing owned by the railways
and ports in the city of Beira; ii) development of a cost-based tariff system; and iii)
development of a management information system. The total cost of the Program was
initially estimated at US$600 million. However, the Bank reviewed the Program along
with other donors and the cost estimate was scaled down to US$345 million. The final
cost was approximately US$425 million.
6.    The IDA-supported Project, a component of the BTCP, accounted for a total cost
of US$73.8 million, both foreign and local. The foreign components were planned to be
co-financed by CIDA (Canada), OECF (Japan), Spain and Portugal and the local
components by GOM. IDA's financial contribution was US$40 million, representing
about 12 percent of BTCP's estimated cost. The financing from Portugal was not
required following the abandonment of the component "Studies for Future Investments".
The Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was signed on September 28, 1989. The
Credit was closed on June 30, 1997.
In 1992, the Southern Africa Development Coordination Conference (SADCC) was renamed Southern
Africa Development Community (SADC).
2 Portugal did not participate on the financing pool as initially foreseen.



- 3 -
7.   IDA assistance to Mozambique started in 1985, after the country joined the
Bretton Woods Institutions. The First and Second Rehabilitation Credits focused
primarily on supporting the implementation of the country's Economic Rehabilitation
Program (ERP). Although provision of spare parts and technical assistance to recover
immobilized CFM locomotive fleet and national truck fleet had been identified in both
credits, the Beira Transport Corridor Project (Cr. 2065-MOZ) was the first IDA
investment operation in Mozambique's transport sector. Three more transport sector-
related investment operations have been approved so far and these are: (i) the First Roads
and Coastal Shipping Project (Cr. 2374-MOZ) approved in 1992 with the objective of
developing the institutional capacity of the road sector agencies and implementing policy
reforms in the trucking and coastal shipping sub-sectors; (ii) the Maputo Corridor
Revitalization Project (Cr. 2544-MOZ) approved in 1993 with the objective of assisting
GOM in restructuring and revitalizing the Maputo port-rail system; and (iii) the Second
Roads and Coastal Shipping Project (Cr. 2599-MOZ) approved in 1994 with the objective
of improving road transport through rehabilitation of priority roads, resumption of
regular maintenance activities, and strengthening of the capacity of the road sector.
B. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
8.    According to the SAR, the Project objectives were the same as those of BTCP.
The primary objective of the Program/Project was to assist GOM to rehabilitate and
upgrade the Beira Transport Corridor in order to restore its cost efficient transit functions.
The secondary objectives were to: (i) help the Government achieve its objective of
providing cheap transport for the agricultural, productive areas aloiig the Beira Corridor;
and (ii) facilitate capacity building by developing local semi-skilled, skilled, and
managerial staff with a view to gradually replacing the technical assistance program, and
introduce effective financial management in CFM(C).
9.    The Program/Project objectives were consistent with the Government's strategy
of structural adjustment grounded in ERP. They were also in conformity with the
Government's priorities for the transport sector, as stated in the Economic Policy
Framework of 1988-90, "... continuing rehabilitation efforts on the major rail corridors
will generate additionalforeign exchange earnings from transit services and improve
domestic trade." The objectives were also consistent with, at the time of appraisal, the
SADCC objectives of regional integration and reduction of dependence on South African
trade routes. The objectives supported the Bank's country assistance strategy at the time
of appraisal, which focused on providing support to Mozambique in developing a basis
for sustainable growth, including establishment of Mozambique's traditional role as a key
transit corridor for landlocked neighbors.
10.   While both the primary and secondary Program/Project objectives were consistent
with ERP, Bank's CAS, and SADCC's regional agenda at that time, in retrospect, two
shortcomings are evident -- first, with regard to a more meaningful elaboration of the
primary objective, and second, in not realizing that the objective would have been
unattainable by concentrating only on CFM(C) and without including the restructuring of



- 4 -
CFM as a whole. Additionally, the detailed performance targets, as defined in SAR, were
less than comprehensive and not fully reflective of the objectives.
11.   The primary objective of restoring Beira Corridor's cost-efficient transit functions
was not adequately elaborated and its interpretation was left more or less to the
implementing agency. To start with, the focus of the implementing agency was less on
improving cost efficiency, but more on restoring the transit function through
rehabilitation of infrastructure and equipment. It was probably justified in doing so,
given the extensive deterioration of infrastructure and equipment that had taken place and
the uncertainty that had been caused by the confrontation between the front-line states
and South Africa. The urgency and nature of the situation perhaps also led to a less than
rigorous analysis of the investment proposals. In retrospect, it is possible to think that,
with a more rigid analysis, the investment level could have been reduced or, at least,
considerable part of the investment could have been phased over a longer period and
made contingent upon increase in traffic.
12.   As soon as the conditions improved and the working environment became more
certain, BCA and CFM(C) did begin to focus on the issue of cost reduction. However,
the limitation of BCA/CFM(C) in achieving the cost-efficient component of the objective
became clear when it was realized that most key decisions with regard to reducing costs
and increasing traffic could not be taken without the concurrence of CFM headquarters in
Maputo. These decisions pertained particularly to staff reduction, tariff setting,
introduction of computerized systems and procurement of spare parts. By not focusing
on the delegation of authority and restructuring of the whole of CFM as components of
the project, the possibility of the objective being fully achieved was considerably
reduced.
13.   Regarding the performance targets, it is important to recognize that these targets
were established more than ten years ago in an environment which was radically different
from that of today. As the business and working environment improved, new targets,
fully reflective of the main objectives, were formally or informally introduced through
joint consultation of CFM(C)/BCA and the Bank.
14.   Given the fact that the rail and port operations are highly capital intensive, a
"Return on Capital Employed (ROCE)" target would obviously have been more
appropriate. In today's competitive and liberalized environment, a project is unlikely to
be approved unless the goal is to achieve an acceptable ROCE. However, at the time of
project formulation, a relatively simpler target of "working ratio" was set for two reasons.
First, because of the warlike situation, there was no way of correctly assessing the value
of the capital employed. Second, due to the investments and, consequently, interests and
depreciation being high, there was no hope of ROCE being positive for many years. As
such, a ROCE target would not have captured the improvements in performance in a
meaningful way. As the traffic and revenues increased and the position of the assets
employed became clearer, the ROCE target was introduced and accepted and is currently
being computed by most of the result centers within CFM(C).



-5 -
15.   Similarly, the port performance targets, which initially comprised only port
traffic, were extended to include targets for equipment availability and utilization, staff
productivity, and system efficiency. Effort was also made to replace simple locomotive
and wagon availability and utilization targets with more comprehensive locomotive,
rolling stock, and staff productivity targets. However, since these targets were introduced
rather in the last stages of the Project, the impact of such targets on performance until the
closing of the Credit has not been very significant.
16.   Given the recent decision to privatize the Corridor, a question has been posed
whether it would have been better to have privatized the Corridor at that time, instead of
having undertaken an investment operation within the framework of public sector
working. In response, it can be said that given the condition of infrastructure and the
uncertainty of the political, economic and business environment at the time of Project
formulation, it is doubtful whether there would have been any private interest at that time.
With the performance of the CFM(C) having improved as a result of the implementation
of this Project, successful privatization of the Corridor appears more likely now.
17.   In order to achieve its objectives, the IDA-supported Project comprised the
following components/sub-components:
(a) Capacity Building: (i) organizational restructuring3; (ii) technical assistance
to run port and railway operations during the 1989-95 period; (iii) training for all levels
of staff in the port and railways; and (iv) upgrading of Operating and Management
Systems.
(b) Removing Operational Capacity Constraints: (i) rehabilitation of locomotives;
(ii) acquisition of main line locomotives; and (iii) acquisition of shunting locomotives.
(c) Improving Financial Performance: (i) implementation of a railway/port cost
accounting system; (ii) installation of a Management Information System (MIS); and
(iii) studies for future investments.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
18.   The Beira Transport Corridor Project was to a large extent adequately carried out
and merits a rating of Satisfactory. The primary objective was overall achieved. The
Corridor was rehabilitated and upgraded and its transit functions have to a large extent
been restored. As for the secondary objectives, the rehabilitation of the Corridor has
provided small farmers and herders access to markets and has improved conditions for
the development of agricultural productions such as oranges, sugar, and cashew nuts in
areas surrounding the Corridor. The objective of developing local semi-skilled, skilled,
and managerial capacities was also substantially achieved. Overall, the training program
was successfully carried out and at Project closing all technical assistance experts have
been replaced by Mozambicans.
3 This component was only identified during Project implementation



-6-
19.   The freight traffic handled by the Beira port-railway system increased
significantly as illustrated by the following graph. From about 1 million tons handled in
1986, the port traffic increased approximately to 2.6 million tons in 1996, representing
Port and Rail Traffic (Million tons)
3
.  Port
2X5    O Rail
2
1.5
CD   -CO      CD X     a     0    a 0 )   a    D   0
CD  CD   co   CD    D   CD  CN   CD)  It   CD   CD
co  co>  co        a)   oz    a>      0 )  aw   a)
Source: BCA/CFM(C)
an average annual growth of about ten percent. In the same time period, rail traffic
increased from about 0.4 million tons to about 1.2 million tons, accounting for an average
increase of about 12 percent per year. Furthermore, the number of containers handled in
1996 (33,875 TEUs) doubled as compared to 1990. The transit traffic from neighboring
countries, particularly Zimbabwe and Malawi, that accounts for more than 80 percent of
total freight annually handled, increased by a similar proportion.
20.   In spite of the above-mentioned growth rates, the SAR targets were achieved only
to the extent of 66 percent for port traffic and about 90 percent for rail traffic. Part of the
responsibility for not meeting the target lies with BCA/CFM(C). There is still a
considerable amount of Zimbabwe/Malawi import/export traffic that is moving through
Durban/Dar-es-Salaam and should have been moving through Beira had the channel
depth in the Port of Beira been maintained to the designed level and the quality of service
improved further. However, part of the shortfall could be attributed to a number of
unpredictable developments of the early nineties that affected the prospects of reaching
the traffic target quite adversely. First, dismantling of apartheid in South Africa and
lifting of formal boycott led to a considerable increase of trade between South Africa and
the neighboring countries almost always at the cost of overseas imports and exports
traffic, some through the port of Beira. Second, the business environment changed
dramatically after most countries in the region adopted liberalized economic and fiscal
policies. With the liberalization of the transport industry and the customers demanding
faster and more reliable transport, the trucking sector registered a phenomenal growth and
captured a large share of the traffic originally moving by rail. For the same reason, many
customers also preferred the more efficient sea ports of South Africa. The trend also



-7 -
adversely affected both the port and rail share of traffic for the Beira Corridor. Third, the
growth in the economies of the countries served by the Corridor was lower than expected.
More specifically, there were problems of production and export of steel in Zimbabwe
and copper in Zambia and Zaire. Overall, imports were also lower. Finally, the
emergence of the alternative Northern Transport corridor also diverted some traffic from
Beira to Dar-es-Salaam.
21.   Regarding other operational indicators, the Port productivity improved
substantially. The General and Bulk Cargo Handling rates increased respectively from 17
tons/net gang hour in 1990 to 30 tons/net gang hour in 1996, and from 22 tons/net gang
hour in 1992 to 45 tons/net gang hour in 1996. Railway indicators pointed as well
towards a general productivity improvement. For instance, the NRZ wagon detention in
CFM(C) dropped from 17 average days in 1990 to 9 in 1996. However, the locomotive
availability ratio for both GM and GE locomotives shows a decreasing trend of
respectively 83 percent in 1994 to 65 percent in 1996, and from 54 percent to 49 percent
in the same time period. The lower availability does not necessarily mean that there is a
capacity constraint due to increased rate of utilization and the locomotive fleet being
larger than required.
22.   The SAR economic evaluation prepared with the assistance of the Netherlands
Economic Institute (NEI) used a generalized cost algorithm to determine the most viable
least cost routes. The following benefits were anticipated: (i) inland transport benefits
resulting from diversion of international traffic from Zimbabwe and Malawi to Beira
corridor from other corridors; (ii) port benefits resulting from reduced ship waiting time;
and (iii) freight benefits resulting from use of a larger vessel or better level of service
(containerized cargo). Based on an estimated investment of US$345 million in BTCP
and the above benefits, ERR was estimated at 14.1 percent. The actual cost of BTCP
turned out to be about 25 percent more than the original estimate. The above-referenced
benefits were also much lower on account of the overall port and rail traffic being about
20 percent lower than the target. The loss of benefit was to some extent compensated by
the increase in inland transport benefit due to relatively poor performance of the Maputo
corridor and diversion of traffic having taken place from the Durban corridor. The
revised ERR (see Table 11) has been estimated at 8.6 percent, a figure close to other
donors' estimate. However, two comments need careful consideration. First, had the
cost of BTCP been restricted to the original estimated of US$345 million, ERR would
have been about 13.5 percent. Second, there is considerable expectation that once the
Beira port-rail system is privatized as planned, both the port and rail traffic as well as
ERR could improve substantially.
23.   Physical objectives were substantially achieved. Fifteen new main-line
locomotives were added to the locomotive fleet: five GE diesel-electric locomotives
financed by OECF (Japan) and ten GM diesel-electric locomotives by CIDA (Canada).
In addition, six four-axle GE diesel-electric shunting locomotives were acquired with
IDA funds. The new diesel locomotive fleet resulted in annual savings to CFM(C) of
US$5 million in terms of charges payable to Zimbabwe National Railways (ZNR) for the



-8 -
renting of locomotives. However, two GE locomotives were completely destroyed. One,
in September 1992, due to a strong collision, and the other one, in December 1996,
because of a bridge collapse caused by torrential rains. Due to the lack of insurance
system, these losses had to be borne by CFM(C) and added to its operating costs. Overall,
the situation of locomotives remains satisfactory.
24.   The Project financed the acquisition of US$ 1.1 million of spare-parts and
technical assistance to carry out in Maputo a rehabilitation program of Romanian diesel-
hydraulic shunters for the entire CFM. The repair of these locomotives was programmed
following recommendations of a study financed out of PPF funds. The Romanian
locomotives were relatively new (less than ten years old) and CFM was critically in need
of shunting locomotives at the time of Project appraisal, since 65 percent of its shunting-
locomotive fleet was out of service. Both spares and technical assistance were provided
to CFM(S) in Maputo. Although the repair of four Romanian shunters owned by
CFM(C) was not carried out, all the 14 locomotives owned by CFM(S) were
rehabilitated. However, the rehabilitation was not very successful and after two years of
difficult operations, the rehabilitated shunters were again out of service.
25.   The Project also financed the construction of three buildings representing eighteen
three-bedroom apartments to alleviate housing needs of expatriate personnel. A Training
Center was also rehabilitated and equipped. In addition, as many as ten computers were
supplied to high level CFM(C) managers.
26.  Institutional development and public sector management objectives were
substantially attained. These objectives were a very important part of the Project, for
which four basic components, that accounted for more than 50 percent of the total Project
cost, were undertaken: (i) organizational restructuring, (ii) training, (iii) technical
assistance, and (iv) upgrading of Operating and Managing Systems. Overall, results are
quite encouraging and traffic levels have been maintained even after the departure of the
technical experts.
27.   Although restructuring of CFM(C) was not defined in specific terms under the
Project, it became clear during Project implementation that, in order to improve its
financial and operating performance and transform it into a market-driven and customer
oriented enterprise, CFM(C) needed to undergo a corporate change process. Therefore,
CFM supported by BCA embarked on implementing a comprehensive restructuring plan,
including (i) adopting a result center-based organization structure, (ii) restructuring the
Central Services, and (iii) implementing a staff rationalization program. The proposed
result-center structure, when fully established, would have been comprised of eight result
centers with all the Beira port-railway system's operating and maintenance activities
earmarked to one or the other result center. The expectation was that such a structure
would promote better control, accountability, and motivation, and, hence, improved
performance.



-9-
28.   The implementation of the result centers was the most arduous part of the Project.
Such a structure is difficult to establish even in the more advanced corporate entities due
to problems of making result centers self-sufficient, fixing prices for services performed
by the result centers for one another within the organization, and maintaining focus on
corporate goals. It is, therefore, no surprise that restructuring of CFM(C), based on
creation of self-contained result centers, proved to be a slow process and even at the time
of Project closing only five of the eight result centers (Beira Rail, Container Terminal,
Oil Terminal, General Cargo, and Maritime Services) had been established and the
remaining three (Civil Infrastructure Maintenance, Mechanical and Electrical
Maintenance and General Workshop) were still in the process of being set up. Moreover,
the working of the result centers was far from what was envisaged. The delegation of
power to the result centers was limited and slow, many of the key functions - marketing,
financial and cost accounting, procurement and human resource development - remained
centralized and the recommendations of a study carried out on the set-up of a worker's
incentive scheme to increase productivity could not be implemented.
29.   Even the limited success in establishing the result-center structure has proved
immensely beneficial to CFM(C). First, the result center managers have become more
confident and are able to manage without any technical assistance. Second, there is more
appreciation of the factors that affect operational and financial peiformance, as a result of
which performance has shown steady improvement. Third, the demand for appropriate
delegation of authority has prompted a more fundamental restructuring at the corporate
level. Fourth, a better understanding of the different activities and functions of CFM(C)
prompted revaluation of assets registers, completion and auditing of financial accounts of
CFM(C) as a whole, reconciliation of staff on roll and those physically present, and
development of management information system. Finally, the above developments have
made CFM(C) more attractive to private investors and concessionaires.
30.   However, some of the improved performance gains got dissipated due to the
continuation of the heavily-staffed bureaucratic departments at the headquarters of CFM
and CFM(C). Similarly, the centralized role of the Central Services was only modestly
redefined, thus, continuing to remain a highly bureaucratic and ineffective structure.
31.   Although sufficiently prepared, the staff rationalization program was not properly
implemented. This was a very difficult action that happened to coincide with the
implementation of the Peace Agreements and demobilization of the two armies. The
unemployment rate suddenly increased and the urban social situation became unstable.
As a result, the implementation of the staff rationalization program was postponed. Some
modest actions were, nonetheless, carried out such as (i) the freezing on fresh
recruitment, (ii) the elimination of ghost workers, and (iii) the encouragement of early
retirement. CFM(C) railway redundant staff still accounts for more than 1,500 people.
32.   The Training Program, set up to train, retrain and upgrade port and railway staff,
was carried out through: (i) large scale training-by-doing on the job; (ii) specific training
workshops; (iii) short courses and seminars at the CFM(C) Training Center; (iv) transfer



- 10-
of know-how to designated counterparts; (v) training of instructors in specific areas; and
(vi) scholarships for studies abroad. It covered all port and railway activities, including
the Central Services and applied to all personnel categories from top management to
illiterate employees. As for the fellowships, the Project granted ten long-term
scholarships for undergraduate studies in different managerial and technical fields (four to
five years), as well as 23 short-term fellowships for training in Law (2), procurement and
disbursement (7), English language (9) and Computing (5). A local one-year training
course in computer programming for 30 people of the whole CFM was also carried out
under Project financing.
33.   Overall, the training program was adequately carried out and contributed to
substantial improvement of technical skills of port and railway staff. Initial estimates for
personnel to be trained were largely exceeded since as many as 6,265 port and railway
workers were trained instead of 4,500 foreseen in the SAR. In particular, many
counterparts are today more confident, enthusiastic and have been appointed to high
positions within the whole CFM. Trained instructors are also now carrying out training
programs for all CFM staff. However, the transfer of know-how to designated
counterparts was adversely affected by the deferred appointment of many of them
because it was very difficult to identify counterparts with the adequate level of education.
Moreover, as the traffic increased, they had to dedicate more time to operations, affecting
consequently the learning program. Finally, delays on the rehabilitation of the training
center, and the lack of facilities for practical training had also somehow affected the
overall program in particular the training of instructors.
34.   The technical assistance program, designed to strengthen CFM(C) managerial and
technical competence to run the Railway and the Port, as well as to train CFM(C)'s
personnel, was carried out through four specific components: (i) TA to Central Services,
(ii) TA to the Training Center, (iii) TA to the Railway Division, and (iv) TA to training
Port staff. Overall, the technical assistance program was adequately implemented and
competently monitored. BCA developed an exemplary system of TA monitoring and
evaluation towards ensuring hand over of the TA posts to local staff. All the TA experts
had to provide quarterly reports and had to report on knowledge and responsibility
transfer. At Project completion, there were no TA experts in CFM(C) and the entire
system was managed by local staff.
35.   TA to the Railway Division had a positive impact on the railway effectiveness, in
particular through an upgrading of technical skills, and the adoption of new
methodologies and organizational procedures. TA to Central Services contributed
importantly to the development of a yet unknown computer culture and helped in
outlining a marketing strategy. However, the results of TA to Central Services were less
successful. Six out of ten consultants had to be replaced due to lack of expertise or
difficulty in adapting to the field. Language barriers also affected the performance of the
consultants, since many of them could not fluently communicate in Portuguese. It is
quite obvious that the initial process of selecting the consultants for TA to Central
Services was not very effective. Moreover, as some appointed counterparts were not in



- 11 -
favor of reforms, it created a complex working environment and consequently
institutional development suffered, in particular in the areas of finance and budgeting.
36.   To improve transparency and accountability in financial data handling and to
facilitate and expedite the accounting functions, the SAR had foreseen to equip CFM(C)
with a suitable Management Information System (MIS). Despite a one-year extension of
the closing date, only the first phase installation, linking the "Container Terminal" result
center to the server, was completed. The adjournment of the MIS installation also
adversely affected the creation of the result-centers. Moreover, CFM decided to
discontinue expanding the system to other result centers, since the whole Beira port-
railway system will undergo a privatization and concessioning process.
37.   Financial objectives were achieved to a large extent. The DCA established a
criteria based on the working ratio (total working expenses excluding depreciation
expressed as a percentage of gross operating revenues) to measure CFM(C)'s financial
performance during Project implementation. The working ratios until 1995 were not
accurately calculated, since all donor-financed and other relevant costs were not included.
Therefore, comparison between before and after 1995 working ratios is not reliable. The
working ratios for all CFM(C) for 1995 and 1996 were 67 percent and 57 percent
respectively, much better than the 75 percent target established in tlie Credit Agreement.
However, while the working ratios for Port areas were 36 percent and 40 percent
respectively for 1996 and 1995, the working ratios for Railway areas were 82 percent for
1996 and 96 percent for 1995.
38.   In order for CFM(C) to achieve the 75 percent working ratio and meet debt
servicing requirements, the Project required CFM(C) to review its railway tariff system
and reduce operating costs, in particular through retrenchment of surplus staff. As a
result, the tariffs were adjusted to more realistic levels. The present tariff system for
different commodities is based on multi-price elasticity rather than full cost coverage for
each commodity. Nonetheless, CFM(C) is now moving to a contracted rate basis, in
which the rates for the transportation of goods are defined by mutual agreement between
CFM(C) and the customer.
39.   Although sector policy objectives were not foreseen in the SAR, the Project had a
major impact on the understanding and formulation of prospective sector policies.
Upcoming privatization and concessioning of Mozambique ports and railways are
substantially rooted on lessons learned from and difficulties encountered during
implementation of the Project. Furthermore, the Project also contributed decisively to the
concept of transforming the whole CFM into a public enterprise comprising a holding
company and three specialized companies dealing with equipment, staff, and property
respectively.
40.   The implementation of the entire Program, including IDA-supported components,
had a beneficial impact on different environmental aspects. The upgrading of
infrastructure in and surrounding the Port and Railway Terminal areas and in some points



- 12 -
of Beira's municipality, including street pavements and sewerage systems, contributed to
the improvement of living conditions of Beira's population. Moreover, in the Port, the
Program lessened the risk of accidents throughout better trained staff, particularly
navigational aids and stevedores, and reduced the level of pollution by deepening and
widening the access channel. In the Railway, the diesel workshop modernization
improved safety and the acquisition of diesel locomotives had a beneficial effect in the
environment by phasing out atmosphere-polluting steam locomotives. In addition, during
1992 and 1993, following a catastrophic drought in the Southern Africa region, CFM(C)
played a major role on the emergency food movement for drought relief. Almost 1 MT
of food transited to landlocked Zimbabwe.
41.   Although private sector development objectives were achieved to a limited extent,
the Project had a positive impact on both Mozambique's and Zimbabwe's private sector.
Some export companies have been upgrading and expanding storage capacity in the port
particularly for oil, citrus and tallow. Exports of citrus from Zimbabwe through Beira
Port have significantly increased in the last three years. In Mozambique, private sector
interest in developing the citrus production in Chimoio, an area served by the railway, is
now gaining momentum. In addition, a ten-million investment Project for corn silos in
the port is expected to be implemented in 1998, as well as construction of a new terminal
to export Zimbabwe vegetables.
42.   The Project .'so financed a study to determine the feasibility of a Free Trade Zone
in the Port of Beira, capable of generating private sector initiative in support services and
other business activities. Although the consultant produced a comprehensive and high
quality study, no action was implemented following the study recommendations.
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
D.1 Factors within Government control
43.   Three factors within the Government's control particularly affected the project: (i)
inadequate delegation of authority by CFM headquarters to CFM(C), (ii) GOM's
reluctance to take a clear decision on staff rationalization, and (iii) inadequate
appreciation of share holders' responsibility. Regarding the inadequate delegation of
authority by CFM headquarters in Maputo to CFM(C) in Beira, it was a major factor
affecting the project performance. This resulted in too much up-and-down
communication in an environment of poor communication systems between Beira and
CFM headquarters in Maputo, centralized and multi-layered management structures, rigid
rules and procedures, and weak managerial skills, and consequently in significant delays
of important decisions regarding the implementation of the Project. In particular,
decisions on procurement and human resources were frequently delayed as well as
regarding the separation of CFM(C)'s financial accounts and assets from the entire CFM.
These factors affected also the communication between CFM(C) and the CFM(S) for the
repairing of CFM(C) Romanian shunters that was not carried out. The long time taken in
finalizing the financial accounts and in registering properly the assets delayed the



- 13 -
operation of the result center structure and, therefore, they could not generate the required
information for the managers.
44.   Reducing CFM(C) staff could only be taken by political decision at headquarters.
Although the social and political situation in Mozambique was too delicate when the
action was planned to start, no dialogue between CFM and the Government was indeed
initiated, which limited the achievement of any improvement in rationalizing the staff.
Since CFM(C) was overstaffed, the training program became more complex and was
more difficult to manage. Moreover, it adversely affected CFM performance during
project implementation because of the low level of salaries and the lack of staff
incentives.
45.   A contract plan signed between the Government and CFM could have contributed
importantly to improving Project implementation. However, CFM shareholders were
totally indifferent to Project implementation and lacked control over CFM activities.
Moreover, heavy bureaucratic structures and rules resulted in important delays of the
approval of contracts by the Ministry of Finance and of payments by the Bank of
Mozambique.
D.2 Factors outside Government control
46.   Two major factors relating to the Project design and outside Government control
affected the performance of the Project. First, the Project attempted to improve the
performance of CFM(C), a component of CFM, without focusing on the entire
organization. This became a serious constraint, since CFM headquarters could not easily
approve decisions regarding CFM(C) restructuring plan that were considered too
advanced vis-a-vis CFM existing rules. Second, the implementation of the result-center
structure which was the linchpin of the restructuring of the organization was as an
ambitious plan. Although it had a consistent design, it was too complex to implement in
an environment with inadequate availability of trained staff and inappropriate systems
and procedures.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
47.   During the last ten years, BTCP spent approximately US$425 million in
rehabilitating the Beira port and linking rail corridor and carrying out an extensive
training and technical assistance program. As a result, the port and rail infrastructure is in
relatively good shape, productivity has improved and performance enhanced. The
Project's long-term sustainability would depend on the Government's ability and
commitment to implement innovative and sound policies to preserve and more fully
utilize the investments made under BTCP and to replace the obsolete equipment. Private
sector involvement is certainly the most appropriate alternative to secure the commercial
viability and long-term financial sustainability of the Corridor.



-14-
48.   Declining trend of some performance indicators could affect Project
sustainability. First, the railways have shown a very poor capacity for maintaining
locomotives. Although not yet affecting the traffic, the decline in locomotive availability
(see Table 6) suggests a potential precarious situation. Besides the loss of the two GM
locomotives in accidents, other locomotives acquired under Project funds have remained
inactive for relatively long periods because of inadequate availability of funds for
procurement of spare parts. Second, the number of derailments have also dramatically
increased from 45 in 1991 to 133 in 1996. Third, despite all the investments made, the
Port of Beira has not yet been able to attract a large percentage of Zimbabwe's
international traffic of goods mainly because of a lack of aggressive marketing on the part
of CFM(C)'s management. Fourth, it is unlikely that in future the donor community will
again grant such an enormous sum of money to rehabilitate the Corridor. The funds for
replacement have to be generated from within. Even though working ratios have
improved, the surplus is being exhausted in maintaining a heavy managerial structure.
There is a need for restructuring and staff reduction. In sum, CFM(C) needs an efficient
management which will seek cost-cutting measures, increase reliability, decrease
pilferage and build up an aggressive marketing and sales department.
49.   Since the maior constraints affecting Project sustainability are rooted in the failure
of public sector management, IDA and GOM are already working on the identification of
a railway and port restructuring Project to enable Mozambique railways and ports to
become financially self-sustaining by involving private sector through long-term
concession agreements. It is true that the port of Beira is not as efficient as the port of
Durban. However, with this next stage of privatization, Beira will certainly be competing
more effectively with all other ports in the region.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
50.   The Bank's performance during identification, preparation and appraisal was
satisfactory on the whole, with considerable effort invested to assist GOM to coordinate
donors on the entire Program and to design the Project when the Mozambican transport
system was in total disarray. An eleven-member team carried out the appraisal mission
during 18 days under very difficult conditions in terms of accommodation and data
availability and with the city of Beira under siege. Following the Borrower's
presentation of the ten-year Development Program for the Beira Transport Corridor, in
January 1986, the Bank played a supportive and constructive role by providing detailed
written comments on the Program and actively participating in three donor coordination
meetings: (i) Beira, in April 1986; (ii) The Hague, in June 1986; and (iii) Brussels, in
October 1986. The Bank reviewed the BTCP and produced an economic and financial
evaluation (World Bank Report No. 6698) to provide donors with a basis for discussions
with GOM. Moreover, IDA's financial contribution to the Program considered
essentially components for which BCA was not able to obtain financing from other
donors.



- 15 -
51.  Identification and preparation of the Project started in October 1987. The
Executive Project Summary was completed in September 1988, appraisal took place in
October 1988 and the Project was presented to the Board in September 14, 1989. From
identification to effectiveness about 79 staff-weeks were spent. The Bank's supervision
performance was satisfactory. Regular supervision missions took place, comprising a
total of 88 staff weeks. During supervision, the Bank maintained a close monitoring of
the Project and helped the Borrower in identifying technical problems as well as in
addressing appropriate solutions, including strengthening the marketing effort and asset
evaluation. Facing new realities, the Bank showed flexibility to informally adapt the
Project by focusing especially on the organizational restructuring of CFM(C) and on its
financial performance for which new targets, like the ROCE, were set up.
52.   The life of the Project was initially set at six years. The credit closing date was
extended by one year to June 30, 1997 to facilitate: (i) the complete installation of the
management information system; (ii) the formulation and implementation of a
Restructuring Plan for the whole CFM; and (iii) the formulation and implementation of a
restructuring/privatization strategy specific to CFM(C). However, the installation of the
MIS was not completed (see para 36). As regards the other two elements, the Project
financed three important studies (see Table 7) which findings were used in the appraisal
of an upcoming project (see Section 1). In particular, one of the studies focused on the
identification of the urgent and genuine investment needed to upgrade Mozambique's
ports and railways.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
53.   The Borrower's performance was satisfactory as regards Project identification,
preparation and appraisal with a documented commitment to rehabilitate the Beira
Corridor. In particular, prior to discussions with the donor community, the Borrower
created the BCA in 1985 to oversee and promote the rehabilitation of the Corridor and
appointed a dynamic and efficient management. With the support of SADCC, the
Borrower prepared a detailed ten-year Development Program for the Corridor which was
presented for consideration by donors during the SADCC Annual Meeting, in Harare, in
January 1986. Following Bank comments, the Borrower agreed to revise the Program
and accepted, as a main reference, the Bank report on BTCP. The Borrower participated
fully in discussions concerning identification and contents of IDA-supported components.
54.   Negotiations took place in April 1989. The Borrower met all conditions of
negotiations on time. However, the deadline for Credit effectiveness was extended twice
to allow the Borrower to meet the required conditions. Signed on September 14, 1989,
the Credit became effective on July 10, 1990. The Borrower's performance during
Project implementation was overall satisfactory but varied with regard to different Project
activities. The Borrower's performance was satisfactory regarding physical components
but less satisfactory for institutional-building activities. Although BCA's management
was strongly in favor of reforms, CFM and CFM(C)'s management did not demonstrate a
convincing commitment towards the restructuring process. CFM(C) management agreed



- 16-
to implement the result-center structure which was designed by BCA with the assistance
of TA.
55.   The last disbursement took place on February 2, 1998. A balance of SDR 9.9
million, accounting for around 30 percent of the initial credit amount, was canceled on
February 23, 1998. The entire credit could not be utilized mainly for three reasons. First,
the allocation of funds for TA, training and studies was found during implementation
reviews to be too much, saving about SDR 4.3. Second, alternative grant funds became
available for purchase of vehicles, spare parts and equipment leading to a saving of about
SDR 4.1 million in this category. Finally, SDR 1.5 million allocated to contingencies
remained unallocated. However, no part of credit was canceled earlier because, by the
end of 1994, there were indications that the government would agree to the concessioning
of the three main port-railway systems in Mozambique. In the event of the government
having taken a firm decision on privatization, it would have been possible and, in fact,
desirable for the DCA to be amended and the balance of the funds utilized to support the
privatization process, in particular consultants' studies, technical assistance, and staff
retrenchment. After considerable effort and intensive discussions between the Bank and
CFM/GOM, GOM did announce its intention to concession the three port-railway
systems. The Project was extended by one year primarily to facilitate the privatization
process. Consultants were engaged to reevaluate the assets, clean up the financial
accounts and develop staff rationalization plans. However, GOM finally decided to take
up the actual concessioning of the Beira port-railway system only after the completion of
the on-going concessioning process for the Maputo port-railway system. Such assistance
is now proposed to be provided under a future operation currently under preparation (see
Section 1).
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
56.   The outcome of the Project is assessed as Satisfactory since overall objectives
were achieved. The Corridor was adequately rehabilitated and upgraded and its transit
functions restored. The traffic increased significantly, equipment utilization improved
substantially, maintenance of infrastructure and equipment is cost effective and the
replacements are being carried out through better procurement, and better design and
specification. Furthermore, technical skills of port and railway staff improved
substantially and managers feel today more confident, more cost-conscious and
enthusiastic.
57.   However, the Beira port and rail system has still not become financially self-
sustaining. Whereas the Project had attained its financial objectives (working ratio),
ROCE is not yet adequate. Therefore, there is a question mark as to whether the Project
outcome can be considered "Satisfactory". In response, it has to be realized that at the
time of Project formulation, the port and rail system was in a completely dilapidated
condition. Moreover, the process of rehabilitation had to be continued under a very
difficult environment, at least for the first few years of the Project. Now, having reached
a reasonable level of performance, achieving ROCE objective would be more likely



- 17-
through further actions proposed, such as privatization, staff retrenchment, and asset
rationalization.
I. FUTURE OPERATIONS
58.   To sustain the performance of the Beira Transport Corridor system after the
closing of the Project two specific actions were agreed with CFM(C) and GOM: (i)
financial budgets will be developed for each result center to enable close monitoring of
their performance. This has been done for fiscal year 1998, according to which the total
revenue for CFC(C) would be MT 647 million and operating costs of MT 342 million,
i.e., a working ratio of 53 percent; and (ii) private concessioning of the Beira Transport
Corridor system with a view to improving its performance, share of traffic and
productivity. Moreover, CFM(C) committed also to annually allocate adequate funding
for the training center and training activities.
59.   In May 1997, the Bank started discussions with the Borrower on the identification
of a Rail and Port Restructuring Project (RPRP). The Project will aim at addressing all
issues pertaining to the port and railway sub-sectors and restructuring of CFM in a
comprehensive manner. The three main objectives of RPRP would be to: (i) enable the
three port-rail systems (Beira, Maputo and Nacala) to achieve their full potential through
private sector participation in their operation and management, thus contributing to increase
foreign exchange earnings and revenues for Mozambique and reduce surface transport costs
for the overseas exports/imports of the neighboring countries; (ii) enable the three port-
railway systems to operate in a cost-effective manner, thus generating surpluses which
would enable the railways and ports to become financially self-sustaining and operate
without any financial support from the government; and (iii) create an efficient legal and
regulatory framework which would encourage genuine inter-modal and inter-route
competition and enable not only the three port-railway systems to achieve the first two
objectives but also other modes of transport to operate at their most efficient levels.
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
60.   The following lessons can be learned from the Beira Transport Corridor Project:
i) The creation of BCA and the selection of a dynamic management and a
competent staff for specified periods of time to manage the Project and, of
course, the entire BTCP, was critical for the success of the Project. The
Project implementation benefited also from the fact that BCA was not part of
CFM(C) and was located in a separate building. Although the creation of
project implementation units is not widely recommended, in cases similar to
this Project, the main driving force had to come from outside. The entity being
restructured could hardly fit this role, staff at all levels being potential losers
in the short-term.



- 18 -
ii) Ownership is an important element that contributes significantly to effective
project implementation and to the achievement of its objectives. With the
Project (and the entire BTCP) under effective control of BCA, it could
monitor its implementation effectively, despite a complex multi-donor and
multi-purpose environment.
iii) To be effective, a restructuring process should focus on the entire organization
of a corporation, even when different units are geographically separated.
Trying to reform CFM(C), a part of CFM, while keeping the rest of the
organization with the same old heavy structure and system, was a major
constraint in implementing the Project.
iv) In order to secure commercial viability and long-term financial sustainability
of ports and railways, future projects need to consider involvement of private
sector through all possible means including long-term concessions. Complex
bureaucratic structures and systems, rigid rules and procedures, and
continuing government interference make it almost impossible for
fundamental reforms to be achieved within the framework of public ownership
and management.
v) A project design must be flexible enough to adjust to changes in the business
environment and lessen the risk of non-materialization of assumptions. In
particular, the underlying assumptions must be continuously and critically
reviewed in order to ensure a realistic basis for project dimensioning. The
design of the Project was too risky to achieve its objectives since it focused
mostly on the traffic forecasts that did not occur. The investment level could
have been reduced or, at least, considerable part of it could have been phased
over a longer period and made contingent upon increase in traffic.



- 19-
PART II - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives     Substantial      Partial      Negligible   Not Applicable
Macro policies                                                            .    x
Sector policies                    x
Financial objectives               x
Institutional development          x
Physical objectives                x
Poverty reduction                                                              x
Gender issues                                                                  x
Other social objectives      _        =    r_X_X_r__                           x
Environmental objectives    l    _l               x
Public sector management           x       |_r
Private sector development   _                    x
Other (specify)                                                                x
B. Project Sustainability                         Likely        Unlikely      Uncertain
C. Bank Performance                               Highly
Satisfactory   Satisfactory    Deficient
Identification                                                  x
Preparation Assistance                                          x
Appraisal                                                       x
Supervision                                                     x
D. Borrower Performance                           Highly
Satisfactory   Satisfactory    Deficient
Identification                                                  x
Preparation Assistance                                          x
Appraisal                                                        x
Supervision                                                     x
E. Assessment of Outcome           Highly                                       Highly
Satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory Unsatisfactory
x



- 20 -
Table 2: Related IDA Credits
Credit Title                     Purpose                Year of Approval      Status
Preceding Operations                     None
Following Operations
Maputo Corridor           To assist the Government to restructure    1993             Active
Revitalization Project    CFM (S) in order to improve its long
(Cr. 2544-MOZ)            term efficiency.
First Roads and Coastal    To develop the institutional capacity     1992             Active
Shipping ProJect           of the road sector agencies and
(Cr. 2374-MOZ)             implementing policy reforms in the
trucking and coastal shipping
sub-sectors.
Second Roads and Coastal    To improve road transport by              1994            Active
Shipping ProqJect          rehabilitating priority roads and by
(Cr. 2599-MOZ)             resuming regular maintenance activities
and strengthening the capacity of the
road sector.
Railway and Port           To address all issues pertaining to the   1999             Under
Restructuring Project      port and railway sub-sectors and       (scheduled)       preparation
restructuring of CFM in a
comprehensive manner.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                Date Planned   Date Actual
Identification (Executive Project Summary)              Oct. 87         Sep. 88
Preparation                                             Jun. 88
Appraisal                                               Sep. 88         Oct. 88
Negotiations                                            Dec. 88         Apr. 89
Board Presentation                                                   Sep. 14,1989
Signing                                                              Sep.28,1989
Effectiveness                                           Jan. 89      Jul. 10, 1990
Midterm Review
Project Completion                                   Dec.31,1995   Dec.31,1996
Loan/Credit Closing                                  Jun.30,1996   Jun.30,1997



-21 -
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimates and Actual
(US$ million)
FY 90  FY 91   FY 92  FY 93   FY94  FY 95  FY 96  FY 97
Appraisal
Estimate       4.0    16.0    26.0    32.0    37.0    39.0    40.0    40.0
Actual         0.0      6.0    10.6    17.5    18.4    23.8    30.2    30.1
Actual as %
of Estimate    0%      38%     41%      55%     50%     61%     76%      75%
Date of Final Disbursement: February 2, 1998



- 22 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Indicators                     SAR Estimate        Actual
Technical Assistance to Manage CFM(C)       (Staff Months)  (Staff Months)
Central Services and the Railway
General Manager                                  36              60
Marketing Specialist                             24              42
Manpower Specialist                              48              39
Senior Economist                                 48               0
Cost Accountant                                  n.i.            21
Financial Analyst                                48              36
Senior Supply Specialist                         36              27
Stock Controller I                               n.i.            42
Stock Controller 11                              n.i.            36
Stock Controller III                             n.i.            36
Information Manager                              n.i.            39
Senior Mechanical Engineer                       36              42
Mechanical Engineer Steam                        34              48
Mechanical Engineer Wagon                        34              48
Methods & Planning Specialist                    30              36
Mechanical Technician                            30               0
Maintenance Technician                           24               0
Workshop Manager                                 n.i.            78
0 & M Mechanical Engineer                        n.i.            36
Foundry Technician                               12              24
Mechanical Engineer Diesel Locos                 36              60
Diesel E1n,ine Specialist                        30              36
Electricai Technician                            30              36
Bogies and Brakes Specialist                     24               0
Wagon Workshop Specialist                        24              48
Maintenance Electrical Engineer                  30               0
Telecommunication Engineer                       30              78
Traffic Manager                                  36              60
Traffic Officer Shunting                         24              30
Traffic Officer Main Line                        30               0
Traffic Inspector                                24               36
Traction Inspector                               36               60
Wagon Inspector                                  n.i.            39
Civil Engineer                                   24               36
Permanent Way Inspector                          24              36
Bridge Engineer                                   3               0
Total                               845             1,245
Technical Assistance to Manage the Port     (Staff Months)  (Staff Months)
Cost Accounting Specialist                       48               0
Procurement Expert                               48               0
.. continued



- 23 -
..  Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Indicators                     SAR Estimate        Actual
Training for CFM(C) Central Services        (Staff Months)  (Staff Months)
and the Railway
Technical Assistance
Training Manager                               48              42
Machine and Tool Instructor                    24              0
Electric Diesel Instructor                     24              36
Diesel Mechanic Instructor                     24              36
Electrical Section Instructor                  24              0
Stores and Supply Instructor                   24              0
Diesel Driver Instructor                       24              36
Traffic Instructor                             24              36
Traffic Instructor                             24              0
Pernanent Way Instructor                       24              0
Permanent Way Instructor                       24              0
Chief Mechanic Instructor                      6               0
Wagon Exam. Instructor                         n.i.            36
Training Manager (Central Serv.)               n.i.            39
Training Center Chief                          n.i.            39
Finance/Economy Instructor                    n.i.             18
Marketing Instructor                          n.i.             24
English Teacher                               n.i.             24
Total                               294             366
Personnel to be Trained                      (Number)        (Number)
CFM(C) Central Services                       135             431
Head of office                                 10             n.a.
Finance                                        70             n.a.
Commercial                                     15              n.a.
Human Ressources                               13             n.a.
Regional Training Center                       18             n.a.
Stores and Supply                              9              n.a.
Railway                                       1,865           2,039
Track and Works                               294              307
Workshop                                      683             396
Signalization                                  55              102
Traffic, Traction and Shunting                833             1,234
Total                              2,000           2,470
.../ continued



- 24 -
.1 Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Indicators                     SAR Estimate        Actual
Training for the Port
Technical Assistance                       (Staff Months)  (Staff Months)
Training Manager                               48               36
Traffic Instructor                             24               0
Pilot Instructor                               24               3
Cargo Instructor                               24               0
Cargo Instructor                               24               0
Senior Mechanical Instructor                   24               0
Electrical Instructor                          24               0
Mechanical Instructor                          24               0
Maintenance Instructor                         24               36
Total                               240              75
Personnel to be trained                      (Number)         (Number)
Supervisory Staff                              39              377
Skilled/Semi-Skilled Workers                  1,435            1,746
Temporary Stevedores                          1,000            1,103
Administrative Support Staff                    14              0
Regional T:aining Center                        12              0
English courses                                n.i.            569
Total                              2,500            3,795
Acquisition of New Locomotives                 (Number)        (Number)
Main-line                                       15              15
Shunters                                        6                6
Rehabilitation of Romanian Locomotives
Acquisition of spare-parts (US$ million)        1.5             1.1
Rehabilitation CFM(S) (Number)                  14               14
Rehabilitation CFM(C) (Number)                  4                0
n.i.  not included
n.a. = not available



- 25 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Key Indicators                         SAR Estimate        Actual
Working Ratio (%)                 1990              75
1991             75
1992             75
1993             75
1994             75
1995             75              67
1996             75              57
Port indicators                        SAR Estimate        Actual
Traffic (000 MT)                  1990            2,202            1,829
1991            1,972           1,704
1992            3,073          2,392
1993            3,564          2,638
1994            3,809          2,465
1995           4,055           2,488
1996           4,055           2,627
Containers (TEUs)                  1990             ,173
1991           18,300          15,104
1992                           17,630
1993           23,400          27,308
1994           31,000          28,847
1995           33,200          28,372
1996           30,570          33,875
General cargo handling rate        1990                             17
(Tons/net gang hour)               1991                             19
1992                             18
1993                             17
1994             19              17
1995             17              17
1996             17              30
Bulk cargo handling rate           1990
(Tons/net gang hour)               1991
1992                             22
1993                             23
1994             25              22
1995             24              28
1996             33              45
Oil handling rate                  1990
(Tons/gross pump hour)             1991             380             513
1992            1,000           534
1993            600             578
1994            650             950
1995            950             897
1996            950             885
.../ continued



- 26 -
continued Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Railway indicators                        SAR Estimate        Actual
Railway Traffic (000 tons)         1990             550              850
1991            1,102            699
1992            1,120            848
1993            1,140            1,026
1994                             800
1995                             949
1996                            1,175
Locomotive availabity (%)           1990             70               56
Main line GE                        1991             75               66
1992             75               56
1993             75               59
1994             70               54
1995             70               50
1996             70               49
Locomotive availabity (%)           1994              80              82
Main line GM                        1995              80              76
1996             80               65
Locomotive availabity ()           1993              75              90
Shunters                            1994              80              92
1995             80               92
1996             80               92
Wagon availability (%)              1991              90              43
High side                           1992             70               79
1993             80               92
1994             90               86
1995             80
1996                              66
Wagon availability (%)              1991             90               77
Low side                            1992              80              90
1993             90               89
1994             90               84
1995             80
1996                              62
Wagon availability (%)              1991              9               57
Covered                             1992              60              83
1993             85               80
1994             80
1995             80
1996                              69
Wagon availability ()              1991              90              77
Flat                                1992              85              55
1993             60               88
1994             90               73
1995             80
1996                              86
.. continued



- 27 -
../ continued Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Railway indicators                        SAR Estimate        Actual
Wagon detention (average days       1990              15              17
NRZ wagons in CFM                   1991              12              11
1992              9               10
1993              9               8
1994              9               7
1995              9               6
1996              9               9
Derailments (number)                1990
1991                              45
1992                              80
1993                             151
1994                             149
1995                             110
1996       _ _        _          133



- 28 -
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study             Purpose as defined at Appraisal/Redefined       Status       Impact of Study
ILocomotive Needs   To determine the needs of locomotives for die entire  Completed  Project estimates based
CFM network and analyze the economics of             (PPF)    upon study findings.
rehabilitation versus new purchases.
M.I.S. Needs        To deteniine the adequate type of Management       Completed  Project appraisal based
VInfomnation System tbr the entire CFM.              (PPF)    upon study findings.
'I'echnical Assistance  To make recommendations conceming manpower     Completed           None.
anld Training Needs   development for the entire CFM.
Beira Port: Free Zone To determine the physical and operating characteristics    Completed  None.
and Private Sector    of a Free Trade Zone that will generate private sector
Investment         initiatives in support services and other associated
busi -ess activities in the port of Beira.
Workers' Incentive    To propose altemnative incentive schemes with    Completed           None.
Scheme for CFM(C)  consequenice analysis in order to make CFM(C) able
to imiplemiielit means to motivate the workers to highier
productivity.
Conversion and      To propose a commercial orientation at all levels of  Completed  Helped to understand
Rcstructuring of    CFM(C) maniagement in order to make it responsive to           and implement the
CFM(C)              market needs and identify obstacles to the proposed           result-center structure.
corporate change.
Investment Needs for To identify the genuine and urgent investment needed  Completed  Upcoming RPRP
Rehabilitation and    to upgrade all Mozambique Rails and Ports, in order to      estimates based upon
tiporadation of'Rails  provide potential concessionnairs with a reasonable        study findings.
and l'orts          appreciation.
Organization       'I'o identify a miiore specific model of organization  Completed  Upcoming RPRP
Restruictutring     restructuring for the whole CFM.                               estimates based upoIn
study findinigs.
Staff Ratioializationi  To estiilate the number of redunidant staff of thc entire    Completed  Upcominig RPRP
CFM and identily a rationalizationi program.                   estimates based uponI
study findinigs.



- 29 -
Table 8: Project Costs
(US$ million)
Project Components            Appraisal Estimates             Actual
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total
I Technical Assistance               2.12    13.80    15.92    1.32    18.64    19.96
2 Training                            1.13    10.68    11.81    1.93     9.54    11.47
3 Aquisition of Locomotives                   32.00    32.00            28.78    28.78
4 Rehabilitation of Locomotives       0.45    3.11     3.56     0.45     1.41     1.86
5 M.I.S. & Cost Accounting System     0.20    5.67     5.87     0.20     0.31     0.51
6 Locomotive & M.I.S. Studies (PPF)           0.20     0.20              0.20     0.20
7 Studies & TA for Future Investments    0.35  4.05    4.40              1.07     1.07
8 Contigencies (*)                                                                0.00
Total                4.25    69.50 j 73.75    3.90    59.96    63.86
Table 9: Credit Proceeds
(SDR million)
Amount of the      Amount of the
Categories                          Credit Allocated    Credit Disbursed
I Shunting Locomotives                                 5.04               4.53
2 Vehicles, Spare Parts, Office Equipment              3.72                1.15
3 Consultants' Services, Training, Studies and Audits  17.95               13.66
4 Materials, Equipment, Furniture and Supplies          2.62               1.51
5 Refund PPF                                           0.11                0.22
6 Unallocated                                           1.56
Total                                  31.00              21.07



- 30 -
Table 10: Project Financing
(US$ million)
Source               Appraisal Estimates              Actual
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total
IDA Credit                            40.00    40.00             30.17    30.17
CIDA (Canada)                          17.00    17.00            14.62    14.62
OECF (Japan)                           8.00     8.00              7.60     7.60
Portugal                               1.00     1.00
Spain                                  3.50     3.50              7.57     7.57
Government of Mozambique      4.25              4.25     3.90              3.90
Total              4.25    69.50    73.75    3.90    59.96    63.86



- 31 -
Table 11: Economic Costs and Benefits
a) Project Forecasts                      (US$ '000)
Year       Project       Base Case        Port         Inland        Freight         Net
Costs      Investment      Benefits       Benefits      Benefits       Benefits
1988      (27.166)                                                                 (27.166)
1989      (68.692)                      6.749          4.07(0                      (57,873)
1990      (84.920)        13.940         5,261         4,344                       (61.375)
1991       (54.530)       3.230         19,444         (450)         3,252         (29,054)
1992       (18,617)       2.890         20.817         6.524         4,657          16.271
1993       (17.047)       2.210         23,815         8,349         4,838         22,165
1994       (20.073)       2.040         27.275         10,685        5.026         24.953
1995       (8.914)        1.105         31.279         13.675        5.227         42,372
1996       (7.885)        1,105         30.277         13,881        5.424         42.802
1997       (8.072)        9.605         29.317         14.089        5,630          50.569
1998       (10.435)       1.530         28,400         14,301        5,844         39,640
1999       (7.885)        1.530         27.523         14.516        6,069         41,753
2000       (8.072)         1,530        26.685         14.734         6,303         41.180
2001       (11.906)        1,530        26,606         15.224         6,547         38.001
2002        (7.885)       10.030        26,527         15,731         6.804         51.207
2003       (8,072)         1,955        26,450         16,254         7,076         43.663
2004       (7.885)         1,955        26.372         16.795         7,362         44,599
2005       (10.435)        1,955        26,296         17.354         7,665         42.835
2006       67.839        (15,534)                                                   52.305
NP'' a, 10%    (255,467)     29.464        173.167        76.920        41.085         55,360
ERR            14.1%
b) Actual
Year       Project       Base Case        Port         Inland        Freight         Net
Costs (1)   Investment (2)  Benefits (3)    Benefits (4)    Benefits (5)    Benefits (6)
1988       (75.920)                                                                (75,920)
1989       (61.528)                      5.399         8,505                       (47.623)
1990       (65,517)       13,940         4.370         9.425                       (37,782)
1991       (71,933)       3.230         16,802          314          2,810         (48.777)
1992       (44.079)       2.890         16.204         11.901        3,625          (9,459)
1993      (40.245)        2,210         17.627         14,482        3,581          (2.344)
1994       (18,353)       2,040         17.651         15,276        3.253          19.866
1995       (12.904)       1.105         19.192         18.536        3.207         29.136
1996       (5.432)        1,105         19,073         19.318        3.417         37.480
1997       (8.072)        9.605         19.767        20.986         3.796         46,081
1998       (10.435)       1.530         20.103        22.364         4,137         37.699
1999       (7.885)        1.530         20,403        23.773         4,499         42,321
20()0       (8.072)        1,530        20,577         20.520         4,860         39.415
2001       (11.906)        1.530        21.229         21.939         5.224         38.016
2()02      (7.885)        10,030        22.228         23.807         5,701         53.882
2003        (8.072)        1.955        22.703         25.198         6.074         47.857
2004        (7.885)        1,955        23,110         23,616         6.451         47,247
2005       (10,435)        1,955        23.826         25,230         6.945         47,521
2006       67.839        (15.534)                                                   52,305
N ISV lie 1O%    (326.474)   29.464        128.887        121.206        30,810        (24,132)
ERR            8.6%
(I ) Actual until 1996: same as in lProJect fbrecasts aller 1997
(2) Same as in lProject forecasts
(3) Project forecasts adjusted by the ratio of actual trafilic vs projected trallfic
(4) I'roject forecasts adjusted by the ratio of actual trallic vs pro jectcd tralTic and by the ratio of traftic assumiled
to be divcrted from Durban due to inadequate functioning ol'Maputo and Nacala(50% until 1999. 33% until 20(06)
(5) Project forecasts adjusted by the ratio of actual trallic vs projected tral'lic



-32 -
Table 12: Status of Legal Covenants in Credit Agreement
Covenant          Fulfillment
Section    Type   Status      Date         Description of Covenant             Comments
2.02 (b)   M        C      Continuous   Special Account              The account has been opened
and maintained
3.03      P        C       Dec. 31,    Private sector participation in    A study on the teasibility of a
1990     Port/Railway activities       free-Trade zone carried out.
Different companies had
extended facilities in the Port
(oil, tallow. citrus)
3.05      P        C       Dec. 31,    Tariff System                New tariff system set up.
1991                                   Although, given the competitive
market, CFM(C) tariffs are
above transport costs. CFM(C)
is moving to a contracted
rate basis.
3.06 &     P       CD       Dec. 31,    Working ratios               Until 1995 the working ratios
3.07                        1994                                    were not accurately calculated.
The 75 per cent target was
achikved in 1995.
3.08 -P          TP        Jun. 30,    Transit Agreement with       The Agreement has not yet been
1990     Zimbabwe                      signed by the two Governments.
However. the major provisions
are being followed in practice.
3.09      1        v                  Training Steering Committee    Training Steering Committee set
up
3.1               NC        Dec. 31.   Incentive Scheme for workers   A study completed but no
1990                                  incentive scheme implemented
4.01     MT        C       Jun. 30,    Accounts and audits          Accounts maintained in
of each year                              accordance with sound
accounting practices.
Audit reports submitted
No audit reports are outstanding
Key to Covenant Type                             Key to Covenant Status
1: = Financial    P = Policy             C = Covenant complied with    CP = Complied with partially
M = Management   T = Technical           CD = Complied with after delay  NC = Not complied with



- 33 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage               Planned             Revised            Actual
Project Cycle     Weeks  USS'000   Weeks  USS'000   Weeks  US$'000
Through Appraisal         -         -        -         -        39.8      80.8
Appraisal-Board           -         -        -         -        35.6     74.5
Board-Effectiveness       -         -        -         -        3.4       7.7
Supervision               -         -        -         -        88.0     226.7
Completion               7.0      13.9        -        -        7.0       13.9
Total            -         -         -         -       173.8    403.6



- 34 -
Table 14: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of        Month! Number Days  Specialized Staff    Performance Rating                   Types of
Project Cycle       l'ear      of      in         skills        Implement.  Development         Problems
Persons Field    represented          Status      Objectives
Through Appraisal
Identification         Oct. 87     5       10   FA. rP, EC, CL
Preparation
Pre-appraisal          Feb. 88     4       15   FA. CL
Appraisal through
Board Approval
Appraisal              Oct. 88     1 I     18   FA. TP, EC. Cl,
Post-Appraisal
lIre-Board
Pre-cffectiveness
Supervision
Supervisioni I         Mar. 91     I       14   RE                       I
Supervision 2         Aug. 91      I       8    RE                       2             2
Supervision 3          May 92      I       13   RE                       2              I             TAP
Supervisioni 4         Mar. 93     I       9    RE                       2             2              TAP
Supervision 5          Dec. 93     I       8    RE                       2             2              TAP
Supervisioni 6        Nov. 94      I       8    RE. FA                   2             2              TAP
Supervision 7          Apr. 95     1       8    RE                       S             S
Supervision 8          Oct. 95     I       1 I    RE                     S             S
Supervision 9          Apr. 96     I       8    RE                       S             S
Supervision 10         Sep. 96     i       8    RE                       S             S
Supervision II         Apr. 97     I       8    RE                       S             S
Completion              Oct. 97     I       10   CL
[Key to specialized staff skills
I-C = Economist                           CL = Consultalnt                        FA  Financial Analyst
Rl = Railway Engineer                     TP = Transport Planner
Kcy to perfonnance rating
I = Prohlem Free       2 = Moderate Problems    3 = Major Problems                4 = Major Problems. Corrective
action to be taken
I IS= I lighly Satisliactory  S = Satisfiactory  U = Unsatisfactory               HU = Highly Unsatisfactory
Kcy to lProbiems
Al: = Availability of l:unds             lPMP = Project Managemenit Peribnnanice  SP = Stidy Progress
(CI.C = Compliance with Legal Covenants   P P = Procurement Progress              TP  Training Progress
1:1 = F:inancial Pcrfbnonance                                                     TAP = Technical Assistance Progress



- 35 -
PART III - MISSION AIDE MEMOIRE
M07 ALMIR JE
lB1TRA TRANSPORT RF-HARITT-TATTON PROJECT (CR.2065 MOZ)
WORLD RANK MI SSTON - APRIL 1"7
I.    Introduction
1.    A World Bank mission undertook a res iew of the Beira Transport Rehabilittion
Project (BTRP) over the period April 3 to 7, 1997 with particular emphasis on the actions
being taken or that need to be taken to ensure that all procurement action is completed before
the closing date of June 30. 1997. The mission. which comprised Yash Pal Kedia. Senior
Railway Engineer, would like to thank CFM (C) s Executive Director, Port and Railway
Directors, and the Project Advisor who assisted the mission.
2.    The closing date for the Project was extended by one year to June 30, 1997 pr.imarily
to facilitate: (i) the complete installation of the management information system, being critical
to the efficient operation of the result centers; (ii) the formulation and implementation of the
Restrucruring Plan for the whole of CFM, being also of critical importance for the future of
CFM (C); and (iii) the formulation and implementation of a restructuring/privatization strategy
specific to CFM (C) within the overall framework of CFM's comprehensive Restructuring
Plan. It was indicated by the management of CFM (C) that the installation of the
management information system is nearing completion but no progress has been made in
formulating the Restructuring plan for CFM (C) as the CFM management would prefer to deal
with the restructuring/privatization of CFM (C) within the proposed comprehensive Rail and
Port Restructuring Project (RPRP) and not through the on-going BTRP. Accordingly, this
mission focused on reviewing the trend of CFM (C)'s financial and operating performance, the
issues pertaining to the closing of the Project, and the current status of disbursement under the
Project.
II.    Financial and operating performance for 1996
3.    Financialperformance. The working ratio (cost excluding depreciation/income) for
the whole of CFM (C) for the year 1996 was 57% as compared to 67% for the yearl995. For
the port and railway areas, the working ratios for the year 1996 were 36% and 82%
respectively compared to 40% and 96% respectively for the year 1995. Comparison with the
working ratio of earlier years would not be reliable in view of the fact that all costs were not
included in computing the working ratio in the earlier years. CFM (C) has now confirmed that
the working ratio is now being computed accurately after considering all relevant costs. The
working ratios for specific result centers are indicated in Attachment 1. There has been a
significant improvement in the working ratio of the Container Terminal, the Oil Terminal, and
the Beira Rail result centers while some decline in those of the General Cargo and Maritime
Services ;esult Centers. The return on capital employed (ROCE) has not been computed for
CFM (C) as a whole since the assets revaluation studv is still in progress and the correct
values of the assets employed and the depreciation are not available for all the result centers.
However. the working ratio and ROCE for some specific result centers have beeni computed
and are also indicated in Attachment 1.



-36 -
4.     Traffic. During 1996, the Port handled a total freight traffic including containers of
2.6 million metric tons comprising, a 5% increase over 1995. The containerized traffic
handled during the period increased to 32,380 TEUs, 18% increase over 1995. The overall
increase in traffic in 1996 compared to 1995 is being attributed by the CFM (C) management
to: (i) increase in transit traffic from Malawi, due to continuing problems with the Nacala
corridor; (ii) increased grain export from Zimbabwe, subsequent to liberalization of grain
export; and (iii) continuing customer confidence in the capacity/ efficiency of the Beira
corridor. The railways carried a totl of 1.175 million tons in 1996 as compared to .949
million tons in 1995, indicating an increase of about 23%.
5.    Productivity. The material handling rates and equipment availability for the General
Cargo terminal improved but for the oil and the continer terminals declined in 1996 compared
to 1995. For the railways, the locomotive utilization improved in 1996 compared to 1995 but
the utilization of wagons declined. Higher targets have been set for 1997. Anachment 2
provides details of the actuals for 1995 and 1996 and the targets for 1997.
6.    Other issues. Of the operational issues discussed during the last mission, the current
status is as follows:
(a)    Kms-linked locomotive maintenance. This is being maintained. The
mechanical group will keep a close watch for any adverse consequences,
(b)    Storing of locomotives. The railways is gradually stabling all GE locomotives.
(c)    Wheel wear. The rate of wheel wear is reported to have come down further
and the reprofiling interval having increased to about 23,000 kms. On the
completion of the realignment of the 10-km section with sharp curves, the
interval between wheel profiling is expected to increase to 27,000 kms.
III.   Project Closing
7.    It was reiterated that the Project closing date will not be extended any further and as
such all service procurement or consultancy contracts must be completed prior to the closing
date, i.e., June 30, 1997. CFM (C) management was informed that a period of four months
after the closing date will be available for completing the financial transactions but only for
those activities which have been completed prior to the closing date.
8.    The management was also informed that, according to the Bank procedures, a number
of actions need to be taken subsequent to the closing of the project, some by the Bank and
some by the borrower. These actions, discussed in some detail with the CFM (C)
management, are:
a) preparation of an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) by the Bank within 6 months
of the project closing date. The format of the ICR was discussed in detail along with the
information required to be provided in the report. A full set of blank tables to be included
in the ICR was left with CFM (C) with the request that the information will be compiled
and made available to the Bank at the earliest but no later than July 31, 1997;
b) preparation of an independent Completion Report by the borrower, in this case CFM (C).
The report by the borrower is normally attached to the ICR without any change or editing



- 37 -
and represents the borrower's point of view. CFM (C) agreed to prepare the report in a
draft form for discussion with the CFM management by August 31, 1997; and
c) preparation of an Operations Plan by the borrower to be implemented within a period of
one year subsequent to the closing of the project. The Operations Plan should include all
actions that need to be taken to achieve the performance targets for the corning financial
years and also includes implementtion of all actions agreed between the Bank and the
borrower during the various past missions which have still to be fully implemented.
9.    It was also agreed that any questions pertaining to the compilation of information or
preparation of the completion report by CFM (C) could be discussed through exchange of
faxes/letters but also in more detil with the Bank mission which will be visiting Beira for the
purpose of finalizing the ICR sometime in September 1997.
IV.   Project Status
10.   Disbursement. Out of a totl credit of SDR 31.0 million, cumulative disbursement
until May 31, 1997 was SDR 21.1 million (68%) and total commitment including those
disbursed was SDR 21.69 million (70%). Since the project is due to close on June 30, 1997,
the remaining amount, approximately SDR9 million would need to be cancelled.
11.   Procurement. No requests for no objections are currendy pending with the Bank.
12.   Covenants. The status of legal and financial covenants is indicated in Attachment 3.
13.   Next mission. The Mission expressed its appreciation of the efforts being made by
CFM (C) to achieve the Project Objectives. The Task Team in Washington will be happy to
assist CFM (C) in whatever way it can. The next ICR Mission will be scheduled in September
1997.



-38-
Attachment 1
Portos e Caminhos de Ferro de Monambique E. P.
FlNAINCIAL STATEMENT- 1996/95
( 1.000 LMrs)
Working Costs Depreciation  External Assistence    Income   W.R      O.R    ROCE
Total CFM(C)
1995   197,078,113   90,371,949         12,032,181  314,122,801    0.67
1996   251.7i0.763   113,061,725         9,151,742  454,313,985    0.57
Port Ana
1995    68,363 ,63   43,014,949         12,032,181  203,059,076    0.40
1996    91.041,816   5s5,326,72s         9,151.742  282,065,880    0.36
Railways Area
1995   106,101,890   47,357,000                 0  110,944,517    0.96.
1996   141,074,989   57,735,000                 0  172,059,898    0.82
Cental Services
1995    22 612,960           0                  0      119,208   189.69
1996    19,613,958           0                  0      188,207   104.21
Result Centei Working Costs Deprecimtion  Esternal Assistence    Income  W.R    O.R    ROCE
Container Terninal
1995    20,23Z,383   30,333,248         11.333,560   74,473,691    0.42              1.3%
1996    19,720,335   31,588,405          9,151,742  106,523,896    0.27              4.9%
Gener Cargo Terminal
1995    27,200,925                                   71.920,406    0.38              0.0Ye
1996    42,537,321                                   95,951,682    0.44              0.0%
Oil Termni
1995     2,695,598   12,681,701           698,621   52,022,054     0.07             11.0%
1996     3,841,936   15,024,179                      67,327,464    0.06             12.0%
Marite Sevices
1995     5,842,066                                    4,171,452    1.40             .1.0Ye
1996    10,996,156    8,714,141                       7,564,619    1.45             -7.2%
Beirn Rail
1995    91,103,000   J7,357,000                     106,592,000    0.85              -1.8%
1996   1=2,012,600   57.735,000                     164,194,400    0.74             -0.70/
Others
1995    50,004,141                                    4,943,198
1996    19.613.958                                     188.207
03/04/97 (I1OH)



39 -
Attachrnent 2
Port and Railway Performance
Item              Unit                    Actuals       Actuals    % Change         Target   % Change
_______________  _________________           1995                  199611995         1997    199711996
Railways
Traffic           000 tons                    949          1175           24          1248
Traffic           million tkm                 291           354           22          385             9
Traffic           million gtkm                 512          613           20          661             8
Gross/net         ratio                       1.76         1.73                       1.72
Diesel performance  kms/loco month           7500          9400           25        10000             6
tkm/oc day                84399        110294           31       140000            27
gtkm/bkco day             148370       191300           29       240000            25
Wagon performance tkm-wagon day               1046          928           -11         1110           20
gtkmewagon day              1838         1607           -13         1900           18
Ports
Traffic           000 tons                    2488         2627            6         2900            10
teus handled     number                     27373         32380           18        33250
teushworker       number                       63            75           19           77             3
handling rate
general cargo     tons/gang hour                17           30           76            30            0
bulk cargo        tons/gang hour                28           45           61           45             0
oil              tons/gross pump hour          897          885            -1          950            7
container        teus handled/hour              13           12            -8           15           25



- 40 -
Attachment 3
PROGRESS OF COMPLIANCE WTrH COVENANTS AND AGREED ACTIONS
1. Section 3.01 of DCA: Financial management. The financial accounting and reporting
system has been modified so as to reflect the true financial health of the Result Centers. The
1996 accounts would reflect the costs of donor-financed technical assistance and spare parts
and the depreciation based on replacement-value of assets.
2. Section 3.03 of DCA: Private sector participaton in Port/Railway operatons. The
Government of Mozambique has taken a decision to offer the port of Beira and the
Machipanda rail line for private concession. December 31, 1998 has been fixed a s the target
date for completing the concessioning process.
3. Section 3.05: Tariff system. CFM (C) has designed a new cost accounting and control
package to enable CFM (C) to fix tariffs on a sounder basis. It was, however, confirmed by
CFM (C) that, except for coal, the tariff for all commnodities is above their direct cost of
transport. Also, commodities in bulk are now being increasingly moved on a contract basis
such as wood, tobacco, and granite.
4. Sections 3.06 and 3.07: Working Ratio. The working ratios are now being computed for
CFM (C) as a whole as well as for the different result centers separately.
5. Section 3.08: Transit Agreement with Zimbabwe. The agreement has not yet been signed
by the two governments. The major provisions are, however, being followed in practice.
6. Section 3.10: Incentive Scheme for Workers. Since the port and the railways are to be
concessioned within the next two years, result-based payment scheme for staff would be
developed by the concessionaires, if considered necessary.
7. Section 4.01: Financial Covenants (Accounts andAudit). The audited accounts of CFM
for 1995 and 1996 are expected to be finalized and audited by the end of September 1997.
There is no backlog of auditing of the project and special accounts.



- 41 -
PART IV - BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION
The highlights of the Borrower Project Evaluation' are summarised as follows:
Overall, the Beira Transport Corridor Project was adequately carried out and had a
positive impact on CFM(C)'s efficiency. The freight traffic handled by the Beira port-
railway system increased substantially. From 1990 to 1996 railway traffic increased by
38 percent and port traffic by 42 percent.
The Project financed the acquisition of new locomotives which contributed
substantially to increase CFM(C)'s traffic capacity.
Institutional development was the core of the Project. Technical assistance and
training programs carried out under the Project funds contributed to significant
improvement of technical skills of port and railway staff.
A training department was created at the railway and the instructors that were
trained are today in charge of carrying out the training programs.
The different areas of the railway adopted new methodologies and organisational
procedures.
As regards the Central Services, the Finance Department was restructured, a
Marketing Unit was set up, and computer culture developed.
A new organisational structure was also implemented through the creation of
seven result centres thereby improving accountability of the system.
Communication with the Bank was very good.
Sustainability is likely since the performance of CFM(C) has been maintained
even after the departure of TA experts.
This report was submitted in January 1998. However, the Borrower has informed the Bank that the
report will be formally sent after approval by CFM Board of Directors.



- 42 -
PORTOS E CAMINHOS DE FERRO DE MO(AMBIQUE
DIRECIAO EXECUTIVA DOS CFM-CENTRO
RELATORIO FINAL DO PROJECTO DE R=ABILITACAO DO
CORREDOR DA BEIRA
(CREDVTO 2;065-MAOZ,
BEIRA, DEZEMBRO DE 1997



- 43 -
iNDICE
PAGINAS
I -AvaliasAo do Impacto do Projecto .....................................................               . 1- 5
II - Desenvolvimento Institucional ......................................................                 5 - 6
III - Aquisic,ao de Locomotivas ......................................................                        6
1%  - Relacbes Institucionais com  o Banco MIundial ..................................    6
V- Versao Final de Desembolsos ......................................................                         6
NVl - Performance Operacional dos Caminhos de Ferro e Porto ........... 6-7
N'1  - C'onsideraVoes Finais ......................................................                           6



- 44 -
I   AvaliaVio do Impacto do Projecit'
I - Desenvolvimento do Potencial Humano
11- AREA FERROVIARIA
No ambito do desenvohimento do potencial humano dos Caminhos de Ferro de
togambique- Centro, a area ferroviania foi assistida pelos tecnicos da Renfe (Espanha) e
da Canac, (Canada). Ao abrigo do sub-projecto TA-R-1/2, estes tecnicos, foram
dritribuidos pelas seguintes areas: 0 ServiWo dc Quipamento que compreende: (A oficina
dbesel; o posto diesel; a revisao de material rehocado e o gabinete t6cnico); 0 Senic,o de
Via e Obras e o Departamento de Fonna,ao do BeiraRai tendo trabalado e transnitido o
"Know-how" aos contrapartes mocambicanos. atraves do metodo " on-the-job-training",
.om un sistema peri6dico trimestral de controlo.
Oif ina Di4sel
0 treinamento dirigido pela assistencia tecnica na area de Oficina Diesel, baseou-se
tundanentaimente, na forma9lo te6rica e pratica dos operaifos para:
-A manuten,co e reparac,o de avanas das locomotivas GE e GM.
-A elabora,co de fichas descritivas relativas ao funcionamento de componentes
electricos das locomotivas GE e GM.
-O uso de aparelhos de ensaio de diferentes orgaos.
Nesta area, foramn ainda introduzidos novos metodos e programas de manuten,cao
preventiva e curativa das locomotivas, o que contribuiu significativamente para o aumento
do indice de operacionalidade e de fiabiidade das locos.
ReWJtdo de Ma,al Rebocado
A assistencia t6cnica teve impacto positivo na area de Revisio de Material
Rebocado, onde foram introduzidos novos metodo para a revisao e manuten,co de vagoes,
com o objectivo de garantir a operacionalidade dos mesmos. Foram estabelecidos nonmas
para a manutancio de cilindros, de freios e tecnicas de frenagem, assim como tecnicas de
medi&,o de esfor9o. Posteriormente, foi apresentado pela assistencia tecnica urn plano de
reparaoes em cadeia.
1



- 45 -
Gabinete Tecnico
A instala,co e organizacao de um Gabinete Tecnico pela assistencia tecnica, trouxe
novos ensinamentos tecnico-profissionais para os tecnicos mo,ambicanos. Este gabinete,
introduziu nova dinamica na execucao das seguintes tarefas:
-Na computariza9ao de dados.
-No estabelecimento de fichas de manutengio para as locomotivas GM.
-Na analise e controlo de custos de manutensao das locomotivas.
-No melhoramento da organizaiao documental.
-No melhoramento de comunicacao entre as areas.
-Na anatise de avarias das locomotivas na linha.
Depatamento de Formac4o do BeiraRail
Foi criado o departamento de formacao do BeiraRail, para dar a resposta a
necessidade de formacao de trabalhadores, nas seguintes areas: Equipamento; Trafego;
Via; Sinahiza,ao e Quadros, esta vocacionada para a formacao do pessoal que ocupa os
cargos de chefia.
Para facilitar a transferencia do "know-how", os assistentes tecnicos desenvolveram
uma fonnasao pedag6gica para instrutores mocambicanos, garantindo assim, a continuaqao
da formacao para o futuro. Os instrutores mo,amnbicanos ja formados, estao dando a
continuidade do programa de forma9ao, ministrando os cursos de "Gestao de Produ9ao" e
de "Forna9Io e Desenvolvimento dos Colaboradores".
Em termos quantitativos, o (Anexo-1), ilustra o pessoal trabalhador fonnado nos
anos de 1993; 1994 e 1995, s6 para a area ferroviaria.
1.2 - AREA PORTUARIA
0 pessoal da area portuaria, beneficiou-se da forma9ao relativa a contabilidade de
custos; controlo de aprovisionamentos; marketing e MIS para a Terminal de Contentores.
Com a assistencia tecnica do HPC, foram administrados 19 cursos e forrnados 349
trabalhadores (Anexo - 2).
2



3 - SERVICOS CENTRAIS
Os servi,os centrais do CFM-C, compreendem as seguintes areas: 0 Servi,o de
F mnancas; Planificacao e Marketing; Informitica; Aprovisionamento e Recursos Huinanos.
',cqtas areas, para o treinamento e capacitacao de contrapartes mo,ambicanos estiveram
.nvolvidos assistentes t6cnicos do HPC, Hamburg Port Consulting, ao abrigo do sub-
rw  ecto TA-C 1/2.
.'erv4o de Financas
A presen,a de assistencia, acelerou o processo de reestrutura,io do servi,o de
inan,cas, que resultou na cria,ao de departamentos de or,amentos; activo fixo e de
.Ontabilidade de custos, cujas tarefas dos departamentos estio essencialmente viradas para
desenvolvimento da gestao dos segwntes centros de resultados:(Servico Maritimo;
I rrninal de Contentores; Terninal da Carga Geral; Terminal de Petr6leos e BeiraRail).
\ nivel do departamento de orgamento. foram definidas e executadas as seggntes tarefas
pr,lncipas:
-A introdu,co de regras e procedimentos para a elabora9ao e execu,co do or9amento.
-A asssistencia no ambito de controlo or,camental.
-A defini=ao de regras bhsicas para a elabora,co de relat6rios finais sobre or,amento.
-O Trminamento do pessoal nos centros de resultados.
-A elaboracio de manuais basicos sobre o orcamento.
*' nivel do departamento de activo fixo foram executadas as seguintes tarefas essenciais:
-O levantamento fisico de todo o activo fixo do CFM-C.
-A elabora,cao de un sistema de actualiza,co de dados do activo fixo.
-A valorizagio do activo fixo.
-A introdug1o de cilculos sobre as deprecia,6es.
A nivel do departamento de contabilidade de custos foram tragadas e desenvohidas as
tarefas seguintes:
-A introdu%o c organizac,o de cost accounting szstem(cas), na temiinal de contentores
definido como "centro piloto" do porto da Beira, e mais tarde, o mesmo sistema foi
expandido para as outras areas operacionais, nomeadamente: Servi9o Manitimo; Terminal
de Petr6leos e Terminal de Carga Geral.
3



- 47 -
-A actualiza9So semestral dos custos de capital e custos variaveis de servi9os prestados
pdlas areas operacionais, com o objectivo de propor ao servi9o comercial, as tarifas
vantajosas para o CFM-C.
-Fornecer aos gestores, as informaioes necessarias e suficientes para a tomada de
decis6es correctivas e tendentes a reducao de custos gerais superfluos na empresa,
permiitindo assini, a rentabilidade financeira do CFM-C.
I nidade de Marketing
Um dos aspectos positivos promovidos. foi a cria9ao e organizacao de uma unidade
die Marketing com  assistencia tecnica da HPC, e a transmissao do know-how, aos
.ontrapartes mocambicanos, sobre a agressividade e dinamica comercial. A unidade de
marketing, estabeleceu contactos comerciais directos com os clientes dos paises do
interland, nomeadamnente, Zimbabwe; Zambia e Mlalawi, avaliando as estruturas tarifarias
portuarias e ferroviaras, promovendo a actividade ferro-portuAria do CFM-C, e ganhando
assirm, novos clientes para o Corredor da Beira. Um banco de dados foi criado com o
intuito de recolha de infornnaces actualizadas sobre os clientes, nacionais e estrangeiros,
nio s6, mas tarnbem para fazer chegar aos mesmos clientes, a publicacio mensal da revista
denominada "Newsletter", onde sao reportados os assuntos de grande interesse
desenvovidos no porto da Beira.
Servio de Informhica
Foi criado o Servico de Informratica. A componente formacao, tal como aconteceu
nas outras areas, baseou-se essencialmente no "on-the-job-training" e na formacao no
exterior. Quatro contrapartes mocambicanos para a area de informatica, beneficiararn de
formaiao no Instituto de Aperfeicoamento T6cnico Acelerado (L4TTA), em Portugal, sobre
a analise de sistemas, teleprocessamento e gestao. Assim, com o auxilio da assistencia
tecnica foramn e continuam a ser desenvolvidas as seguintes tarefas:
-Processamento de salarios para o pessoal efectivo e eventual do CFM-C.
-Desenvolvirnento de um sistema de gestlo de recursos humanos, que facilita a
actualizacao dos dados estatisticos do pessoal.
-Desenvolvimento do sistema de controlo de vag6es e encerrados.
-Introducao do sistema de cadastro para os clientes do CFM-C, que permite fazer
anilises sobre volumes de trafego ferroviirio.
-Gestao e assistencia as areas operacionais na aplicacio e no uso do
MIS, Management Information System.
Em termos de equipamento, foi instalado um computador centraL nove terminais com os
respectivos cabos de ligacao para os utilizadores; seis modems para o estabelecirnento das
ligacoes ; software e tres multiplexers.
4



- 48 -
.4provisionamentos
Na Area de aprovisionamentos. os tecnicos do HPC, trabalhando com os
respectivos contrapartes, definirarn e implementaram pela primeira vez nesta area, as
seguintes tarefas:
-A introduc,o de urn sistema para a gestao de stocks (Software DSY).
-Foi criado urn sistema codificado para a identificacao de pe,as.
-O estabelecimento de um sistema de controlo financeiro para stocks.
-A cria,co de catalogos de fomecedores.
-A identifica,ao e a remoc,o de pecas sobressalentes fora do uso (m6nos).
() cumprimento desta tarefa teve como bases, a inventaria9oo de todas as pecas
sobressalentes e a criac,o do sistema de minimo e maximo para a armazenagem do
stocks.
A componente forTna,co para os servi,cos centrais(FinanQas; Marketing;
lnform,itica; Aprovisionamento e Recursos Humanos), foi complementada pela realiza9ao
de dois seminirios importantes denominados "Zopp workshop". Portanto, foram formnados
pela HPC, 129 trabalhadores em cursos intemos (Anexo-3).
Por outro lado, forarn formados 32 trabalhadores em cursos externos (Anexo-4).
De uma forma geral, a imnplementa,co da componente training, nas diversas areas
mencionadas, teve um impacto positivo. A presenca de assistencia tecnica foi frutifera e
trouxe nova dinimica de trabalho. 0 projecto terminou nos finais de 1995, e actualmente,
todas as tarefas iniciadas pela assist8ncia tecnica, sao executadas pelo pessoal mo ambicano
treinado no periodo compreendido entre 1993 e 1995, o que revela a sustentabilidade do
projecto.
II.  Desenvolvimento Institucional
Foram criados sete centros de resultados, nomeadamente:
- Beira Rail
- Oficinas Gerais
- Terminal de Contentores
- Temninal da Carga Geral
- Manutenqao de Infraestruturas Civis
- Seni9os Maritimos
- Terminal de Petr6leos
0 objectivo principal da ciiacao dos centros de resultados, foi a descentralizac,o da
responsabilidade na gestao, visando uma maior eficiencia e rentabilidade. Portanto, os
5



- 49 -
centros de resultados sao unidades aut6nomas dentro da Direc9ao Executiva do Centro,
com uma gestao operacionat economica e financeira aut6noma.
III.  Aquisipko de Locomotivas
Atraves do projecto, foram adquinidas seis locomotivas para manobras GE U 10 e
atraves de financiamento da CIDA(Canada), foram adquiridas dez locomotivas
GM(General Motors). As locomotivas contribuiram largarnente para o aumento da
capacidade de manobras no Porto da Beira, e de transporte de passageiros na Linha de
Machipanda.
IV.  Relas6es instituicionais com o Banco Mundial
As relac6es instituicionais com o Banco Mundial, sempre foram boas. 0 Banco
respondeu positivamente is solicitacoes do mutuaiino para o "No Objection", para a
assinatura de novos contratos com os fornecedores de bens e de servicos. Por outro lado, o
mutuario cumpriu na integra a obrigagao de prestar as contas atempadamente, a
Representa9ao do Banco Mundial, residente em Maputo.
Sobre este assunto, salienta-se apenas o envio tardiamente de extractos bancirios
ou statement of account ao mutuirio, pela Citibank House, de London, para efeitos de
reconciliacao bancaria.
V. Versao Final de Desembolsos
No inicio, portanto em 1989, o projecto "Beira Transport Corridor" foi avaliado
em SDR 31.000.000, correspondentes a USD 40.000.000, ao cambio do dia. De acordo
com os registos contabilisticos que sao reflectidos no "disbursement summary sheet", em
anexo-5, foram feitos pagamentos directos e indirectos, ate ao dia 30 de Junho de 1997,
USD 27.308.435,93, o que significa que nao foram utilizados USD 12.691.564,07. Assim,
do montante total do Credito 2065-Moz, apenas foram utilizados 68,27%, para a
implementa,ao dos vifios sub-projectos(Anexos-5 e 6).
VI.  Performance Operational dos Caminhos de Ferro e Porto
Em anexo, indicadores sobre o Performance Operational dos Caminhos de Ferro e
Porto da Beira, onde destacamos a evolu<ao positiva, quer a nivel do trffego
6



- 50) -.
ferrovihrio(crescimento de 38% de 1990 para 1996), quer a nivel portuhiio(crescimento de
42% em toneladas m6tricas e 1000/%, em contentores, de 1990 para 1996. (Anexos 7;8 e 9)
VII. ConsideraV6es Finais
De uma forma geraL o impacto do projecto de Reabilita,co do Corredor da Beira,
foi positivo em muitos aspectos, tais como:
- A aquisi9ao de locomotivas pernitiu ao CFM-C, fazer o trafego de mercadorias
partindo de Mutare a Beira e vice-versa.
- A forma,co do potencial humano, pemnitiu manter discussao com o sector privado e
com os cientes.
- A formac,ao e desenvohimento da forca de trabalho de forma a garantir um
desenvolvimelnto continuo e crescimento institucional.
- Projectou-se a necessidade de mudan9as estruturais e tecnol6gicas na empresa,
adaptando-a is exigencias das for,as externas que interagem no nosso sistema e as
exigencias do mercado contemporAineo.
Contudo, ficaram alguns aspectos por terninar que podiamn dar maior impacto na
sustentabilidade dos diferentes sectores do CFM-C.
BEIRA, DEZEMBRODE 1997
7



51 -
A.NEXO-1
I RSOS REALIZADOS PELAASSISTENCIA TECNICA DA RENFE E DA CANAC (1993-1995'
PAR4 A AREA FERROVIARIA
VTNUMERO DE CtRSOS              PARICEPAINTES       HPLORAS
MINISTRADOS
*4uipamento             21                               116          26.670
\ i..vimento             17                               201          37.570
hu4Adro                  32                               386          11.580
1 &lecomunica,ces        6                                30           8.460
%inalizavao
I ra1 ao                 36                               347         '2.200
\ ial                    18                               179          37.828
TOTAL                     130                             1259         144.308



- 52 -
ANEXO-2
CURSOS REALIZADOS PELA AMPSI [ NCIA TECNICA DA HPC (1993-1995)
PARA A AREA PORTUARIA
i 'URSOS REAL1ZADOS        NtMERO DE CLRSO     PARTICIPANTES        APROVADOS
Introducao Portuaria             4                    38                  38
Seguranpa Portuaria Basica       4                    39                  38
Supervisores em SeguranVa        2                    15                  15
()peracio Portuaria Basica        4                   31                  28
vestio de Armazenamento           2                   17                   17
(,estio de Opera,io a Bordo      2                    14                   13
t estao de Opera,io em Terra      1                   13                   12
e no Cais
3'1aneamento das OperaVoes        1                   6                   6
Capataz de Estiva                2                    17                  17
Avaliacio do Rendimento          2                    20                  16
I'ortuario
Hasico de Contentores            1                    6                   6
Contentorizac,ao e Funcionamento   4                  36                  35
da Esta,io de Contentores
Soldadura Electrica              2                    15                   11
Eletrotecnia Basica              3                    20                  20
Tecnicas de llumina,cio          2                    17                   16
Esquemas Electricos              2                    16                  14
Hidraulica Basica                 2                   12                   10
Ferramentas Manuais              2                    10                  7
Programadores para CFM            1                   30                  30
TOTAL                            43                   372                 349
0.o



- 53 -
ANEXO-3
CURSOS REALIZADOS PFIL A %S S11 FNCIA TEtCNICA DA HPC (1993-1995)
PARAX ON S%VI(,'OS CENTRPLS
('RSOS REALZADOS         NUMERO DE CURSUS    PARTlCIPANTES      APROVADOS
i'conomia e GestAo de           1                  9                  9
I ransporte
Slarketing Basico               2                  29                 16
Gestio Economica                1                  11                  11
e Financeira nos
(entros de Resultados
GestAo Economica                1                  10                  6
e Financeira das Empresas
l ransportadoras
Grestio EconOmica               1                  12                 5
e Financeira como Instrumento
de Direc,co Empresarial
Gestio Or,amental               2                  29                 22
Gestao de Aprovisionamentos     2                  24                  17
Ingles do Nivel Basico          7                  89                  18
Ingleis do Nivel Avan,ado       4                  92                 25
TOTAL                           21                 305                 129
10



- 54 -
ANEXO-4
CIIRSOS F %I I DI)OS NO EXTERIOR
%t MERO DE PARnCVPANTES            DF.SCRKI AO) DE CURSOS               LOCAL
10                          Curbo% do V nsino Superior          Brazil
I                           (urso .V .nc-ado de Inglis           Speciss College-
Zimbabwe
8                           Curso A% ancado de Inglis            Language LAB-
Africa do Sul
2                           Lei Maritima Interacional            International
Maritime Law
Institute-Malta
2                           Forma,io na Area de Aprovisio-       Management
namentos                            Institute-Arusha
-Tanzania
2                           Forma$ao na Area de Aprovisio-       Eastern and
namentos                            Southern Africa
Management-
Zimbabwe
1                           Formac,o na Area de Informatitca    Strategic
Management
informatic
System-USA
2                           Desembolso de Fundos                 Banco de
Fomento e
Exterior
4                           Anallse de Sistema                   IATA Instruto
de
Aperlei,oamento
Tecnico
Acelerado-
Llsboa
l'otal: 32
11



- 55 -
ANEXO - 5
JUNE - 97 <2.DISB>               BEIRA TRANSPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT CR 2065 - MOZ
DISBURSEMENT SUMMARY
_                             Amount             Amount
CATEGORY                                            Committed        Paid JUNE-97         Balance       Remarks
USD               USD               USD
Category I
- Shunling Locos                                                    6.799.434      6.555.589,64        243.844,36  Finished
Category 2                                   _                                                                        _
- S/parts Rorniiimi Locos                                         1.153.942,78      1.153.935,86             6,92  Flnished
- DB/ADM Laptops                                                    12.253,00          12.253,00             0,00     _
- LMIGM/PU Laptops                                                   16.240,00         16.240,00             0,00
- 4 IBM Think - pads                                                31.680,08          31.680,08             0.00
-1I IBM- JAF tIAPSO)                                                 6.223,98           6.223,98             0,00     ..
-30 Programmers, Traing =m4                                         33.592,79          33.592.79             0,00  Finished
- 30 Programmers, Computer                                          104.328,00        104.328,00             0,00     ..
- 30 Programmers, Cars           JPY           5.578.760,00         61.420,42          52.373,19         9.047,23     ..
-NMIS                                                              217.929,00         152.173,00        65.756,00
Sub - Total                                          1.637.610,05       1.562.799,90        74.810,15
Category 3
- Incentive Scheme Study         DEM             85.599,00          55.725,86         55.725,86             0,00   Finished
- TA - TN Study                  DEM            886.800,00         542.703,07        537.322,60          5.380,47    ..
- Private Sector Study                                 ,           100.000,00        100.000,00             0,00
- TA Romanian Locos                                                256.000,00        256.135.53          -135.53     ..
- MIS docs                       SEK            582.357,00         107.352,53         93.851,36         13.501,17
- Housing expatriat. Tender                                         89.125,00         89.125,00             0,00     ,.
- Housing expatriat. Supervis.                                     104.116,64         88.699,76         15.416,88
- TABMS                                                          1.500.000,00       1.480.132,45        19.867,55
- Procurem. Training/Arusha                _                         7.569,00          7.569,00             0,00
- Procurem. Training/Arusha                                          6.799,00          6.799,00             0,00
- Disburs. Seminar/Lisbon                                            5.507,00          5.507,00             0,00
- Maritime Law Training/Malta    GBP             30.000,00          48.015,00         48.015,00             0,00
- EDP Training/Lisbon            PTE          15.600.000,00        104.000,00        104.000,00             0,00
- TA Central Services            DEM          12.017.938.00      8.011.958,67      5.811.656.29      2.200.30238
- TA Poit Training               DEM          2.794.821,00       1.863.214,00       1.080.543,85      782.670,15
- TA Railway                                                     7.608.170,00      4.822.182,06      2.785.987,94 _    _
- British Council - Training                                      800.000,00         797.293,04       , 2.706,96
- Audit CR 2065 - Moz 91-95                                        64.768,00          52.301.59         12.466,41
- Audit CFM 89-91                                                  392.500,00        363.524,50        28.975,50
- Audit CFM 92-95   .                                              340.000,00        340.794,11          -794,11
- Magm Info/USA                                                      5.750,00          5.750,00             0,00
- 30 Programmers, Training                                         325.069,00        378.978.12        -53.909.12
Sub - Totl                                                     22.338.342,77      16.525.906,12     5.812.436,65



- 56 -
ANEXO - 6
Amount           Amount
CATEGORY                                         Committed       Paid JUNE-97        Balance       Remarks
____________________                  ___________            USD               USD              USD
Su t I olal Tranferldo                                      22.338.342,77     16.525.906,12     S.812.436,65
MYl *ontracts
-f Ml_des                                                      98.750.00         93.705,35         5.044,65
_        __u_ue                                                 8.000,00         8.000,00            0,00
(-kninos_                                                    8.000,00          8.000,00            0,00
SUb-Tol_ Tl                                      22.453.092,77    16.635.611,47     5.817.481,30
s etory 4                                                                                                            I
Aptments                                                   2.184.639,29      2.175.430,25        9.209,04  FinIshed
C oa te ory   5                                         _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
kAl] India TDcnical                                             30.000,00        24.562,67         5.437,33  FinIshed
aIndwehrs Paltner Gmbh                                          82.500,00        82.500,00             0,00
[I languae Lab Intemational House                               40.000,00        40.000,00             0,00
Emest & Young                 L_I____                          255.000,00       231.942,00        23.058,00
Sub Total                             __ __           |       407.500,00        379.004,67       28.495,33
TOTAL.                        L_I           _I_   33.482.276,11              27.308.435,93     6.173.840,18
_Equvalent In SDR             1_1_                    |       21.601.468        17.618.346       3.983.123
BEIRA TRANSPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT CR 2065-MOZ
(Expressed In USD)
A - Credit Amount:(USD))                                  40.000.000,00
- Total of Payments untfi 30 June 1997:                  27.308.435,93
- Balance                                                 12.691.564,07



A N E X o- 7
BEIRARAIL
OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE
90    91      92     93    94      95     96 acc. Oct97
FREIGHT OPERATIONS
(1 000 tons)I
International traffic                    651    447    757    970    750    877   1101        733
National traffic                         199    252     92      56    54    123    72          89
Total traffic                            850    699   849   1026   804   1000   1173          822
Average detention (days):             ._____
NRZ wagons in CFM                      17.2   10.9    9.5    8.0   6.8    6.2    9.2         6.8
CFM wagons in NRZ                                   15.0   15.3  14.0   13.0   15.7        17.6
LOCOMOTIVES
:
Diesel locos availability (%):
main line G. E.                       56%    66%    56%    59%   54%    50%   49%          36%
main line G. M.                                                   82%    76%   65%         79%
shunters                                                   90%   92%    92%   92%          87%
Kms/loco/month (1000Km)
diesel main line                               7.2   10.6    8.9   5.6    7.5    9.4         8.4
Failures/100000 Km  _
main line G. E.            .                  5.2    7.4   20.0  21.2   14.1   15.3        15.2
main line G. M.                                                    1.7   2.3,   4.7         4.3



- 58 -
ANNE XO  8
PERFORMANCE 1990-96
;9 1991                      19          193'         1"4         191
1. CARGO THROUGHPUT - 1000 metric tons
Tool iluding Containes                 1,82&8      1,7041      2,392.3      2,M7.5       2,_ _ 7     2,4.2        2,685.2
Teruu - eoiaj                          1, 439.2-   1,297.2     1.941.1      2,4588       2,121.0-    J,969.3     i2,26.1
Traamt  POT.                          896.0       904.5       9453         990.3      1,0709       1,005.3     1,005.2
Tmer t -ihcir                         543.2       392.7        995.X      1,153.5     1,050.1       964.2      1,240.9
4n ew .  Mtotal                        389.6     4-6gQ          451.2       488.7        343.7       $18.7        357.1
ltstuoeal Truda                       232.0       279.6        369.9       395.2        290.6       465A .       304.1
Cib,qe                                157.6        127.3        81.3        93.5         S3.1         53.3        52.9
CcusauwrJ Mrsr       
Tn,ut                                 12,312      10,4421    __13,071__5631            26,1451      2479         24596
Ma_ mb.que rrade                      3 3  306        9j       3,392  _ 2,3871         25831         2497        9.24o
ZCabmiAgw                              1,4P19      i,2631       1,167         2981        119.         127          39
TtTAL                                   17,103      15,1041      17,630      27.3081      28,8471     27,.73       33,575
2. PRODUCTIVITY
2.1 Gtera) Cargo Terminal
ros/ne. Manx hour
Generai  Cargo                                                                   I         191          171
Bulk                                                                                       251         281
Trons/sop hour (at bertht)
onaI Cargo                                                                                 381          321         31
Bulk                               _                                                       50          54           5
2.2 Oil Terminal
ribmIgross pump hour)
Cabotagc                                                                                              350          369
Lincrs                                                                           IU0
2.3 Contminer Turmibial
Conlainers
Mnvesinct guntry howu r                                                                   96          11.5  .       84
Moz!goss ganty hour                                                                         61         7A.          S.3
Copper
Tons/grom  hour                                                                           21.1        2S.5         172
Granit
Tons/gross hour                                                                           25.3        23.3         18.
r.mber
Tons'g ss hour                                                                             9.5         8.6          2.3



- 5) -
AN EO -X 9
PORT OF BEIRA
PERFORMANCE 1990 - 96
1990    j   1991                      291992  1993    I   1994    1   19  1   1996
3. EQUIPMENT  AVAILABILITY- (-                 )
I I General Cargo Terminnal
Electinc Crans > 10) tonS                                                                   7.           7      5     7
bcrinc crnes   tO ftons                                                                     _0           55           5'_
Sbuning Tnawrst                                                                              30           18          38
balk Handling Equipmenit         _____                     __________I95956
_           ~     ~ ~ ~~~~~____                                                    9S___   _____   _____      4
ob.cts (hatch)                  _            _      _                 _                                  60_4
1 2 Oil Tril                                   _ 
(U)  Loodinig                      _                                             -r  -                  -  97           90
rwvFighting                     __ .                                                                    951         97
Moonn                                                                                                    981          99
3 3 CoDtaIner Terminal
Sbip to Shore Crunca                              _                                          74           81 
1Li GantrY Crano                                                                             85          6Y9,         76
Fo*1afts > 15 tons                                                                          73           73           57
Tug Muitcr__                                                                                73           77           67
Trukrs                                                            __                        82           85           N3
3.4 Maritit   Services                                      
PilotQLI                                _                            I                                   86I  - I  6  fii
MncnnnR    t                     _                                                             .         95           4l
'ug Boats                       _                       1            I                        I          83         S7
4. NUMBER  OF SHIPS - unit
(Ocen  going                            2661         2601         2971         365         34       11       32 2
Cabotag                                  116          116          891          831          56          3S|          i7
PamCerS and others                       s4          104           351          221         26            181         12
TOTAL                                   466          480          42 1        4701         433          3671         371



MAP SECTION



34                 380
MOZAMBIQUE                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TANZANIA
S                                         ~~~~~~~~M o Z A M B I Q u E                                                                             3    ANNA  ,* 
BEIRA TRANSPORT CORRIDOR PROGRAM                                                                                 ZAMBIA  Lake
BEIRA TRANSPORT CORRIDOR
-14      $3.WALA   \>
) j    !MOZAMBIQUE
I-  - RAILROADS
ROADS                                       TYPE OF TRACK/TERRAIN:
-       PIPELINE                                     0 Km. - 97.5 Km. / FLAT
'~   RIVERS                                        97.5 Km. - 179 Km. / GRADES AND CURVES                                  18,=
J    PORT                                          179 Km. - 226.5 Km. / SMALL GRADES                                                     A    OF
O   SELECTED TOWNS                                226.5 Km. - 314 Km. / STEEP GRADES AND SHAJP CURVES                           Muto
*   NATIONAL CAPITAL
ZIMBABWE/
- - -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
2-22'  /'S                      ' ,. <' .<'.'Y"N   220
ZIMBABWE                                                                                                                                   SOUTH
)                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AFRICA
,260 (       Mqiw:1
TO Mam
chi   a                                                           Go G1a             E                          Nrrad
W 23<Km~~ 2          Elevtio 673 m.       /El-vtion 663 m.                                                     97,,EI vo 5o K 0m.
To                                                                                                    Elrere  t E n 60 mt
ZIMBABWE
I K
>~~~
00   The  rnas o t oe  1/, p',."''  ,a '0', t. 004 1ak 'tf 'e:. :','.n, t., ;.,.,. oOletf0                                                                                                             N
-<                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
*~~SdS ends .o408,* to. D~~~~~~~~~~ .,a o,. a tO,. ItO,td Bet 8,4 to 08018t0flW ~~~~~~~~~~~                     ~        ~        ~       ~        c



IBRD 21356
T \   IANZANIA   j   '      'r; S .   34 50
iA/231A    | )N.-                C, O    \       "                Sea la.  A   5m7ST:
2 M L              cfP a mn b \a%                           fu o rd PTO il                                                        M O Z A M B I Q U E
,.X.  ' H 4 asao<27la  \  \   \                                                                             PORT   OF                                        ONIRA  OlLTNEeRTAINEW                                   PORT OF BEIRA
N                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~PORT OF BEIRA
N-                                                                                                                                        > (\\J o  /  \  \\f  X  ' RoadsI
utUu       ,.    OeirIinn                                      2LBo,I   Rroods
2-,
-yN O 1 4 gs: ;: t;:1 1 // // / \  o    Navigational Buoys
v-C'~~~~~~~~1                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RI IA  -
j ,~~~ - / ;  l/s    -nterootiuuul Boundaries;'    /    i
050         I/19;/                                                                                                                                                     oUi  0\\                                    lTAN/ FARM    fTlr  0  WA
30  40  A0      /                                                                                                                                                                                  T . N RT:00 f  0   0   0    ,   90E
e; 0 \  La l  _.3~~~~~~~~ >   :: ; -ye   0   :                                                    2                                                                   opoA    io
X\    /   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IOETA                                                                                                             O5ni ;\  NO.f  ;H
j /   (
rae'.  I                                                                                                                                                                                  COO. S/OIA:
tereeof~~~~~~~        I/  ,,                                                                                                                                                                     T : I                                    /. CO
ARRMA
l~~~~~~~~~
/ /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N 
IA  U!      I                                                                                                                                             QUAY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TRMNl.I
1 /  1      ~      ~      ~      ~               'N7>~_-7CONTRUCTONEUN
o  >                                                                                                                   AU*T 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IA 
II  --~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
19   -'~~~~~~.<                                                                                                    EXITTUG45 '  -- 
CC-  ,   ~~~~~~~~~~~~/    N         T.~~~~~~~~~~~.-'~~~~~~~'                                                                                                                     YUEu~~~~~~~I
TO   i-         II~~~~~~~o
P. . 1. ~    ~       N        II ,_                                                                                                                                                                                   U OD                       0
3455'~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~AT              SATO
MARCH 1K91 9



IBRD 28696
co,~~~~~~~~o~3"36-                    38          4
GOLE                          TANZANIA              ?-
L S  > ArtX  ~~ X  .3                                             1.l
ATL4NflCA  AFC  W   OGAN[ q  
;MALAI(cIG(/
ZAMBIA
B.1-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
C.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B
F   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20
To H.nr     C           o ou4     ;
J j;og ~~MOZABIQUE
SumXcno%   hm-zooX
Z I M B A B W E         0                  - PAVED ROA
20                                             PAVED ROAM UN/DE CONTRUCTiON
-  EART ROAD$
y  X.LROADS
T. Rt-g.                          INTERNAW" IAIRETC
_~z    *tdt  t         t    l   |          ; PO RS OF REGONAL IAPORTNCa
4; LOCALPORTS
G<b><rX5 A Z  A                   WHA\Uf I UGMTHOUSES
@    PROVINCE CAPMTAS   24$
S 0 U T H    g
NArnoNAL CAMTAS
AFRICA   FCho
14 </f~~~~~~~h MPW ppm        PROWNCE SOUNDAES
Do j.d cdo bn-   INTENONL8OUNDAMES
26     SWAZILAND  4                  twbO
M3BAANE                   zo     X   JIh
3I.        3. 4,
MARCH 1997



