Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2065 MOZ
                (Beira Transport Corridor Project)
                              between
                  PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                     Dated September 28, 1989
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2065 MOZ
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  September   28,   1989,  between  PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC   OF   MOZAMBIQUE   (the   Borrower)   and  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower has contracted from the Government of Spain
a grant (the  Spanish  Grant)  in  an  amount  equivalent to three
million five hundred  thousand  dollars  ($3,500,000) to assist in
financing Part A.1 of the Project  on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement  (the  Spanish Grant Agreement) entered into
between the Borrower and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Spain;
     (C)  the  Borrower  intends  to  contract  from  the Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA)  a  grant (the CIDA Grant)
in   an   amount   of   twenty-five   million   Canadian  dollars,
(Can $ 25,000,000) to  assist  in  financing  Part  C.1 (b) of the
Page  2
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the
CIDA Grant Agreement) to be  entered into between the Borrower and
CIDA;
     (D)  the Borrower has  contracted  from Japan a non-reimburs-
able contribution (the Japanese Contribution) in an amount of nine
hundred  million  Japanese  Yen   (  900,000,000)  to  assist  in
financing Part C.1 (b) of the  Project on the terms and conditions
set forth in  an  agreement  (the Japanese Contribution Agreement)
entered into between the Borrower and Japan;
     (E)  the Borrower intends to  contract from the Government of
Portugal (Portugal) a grant  (the  Portuguese  Grant) in an amount
equivalent  to  one  million  dollars  ($1,000,000)  to  assist in
financing Part E of the  Project  on  the terms and conditions set
forth in  an  agreement  (the  Portuguese  Grant  Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and Portugal; and
     WHEREAS the Association has  agreed,  on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "MTC" means the Ministry of Transport and Communications
of the Borrower;
     (b)  "DNPCF" means Direccao Nacional dos Portos e Caminhos de
Ferro, a National Directorate established and operating within the
MTC pursuant to Portaria No. 82/76  of the Borrower dated April 6,
1976, including all references to DNPCF in this Agreement, DNPCF's
legal successor to  be  established  by  the  Borrower pursuant to
Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement;
     (c)  "CFM" means Caminhos de  Ferro de Mocambique, the agency
within DNPCF responsible for the port and railways operations;
     (d)  "CFM (C)", "CFM  (S)"  and  "CFM  (N)" mean the central,
southern and northern sections of CFM;
     (e)  "Beira Corridor" means a  transport  corridor made up of
railways and a port  operated  by  CFM  (C);  roads and a pipeline
connecting  the  Republic   of   Zimbabwe  and  other  land-locked
countries with the Port of Beira in the territory of the Borrower;
     (f)  "BCA"  means  Beira   Corridor  Authority,  Gabinete  do
Corredor da Beira (Sistema  de  Transportes e Comunicacoes ligados
ao Porto da  Beira),  an  agency  of  the Borrower established and
operating pursuant to Despacho of  the Borrower dated December 19,
1985;
     (g)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means  the  agreement to be
entered into between the  Borrower  and  DNPCF referred to in Sec-
tion 3.01 (c) of this Agreement,  as  the same may be amended from
time to time, and  such  term  includes  all schedules to the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement;
Page  3
     (h)  "SETEP" means Secretaria de  Estado  do Ensino Tecnico e
Profissional, the Secretariat for  Technical and Vocational Train-
ing within the Ministry of Education of the Borrower;
     (i)  "Beira  Corridor  Implementation  Agreement"  means  the
agreement to be entered into between  the DNPCF, CFM (C), CFM (N),
CFM (S), BCA and SETEP  referred  to  in  Section 3.01 (b) of this
Agreement;
     (j)  "Transit Agreement" means  the  agreement  to be entered
into between the People's Republic  of Mozambique and the Republic
of Zimbabwe to regulate the  international transit between the two
countries;
     (k)  "MIS" means Management Information System;
     (l)  "Training Section" means  the section established within
CFM (C)'s  training  center  and  referred  to  in  paragraph 3 of
Schedule 5 to, and Section 3.09 of this Agreement;
     (m)  "Training Steering Committee" means the committee estab-
lished by CFM(C)'s Main  Steering Committee through its resolution
dated April 17, 1989, and referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 5
to, and Section 3.09 of this Agreement;
     (n)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (o)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepara-
tion advances granted by the  Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters dated  November 25, 1987 and December 4,
1987 and May 27, 1989 and  July  19, 1989 between the Borrower and
the Association; and
     (p)  "fiscal year" or "FY"  means  the  period from January 1
through December 31 following.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent  to   thirty   one   million   Special  Drawing  Rights
(SDR 31,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement  and  to  be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain a special account  in a commercial bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special  Account  shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount of the Project  Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstand-
ing as of such date  and  to  pay  all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn  balance  of  the  authorized  amount  of  the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such
later date as  the  Association  shall  establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Page  4
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal  amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time at a  rate to be set by the Association as
of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge  shall  accrue:  (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled;  and (ii) at the
rate set as of June  30  immediately preceding the accrual date or
at such other rates as  may  be  set  from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed  by,  or  in  the territory of, the Bor-
rower; and (iii) in the  currency  specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of  the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as  may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate  of  three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on  the  principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each  March 1 and September 1,
commencing March  1,  2000  and  ending  September  1,  2029. Each
installment  to   and   including   the   installment  payable  on
September 1, 2009  shall  be  one  percent  (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter  shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of  the  Association and after due con-
sideration by them of  the  development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment  of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to  repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet  due  until  the  principal amount of the
Credit shall have been  repaid.  If  so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise  such  modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of  the  increase  in  the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest  at  an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal  amount  of  the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time,  provided  that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall  not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above,  the  Association determines that the Bor-
rower's economic  condition  has  deteriorated  significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Page  5
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end,  shall  carry out the Project through
its respective agencies and entities  with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in  conformity  with appropriate administrative, finan-
cial, engineering  and  transport  practices,  and  shall provide,
promptly as  needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services and other
resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with  the  Implementation  Program  set  forth in para-
graph 5 of Schedule 5 to  this Agreement, and shall take and cause
to be taken all action,  including the provision of funds, facili-
ties, services and  other  resources  necessary  or appropriate to
enable DNPCF, CFM (C), CFM (N),  CFM (S), BCA and SETEP to perform
their respective obligations under  the Beira Corridor Implementa-
tion Agreement, and  shall  not  take  or  permit  to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
     (c)  The Borrower shall  relend  out  of  the proceeds of the
Credit an amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 31,000,000 to
DNPCF under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and  DNPCF,  under  terms  and conditions which shall
have been approved  by  the  Association  and which shall include,
inter alia: (i)  repayment  of  principal  over thirty (30) years,
including five (5) years of grace; (ii) an interest at the rate of
7.65% percent per annum; and (iii) the foreign exchange risk to be
borne by DNPCF.
     (d)  The Borrower shall  exercise  its  rights under the Sub-
sidiary  Loan  Agreement  and  the  Beira  Corridor Implementation
Agreement to protect the interests  of  the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, and to accomplish the  purposes of the Credit and, except
as the Association shall  otherwise  agree, the Borrower shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the said Agreements or any provi-
sions thereof.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower  shall:  (a) not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1990, complete  and  furnish  to  the Association, for its
review and comments, proposals based  on the results of studies on
the commercial development of areas  adjacent to the Port of Beira
carried out by BCA, to formulate feasible ways to increase private
sector participation in  port  and  railway-related activities in-
cluding inter alia warehousing and container freight stations; and
(b) promptly thereafter, take the necessary measures to facilitate
the implementation of  said  proposals,  according  to a timetable
agreed with the Association.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31,
1989, take all the  necessary  administrative and legislative mea-
sures: (a)  to  establish  a  legally  and  financially autonomous
entity to succeed DNPCF; and  (b)  transform  CFM (N), CFM (S) and
CFM (C) into  operationally  autonomous  entities with independent
costing, including  port  and  railway  profit  centers, financial
accounting and management systems, within the overall framework of
the entity established to succeed DNPCF.
     Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  not later than  December  31,  1989,  carry out and com-
Page  6
plete, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, a
railway/port cost based tariff system study;
     (b)  promptly thereafter: (i) review with the Association the
recommendations of said study; and (ii) agree with the Association
on an action plan to  implement the railway/port cost based tariff
system referred to in Part A.3 (a) (ii) of the Project; and
     (c)  not later than December  31,  1991,  carry out the first
phase of said action plan.
     Section 3.06. (a) Except  as  the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause CFM  (C)  to earn, for each of its
fiscal years after its fiscal year  ending on December 31, 1991, a
working ratio of 75%.
     (b)  Before September 30 in each of its fiscal years, CFM (C)
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by CFM (C) and satisfac-
tory to the Association, review whether it would meet the require-
ments set forth in paragraph  (a)  or  such other working ratio as
agreed between the Borrower and the Association at the time of the
annual Project implementation review set  forth in Section 3.11 of
this Agreement, in respect  of  such  year  and the next following
fiscal year and shall  furnish  to  the Association the results of
such review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such review shows that the CFM (C) would not meet
the requirements set  forth  in  paragraph  (a)  for the CFM (C)'s
fiscal years covered by such  review,  CFM (C) shall promptly take
all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments
of the structure or  levels  of  its  railway and port tariffs) in
order to meet such requirements.
     (d)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  the term "working  ratio"  means  the total working
               expenses expressed as a percentage of gross operat-
               ing revenues from all sources;
         (ii)  the term "total working  expenses" means the sum of
               all   expenses   related   to   railway   and  port
               operations,   including   administrative  expenses,
               including adequate maintenance  and  taxes, if any,
               but  excluding  depreciation,  interest  and  other
               charges on debt; and
        (iii)  the  term  "gross   operating   revenues  from  all
               sources" means the sum of revenues from all sources
               related to railway and port operations.
     Section 3.07. (a) Except  as  the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall  cause  DNPCF  to  earn, for each of its
fiscal years after its fiscal year  ending on December 31, 1994, a
working ratio of 75%.
     (b)  Before September 30 in  each  of its fiscal years, DNPCF
shall on the basis of forecasts prepared by DNPCF and satisfactory
to the Association, review whether  it would meet the requirements
set forth in paragraph (a)  or  such other working ratio as agreed
between the Borrower and the Association at the time of the annual
Project implementation review set  forth  in  Section 3.11 of this
Agreement, in respect of such  year  and the next following fiscal
year and shall  furnish  to  the  Association  the results of such
review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such review shows  that  the DNPCF would not meet
the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the DNPCF's fiscal
years covered by such review, DNPCF shall promptly take all neces-
sary measures (including,  without  limitation, adjustments of the
structure or levels of its  railway  and port tariffs) in order to
meet such requirements.
Page  7
     (d)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  the term "working expenses" means the total working
               expenses expressed as a percentage of gross operat-
               ing revenues from all sources;
         (ii)  the term "total working  expenses" means the sum of
               all   expenses   related   to   railway   and  port
               operations,   including   administrative  expenses,
               including adequate maintenance  and  taxes, if any,
               but  excluding  depreciation,  interest  and  other
               charges on debt; and
        (iii)  the  term  "gross   operating   revenues  from  all
               sources" means the sum of revenues from all sources
               related to railway and port operations.
     Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take all necessary action to
ensure that the Transit Agreement  has been finalized by not later
than June 30, 1990.
     Section 3.09. The Borrower shall continue to maintain:
     (a)  the Training Section; and
     (b)  the  Training  Steering  Committee  as  provided  for in
paragraphs 3 and 4, respectively, of Schedule 5 to this Agreement,
in  a  form,  and  with   functions,  staffing  and  office  space
satisfactory to the Association.
     Section 3.10. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  not later than  December  31,  1990, exchange views with
the Association on the  recommendations  of  the study carried out
by the  Borrower  to  design  an  incentive  scheme  for CFM (C)'s
workers; and
     (b)  promptly thereafter, take all  the necessary measures to
implement said scheme, on terms and within a timetable agreed with
the Association.
     Section 3.11. The Borrower shall not later than September 30,
1990, and not later  than  September  30  of each year thereafter,
until the completion of the Project, review jointly with the Asso-
ciation, the progress achieved in:
     (a)  Project implementation;
     (b)  meeting  Project  objectives,  proposing  the  necessary
adjustments to agreed  financial  and  operational targets for the
port and railways;
     (c)  implementing the  manpower  development  plan, including
the action plan  based  on  the  recommendations  of the technical
assistance and  training  needs  and  assessment  of the transport
sector;
     (d)  implementing the incentive scheme for CFM (C)'s workers;
and
     (e)  carrying out a staff management program.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause DNPCF
to maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures  in  respect  of   the   Project  of  DNPCF  and  the
departments or agencies of  the  Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Page  8
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section  including those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause DNPCF  to maintain, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain or cause DNPCF to  retain until at least one
               year after the  Association  has received the audit
               for the fiscal  year  in  which the last withdrawal
               from  the  Credit  Account  was  made,  all records
               (contracts, orders,  invoices,  bills, receipts and
               other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  DNPCF, CFM (C), CFM (N),  CFM  (S),  BCA or SETEP  shall
have failed to perform  any  of their respective obligations under
the Beira Corridor Implementation Agreement;
     (b)  the Borrower or DNPCF  shall  have failed to perform any
of  their  respective   obligations   under  the  Subsidiary  Loan
Agreement; and
     (c)  Despacho  of  the  Borrower  dated  December  19,  1985;
Portaria No. 82/76 of the  Borrower  dated  April 6, 1976; and the
legislation establishing DNPCF's  legal  successor shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or  waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the  ability  of the Borrower, DNPCF, CFM
(C), CFM (N),  CFM  (S),  BCA  or  SETEP  to  perform any of their
respective obligations under this Agreement.
Page  9
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  any of the events specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement  shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty (60)  days  after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower or DNPCF; and
     (b)  the event specified in paragraph  (c) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of  Section  12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
     (a)  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  has  been  executed on
behalf of the Borrower and DNPCF, or its legal successor; and
     (b)  the Beira  Corridor  Implementation  Agreement  has been
executed on behalf of DNPCF,  CFM  (C),  CFM (N), CFM (S), BCA and
SETEP, respectively.
     Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the  opinion or opinions to be furn-
ished to the Association:
     (a)  that  the  Subsidiary  Loan   Agreement  has  been  duly
authorized or ratified by the  Borrower  and DNPCF, and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and DNPCF in accordance with its terms;
     (b)  that the  Beira  Corridor  Implementation  Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified  by, and is legally binding upon,
DNPCF, CFM (C), CFM (N), CFM  (S), BCA and SETEP, respectively, in
accordance with its terms; and
     (c)  that  this  Agreement  has  been  duly  ratified  by the
Borrower's Council of Ministers  and  is  legally binding upon the
Borrower in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.03. The  date  one  hundred  and  twenty (120) days
after the date  of  this  Agreement  is  hereby  specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.04. The obligations  of the Borrower under Sections
3.06, 3.07  and  4.01  of  this  Agreement  and  the provisions of
paragraphs (a), (b)  and  (c)  of  Section  5.01 of this Agreement
shall cease and determine  on  the  date  on which the Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate or  on the date thirty (30) years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The  Governor  of  Banco  de  Mocambique of the
Borrower is designated as  representative  of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Banco de Mocambique
          Departamento de Relacoes Internacionais
Page  10
          Avenida 25 de Setembro 1695
          P.O. Box 423
          Maputo
          People's Republic of Mozambique
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                MOBANCO                         6355/7 BMMO
                Maputo
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
                          By /s/ Abdul Magid Osman
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ Sven Sandstrom
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Shunting                3,870,000           100% of foreign
     locomotives                                 expenditures and
     under Part                                  70% of local
     C.1 (a) of                                  expenditures
     the Project
(2)  Vehicles,               3,720,000           100% of foreign
     spare parts,                                expenditures
     computers,
Page  11
     office equip-
     ment, materials
     and supplies
(3)  Consultants'           17,960,000           100%
     services,
     training,
     studies and
     external audit
     services
(4)  Materials,              1,160,000           100% of foreign
     equipment,                                  expenditures and
     furniture and                               70% of local
     supplies under                              expenditures
     Part B (1) (e)
     of the Project
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(5)  Refunding of              930,000           Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
     tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
                                                 Agreement
(6)  Unallocated             3,360,000
                            __________
         TOTAL              31,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
     (c)  the term  "training"  means  costs  of fellowships, con-
ferences, courses, study  tours,  and  travel  to be undertaken as
part of training and other  related  training costs to be financed
under the Project.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project  are  to assist the Borrower in
the rehabilitation and upgrading of  the Beira Corridor to restore
its cost-efficient national and international transit functions.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Strengthening of  CFM  (C)'s  Managerial,  Financial and
          Accounting Capabilities
1.   Railway System
Page  12
     Strengthening of  CFM  (C)  railways  operations  through the
provision  of  technical  assistance   including  inter  alia  the
following areas:
     (a)  manpower development;
     (b)  marketing;
     (c)  accounting;
     (d)  railway traffic operations;
     (e)  motive power and rolling-stock maintenance;
     (f)  permanent way maintenance; and
     (g)  procurement.
2.   Port of Beira
     Strengthening of the Port  of  Beira's operations through the
provision of technical assistance in port administration:
     (a)  cost accounting; and
     (b)  procurement.
3.   Central Services
     (a)  Design and implementation of:
          (i)  a management information system (MIS); and
         (ii)  a railway/port cost based tariff system.
     (b)  Training and acquisition of equipment and materials.
Part B:   Institutional Development
1.   Design and implementation of the  first five years of a long-
term manpower development program:
     (a)  Provision of training for  about 4,500 CFM (C) employees
of:
          (i)  the railways; and
         (ii)  the Port of Beira.
     (b)  Strengthening  of,  and   expanding   CFM  (C)  training
capabilities and rehabilitation of its training center.
     (c)  Acquisition of textbooks, training materials, equipment,
supplies and audio-visual aids.
     (d)  Provision  of  fellowships   for   training  abroad  for
selected  middle-  and  high-level  port  and  railways management
staff, training officers and senior instructors.
     (e)  Provision, equipping and furnishing  of housing to lodge
about forty-five long-term  expatriate specialists and instructors
financed under the Project.
     (f)  Strengthening of SETEP's technical/vocational schools in
the city of Beira,  through  the provision of technical assistance
and acquisition of equipment.
     (g)  Carrying out a mid-  and end-training program evaluation
including the preparation of a follow-up training program.
     (h)  Implementation of  an  incentive  scheme  for  CFM (C)'s
workers.
Page  13
2.   Establishment, staffing and operation of the Training Section
within CFM (C) including:
     (a)  training of specialists and instructors; and
     (b)  provision of technical assistance  to  assist CFM (C) in
managing the training activities.
Part C:   Strengthening of Motive Power
1.   Acquisition of about:
     (a)  six diesel shunters; and
     (b)  fifteen diesel mainline locomotives.
2.   Rehabilitation and maintenance  of,  and acquisition of spare
parts for about:
     (a)  thirty-two diesel shunters for DNPCF; and
     (b)  twenty diesel mainline locomotives.
Part D:   Studies
     Carrying  out  studies  to  prepare  future  projects  in the
transport  sector,  jointly  identified  and  agreed  between  the
Borrower and the Association.
Part E:   CFM (S)
     Strengthening of CFM (S)'s managerial and technical capabili-
ties.
                           *   *   *   *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  goods manufactured in Mozambique may
be granted a margin of  preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  the  Borrower  may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   International or Local Shopping:
Page  14
     Items or groups of items  estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 per contract up to  an aggregate amount of $2,000,000 may
be procured under contracts awarded  on the basis of comparison of
price quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers
eligible  under  the  Guidelines,  in  accordance  with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
2.   Direct Contracting:
     Spare  parts  estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent  of  up to
$2,000,000 may be awarded  on  the  basis of direct contracting in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to  each  contract  for  goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000  or more, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3 shall  be  furnished  to  the  Association  as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section  4.01  (c)  (ii)  of  this
Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the Borrower and DNPCF in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower  and  DNPCF  shall  employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms  and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to  the  Association. Such consultants shall
be  selected  in   accordance   with   principles  and  procedures
satisfactory to the Association  on  the  basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of  Consultants  by  World  Bank  Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing  Agency"  published  by the Bank in August
1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1),
(2), (3) and (4) set forth  in  the table in paragraph 1 of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement;
Page  15
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time  to the eligible Categories in accord-
ance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $4,000,000 to  be  withdrawn  from  the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Association  a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on  behalf of the Borrower, with-
draw from the Credit  Account  and  deposit in the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                for deposits  into  the  Special  Account  at such
                intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association the
                documents and other  evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for the payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit  Account and deposit into
                the Special Account  such  amount  as the Borrower
                shall have requested and  as shall have been shown                by 
said documents and  other evidence to have been
                made  out  of  the  Special  Account  for eligible
                expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn
                by the Association  from  the Credit Account under
                the respective  eligible  Categories,  and  in the
                respective equivalent amounts,  as shall have been
                justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such  payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total  unwithdrawn  amount  of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstand-
ing special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the  General  Conditions  with respect to the Pro-
ject, shall  equal  the  equivalent  of  twice  the  amount of the
Page  16
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the  Credit  Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Catego-
ries shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after, and to the extent that the Association shall have been
satisfied that  all  such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit  in the
Special Account as of the date  of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; and (ii) was not justified by the evidence furn-
ished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Association: (A) provide  such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or  (B)  deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall  so  request, refund to the Associa-
tion) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, no further  deposit  by  the Association into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any  portion  of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this  Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent  withdrawal  or  for cancellation in accor-
dance with the  relevant  provisions  of this Agreement, including
the General Conditions.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                      Implementation Program
1.   Project Coordinator
     (a)  A Project Coordinator with qualifications and managerial
experience acceptable to the Association shall be appointed within
CFM (C) to coordinate the  execution  of  Parts  A, B and D of the
Project.
     (b)  The Project Coordinator  shall  report  to the Executive
Director of CFM (C).
     (c)  The Project Coordinator shall  be responsible inter alia
for the following:
          (i)  coordination of the  different teams of consultants
               and experts working on  the  CFM (C) railway system
               and training programs;
         (ii)  definition of time-based  targets of performance to
               fit  in  with  Project  objectives,  and monitoring
               thereof;
        (iii)  overall coordination among  the CFM (C) departments
               receiving technical  assistance, ensuring building-
               up of institutional systems;
         (iv)  monitoring of effective transfer of technology from
               consultants and experts to Mozambican counterparts;
Page  17
          (v)  working closely with  a Mozambican counterpart, and
               ensuring  transfer  of   Project  coordination  and
               management expertise; and
         (vi)  acting as Executive Secretary to the CFM (C)'s Main
               Steering Committee.
     (d)  In  discharging  these   responsibilities,  the  Project
Coordinator shall be assisted by a qualified local counterpart.
2.   Procurement/Disbursement Officer
     (a)  A Procurement/Disbursement  Officer  with qualifications
and experience  acceptable  to  the  Association, appointed within
BCA, shall carry out  all  procurement and disbursement procedures
necessary for the execution  of  the  Parts  of  the Project to be
implemented by BCA, ensuring  that  they  conform to the terms and
Guidelines specified in Schedules 1, 3 and 4 to this Agreement.
     (b)  The    Procurement/Disbursement    Officer    shall   be
responsible inter alia for the following:
          (i)  liasing with the competent  departments of the Bank
               of Mozambique, ensuring timely disbursement of  the
               proceeds of the Credit  allocated to BCA to finance
               the foreign exchange component  of the Parts of the
               Project to be implemented by BCA;
         (ii)  keeping appropriate Project accounts and records;
        (iii)  preparing withdrawal  applications  and reconciling
               Special Account bank  statements in accordance with
               the Association's disbursement instructions;
         (iv)  monitoring   and   supervising    the   status   of
               commitments  and  disbursements   of  Credit  funds
               allocated  to  BCA   through   the  Beira  Corridor
               Implementation Agreement;
          (v)  reviewing  procurement   arrangements  for  Project
               implementation by BCA; and
         (vi)  preparing accounts for audit.
3.   Training Section (TS)
     (a)  The TS, established within  CFM (C), with the objectives
of establishing  an  institution-wide  mechanism  for expanded and
continuous  training   activities   and   to  prepare,  implement,
supervise and evaluate the training programs carried out under the
Project.
     (b)  The  TS  shall  be   responsible   inter  alia  for  the
following:
          (i)  coordinating  and  monitoring  the  preparation and
               implementation of the training programs;
         (ii)  planning and  supervising  training  courses  to be
               carried out by CFM (C)'s training center;
        (iii)  negotiating  and  making  appropriate  arrangements
               with SETEP's technical/vocational  schools to carry
               out external training;
         (iv)  administering training abroad (fellowships);
          (v)  carrying out an  evaluation  of  the results of the
               training programs; and
         (vi)  preparing a follow-up training program.
Page  18
     (c)  The TS shall be  headed  by  a qualified and experienced
Chief of Training  who  shall  act  as  Executive Secretary to the
Training Steering Committee.
4.   Training Steering Committee (TSC)
     (a)  A TSC has been established  within CFM (C), reporting to
its Main Steering  Committee,  with  the  objectives of  providing
policy guidelines to carry out the training programs and determine
training priorities.
     (b)  The TSC shall be chaired by CFM (C)'s Executive Director
and shall include  inter  alia  members  and respective alternates
representing the following:
          (i)  BCA (3 members) and
         (ii)  CFM (C) (7 members).
     (c)  The  TSC  shall  be   responsible  inter  alia  for  the
following:
          (i)  initiating  and  approving  training  programs  and
               courses schedules;
         (ii)  preparing  guidelines   and   procedures   for  the
               selection of trainees for the various sectors;
        (iii)  arranging  training  facilities,  such  as training
               centers,   materials,    trainers   and   equipment
               necessary to carry out the training programs;
         (iv)  establishing  agreements   with  external  training
               centers or schools;
          (v)  monitoring  progress   and   results   of  training
               activities carried out under the training programs;
         (vi)  initiating   appropriate    procedures    for   the
               recruitment of training specialists and trainers;
        (vii)  selecting  fellowship  beneficiaries  and approving
               terms and  conditions  under  which the fellowships
               would be granted;
       (viii)  reviewing  requests  of  acquisition  of textbooks,
               training materials, equipment,  supplies and audio-
               visual aids to be financed under the Project; and
         (ix)  approving the budget for the training centers.
5.   Project Implementation
     (a)  Part A of the Project shall be carried out by CFM (C).
     (b)  Part B of the Project  shall  be carried out by CFM (C),
except for Part B. 1. (f), which shall be carried out by SETEP.
     (c)  Part C of the  Project  shall  be jointly carried out by
DNPCF, CFM(C), CFM (N) and CFM (S);
     (d)  Part D of the Project shall be carried out by BCA; and
     (e)  Part E of the Project shall be carried out by Brigada de
Melhoramentos do Sul within CFM (S).
Page  19
