A/~        l j  C-^:       --   -
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMIAL USE ONLY
MICROFI CHE COpy
Report No. 10180:-BR   Type:  (SAR)
EL BAROUDY/ X31916 / 1 7041/ £SICO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
APRIL 20, 1992
Energy and Industry Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean
This document has a restricted distribution and mav be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = Brazilian Cruzeiros (Cr$)
US$    Cr$1,800
Cr$ = US$0.00056
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Wei2hts and Measures
Metric System
Abbrviations
BADESP                Banco de Desenvolvimento do Estado de Sio Paulo
BANESPA               Banco do Estado de Sio Paulo
BNDES                 Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econ0mico e Social
BODs                  Biological Oxygen Demand (5-days test)
CFCA                  Rio de Janeiro State Environmental Counci
CEPRAM                Bahia's Environmental Council (followed by CRA in 1980)
CETES8                Sio Paulo's Environmental Protection Agency
CETREL                Petrochemical complex in Camacari, Bahia
CONAMA                National Environmental Council
COSIPA                Companhla Siderurgica Paulista
CRA                   Bahia's Environmental Protection Agency
CSN                   Compania Sideilrgica Nacional
CST                   Companhia Siderurgica de Tubarao
CVRD                  Companhia Vale do Rio Doce
DMA                   Rio Grande do Sul Environmental Department
EPA                   Environmental Protection Agency of USA
FATMA                 Santa Catarina's Environmental Protection Agency
FEAM                  Minas Gerais's Environmental Protection Agency
FEEMA                 Rio de Janeiro's Environmental Protection Agency
Fl                    Financial Intermediary
GSPMA                 Greater SAo Paulo Metropolitan Area
IBAMA                 Brazilian Institute of Environment and Renewable Natural Resources
ICB                   International Competitive Bidding
PCR                   Project Completion Report
PETROBRAS             Petroleo Brasileiro S.A.
PNMA                  National Environmental Policy
PPAR                  Project Performance Audit Report
PROCOP                Pollution Control Program of Loan 2831-BR
RJMA                  Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Area
SABESP                Companhia de Saneamento Bgsico do Estado de SAo Paulo
SEAMA                 Espfrito Santo's Environmental Protection Agency
SEMA                  Special Secretariat of the Environment in Ministry of Interior
SEPAs                 State Environmental Protection Agencies
SISNAMA               Natlonal Environmental Policy System
SOE                   Statement of Expenditure
S02                   Sulfur dioxide
SUREHMA               Parand's Environmental Protection Agency
TR                    Taxa Referencial; an Interbank average Interest rate paid on certificates of deposit
WilO                  World llealth Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Loan and Project Summary
L   INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION IN BRAZIL ..................................... 1
A     The Industrial Pollution Problem .     ....................................... 1
B.  Main Issues ................................................ 3
H. INSTITUTIONAL AND REGULATORY FRAMEWORK                                     . .   4
A.    Federal Environmental Institutions .    ...................................... 4
B.    State Environmental Institutions ........................................ 5
C.    Federal Environmental Legislation ...................................... 8
D.    State Environmental Legislation . ........................................ 9
E.    Other Regulations Affecting Environmental Quality ......................... 9
F.  BNDES . ................................................ 10
II. BANK STRATEGY AND OPERATIONS FOR THE ENVIRONMENT AND POLLUTION
CONTROL  ............................................ 12
A     Bank Strategy for the Environment in Brazil ..........        .................... 12
B.    Relation of Bank Strategy to Industrial Pollution Control ......      .............. 13
C.    Previous Bank Operations for Industrial Pollution Control ......       ............. 13
IV.  THE PROJECT                                                                               15
A.    Project Objectives ..............              ......................... 15
B.    Project Description ..............             ......................... 15
C     Project Cost and Financing .......................................   17
D.    Onlending and Subproject Approval Arrangements .........           ................ 19
E.    Monitoring and Supervision Requirements ...............          ................ 19
F.    Procurement .......................................                                 20
G.    Disbursements ....................................... 21
H.  Accounting and Auditing ........................................ 22
L     Project Justification and Benefits ...................................... 22
J.    Project Risks ....................................... 24
This document has a restrited distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents continued
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDAMON   .......                     .............. 24
ANNEXES
Annex I      Description of States Components and Justifications under the Project  26
Annex II     Technical Assistance                                                 30
Annex IH     Tables of Pollution Control Investments Included in State Strategies  33
Table 1: State of Espfrito Santo - Air and Water Pollution           33
Table 2: State of Minas Gerais - Air and Water Pollution             34
Table 3: State of Parana - Water and Air Pollution                   35
Table 4: State of Rio de Janeiro - Water and Air Pollution           36
Table 5: State of Santa Catarina - Air Pollution and Hazardous Waste  37
Table 6: State of Santa Catarina - Water Pollution                   38
Annex IV     Estimated Schedule of Disbursements                                  39
Map
This report was prepared by Samia El Baroudy (Task Manager) and Bernard Baratz (Environmental
Engineer) based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Brazil in May 1991. Contributors to the
report who participated in the preappraisal mission were Geoffrey Shepherd (Principal Economist),
Abigail Osae-Addo (Environmental Engineer), and Consultants Harold Falkenberry, Richard
Greenberg, and Jennifer Sobotka.



BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL POLLUIION CONTROL PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social (BNDES)
Guarantor:     Federative Republic of Brazil
Intermediaries:  Eligible commercial, investment and development banks.
Beneficiaries:   Industrial enterprises participating in the project and State Environmental
Protection Agencies (SEPAs).
Amount:        US$50 million equivalent.
lerms:         Interest at Bank's standard variable rate, plus standard commitment fee.
Maturity 15 years, including 5 years grace.
Relending
Ferms:         Loan funds will be passed on by BNDES directly or through other financial
intermediaries (FIs) to industrial firms eligible to participate in the Project.
Interest rate to final beneficiaries would range between 9 and 12 percent per
annum in real terms. The terms of the sub-loans would be up to 8 years with 6
month grace period.
Project
Descritin:     The Project would finance pollution control investments of industrial firms
located in critically polluted areas. The project would also help build up the
capability of SEPAs with technical assistance.
Financing Plan:  IBRD:          US$ 50.0 million
BNDES:          US$ 25.0 million
Industry:       US$ 25.0 million
Japanese Grant:  US$ 0.5 million
TOTAL:          US$100.5 million
Economic Rate of Return:   Not applicable
Estimated Disbursements:
BakFY               1993            1994         1995         1996
Accrual             10              20            15           5
Cumulative          10              30           45           50



I, INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION IN BRAZIL
A. The Industrial Pollution Problem
1.01           Brazil has witnessed, over the last 30 years, a rapid industrialization process
which has changed the nation from a predominantly agricultural to a principally industrial
economy. The intense efforts to industrialize, however, were not accompanied by serious
attempts to protect the environment from degradation, nor to preserve the health of the people.
A few environmental protection agencies emerged in the mid-Sixties in the most industrialized
states, beginning with Sao Paulo. However, it was not until the late Seventies that environmental
protection began to emerge as a serious issue. This emergence occurred largely due to public
pressure, which created the political will to improve ambient air and water quality. These efforts,
which began in Slo Paulo, have now made conwderable headway there, and in other industrialized
states.
1.02           Serious industrial poilution problems exist in twelve Brazilian states. In some
areas, contamination levels are serious enough to affect major portions of the population, either
through unhealthy air quality, contaminated drinking or bathing waters, or exposure to hazardous
waste. In addition to the public-at-large, untreated industrial discharges also affect the health and
safety of industrial workers (e.g., mercury poisoning among gold miners, and life-threatening lung
disease among coal miners) as well as causing destruction of aquatic and terrestrial living
resources.
1.03           The specific nature of each state's industrial pollution profile varies, as may be
expected, with the composition of the industrial structure. When viewed as a whole, however, the
full range of industrial pollution sources from heavy industries, such as steel, petroleum,
petrochemicals, fertilizers and coal mining, to production of intermediates and consumer goods,
such as food, textiles, leather and leather goods, and metal finishing are present. Afftcted are air
quality (dust, sulfur dioxide, odors, volatile organics), surface and underground water resources
(organic toxic waste, heavy metals), and soils (hazardous discharges of chlorinated solvents, heavy
metals, etc.).
1.04            Control of industrial pollution is primarily the responsibility of individual State
Environmental Protection Agencies (SEPAs), whose abilities and resources to deal effectively
with these problems vary widely. In Sao Paulo and, to a large extent, Rio de Janeiro, SEPAs
have adequate staffing and support resources (laboratories, monitoring equipment, etc.) to both
adequately characterize levels of air and water pollution, as well as to identify specific industrial
sources responsible.
1.05           Unfortunately, SEPAs in most other states do not have adequate resources to
make environmental characterizations. In some cases, reasonable efforts for water pollution
control have been undertaken, but effective characterization and control of air pollution lags
behind. Moreover, in all industrialized states, including Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, hazardous
waste problems are far from being adequately characterized.



2
1.06            Characteristics of industrial pollution problems in some of the more critically
polluted states are as follows:
SLo Paulo: Major pollution problems are concentrated in the Greater Saio
Paulo Metropolitan Area (GSPMA) and consist of: serious automotive and industrial air
pollution; sanitary and industrial effluent contamination of the Tiete River Basin; and a hazardous
waste management problem. Many major industrial pollution problems in both GSPMA and
other parts of the state have been, or are currently being, resolved by CETESB," the SEPA of
Sao Paulo, largely with World Bank assistance through two Loans (Sao Paulo Industrial Pollution
Control Project, Loan 1813-BR, and the Second Industrial Pollution Project, Loan 2831-BR).
The Interamerican Development Bank (IDB) and the State government are currently preparing a
Loan to finance the first phase of Upper Tiete Basin sanitary sewer and sewerage treatment
station construction.
Rio de Janeiro: It is the second most industrialized state in Brazil. Its most
critical pollution problems are concentrated around a) the Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Area
(RJMA) where the air and water of the coastal bays, shores and lakes are polluted by refineries,
and food, leather, steel, pulp and paper, and pharmaceutical industries; and b) the Paraiba do Sul
Riv..-, the main drinking water supply for the City of Rio de Janeiro, which is also the only water
body for receiving industrial effluents from the heavily industrialized region of Volta Redonda,
including one of the largest steel mills in South America (CSN)Y. The Paraiba do Sul River
basin has severe water and air pollution from steel, pulp and paper, food processing, and chemical
industries.
Espfrito Santo: Although not one of Brazil's most industrialized states, Espfrito
Santo does have some serious, highly localized, industrial pollution problems, especially in the
capital city of Vitdria. Two steel companies, CST and CVRDY, are the major sources of
industrial pollution in the Greater Vitdria region. Both firms are federally owned, and together
are responsible for 90% of Greater Vitdria's air pollution. CVRD with its iron ore pelletizing
operation, railway and port operations, and CST with its steel operations, are causing sulfur
dioxide and particulate matter pollution problems for the capital city. Particulate emission clean-
up at the CVRD complex is included in the Bank's Environmental Conservation and
Rehabilitation Project, which is under preparation.
Santa Catarina: Several regions of the State have severe pollution problems.
The southeastern area experiences extremely high levels of surface water acidity from coal mine
waste (acid mine drainage), as well as serious air pollution from coal-fired power production, the
manufacture of ceramics, coke ovens, and fertilizer/sulfuric acid production. Pollution problems
are seriously threatening drinking water supplies and food production, especially rice and shrimp.
Miners in this area have one of the shortest life expectancies of all Brazilian laborers. The
western-southwestern region is highly agricultural and most of its problems are related to organic
waste water contamination from animal-raising and slaughtering. In the central region, primary
industries causing pollution are food processing (fish processing, pork raising and slaughtering),
pulp and paper, leather and metal products finishing.
1/        Companhia de Tecnologia de Saneamento Amblental.
2/        Companhia Slderdrcgla Nacional.
3/        Companhia Sidersrglca de Tubarlo and Companhia Vale do Rio Doce.



3
Parand: Industries responsible for pollution are pulp and paper, sugar and sugar
alcohol, tanneries, fertilizer production, lime kilns, and refineries. In the capital, Curitiba, the
chief industrial pollution problems are located in two distinct areas on the outskirts of the city.
At one site, a proliferation of limestone crushing and calcination plants has created serious dust
problems and, at the other site, a dedicated industrial zone, a petroleum refinery, pulp and paper
mills, and other large industries have created water pollution and odor problems. Pulp and paper,
as well as other agro-industries, are responsible for localized pollution problems throughout the
state.
Bahia: Bahia is home of a large petrochemical complex, CETREL, which is
located in Camacari, close to the capital city of Salvador. CETREL has a central facility for
treatment and disposal of hazardous wastes, which is jointly owned by the producing companies in
the complex. It has experienced management and operational problems. Frequent equipment
breakdowns at the waste water treatment plant have resulted in diversion of untreated effluents
with high pollution levels to unmonitored discharge points. The hazardous waste disposal sites
are not adequately isolated and are located above an aquifer from which water is drawn for
human consumption, a situation representing a threat to the integrity of the underground water
supply and public health.
Minas Gerais: This state has a level of industrial and mining-related pollution
similar to that of the State of Rio de Janeiro. There are about 13,000 industrial pollution
sources, of which 1,500 are considered priority for clean-up. Five regions have critical air
pollution problems: Belo Horizonte (cement, iron and steel), Calcaria Sete Lagoas (iron,
imestone), Siderdrgica (steel), Espinhago Meridional (steel, non-ferrous metals) and Alto Mddio
Sao Francisco (steel). The critical areas which suffer from water pollution include: Belo
Horizonte (iron and steel, textiles, paint/varnish, and agro-industries), Juiz de Fora (textiles, pulp
and food), Uberaba (chemicals, sugar, alcohol) and Mineradoras de Diamantina (gold).
B. Main Issues
1.07           Compliance of Parastatal Organizations. In several instances, state-owned
companies (notably CSN and PFTROBRAS) have been identified as primary sources of pollution.
SEPAs, in most cases, tend to have limited enforcement authority over these companies.
Furthermore, their large employment levels, and/or need for their product, make severe sanctions
(such as shutting down the factory) unrealistic. In the case of CSN, the company is not
economically viable and is in need of restructuring. In the case of PETROBRAS, the pollution
control priorities are established on a company-wide basis at headquarters, independent of
priorities established by individual SEPAs. Strong SEPAs, on the other hand, are normally able
to influence PETROBRAS in complying with state regulations. BNDES has limits by law on the
amount of resources it can lend to any public company, but it intends to seek Federal
Government exception to finance pollution control projects of financially viable public sector
companies (PETROBRAS, CVRD). For others, such as CSN, expenditures on behalf of
pollution control would have to originate from the company's own currently deficient resources,
or it wili have to await privatization.
1.08           Acid Mine Drainage in Criciuma. Improper coal mining practices in
southeastern Santa Catarina have caused surface waters to become extremely polluted. In some
circumstances, it can easily be demonstrated that active mining operations are at fault; in other
situations, it is uncertain if pollution problems are a result of long abandoned activities, current
operations, or a combination of both. Where no current identifiable offender exists, there is the



4
need for governmental intervention and participation in clean-up costs. Alternatively, the
Government could sell distressed terrains to the private sector to reclaim, or it could subcontract
recovery of terrains or water bodies to private firms. In either case, this Loan could finance
private sector initiatives for the recuperation of distressed terrains or bodies of water, as long as
such proposals are financially viable.
1.09          Hazardous Waste Management and the Tiete River in Sio Paulo. Presently, the
principal industrial pollution proble..s in Sao Paulo are the management of hazardous wastes in
GSPMA, clean-up of the Tiete River, and particulate emissions. Financing of hazardous waste
disposal projects and particulate matter emissions from industrial sources in Sao Paulo is taking
place in part through Loan 2831-BR (Second Industrial Pollution Control Project). The
Government of Sao Paulo, with prospective financing from the IDB, is presently engaged in a
major program to clean-up the Upper Rio Tiete Basin. The program will involve the collection
and treatment of both municipal and industrial wastes throughout the region. For some
industries, toxic components of their effluents must be removed by pretreatment prior to
discharge into the common system. Industries in GSPMA would be able to utilize funds from the
Project to construct on-site pre-treatment facilities if it were determined that the industry could
then hook-up to the municipal system when constructed.
1.10          Pollution Characterization and Strategies. In several industrial states (e.g.,
Parand and Santa Catarina), the nature of air pollution has not been fully characterized. SEPAs
in these states require upgrading of both personnel and facilities to be able to adequately
characterize air pollution problems. FEEMA in Rio de Janeiro is an experienced SEPA;
however, it also needs assistance ,n developing an integrated air pollution control strategy. In
order to prepare these strategies, technical assistance will be required for both industry-specific
expertise as well as more general air pollution control planning. Technical assistance for this
purpose will be available through the Loan (para. 3.20).
II. INSTITTONAL AND REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
A. Federal Environmental Institutions
2.01           Prior to 1973, Brazil had no federal agency with sole responsibility for
environmental concerns, although various individual federal and state agencies had responsibility
for enforcing environmental laws. On October 30, 1973, Decree 73030 established the Special
Secretariat of the Environment (SEMA) within the Ministry of Interior. SEML's primary
purpose was to: 1) Rationalize the use of natural resources and the environment; 2) Develop
pollutie.i emission standards; 3) Coordinate federal pollution control activities; and 4) Provide
assistance to SEPAs.
2.02           That organization remained unchanged until 1981 when Federal Law 6938
created the National Environmental Policy (PNMA) and the National Environmental System
(SISNAMA) to enforce the policy. SEMA became the operational agency of SISNAMA. Under
this law, the National Environmental Council (CONAMA) was named head of SISNAMA. The
purpose of PNMA was wO: 1) Create harmony between socioeconomic development and
environmental quality; 2) Define governmental action priority areas relating to ecological
balance; 3) Enact pollution norms and standards; and 4) Develop national research and
technology for the rational use of environmental resources.



5
2.03           In 1989, SEMA was replaced by a new agency, the Brazilian Institute of the
Environment and Renewable Natural Resources (IBAMA), by Federal Law 7804. This law
restructured other agencies within 8ISNA:MA and created the Superior Environment.1 Council to
replace CONAMA, and then placed CONAMA under its jurisdiction. The Ministry of the
Interior does not control IBAMA directly as it did SEMA.
2.04           Under the Government of President Fernando Collor de Mello, environmental
issues have been distanced from the Ministry of the Interior. The position of Secretary of the
Environment (SEMA) was created to oversee environmental concerns at the federal level. The
Secretary is responsible for policy decisions, while IBAMA retains its position as the executing
agency.
2.05           If IBAMA is to fulfill its duties as required by the law, it needs institutional
strengthening. The Bank's National Environmental Project (Loan 3173-BR), approved in
February 1990, is intended to address .his need. While the environmental policy framework at
the federal level is adequate in most respects, the governnment recognizes that its institutional
capacity to implement existing policies must be strengthened. Although Brazil has moved towards
a decentralized environmental protection system, IBAMA remains a federal agency with a
mandate to fulfill its legislative responsibilities. IBAMA needs considerable strengthening in the
area of pollution control if it is to coordinate the work of all the state agencies and provide
assistance to weaker agencies.
B. State Environmental Institutions
2.06           The relative effectiveness of SEPAs in Brazil generally reflects the degree of
industrialization of the various states. The most industrialized states have the best coordinated
pollution control efforts and devote a larger percentage of the state budget to these efforts, as
one would expect. There are exceptions, most notably Minas Gerais (paras. 2.15-2.16), and
enormous differences exist between the well osganized agencies and the less organized ones. This
gap presents a problem for IBAMA, which does not have the capability, at the present time, to
intervene in the case of a weak agency, even though it is required to do so by federal law.
2.07           The SEPAs of the States of Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro have proven to be
the most capable of assessing pollution problems and demanding that appropriate control
measures be taken by polluters. The State of Sao Paulo was the first to establish a state
environmental protection agency. CETESB was created in 1973 and was reorganized in 1975 to
increase its capabilities. Since then, CETESB's structure has remained unchanged. It has had
over fifteen years experience developing its programs to deal with the challenging pollution
problems. CETESB has 2,350 employees, the largest staff of any of the SEPAs. Sao Paulo has
benefitted from two World Bank Loans (1822-BR and 2831-BR, which is still active), and the
State Government provided CETESB with a budget of approximately US$250 million in 1990.
2.08           Eao Paulo's SEPA CETESB is legally allowed to raise funds from service fees.
Approximately 96 percent of its budget comes from the state, and CETESB appears to have little
incentive to increase service fees since this will result in an equivalent reduction in state funding.
As long as the state continues to fund CETE-SB at the same level, the agency is not expected to
run into funding problems. It seems likely that the State of Sao Paulo will continue generous
funding to CETESB since pollution problems in Sao Paulo are still quite serious. Other states in
Brazil, except for Rio de Janeiro, have not reached the same level of environmental awareness as
that of Sao Paulo. Therefore, they do not finance their SEPAs as adequately.



6
2.09           Rio de Janeiro also has a well organized and well funded agency (FEBEMA).
FEEMA and the state environmental council (CECA) were created in 1975 and have not
experienced any significant changes since then. FEEMA has developed and trained an extremely
competent team, and employed 1,108 people as of March 1990. FEEMA staff have prepared a
detailed analysis of industrial pollution problems in the state and the estimated costs of the
control measures, for preparation of this Loan. FEEMA's total budget for 1990 was
approximately US$100 million. In 1989, FEEMA received 6 percent of its budget from service
fees, and this figure was increased to 10 percent in 1990.
2.10           FEEMA recently decided to change the structure of the agency from a
"Fundaggo" to an "Empresa Mista", which will allow it greater autonomy and enable it to pay
market salaries. FEEMA has prepared a report analyzing the benefits of this change which
include: a) the ability to provide services to the state and third parties; b) generating a new tax
for the use of natural resources; c) increased license fees, and d) the introduction of industrial
waste charges. FEEMA officials estimate that they will generate enough funds by 1992 to finance
a significant part of their payroll as well as other expenses. The state currently pays all FEEMA's
3alaries.
2.11           Three other SEPAs have demonstrated reasonable institutional capability in the
face of severe budgetary and staff constraints. PaLan first assigned environmental issues to the
Administration of Human Resources in 1979. The following year, however, the state created a
separate agency for the environment (SUREHMA). SUREHMA has managed to control
industrial water pollution very effectively. Air pollution, on the other hand, remains problematic.
2.12           Santa Cataring instituted a state environmental system in 1981 which included
FATMA, the present SEPA, although without all the powers it currently holds. FATMA has led
a relatively successful campaign against water pollution. FATMA decided that two-year
agreements with companies combined with a program of systematic public condemnation and
embarrassment would force the companies to install some pollution control systems. This
program has been successful in those river basins where it has been implemented. Unfortunately,
FATMA does not have the resources to tackle more than one river basin at a time, so the
pollution control program is proceeding slowly.
2.13           FATMA is also faced with the monumental task of organizing the recuperation
of a portion of the southeast of the state where a large area (1,800 hectares) has been devastated
by open pit coal mining operations. Currently, the mining companies responsible for the damage
appear unwilling to contribute voluntarily to the clean-up due to their precarious financial
condition. FATIAs budget of approximately $4.5 million is too low to allow it to carry out many
of its responsibilities. FATMA is under-equipped, and its 332 staff members are underpaid.
Because of FATMAIs low salaries, the better qualified staff tend to leave for employment in
industry. This high staff turnover collectively leads to a lack of continuity.
2.14           Esofrito Santo's first SEPA was established in 1979, but was disbanded the
following year, and its responsibilities divided between the Secretariats of Health and Agriculture.
The SEPA was resurrected in 1988 with a new name (SEAMA) and increased responsibilities.
Due to the small size of the state and its relatively small number of industrial establishments,
SEAMA employs only 106 people. The State of Hspfrito Santo does not have as pervasive a
pollution problem as the other states but it has serious localized problems in areas such as
Greater Vit6ria. SEAMA has received some assistance from CETESB under a separate
agreement between the two institutions, and has produced a well thought out pollution control



7
strategy. SEABMA also suffers from underfinancing and lack of laboratory and monitoring
equipment, but the agency has demonstrated that it is well organized and technically capable,
nonetheless. It would, no doubt, benefit greatly from technical assistance for additional training
and equipment.
2.15           The remaining states must strengthen their SEPAs substantially before they are
able to develop and/or implement pollution conitrol strategies. Minas Gerais is second only to Sao
Paulo in the number of industrial establishments. Although the SEPA (FEAM) has prepared an
acceptable strategy, FEAM requires institutional strengthening for implementing the strategy to
effectively address industrial pollution. Minas has had an environmental council since 1977, but
there was no central agency until 1985, and the effects of this gap are now evident. F.EAM has
no laboratory of its own and uses independent laboratories as its budget permits. The agency is
understaffed with only 106 employees, and finds difficulty in keeping up with the increasing
licensing requests and renewals. As one of Brazil's largest states, Minas Gerais has industrial
establishments in all areas of the state, but FEAM personnel cannot cover the entire state, and
resources are insufficient to conduct proper inspections on a regular basis, or to establish regional
offices, which are desperately needed.
2.16           The mining (gold, iron) industry is a ieading cause of pollution in Minas Gerais.
While FEAM has presented a satisfactory strategy for control of industrial pollution, it has not yet
developed a strategy to address the mining sector problom. This project could provide technical
assistance for FEAM to prepare a coherent strategy for mining pollution control. The Bank is
also addressing part of this problem under the proposed Environmental Conrervation and
Rehabilitation Project. The magnitude of industrial pollution in Minas Gerais makes it critical for
FEAM to concentrate its scarce resources where they can produce the greatest benefit.
2.17           Bahia is another state which instituted an environmental council before a SEPAL
The council (CEPRAM) appeared in 1973 but CRA only followed in 1980. Bahia is home to an
extremely large petrochemical complex that is being expanded to double its capacity. CRA has a
dynamic new president who has started the process of strengthening this institution's capabilities.
CRA still needs, how.Jever, substantial restructuring before it can carry out its tasks effectively.
The agency has limited laboratory capabilities, and CRA's management plans to use several
different laboratories in the area. It is presently campaigning to have the state licensing aw
changed to reflect the real cost for providing their services. Technical assistance for equipment,
training, and consultants for developing pollution control strategies and for institutional
restructuring could allow CRA to overcome the state's most critical pollution problems.
2.18           Rio Grande do Sul created its Environmental Department (DMA) in 1980. The
agency has had frequent strikes over low salaries and weak mandates. Although the staff may
have diminished further due to these difficulties, the agency still has some excellent technicians.
Despite the institutional problems at DMA, the agency has managed to accomplish a certain
amount of water pollution control and would undoubtedly benefit from technical assistance.
DMA needs to establish itself as a viable pollution control agency because, among other reasons,
the state has the richest coal reserves in Brazil, for which there are plans for extensive
exploitation (mining, electric power). If the coal development program is serious, a strong agency
is needed immediately to assist with proper environmental planning in order to avoid the level of
environmental degradation that Santa Catarina is currently experiencing from these activities.



8
2.19           Resource Constraints Limited resources impede the effectiveness of SEPAs
which, for the most part, are understaffed, lack adequate laboratory facilities, and cannot pay
competitive salaries for professional personnel. In addition, some of the SEPAs are completely
dependent on the state budget for their funding, while others can raise a certain percentage of
their funds through service fees, although this latter source, even in the case of Sao Paulo, is
small. Aside from FEEMA in Rio and CEMTBS in Slo Paulo, all the SEPAs must have
alternative funding to substantially increase their budgets and to gradually limit their reliance on
state funds.
2.20           The SEPAs should be allowed to supplement their budgets by charging fees for
their services which reflect their real cost. Since state budgets throughout the country are limited,
they should welcome the opportunity to have funding (or a portion of it) for SEPAs come from
another source. In addition, increasing costs of licensing and fines would be consistent with the
"polluter pays" principle, which should make the policy politically appealing. States should
consider introducing pollution taxes and charges for the use of environmental resources, the
proceeds of which would be earmarked for SEPAs. This would ensure a certain stability in the
SEPAs' income, rather than relying on funds allocations from State Governments.
2.21           Some SEPAs are presently in a position to supplement their budgets through
service fees because of the legal form of the agency. SEPAs can be "departamentos" ,"autarquias",
"fundagOes" or "companhias/empresas". "Departamentos" are the most dependent on the state
and the "companhias/empresas" are the least. This is why FEEMA in Rio de Janeiro is in the
process of changing from "Funda9ao" to "Empresa". All SEPAs should have this autonomy
especially so that they can pay salaries which will attract and retain competent staff.
C. Federal Environmental Legislation
2.22           Despite SEMA!s creation in 1973, the environmental program did not advance
much during the Seventies. The Federal Government instituted national air quality standards in
1976 and classified water bodies and river basins. Federal legislation lagged behind that of the
more advanced States of Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, and the environmental program remained
essentially without direction until 1981, when the Federal Government created a National
Environmental System and a Council to direct it. Since 1981, federal legislation has evolved into
a meaningful body of law. CONAMA has instituted licensing requirements for all potential
polluting activities and has established standards for air and water quality and water discharges.
CONAMA addressed vehicular air pollution and industrial waste management during the 1980s.
The government based its legislation on the existing laws of the States of Slo Paulo and Rio de
Janeiro which, in turn, had been based largely on United States legislation.
2.23           In general, the federal legal framework is designed to provide overall guidance
and to set broad ambient quality objectives and minimum compliance standards for polluters.
Legislation explicitly recognizes the power of states to set tighter pollution control standards or to
issue supplemental state legislation. Most of the supervisory and enforcement functions including
licensing, monitoring and fines are left to the states; yet in cases where a state agency cannot
assume these responsibilities, the federal agency (IBAMA) must intervene.
2.24           Activities which have national or international implications can only be licensed
by the Federal Government. All forestry projects must receive federal approval whether they
involve the Amazon or the Atlantic Coast Forest. All nuc'ear power plants must also obtain
federal permission before operations commence. Justification for this requirement is that the



9
value of the forests belongs to the entire country and their fate should not be determined by a
single state. Similarly, an accident in a nuclear power plant could have nationwide consequences,
and the Federal Government must therefore approve the Project. Although Brazil is trying to
decentralize the environmental system as much as possible, there are still certain issues which will
remain the responsibility of the Federal Government. Each state concerned has a voice in local
issues. The state can refuse to grant permission to a concession to operate in that state. After
the state approves, the final approval, nevertheless, belongs to IBAMA.
D. State Environmental Legislation
2.25           As at the federal level, legislation at the state level, for the most part, is
adequate. The issue is one of enforcement rather than inadequate regulatory framework. There
are substantial variations among state legislation, but they are not a constraint for attaining
ambient quality goals. Enforcement of the law, however, varies widely from one state to another.
Sao Paulo has enacted very strict measures and does have the institutional capability as well as the
political support to enforce these measures. Minas Gerais, on the other hand, has fairly lenient
legislation and does not even have the resources necessary to ensure that industry follows the
limited regulations in effect. States like Bahia and Santa Catarina have managed, in their
attempts to compensate for legislative deficiencies, to enforce actions beyond those already
stipulated in the law. CRA of Bahia charges a higher license fee than that allowed by the
legislation, while FATMA of Santa Catarina requires a license renewal more frequently than the
law stipulates.
2.26           All states use federal ambient quality standards, occasionally with individual
legislative supplements. Unfortunately, very few states have the necessary monitoring capability to
ensure that these standards are met on a consistent basis. It is important, nonetheless, to have a
standard for those occasions when the agency needs to prove that a firm is not in compliance.
Use of uniform national standards may result in inappropriate compliance norms for certain
regions. However, if national ambient quality objectives are loose enough to constitute the lower
common denominator or the minimum acceptable standard, they would be useful, especially for
states which do not have their own standards. Ideally, each state should develop regional
standards, suitable for its specific condition, which may or may not be stricter than those at the
federal level. At present, Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro seem to be the only two states that can
develop state ambient quality objectives and emission standards and enforce them.
E. Other Regulations Affecting Environmental Quality
2.27           Environmental regulations are not the only ones that affect environmental
quality. Import restrictions impeded the ability of certain firms to purchase and install the
necessary pollution control equipment, and of SEPAs as well as industrial firms to obtain certain
types of monitoring and laboratory equipment; even when alternative nationally produced
equipment was not of comparable standard, purchase of foreign equipment was not allowed.
Without proper laboratory equipment, SEPAs could hardly be expected to maintain the same
level of control that they could with adequate laboratory facilities. This problem has been
addressed by the trade reform of President Collor's administration.
2.28           Price controls and export restrictions have also had a negative impact on the
environment. Industries such as steel and coal production were subject to price controls. Steel
had export restrictions, and companies were required to satisfy domestic demand before selling
products abroad. As a result, companies were not making adequate returns to be able to invest in



10
pollution control. These policies were particularly harmful to the environment of Criciuma in
Santa Catarina, Volta Redonda in Rio de Janeiro, and Vale do Aco in Minas Gerais. These
price controls, as well as export and import restrictions, have now been abolished, but the
pollution problem still needs to be addressed in all these locations.
2.29           In general, the government's policy since the early 1960s had been to promote
industrial growth without concern for the environment. This philosophy resulted in huge subsidies
for industrial investment. Natural resources, including water, have been underpriced. Industries
in some states use water without paying a user charge, even though it is these very industries
which are responsible, in a substantial measure, for water pollution nationwide. Some states
either have or will soon have water tariffs, but it has not yet become a national policy.
F. BNDES
2.30           BNDES, the development bank of Brazil, is the Borrower, and the
implementing agency. BNDES, as the main source of long-term credit in Brazil, disburses roughly
US$4.5 billion a year. The BNDES system, comprised of BNDES and its two subsidiaries,
FINAME and BNDESPAR, is also one of the principal federal financial institutions. Its assets
represent 25% of the assets of federally owned banks and 12% of total assets of the Brazilian
banking system. Moreover BNDES' equity represents 45% of the total equity of federally owned
banks and 25% of total equity of the Brazilian banking system.
2.31           When BNDES was created, its objectives were to support the government's
efforts to develop key sectors of the economy, to supply resources for priority undertakings for
national development, and to stimulate private and public investment. Its operations were heavily
oriented toward financing public sector projects in power, transportation and basic industries.
Later, BNDES broadened its lending activities by increasing its term lending to private industry
for manufacturing, capital goods, and export development.
2.32           With its most recent strategic plan, BNDES began restructuring itself to better
serve the needs of private sector borrowers. BNDES' fundamental objective since the
restructuring is to competitively integrate Brazil's markets with those of the global economy. To
accomplish this objective, BNDES in mid-1989 underwent a sweeping reorganization which
featured policy reforms. These reforms, which are being supported by the Private Sector
Development Project (Loan 3268-BR), included a) a switch from public sector to private sector
orientation; b) implementation of an independent credit policy; c) rationalization of interest rates;
d) improvements in profitability and portfolio quality; and e) a reduction in directed credit.
BNDES is meeting the targets, stipulated under the Loan, on all agreed reforms.
2.33           Private Sector Orientation - Under the Private Sector Development Project
BNDES agreed to reduce its flow of credit to public sector borrowers and reduce the
participation of public financial intermediaries in allocating the BNDES resources. Actual
operation performance for the nine months ending September 30, 1991 indicates that only 12% of
BNDES' credit went to public sector borrowers and that BNDES reduced to 39% the
participation of public financial intermediaries, as compared with agreed targets of 19% and 40%.
As a result of its increased experience with the private sector, BNDES was chosen by the Federal
Government to take the lead role in the government's privatization program.
2.34           Credit Policy - BNDES is evaluating and establishing lending limits that reflect
the intrinsic creditworthiness of its borrowers and financial intermediaries. In mid-1989, BNDES



11
established a Credit Department whose present objective is to limit exposure to individual
borrowers and sectors, as well as to establish controls to ensure that the limits are observed. To
diversify the risk of credit operations undertaken through financial intermediaries, BNDES has
established minimum eligibility requirements and risk limits which are satisfactory to the Banlk
2.35           Interest Rates - BNDES is ensuring that, through its lending rates, it is
continuing to pass on to its borrowers the full cost of intermediation, including the foreign
exchange risk. Through the late 1980s, BNDES increased its average local currency lending rates
for Loans for which the resources are mobilized domestically. Current interest rates for cruzeiro-
denominated Loans range between 9-12% over TR. All of BNDES' borrowings in foreign
exchange have been fully hedged since 1987. Loans are indexed to its basket of currencies which
is analogous to the World Bank currency pooling system. BNDES generally charges a spread
ranging between 2-3%, in addition to passing on the entire cost of foreign borrowing. The
spreads to financial intermediaries on Loans for which the resources are mobilized domestically
generally range from 1.5% to 2.5%. No limits are imposed on spreads to financial intermediaries
on loans that are indexed in BNDES' basket of foreign currencies. Repayment schedules vary in
accordance with the cash flow of the projects being financed and are negotiated between BNDES
and its borrowers.
2.36           Profitability & Portfolio Quality - BNDES is a financially healthy institution.
Total assets at the end of December 1991 amounted to about US$ 22 billion equivalent, including
about US$ 4 billion invested in BNDESPAR and FINAME. The analysis of BNDES liabilities,
capital and reserves highlights the fact that BNDES has a low leverage ratio of 30% (equity to
total assets) and a very conservative 2.5 to I Debt/Equity ratio, which indicates capital strength
and the ability to generate earnings and facilitate expansion. BNDES' net interest margin
(interest income less interest expenses over average loan portfolio) for the year ending December
1991 yielded an 8% return (in real terms), a good level for a low leveraged, efficient bank.
BNDES' accounting system is sound and its financial statements are well prepared, and BNDES
has a competent internal audit department.
2.37           BNDES has per. - med a commendable job in reducing its arrears and cleaning
up its portfolio. BNDES has provibioned about US$ 1.5 billion out of its profits to cover possible
loan losses, which about fully covers its non-performing loan portfolio. To improve the quality of
its portfolio stock, BNDES has undertaken to channel an increasing flow of its resources to sound
private sector companies, thereby reducing its exposure to the public sector. Moreover, about
80% of BNDES' non-performing loan portfolio is with public sector companies that have been
targeted by the federal government as candidates for the privatization program. BNDES is
settling its outstanding loans and arrears as part of the privatization agreements reached with
prospective buyers of these public companies and is profitably transferring to private ownership
the companies it controls.
2.38           Directed Credit - To reduce market segmentation, BNDES has undergone a far-
reaching reorganization and has eliminated credit lines to financially distressed firms. To facilitate
financial intermediaries' dealings with BNDES, and increase the discretion financial institutions
have in intermediating BNDES' funds, BNDES has set up an automatic approval procedure for
projects where BNDES' participation is limited to US$ 1 million.
2.39           Operating Procedures - Fot direct operations, projects of borrowers and
intermediaries cleared by the Credit Department are analyzed by the operations department, the
entrepreneurial projects department, or the infrastructure projects department. All projects,



12
regardless of their size and whether they are undertaken directly or indirectly, are analyzed and
supervised, following established procedures and formats, by competent project analysts who have
sectoral expertise. BNDES staff analyzes many aspects of the Project, including management,
marketing, technical, financial, economic, and environmental aspects.
2.40           BNDES' procedures for indirect operations were streamlined during the
reorganization. Its procedures vary depending on the amount of the proposed loan. For projects
requiring more than US$ 1 million of BNDES financing, a detailed appraisal report of the
operation and the beneficiary must be submitted. These reports use the same approach as
BNDES takes for its direct operations, and emphasize financial and economic criteria, as well as
technical and environmental soundness.
2.41           Pollution-Control Lending - BNDES has been financing industrial Pollution
Control investments for several years as part of its overall industrial lending. BNDES, however,
has not been actively promoting these industrial pollution control loans, nor has it identified these
loans as a separate category of industrial lending. Under this proposed Loan, BNDES will
promote industrial pollution control lending, familiarize FIs with this type of lending and
encourage SEPAs to enforce pollution control more vigorously.
IIL BANK STRATEGY AND OPERATIONS FOR TDE ENVIRONMENT
AND POLLUTION CONTROL
A. Bank Strategy for the Environment in Brazil
3.01           The Bank's assistance strategy in Brazil has three long-term objectives to
stimulate development: (i) private sector development and public sector reform; (ii) increasing
productivity and improving living conditions of the poor; and (iii) protecting the environment and
local populations from adverse impacts of investment projects and economic activities. The
Bank's medium-term objective in dealing with envircnmental issues is to utilize its operational
program to help Brazil develop a rational policy framework as well as effective institutions and
instruments for dealing with environmental protection issues, resource management, and the
problem of protecting the vulnerable population.
3.02.          The Bank is assisting the Government in developing policies and programs for
a) support of biodiversity and combatting Amazon deforestation; b) pollution control; c) soil
erosion; and d) natural resource management. The National Environmental Project was approved
in 1990 to support the national environmental plan and provide a framework for federal and state
programs and protection of critical ecosystems. The Bank's study of Amazonian environmental
issues will be the basis for policy dialogue and will contribute to comprehensive regional policies.
The Bank has several operations to support sustainable Amazon regional development while
protecting the rain forest. In the area of pollution control, the Bank is using lending to
strengthen institutions, to improve policies and regulations, and to finance industrial and urban
pollution control. In natural resource management, the Bank has projects on soil erosion and
institutional frameworks for watershed management and forestry. The Bank's Board recently
approved a natural resource management project for Rondonia in the Amazon region to
incorporate agro-ecological zoning with policy and institutional reforms, and is discussing projects
in other states in the Amazon. At the request of the Group of Seven Countries (G-7), the Bank
is administering a pilot program to conserve Brazil's tropical rain forests financed by donor



13
contributions to a multilateral trust fund and by bilateral associated cofinancing. The pilot
program will support projects in several areas including natural resources policies development,
protected areas management, scientific research, and grass roots initiatives.
3.03           The Bank has assisted in developing institutions to improve environmental
management in the power and transport sectors. The Bank has programs for: local, regional, and
sectoral environmental institutional development and plans; power conservation; environmental
programs in roads and irrigation; and water resource planning. Presently the Bank is developing a
series of state-level water pollution control and management projects.
B. Relation of Bank Strategy to Industrial Pollution Control
3.04           As noted above, key elements of the Bank strategy for the environment are to
a) protect the population from the adverse impact on public health of unsafe concentrations of
air, surface and groundwater pollution, and the presence of toxic compounds and elements, and b)
to improve the institutional capabilities of those organizations charged with this responsibility.
The first and second industrial pollution control projects, which concentrated on the State of Sao
Paulo, resulted in significantly improved air and water quality standards, particularly in areas of
concentrated industrial pollution, such as the Cubatao Valley, where Bank financing supported
focused control strategies for major groups of polluters. The proposed Project will extend this
approach to identified, concentrated sources of industrial pollution in other states.
3.05           The proposed Project will seek to improve public health by reducing industrial
pollution in regions where it has been identified as critical and, therefore, improve environmental
conditions in these regions. By focusing on areas where industry is the major cause of unhealthy
levels of pollution of air and public waters (drinking, bathing, food sources), and where unsound
hazardous waste management practices have created unusually high health and safety risks to
large segments of the population, the Project will be a direct means of improving these conditions
as rapidly and cost effectively as possible. The Project would particularly benefit the urban poor
who tend to live in close proximity to the major polluting industries.
3.06           The Project will further strengthen SEPAs so that they may improve their ability
to enforce industrial pollution norms. Resources to be made available will enable SEPAs to: (a)
obtain monitoring equipment to measure industrial discharges (air, water and hazardous wastes);
(b) receive training in specialized topics such as detection and control of specific industrial
pollutants, and obtain or develop modern analytical aids such as computer models to forecast air
and water pollution; and (c) examine first hand state-of-the-art methods for controlling industrial
pollution. The most active SEPAs would have access to a larger share of the technical assistance
funds (para. 4.11) and therefore those SEPAs would have the much needed funding to upgrade
their capabilities.
C. Previous Bank Operations for Industrial Pollution Control
3.07           The Bank had been involved in water pollution control in Sao Paulo since 1971
(Loans 757-BR and 758-BR) and then became involved in industrial pollution control in Brazil
through two operations in Slo Paulo. The first, Slo Paulo Industrial Pollution Control Project
(Loan 1822-BR) approved by the Bank in 1980, was to support the state's efforts to control air
and water industrial pollution in the Greater Slo Paulo Metropolitan area (GSPMA) in the face
of growing environmental awareness. GSPMA was one of the world's most polluted areas at that
time. The project's purpose was to reduce emissions of specific pollutants in the air and receiving



14
waters. It also provided for strengthening of CETESB, the state environmental protection
agency. Project preparation, fraught with delays requiring three post-appraisals and two
negotiations, took about four years from the start of Bank discussions with Brazil. This was the
flrst free-standing environmental project supported by the Bank in Latin America, and
implementation also suffered difficulties and delays. Although industries were undertaking
pollution control projects, the Loan was not being fully utilized due to cumbersome procedures
and limited geographic area. In 1982/1983 the Bank simplified the project substantially, extending
its area to cover the entire state, and reducing the Loan amount. This proved to be a turning
point and the Loan was fully disbursed by December 31, 1986, almost three years later than
planned (Performance Audit Report (PPAR), April 1989). The PPAR concluded that Project
objectives were achieved and that, beyond the physical targets of the project, there was a
tremendous raising of environmental consciousness in the State of Sao Paulo. The CETESB
program is now clearly a national leader and is being disseminated to other states. The audit
found no reason to doubt the long-term benefits of the Project, both direct and indirect.
3.08           Because of strong demand for additional resources for industrial pollution
control in Sao Paulo, the Bank prepared the Second Industrial Pollution Control Project (Loan
2831-BR), approved by the Board on June 9, 1987. In addition to financing investments for air
and water pollution control and hazardous waste disposal, Loan 2831-BR included a Federal
technical assistance component aimed at identifying pollution problems in states other than Sao
Paulo and strengthening various SEPAs and the federal environmental protection agency (SEMA
at that time, and presently IBAMA). This Loan also experienced delays before it became
effective because of indebtedness limits of the State of Sao Paulo vfs-a-vfs the Federal
Government and new restrictions imposed by Central Bank Resolution 1469 prohibiting transfer
of resources from the Federal Government to public entities. Disbursements under the Loan,
which became effective in July 1988, had only reached 24% of the Loan amount (about US$12
million) as of September 30, 1990, when the Loan commitment period expired. Slow
disbursements were due partly to the delay in effectiveness and partly to the sluggishness in
demand caused by the staggering interest rates and high inflation Brazil experienced up through
March 1990. The Loan came to a halt and BNDES did not immediately request an extension of
the commitment period because it was waiting for resolution of the State of Sao Paulo's arrears
problem with BNDES and the Federal Government. Loan 2831-BR's problem was finally
resolved when BNDES' Board approved, on January 21, 1992, the extension of the commitment
date of the Loan. The Bank has now agreed to a request from the Government to extend the
Loan commitment period for 30 months. A Bank review of the project pipeline during the
appraisal mission found a large backlog of subprojects at various phases of review at both
CETESB and BANESPA (the state bank). According to this review, it is expected that Loan
resources for the Sao Paulo component will be totally committed in about 18 months.
3.09           The proposed Project grew from the intention of various industrialized Brazilian
states to follow Sao Paulo's example, and to request Bank assistance along the same lines as the
Sao Paulo Loans. The Federal Government supported the idea of a national industrial pollution
control project to help Brazilian states with critical pollution problems to develop the same
integrated approach to pollution control. The results of the diagnostic studies carried out by
CETESB for IBAMA (under Loan 2831-BR) in 12 Brazilian states were the first step in
identifying the states, and areas within those states, with critical industrial pollution problems.



15
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
4.01            The main objectives of the Project are to:
*         Improve public health and living conditions of the population concentrated in and
around industrialized areas, particularly the urban poor who live near major pockets of
industrial pollution. The Project would be concentrated in the eastern and
southeastern states as well as around pockets of industry-polluted areas in some
northeastern states.
*         Support participating states in establishing the integrated approach that proved useful
to Sgo Paulo in solving its pollution problems in a cost-effective manner by: a)
devising an adequate regulatory framework for pollution control; b) obtaining a
political commitment from State authorities to improve the environment; c) supporting
a capable SEPA; d) implementing a pollution control strategy that recognizes not only
short-term solutions, but also focuses on efficiency and trade-offs over the medium-
and long-terms; and e) seeking the availability of medium- to long-term financing for
polluting industries.
*         Familiarize the banking system with financing free-standing pollution control
investments and thus allow industry to have easier access to pollution control financing
through intermediaries, as well as directly through BNDES.
-         Strengthen the institutional capabilities of active SEPAs in monitoring and analyzing
environmental problems. This would lead to higher levels of enforcement.
*         Strengthen BNDES's ability to process free-standing pollution abatement loans.
B. Project Description
4.02            Credit Component. The Project would finance investments in existing industrial
facilities in Brazil to control all types of industrial pollution--air, water, and hazardous waste.
Most of the funds would be used in states with Bank-approved pollution control strategies, and
would be spent to carry out these strategies. The Bank has reviewed and approved strategies
prepared by the following states: Rio de Janeiro, Santa Catarina, Parana, Espirito Santo, and
Minas Gerais. Sao Paulo has air and water pollution control strategies which were approved
under Loan 2831-BR. A list of the industries identified as priorities for pollution control
investments is found in Annex III, Tables 1-6. The Bank may approve a state pollution control
strategy at any stage of project implementation, which would allow the projects included in that
strategy automatic eligibility for the line of credit. Such approval would be conditional upon the
institutional capability of the SEPA and its ability to enforce pollution control.
4.03            SEPA strategies have been designed to effect overall improvements in
environmental quality (air, water, and soil) in specific regions identified as "critically" polluted by
industry. To help characterize the pollution problems for each region, a rank-ordered list of
industrial polluters was prepared based upon factors including type of pollution, relative
contribution from the industrial sector versus other sectors (municipal, transport, agi icultural), and



16
assimilative capacity of receiving medium (e.g., discharge into small stream versus the ocean). By
concentrating the strategy on improvements to overall environmental quality rather than only
reducing industrial emissions (which was the basis of the strategy used in the first Bank Pollution
Control Project in Sao Paulo, Loan 1822-BR) anomalies experienced in that Loan should be
avoided (e.g., industrial dust emissions were reduced significantly, yet Sao Paulo's ambient dust
levels remained unchanged because the transport sector was the chief problem, as was
subsequently recognized).
4.04           Additional states may have their strategies reviewed and approved by the Bank
during the course of project implementation. The elements which SEPAs' strategies must
contain (see Annex I) to be considered acceptable include the following: adequate data on air,
water and soil quality; specific knowledge of industrial pollution; and, on a plant-by-plant basis,
analysis of the relative contribution of industrial pollution compared to other sources (e.g.,
transport and municipal sectors). The SEPA must also show a technical capacity to perform
analyses on appropriate control measures and monitoring, and a demonstrated record of enforcing
pollution control.
4.05           For states without an approved strategy, or for investments not included in such
strategy, participation is still possible provided the SEPA can demonstrate that the pollution
control investments proposed will eliminate or significantly reduce a serious environmental threat
or health hazard. These proposals will be evaluated by the Bank on a case-by-case basis.
4.06           Those states which do not have approved strategies will still be eligible to sign
agreements with BNDES, on the condition that the state present a plan of action, satisfactory to
the Bank and to BNDES, for the development of a state strategy, and agree to carry out that plan
in a timely manner. A condition of disbursement in each state would be that BNDES has signed
with the respective SEPA an agreement in which the SEPA undertakes to: (a) execute its
pollution control program in accordance with the strategy agreed with the Bank; (b) send to the
Bank and to BNDES semi-annual progress reports on the ambient quality in the state, the impact
of the investment projects on the environment, and the institutional development of the SEPA
resulting from the use of the technical assistance funds; and (c) review all pollution control
technical proposals by companies before their submission to a financial intermediary or BNDES.
4.07           Subprojects may include, but would not be limited to, the following discharge
reduction schemes: (a) end-of-pipe controls; (b) in-process modifications; and (c)
recycling/recovery. Industries will qualify for a Loan if they are financially viable. The firm would
be Brazilian or foreign-owned, and in the private or public sector (though BNDES' lending to the
latter is restricted). Independent companies which wish to build joint facilities such as a
hazardous waste incinerator, or a waste-water treatment plant which will service discharges from
several participating companies, or third party companies wishing to purchase, install and operate
pollution control equipment on behalf of an industrial facility, will also be eligible, provided the
participating companies are financially viable and the facility to be constructed has been identified
in the SEPA's strategy.
4.08           The Loan would be committed on a first-come first-served basis. There would
be no pre-allocation of Loan resources to any particular state. This would help ensure that the
Project would serve the most active states in enforcement, and would be an incentive for state
SEPAs to step up their enforcement programs in order to receive the maximum benefit of
available financing as well as technical assistance funds.



17
4.09          BNDES may lend the resources directly or through a financiai intermediary (FI).
However, because BNDES policy is to not lend directly for smaller operations (US$1 million
equivalent and less), and since the average loan size is expected to be less than US$1 million
equivalent, the majority of the subloans are expected to be channeled through FIs. BNDES has
established eligibility criteria for banks which could qualify as FIs for the subloans, based on
solvency and project evaluation capabilities.
4.10          BNDES' Technical Assistance Component. BNDES would receive a small
component of the Loan (US$50,000) to develop its professional staff skills in environmental
assessment, environmental project analysis, and analytical frameworks for dealing with the
economics of pollution control regulations. The funds would be used for training of BNDES'
staff and for hiring specialized consultants.
4.11          SEPAs Technical Assistance Component. In order to motivate the SEPAs to
enforce pollution control more vigorously, and in support of strengthening their institutional
capability, BNDES agreed to pass on to the SEPAs, as a grant, 0.2 percent of the value of any
BNDES subloan. A component of US$150,000 of the Loan has been allocated to cover this
grant. In addition, a Japanese grant (about US$500,000 equivalent) which was approved for this
project, and will be managed by the Bank, would be used, pari passu, with the BNDES grant and
will pay to the SEPA where the industry is located an equivalent of 0.8 percent of any BNDES
subloan amount. Thus a total 1 percentage point (0.2 percent from BNDES and 0.8 percent from
the Japanese Grant of any subloan amount) would be paid to any SEPA when a BNDES
pollution control loan is provided to a firm within the SEPA's state. Additional grant funds to
supplement the technical assistance resources are being sought. SEPAs will use these funds to:
(a) develop pollution control strategies including specialized studies on market-based pollution
control mechanisms; (b) acquire laboratory and monitoring equipment; and (c) upgrade the staff's
technical capability.
C. Proiect Cost and Financing
4.12          The total Project cost is estimated to be about US$100 million. This represents
less than 20 percent of the actual Project pipeline that was constructed from various SEPAs'
pollution control strategies. Pollution control investments not yet justified because of lack of
emissions data and their impact on receiving bodies' quality were excluded for the purposes of
estimating the total potential demand and, therefore, project cost.
4.13          The Bank Loan is proposed to be US$50 million; BNDES counterpart funds
and the industry contribution would be approximately US$50 million. The Bank Loan would
finance 50 percent of subproject costs, with a maximum financing not to exceed any total BNDES
subloan amount. During negotiations BNDES agreed that the amount of subloans financing
subprojects will be on average equivalent to at least 60 percent of subproject costs.
4.14          Japanese Exim Bank is considering cofinancing in the amount of US$50 million,
to be disbursed on a pari passu basis with Bank funds. In this event, the Loan Agreement would
be modified to incorporate this cofinancing, and the Bank will be responsible for monitoring and
supervising the Project on behalf of the Japanese Exim Bank.



18
PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN
(in USS thousands)
Bank             BNDES           Beneficlartes    JaDanese           Tota
Grant
Without JaMnese Co-Finanein.:
BNDBS Loans for fixed assets, related                  49,800             25,000           2S,000                            99,800
working capital and consultant fees
Technical Assistance to BNDES                              So                *--      -                      --                 S0
Technical Assistance to SEPAs                             iso                ....             ...            So00              650
TOTAL                                               50,000            2S,000            25,000           S00            100,500
Bank           BNDES       Japan Ed m       BeneflelaHres     Jaanese          TOTAL
Bank                             Grant
With Jananese Co-Ftancinl:
BNDES Loans for fixed assets, related        49,800           50,000          49,800         50,000           *-.-          199,600
working capital and consultant fees
Technical Assistance to BNDES                    S0              ----            *---          ----           --..              S0
Technical Assistance to SEPAs                   1S0               -.-.          200             --            500              850
TOTAL                                      50,000           50,000          50,000         50,000           S00           200,500



19
D. Onlending and SubLroject Approval Arrangements
4.15           The Borrower would be BNDES (The National Bank of Economic and Social
Development) and the Federative Republic of Brazil would be the Guarantor. BNDES would
onlend the Loan resources either directly to the industries or via financial intermediaries (FIs).
The subloan interest rates would be in line with BNDES' long-term rates, which are equivalent to
the index to correct for inflation (TR)-V plus current BNDES interest rates (TR +9 to 12
percent). BNDES onlending terms are modified from time to time to reflect the economic
conditions in Brazil and the international markets. During negotiations, assurances were given
that the index or indices used by BNDES will reflect, and correct fully for, inflation and will
ensure full adjustment on the principal of BNDES loans. Subloan maturities will vary according
to each project's useful life, and the agreement between the financial intermediary (F1) and the
beneficiary, and can go up to 8 years. The firms would need to finance at least 25 percent of the
cost themselves. BNDES would protect itself against the foreign exchange risk in accordance with
its normal "pooling" practices, acceptable to the Bank. FIs would have a spread of up to 3
percentage points. The subloan repayment period wouid be up to 8 years including a 6-month
grace period. The funds would be onlent to companies in any state on a first-come-first-served
basis, without pre-allocation of resources to any state. BNDES will inform FIs, no later than 75
days after Loan effectiveness, that these funds are available and of the conditions of their use.
4.16           Each SEPA would approve pollution control subprojects from the viewpoint of
feasibility of the technical solution. Polluting firms would then request financing from an Fl of
their choice, provided that Fl is eligible for participation based on BNDES eligibility criteria as
set forth in BNDES credit policy statement, which is satisfactory to the Bank. The Fl would
follow BNDES-issued guidelines regarding subprojects to be financed under the Loan, the interest
rates and maturities. BNDES or an FI would approve pollution control subprojects based upon
their inclusion in the SEPA's strategy, and upon the creditworthiness of the Loan applicant.
4.17           If the subproject exceeds US$5 million Bank financing, or is not included in a
Bank-approved state pollution control strategy, it would require Bank approval in addition to
approvals from BNDES, the concerned SEPA and Fl.
E. Monitoring and Supervision Requirements
4.18           In order to estimate the impact of the Project during implementation, two sets
of monitoring data will be required: (a) pollution discharge data (gaseous emissions and liquid
effluents) from the industrial facility; and (b) ambient data on air/water quality in the environment
under the influence of the industrial facilities' pollution discharges. Pollution indicators will
include but not be limited to the following: air--sulfur dioxide, noxious dust, odors (primarily
volatile organics containing sulfur, nitrogen, and/or oxygen); water--BOD5 (biological oxygen
demand-5-day test), suspended solids, toxic organics and heavy metals; s, lids--hazardous wastes
(primarily toxAc organics and toxic non-organics).
4.19           Collection and reporting of pollution discharge data to the SEPAs wili be the
responsibility of the ultimate borrower (the polluting industry). This data will provide SEPAs with
necessary enforcement information regarding compliance with state and federal pollutant
discharge regulations and standards. Overall, it will provide Bank supervision missions with
information regarding the success of subproject implementation as well as SEPAs' enforcement
1/ TIR or Taxa ReferenCal i an Interbank interest paid on certificates of deposit.



20
practices. As a condition of subproject approval, the borrower must provide a SEPA with an
appropriate monitoring plan and a list of monitoring equipment to implement that plan. Such
monitoring equipment which the company does not already own could be included in the subloan.
4.20           Collection of ambient air and water quality data for parameters identified later
in this paper, will be the responsibility of the SEPA. This data will provide SEPAs and Bank
supervision missions with information on how effective the strategies are in improving overall air
and water quality in critically polluted areas. As necessary, it will also allow mid-course
corrections of strategies to meet acceptable air or water quality standards more effectively.
4.21           SEPAs must demonstrate to Bank supervision missions that they either have an
ambient monitoring network available to collect appropriate air and water quality data in the
vicinity of the pollution control subproject, or that proceeds of the technical assistance to be
received will be utilized to provide that portion of the network. Bank supervision missions will
also review ambient environmental data and emissions data to ascertain that pollution control
standards meet pertinent state and/or federal standards and to determine the degree to which
subprojects are consistent with overall project objectives and SEPA strategies.
4.22           Supervision missions will also review the effectiveness of technical assistance
programs of both BNDES and the SEPAs to ensure that they are in concert with project
objectives. For the SEPAs, such assistance should result in improved capability for monitoring
and enforcement (as discussed above) and, as necessary, either improved analytical capability for
specialized pollution issues (environmental assessment, air quality modeling, hazardous waste
management, etc.) or strategy preparation.
4.23           A mid-term review will be carried out no later than two years after the
Effectiveness Date of the Loan, to review the progress of project implementation, the
performance of the Borrower and each SEPA as regards their participation in the Project, and
the achievement of Project objectives, including preparation and implementation of state
strategies and technical assistance programs. The Bank intends to carry out such review prior to
the specified deadline in case half of the Loan resources have been committed.
F. Procurement
4.24           BNDES' procedures for direct operations (generally above US$1 million
equivalent subloan amount) include carrying out regular supervision visits during the project
implementation period as well as during its repayment period and require its borrowers to submit
periodic progress reports. BNDES verifies that the goods and services procured under the
Project are competitive in price and quality, and are appropriate for the purpose intended. It also
ensures that financing proceeds are used only for the goods and services authorized by BNDES at
the time of subloan approval. BNDES has the option of canceling operations and may set up
conditions for subloan effectiveness. When operating through FIs, BNDES relies on the
procurement procedures of the Fl. The FIs rely mainly upon the normal commercial practice of
their customers to shop around for the best quality goods and services at the lowest price.
Subloan disbursement requests from FIs must include a statement of expenditures supporting such
requests. The original documents are retained by the FIs. BNDES' operations staff, as well as
BNDES' internal and external auditors, review these documents on periodic supervision missions.
BNDES' external auditors provide a separate report and opinion on BNDES' subproject
disbursements, expenditures, and the quality of records. In 1990 its opinion was unqualified. The
Bank's own evaluation has found the procurement and disbursement procedures of BNDES'



21
operations with intermediaries to be satisfactory. The Bank and BNDES agreed that BNDES'
independent auditors will, as part of their annual audit, give an opinion as to whether statements
of expenditures can be relied upon to support applications for reimbursement from the Loan
account.
4.25          The Project is expected to -fiance mostly civil works, machinery and process
equipment. Small contracts of civil works and equipment are not likely to be attractive enough
for foreign suppliers. In addition, Brazilian industries may find it cumbersome to go to foreign
suppliers and deal with formal bidding procedures for smaller contracts or equipment items.
Machinery and equipment financed by BNDES would be eligible for financing under the Loan.
For procurement of machinery and equipment costing less than US$3 million, norma commercial
practices would be followed. International shopping procedures (including at least three bids, of
which at least two bids will be from foreign suppliers) would be required for contract values of
US$3 million or more, but lower than US$5 million, and international competitive bidding (ICB)
would be required for contract values of US$5 million and above, in accordance with 'Bank
Guidelines for Procurement" (May 1985). For civil works, normal commercial practices would be
followed for contracts below US$10 mi'lion and ICB would be required for contract values of
US$10 million and above. Evidence of compliance with Bank procurement procedures would be
a necessary part of the subproject appraisal reports submitted by BNDES to the Bank. The Bank
will conduct prior review of all ICB contracts. In addition, Bank supervision missions will conduct
a post review, on a sample basis, of about 50% of the value of Bank financed contracts. There
will be a 15% margin of preference for the purpose of bid evaluation for Brazilian manufacturers
competing under ICB procurement of goods. Consultants for BNDES and SEPAs technical
assistance would be hired according to Bank guidelines for the use of consultants.
G. Disbursements
4.26          The Loan would be disbursed following regular Bank disbursement procedures.
Bank funds would cover 50 percent of subproject costs, not to exceed BNDES subloan amount.
The Loan will also finance 100% of technical assistance expenditures. To facilitate the flow of
funds from the Bank to project beneficiaries, two special accounts, CESA and FESA, would be
set up with initial deposits of US$3 million for the CESA and US$2 million for the FESA. The
CESA account, which would be established in the Central Bank, would be used exclusively for
local (cruzeiro) expenditures, while the FESA account, established in a commercial bank, would
be used exclusively for expenditures other than cruzeiros.
4.27          Withdrawal applications for all parts of the Loan would be submitted by
BNDES, and would be made on the basis of statements of expenditure (SOEs) for individual
contracts valued at less than US$3 million. BNDES and participating FIs would maintain
supporting documentation and would make them available for Bank review upon request.
Because the subproject review would be done by both the SEPA and the Fl, and because of the
two-tier operation involving BNDES, the subproject's approval process is expected to be longer
than usual. Therefore, the Bank would finance expenditures that were made no more than 180
days before the date of subproject presentation to the Bank. Retroactive financing wIll be
provided for up to US$5 million for BNDES subloans for pollution control from May 1, 1991.
The final date for submission of subprojects to the Bank would be June 30, 1996 and the Loan
closing date would be June 30, 1997.
4.28          In the event that cofinancing becomes available, its use will have the effect of
slowing Bank disbursements. However, because the size of the Project would still be small



22
relative io demand for funds, the avai'ability of the additional funds should not require an
extension of the subloan submission deadline and the closing d!-r4.
4.29           Disbursement of funds for the US$650,000 SEPA-strengthening component of
the Project (para. 4.06) would be conditional on Bank approval of an agreement between BNDES
and the respective SEPA. The Bank and Japanese funds would cover 100% of goods and services
under this component.
a. Accounting and Auditing
4.30           The accounts of BNDES, BADESP, SOEs and PROCOP (Pollution Control
Program), under the Second Industrial Pollution Control Project, have been audited. The reports
were always timely and unqualified. BNDES PIs accounts, SOEs, and CESA and FESA, under
the Project, would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. These
audit reports would include separate opinions regarding the supporting documentation for
disbursements based on statements of expenditures and would be submitted no later than six
months after the end of each fiscal year. In addition, BNDES would be required to submit semi-
annual progress reports.
L Project Justification and Benefits
4.31           The proposed Project would directly alleviate the most onerous problems caused
by industrial pollution in Brazil and, in the longer term, contribute to a more rational strategy of
pollution control based on better information and sounder economic principles. In those aided
states, other than Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro where the pollution control effort is well
underway, this project's support may prove vital in focussing efforts to combat industrial pollution.
4.32           The direct benefits of the Project achieved through firm-level investments and
technical assistance to strengthen the operational capacity of the SEPAs (monitoring, laboratories,
training, consultancies, etc.), will be principally in the form of improved public health conditions,
particularly in the larger urban areas. In the absence of reliable data on pollution-related
incidence of ill health and other indicators of pollution costs, and without, in some cases, reliable
monitoring da!a on air and water quality, the benefits of pollution alleviation are as yet impossible
to quantify in Brazil, though they are expected to be substantial.
4.33           By targeting, for example, larger industrial polluters in areas where industrial
(rather than household or vehicular) pollution is the major source of substandard air or water
quality, the Project will have an appreciable impact in reducing the level of concentration of
pollutants. In areas of excessive concentration of particulate matter or sulphur dioxide, US EPA
and WHO statistics indicate that reduced emissions will, by improving air quality, decrease the
incidence of illness and mortality associated with respiratory or cardiovascular diseases. Infant
mortality would be reduced, life expectancy increased, and medical expenses and the costs
associated with industrial absenteeism reduced. In addition, costs associated with physical damage
from air pollution (corrosion and deterioration of house paint) and of clean-up, would be
reduced. Where industry is a major contributor to water pollution, it generally involves discharges
containing heavy metals, phenols, ammonia, and other toxins. Industry also discharges
biodegradable organic waste, but in some areas it is considered a minor polluter compared with
untreated household sewage. Reducing industrial discharges will make drining water safer,
reducing the incidence of water-borne and related diseases. It will also rehabilitate fishing and
agriculture in some areas, improve Lourism in others, and enhance the recreational and aesthetic



23
aspects of bodies of water. Finally, safe disposal of hazardous wastes will reduce the incidence of
disease (e.g., from contaminated water supplies) and accidents.
4.34            Longer-term benefits of the Project will be provision of better tools for SEPAs
to carry out their mandate to control industrial and other types of pollution in a rational, cost-
effective manner. Technical assistance will allow the SEPAs to develop a more efficient database
to provide a more complete inventory of pollution sources and ambient quality-monitoring, thus
enabling them to link both gaseous discharges and liquid emissions sources to ambient quality.
Technical assistance will also encourage SEPAs to design better institutional models and to adopt
incentive systems better able to achieve the desired level of ambient quality at a lesser cost to
society (e.g., through the use of market-based incentives, such as user charges).
4.35            The Loan will be a credit line which, under most circumstances, should be
avoided in an unstable macroeconomic environment such as the one that prevails in Brazil.
However, this specific line of credit would not be affected by macroeconomic instability for the
following reasons: (a) neither pollution control legislation nor enforcement efforts are expected
to change as a result of an unstable macroeconomic environment--companies must still comply
with environmental legislation; (b) the Loan will not affect the Federal Government budget, nor
does its implementation depend on the budget; (c) experience has shown that the borrowing
agency (BNDES) has maintained regular operations even under conditions of high and rapidly
accelerating inflation; (d) the Loan is not provided to states but rather to creditworthy companies,
states' creditworthiness problems, especially in an unstable macroeconomic environment, will not
affect the flow of resources nor the execution of the Project; and e) Loan principal will be
indexed to prevailing inflation rates and on lending rates adjusted to maintain real interest rates.
4.36            In addition, because of the nature of this Loan, there are various arguments for
making an exception: (a) the main objective is to improve public health, and since it is difficult for
the Bank to accomplish this through lending directly to each of the companies identified, a credit
line is the only viable alternative; (b) each suDprojcct is justified based on its pollution reduction
benefit rather than on financial benefit for borrowing firms, especially since those firms would not
enjoy any preferential interest rates on these pollution control loans; (c) the Loan would acquaint
banks and industrial firms with lending for industrial pollution control; and (d) the existence of a
directed line of credit will strengthen SEPAs to carry out more vigorous enforcement, as firms will
not be able to plead lack of resources as an excuse for not curtailing pollution.
4.37            Project benefits are not quantifiable in the conventional economic sense.
Indications of environmental quality improvement are, however, measurable and, therefore,
environmental cost effectiveness can be estimated as part of the subproject approval process. The
Project's principal benefit is that it will improve the quality of the environment and, hence, the
health of the population living near polluted industrialized areas who are, for the most part,
Brazil's poorest. In turn, the Project will help to increase life expectancy and will reduce health
care costs and costs associated with productivity declines due to poor health. Project benefits will
also include a cleaner environment, resulting in better agricultural products, creating a higher land
value, and an overall better quality of life because of cleaner air, cleaner soil, and cleaner water
for drinking, fishing, agriculture, and recreation.
4.38            The Project would also help build up the capability of the SEPAs and equip
them with tools to develop rational pollution control strategies, taking into account not only the
benefits, but also the costs of alternative courses of regulatory action in pollution control.



24
3. Project Risks
4.39          The risks of this Project are minimal. Project implementation could become
sluggish if macroeconomic conditions deteriorate to the point where firms are struggling to
survive; enforcement efforts would then be reduced, and SEPAs' pressure on industries would
ease up. Slow commitment and disbursement could result from weak enforcement efforts or small
demand for Loan resources. If such an unlikely scenario should materialize, the industrial
pollution will remain at present levels or will be reduced only slightly. However, the more likely
scenario is that enforcement efforts will continue at different levels in the various participating
states, and that demand for pollution control resources will continue to be present. The risk of
slow Loan utilization is mitigated by the fact that the Loan amount is small compared to the
estimated demand for pollution control resources amounting to almost US$600 million. The
retroactive financing to May 1991, provided for under the Loan Agreement, should further
minimize the risk of low utilization of Loan resources. It is expected that the Loan would be fully
committed within two years.
V. AGREEMENIS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01          During Loan negotiations, BNDES and the Bank agreed that:
(i)  State strategies developed in accordance with the agreed criteria for air or water
pollution control, or for hazardous waste management, may be approved by the Bank
during project implementation (paras. 4.02 and 4.04);
(ii) BNDES may sign agreements with SEPAs that do not have Bank-approved
pollution control strategies, on the condition that the SEPA present a plan of action,
satisfactory to the Bank and to BNDES, for the development of a state strategy, and
agree to carry out that plan in a timely manner (para. 4.06);
(iii) BNDES undertakes to enter into an agreement with the participating SEPAs by
which (para. 4.06);
(a)    SEPAs would approve the technical feasibility and the adequacy of the
proposed investments for controlling and monitoring pollution, each within its
jurisdiction;
(b)    SEPAs would prepare for the Bank semi-annual progress reports on
ambient quality and impact of project investments on the environment;
(c)    BNDES would pass on to each SEPA as a grant an amount equivalent
to 0.2% of the value of any subloan for pollution control given within the state
of the said SEPA. This grant would be used as technical assistance for the
institutional strengthening of the SEPA.
(d)    SEPAs would prepare progress reports on the institutional
development resulting from the use of technical assistance resources provided by
BNDES.



25
(iv) The amount of vi.bloans financing subprojects will be on average equivalent to
at least 60 percent of the subproject costs (para. 4.13).
(v)  Tle index or indices used by BNDES to calculate subloan repayment amounts
will reflect and correct fully for inflation and will ensure full adjustment of principal on
BNDES Subloans (para. 4.15);
(vi)  Loan resources will be onlent to industry, directly or through other FIs, for
pollution control investments in accordance with BNDES credit policies (interest rates
are currently between 9 and 12 percent above the index TR) (para. 4.15);
(vii) BNDES will inform FIs, no later than seventy-five days after Loan effectiveness,
that Loan funds are available and of the conditions of their use (para. 4.15);
(viii) Pollution control subprojects not included in a Bank-approved state strategy or
those greater than US$5 million of Bank financing, would require prior Bank approval
(para. 4.17);
(ix) The Bank will carry out a mid-term review no later than two years after the
effectiveness date of the Loan, to review the progress of project implementation, the
performance of the Borrower and each SEPA as regards their participation in the
project (para. 4.23).
Recommendation
5.02     With the above agreements, the proposed Project would constitute a suitable basis for
a Bank Loan of US$50 million equivalent to BNDES, under terms and conditions applicable to
Brazil, with the guarantee of the Federative Republic of Brazil.



26                                  ANNEX I
Page 1 of 4
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Description of States Components and Justification Under the Project
General
1.    The project will provide resources for industrial pollution control and/or technical assistance
to states in Brazil and State Environmental Protection Agencies (SEPAs). Financing of pollution
control equipment will be provided to those industries identified in the industrial pollution control
strategies developed by each SEPA. Under special circumstances with obvious sources of extreme
pollution in states with weak SEPAs, financing could be made available (with prior Bank approval)
for pollution control equipment without the need for an overall control strategy, provided these
subprojects are economically justified.
2.    Strategies developed by SEPAs are based upon identification of specific regions within the
State which are determined to be heavily polluted (air, water, and hazardous waste) and where the
main cause of that pollution is industry. Having identified the area, principal industries responsible
for the pollution are delineated. Typically, industrial pollutants for air include dust, sulfur dioxide,
organics, and odor. Water pollution from industry is normally organic, toxic organics, and heavy
metals. All industries are prioritized in each region by particular pollutant on a "worst first" basis, i.e.,
the most serious polluters are ranked highest. This assures that enforcement will proceed with
reduction of the largest contributors first. Since the area was initially identified as primarily polluted
by industry, the scheme also assures the most effective means of environmental improvement to the
region. A separate list is prepared in each region for each pollutant. While it is likely that an
industry may appear on more than one list, it needs not be ranked the same for different pollutants,
i.e., a company ranked first on the dust removal strategy, may be tenth on the sulfur dioxide removal
strategy.
3.    Preliminary identification of areas heavily polluted by industry were made by diagnostic studies
financed under the Second Industrial Pollution Control Project (Loan 2831-BR).  Further
confirmation was based upon a variety of additional techniques: air/water quality data indicating
serious standards violations, emission/effluent data exceeding legal or commonly accepted norms,
diffusion, dispersion modeling, adverse levels of "indicator pollutants" unique to specific industrial
sources (e.g., phenols, benzopyrenes), verified abnormal health statistics in specific localities or
persistent ecological problems, e.g., fish kills.
4.    In analyzing their strategy, each SEPA was to examine their existing environmental monitoring
network to ensure that as industries implement control, the monitoring system would be capable of
registering environmental improvements. If their network is inadequate, necessary monitoring
equipment is to be provided as part of their technical assistance component.



27                                  ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4
5.    The specific nature of the project for each participating state is presented below.
Sao Paulo: Acceptable strategies for air and water pollution control have been prepared by
CETESB as a requirement of the two previous pollution projects. A strategy for hazardous
waste is to be prepared under this project. The project will provide financing for industrial
hazardous waste incinerators and/or landfills in GSPMA. It will also provide resources for
all types of industrial pollution control for air and water, as included in the CETESB's control
strategies. The project could also be used to assist companies in financing waste water
pretreatment facilities as an element of industrial pollution in the overall GSPMA plan for
cleanup of the Rio Tiete.
Rio De Janeiro: Priority pollution problems have been identified from industry in the Paraiba
do Sul River, the main drinking water body for the State and the Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan
area (GRJMA), Sepetiba Bay, Lagoas de Jacarepagud, Guanabara Bay (all in the Greater Rio
de Janeiro Metropolitan Area, GRJMA). Pollution is caused by discharges of organic
materials, heavy metals and hazardous wastes. Industrial air pollution from dust, sulfur
dioxide and odors have also been identified as critical in GRJMA and the middle of the
Paraiba do Sul River. The project wil! include financing pollution control equipment,
incinerators and landfills for industries critical to these regions.
In order to improve baseline knowledge of industrial air and water pollution, as well as the
predictive capabilities for air pollution in GRJMA and water pollution in Guanabara Bay, technical
assistance will be provided to FEEMA for improving their laboratory capabilities, improving air and
water quality monitoring networks, development of air emission source inventories, staff training,
specialized studies and development of appropriate air and water pollution dispersion models.
Santa Catarina: Five regions in this state have been identified as having critical water
pollution problems, two regions with critical air pollution problems, and four with hazardous
wastes. Principal polluting industries include iron and steel, coalmining and power, building
materials, care alcohol and chemicals (southern region) and textiles, leather, food products,
pulp-paper-wood products, petroleum refining, ceramics and electroplating (norther region).
6.    Air pollution problems are primarily from ceramics industries, thermo-electric power, coke
ovens, and small scale foundries. Hazardous wastes are a problem in the state.
7.    Coal mining, past and present, in Siderdpolis and Criciuma have created acid mine drainage
problems of staggering proportions. Since part of the problem is with some companies no longer in
business, the result of decades of heaping mine rejects with no regard to the environment, there is
a clear need for government involvement. The situation is threatening the integrity of the drinking
water supply and food production activities (rice, shrimp).
8.     The project will include financing equipment for air and water pollution control, preparation
of hazardous waste landfills and implementation of appropriate technical schemes to curtail acid mine
drainage.



28                                ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
9.    Parand: Water pollution problems in Parand are well controlled. Approximately 94 percent
of all potential industrial organic discharges are eliminated. Nonetheless, there is the characteristic
that large industries are located on small tributaries of major rivers, thus causing high levels of
localized pollution problems. A small number of pulp and paper mills, leather, textile, and sugar
alcohol factories in the Iguagtl, Tibagf, Parana, Paranapanema, Piquiri and Cinzas river basins have
been identified as major polluters.
10.   Air pollution problems are confined to two industrial areas on the outskirts of Curitiba and
Campos Ponta Grossa. In Curitiba, primary polluting industries are lime kilns generating dust, and
a variety of chemical, petroleum, and pulp plants in the AraucOria area which cause both S02 and
dust problems.
11.   The project will provide resources for pollution control investment to these industries.
SUREHMA has not fully developed an appropriate air pollution control strategy which reflects their
traditional focus on water pollution control; an element of technical assistance to SUREHVA will
be consultant support to develop such a strategy. Financing of air pollution control schemes,
particularly in the Araucaria area, will be contingent upon completion of these plans and action
recommended within this strategy.
12.   Technical assistance will be provided to SUREHMA to improve its air and water quality
monitoring networks, provide staff training in areas of industrial pollution control, treatment of
hazardous wastes, accident and risk analysis, and use of modem analytical equipment for air and water
analysis. SUREHMA is in the process of constructing a new laboratory facility. The assistance could
include priority analytical equipment for this laboratory facility.
13.   Espfrito Santo: SEAMA is a newly created, dynamic environmental protection agency. With
the technical assistance of CETESB, this SEPA has been able, in a short period of time, to identify
its most critical pollution problems and to develop a rational strategy and work program to reduce
pollution to acceptable levels.
14.   Espfrito Santo's program under the Project consists of air pollution control from two large
state-owned companies located in the Greater Vitoria area: CST (Companhia Siderurgica de
Tubargo) and the pelletizing and related operations of CVRD (Companhia Vale do Rio Doce). Both
are profitable companies. Federal Government approval is needed to make them eligible for
accessing loan resources.
15.   Technical assistance for Espfrito Santo could consist of laboratory equipment, assistance with
further refinement of the air and water pollution control strategies, and development of a long term
overall pollution control strategy.
16.   Bahia: CRA has not yet developed a pollution control strategy. Currently, it is under the
direction of dynamic new management. Bahia is believed to have severe industrial pollution



29                                   ANNEX x
Page 4 of 4
problems, particularly at the "petrochemical pole".' Provision of technical assistance, could assist
in developing a state strategy, as well as provide laboratory equipment and staff training.
17.   When CRA verifies the severity of industrial pollution problems in certain areas of Bahia
(notably the petrochemical pole at Camacari), financing to specific industries could be made available
without need for an overall state strategy.
18.   Minas Gerais has identified over 13,000 industrial pollution sources, 1500 of which are
considered priority. Air pollution is considered critical in five areas: Belo Horizonte (cement, iron
and steel), Calcaria Sete, Lagoas (iron, limestone), Siderurgica (steel), Espinhaco Meridionel (steel,
non-ferrous metals), and Alto Medio Sao Francisco (steel). Critical areas for water pollution are
Belo Horizonte (iron/steel, food, textiles, tanneries, paint, soap, slaughterhouses), Juiz de Foro
(textiles, pulp, food), Uberaba (chemicals, sugar, alcohol), and Mineradoras de Diamontina (gold).
19.   The project will help finance pollution control equipment, although FEAM has developed a
strategy, and considerable technical assistance will be needed for monitoring and enforcement.
Project resources for this purpose would be of critical importance.
20.   Rio Grande de Sul: DMA (State SEPA), although it has some excellent technical staff, is
quite weak and has not yet developed an acceptable pollution control strategy. However, there are
areas with serious industrial pollution problems. The capital city of Porto Alegre is most critical, with
an abundance of tanneries and shoe factories (water pollution) in the northern part of the city, and
petroleum refining, steel, and cement (air pollution) in the southern part of the city. Additional
sources from pulp and paper and metal working plants are also present. The area known as Rio
Grande is known as "Cubatao do Sul" in reference to the once seriously polluted area near Sao Paulo.
Here, refineries, fertilizer plants, and food industries render the region critically polluted. Like
Cubatao, the industries here also present an industrial hazard, because of materials transported and
stored here. Calxas do Sul, just north of Porto Alegre is home to 300 foundries and serious air
pollution problems.  Other parts of the state also possess serious pollution problems from
petrochemical manufacture, and the planned expansion of a coal mine power complex at Companho
also holds potential for substantial pollution issues.
21.   DMA is in substantial need of technical assistance to develop their pollution control strategies
and bolster and enforce their monetary capabilities.
I/  An industrial area of Camacari close to the capital of Salvador, which is host to a variety of petrochemical, orSanic and inorpanic
chemical industries.



30                                 ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Technical Assistance
1.    The project will finance technical assistance to BNDES. BNDES commission fee of 0.2% of
subloan values, estimated to amount to US$200,000, and Japanese grant of about US$500,000, would
be passed on to SEPAs for technical assistance. Details of technical assistance items for BNDES and
SEPAs that have prepared their strategies are presented below. For SEPAs which do not have
strategies, technical assistance; as a matter of priority, would focus on consultant support in the
preparation of appropriate industrial pollution control strategies for their respective states.
2.    In general, technical assistance will consist of sampling, monitoring, and the provision of
equipment to analyze gaseous, liquid and solid discharges as well as equipment for determining
ambient quality levels for air, water, and soil. It will also support training activities of full-time SEPA
technical staff and any consultant services necessary for the above activities, special studies, or
preparation * 0 pollution control strategies. Technical assistance resources would not be used for
financing salaries, general SEPA operating expenses, purchases of general use equipment (cars or
boats), or construction. Specific areas of technical assistance are indicated below.
BNDES
3.    BNDES operations staff will receive technical training in the areas of environmental
regulations establishing environmental priorities and pollution control technologies, as well as regional
environmental problems in Brazil.
4.    BNDES operations staff will also receive training in the area of pollution and pollution
control in the following industrial subsectors:
(i)    Chemicals, petrochemicals, and fertilizers;
(ii)   Pulp and water;
(iii)   Steel and metallurgy;
(iv)   Mineral processing;
(v)   Agriculture;
(vi)  Infrastructure (energy, transport, and urban services)
(vii)  Traditional industries (textile, agro-industry, food, etc.).
Technical Assistance for SEPAs
5.    The following are the principal items for SEPAs' technical assistance, eligible for financing
by BNDES and/or the Japanese grant facility:



31                               ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
PABA,NA
Air Pollution Training Courses:
(i)   Stack sampling and monitoring;
(ii)   High volume sampling and monitoring techniques (ambient, dust);
(iii)   Analytic laboratory techniques;
(iv)   Pulp and paper processes;
(v)   Limes, limestone and cement processes;
(vi)  Secondary lead foundries;
(vii)  Grain processing;
(viii)  Soap and wax processes.
Solid Waste Management Courses:
(i)   Solid waste management techniques;
(ii)   Control of sanitary landfill;
(iii)   Origin and classification of hazardous wastes;
(iv)   Storage of toxic wastes;
(v)   Techniques of waste incineration;
(vi)   Waste treatment and disposal processes;
(vii)  Study tours.
MINAS GERALS
Studies and Training:
*      -Emission standards for sulfur dioxide
*      3Environmental data hours
x     Bioassay of toxic wastes
x     Agricultural use of steel industry solid wastes
*     Gold mining pollution control
*     Iron mining pollution control
Equipment & Monitoring:
*     Laboratory equipment general
*     Analytical equipment for monitoring/sampling
SANTA CATARINA
Eguipment & Monitoring:
*     Water quality analysis (equipment only)
*     Water quality monitoring
*     Air quality monitoring and analysis



32                               ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
Training:
*     Toxidc materials and analysis (pesticides/heavy metals)
o     Air pollution: monitoring, modeling, control
*     Hazardous Waste: Disposal, transport
*     Water Pollution Control: biological and physical, chemical methods
*     Water quality modelling
*     Environmental Impact Assessment
RIO DE JANEIRO
Monitoring:
*     Water Quality
*     Air Quality
*     Stock Emission
*     Effluent Discharge
.2Studies:
*     Defining norms for industrial activities
*     Development of industrial pollution control strategies
*     Source receptor modeling
*     Risk Analysis
Training:
*     Technology Transfer
ESPiRlTO SANTO
Equipment & Monitoring:
*     Laboratory equipment - water
*     Laboratory equipment - air
*     Air quality monitoring network
*     Water quality monitoring network
Training:
*     Environmental engineering (long-term study)
*     Short-term study tours
*     Environmental seminars



33
ANNEX III
TABLE 1
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
POLLUTION CONTROL INVESTMENTS INCLUDED IN STATE STRATEGIES
STAT-E OF ESPIRITO SANTO
(in thousands of dollars)
AIR POLLUTION                                                       WATER POLLUTIONI
Company                                             Cost            Company                                              Cost
Ponta de TubarLo-Particulate Matter                                 Formate Lver-DBO
CVRD                                                33,867          Real CafE                                              174
CST                                                 30,000          Chocolates Vit6ria                                     158
Dumilho                                                158
Ponta de Tubarlo.Sulfur Dioxide                                     Brasperola                                             112
CST                                                  3,000          CCPL                                                   107
CVRD                                                 1,330          Abatedouro Sbo Sebastiano                               52
Alberto P. Leir6z                                       42
Jardim AmErica-Particulate Matter
Cofavi                                                 855          Bubu River-DBO
Frmlacal                                               144
Viana-Particulate Matter                                            Paloma                                                 141
CBF                                                  2230           Serra Grande                                            55
Dumilho                                                 65          Curumes do Nordesto                                     47
Planalto Caraoina-Particulate Matter                                Atlantic Ocean-DBO
Tercon                                                 437          Ipessa                                                 138
Ornato                                                 395          Chocolates Garoto                                      126
Logasa                                                 323          DPI                                                     30
Incospal                                               314          Veneer Line                                             30
Sobarita                                               279          Gilcal                                                  28
Sidepar                                                 43          Cassaro                                                 28
Concrevit                                               28          Gincal (suspended solids)                               26
Andrade e Freitas                                       20          Ramiro                                                  20
Serv.Concr. Grande Vitoria                               9
Carboindus.rial                                          7
AIR POLLUTION TOTAL                                 73,202          WATER POLLUTION TOTAL                                 1,616



34
ANNEX-111
TABLE 2
STATE OF MINAS GERAS
(in thousands of dollars)
AIR POLLUTION                                      Cost           AIR POLLUTION TOTAL:                             300,636
DUST:
ReUTio Metaluruc_a                                               WATER POLLUTION                                     Cost
Acominas                                          46,SOO
Cosigua                                              97S         Usiminas:
Usiminas                                         lS5,052          PH, suspended solids,
Aceslta                                           20,000          ammonia, COD                                       6,11S
Sid. Itasider                                        420
Sid. Santamaria                                      240         Acesita:
Sld. Ironbras                                        630          Suspended solids, oils,
Sid. Cosissa                                         630          ammonia, cyanide, phenols,
Sid. Roma                                            420          chrome (6), PH                                     6,000
Sid. Interlagos                                     1,050
Sid. InsWvi                                          630         Clabelgo Mineira:
Sid. Olobo                                           240          Oil, suspended solids,
Sid. Calsete                                         240          phenols, cyanide, BOD                              7,600
Sid. Noroeste                                        420
Sid. Sete Lagoas                                     420         Cosigua:
Sid. Coirba                                          240          Suspended solids, phenols,
Sid. Cimetal                                         420          ammonia,oil,BOD                                     1,200
Sid. Ind, Itaunense                                  420
Cia. Mineira de Siderwgla                            420         AJAX Baterias:
Sinduminas                                           420          Heavy metals                                          S1
Camargos                                             240
Itapeva                                              240         Curtume Vilanisa:
Sid. Nova Serrana                                    240          DOD, suspended solids                                2S0
Sid. SaO Crist6vao                                   630
Sid. Valinho                                         420         Cia. Fabril:
Sid. Sio Jobo                                        240          Mascarenhas
Sid. Delta                                           640          BOD, COD                                             178
Sid. Ferroeste                                       240
Sid. Sidervale                                       240         Facelpa:
Sid. Siderbel                                        240          BOD, COD                                           1,700
Sid. Santamaria                                      240
Sid. Conceiglo do Pare                               240         SPAM:
Sid. Alterosa                                        840          BOD                                                  143
Usipa                                                240
TOTAL:                                           234,717          Nutricia:
BOD                                                  90
Alto Mddio Sio Francisco
Minas Ligas                                       12,000
Liasa                                              9SS5S         WATER POLLUTION TOTAL:                             23,327
Inonibras                                          6,600
RIMA                                               8,000
Italmagnesio                                      18,000
TOTAL:                                            S4,15S
ReuiEo Metropolitana de Belo HorIzonte
Lafersa                                             1,630
Magnesita                                          S,004
ICAL                                               3,640
Soelcom                                             1,730
TOTAL:                                             12,004



35
ANNEX III
TABLE 3
STATE OF PARANA
(in thousands of dollars)
AIR POLLUTION
Company                                            Cost    WATER POLLUTION
Cuwitiba-Sulfur Dioxide
Refinaria Araucada                                  1,700         Companv                                            Cost
Ind. Quim. Meliane                                   230
Clmento Rio Branco                                   220         Alto lauacd Basin-BOD
Argovia Mctalilrgica                                 187          Colcepa                                            1,840
Baterdu Delon                                        172          Curtume Addilica                                     240
CIa. Fosforos Fiat Lux                               145
Tibagi Basin-BOD
Cam aos Ponta (JrossaaSulfur Dioxide                             Inddstria Klabin                                    2,100
Sanbra                                              1,100         Textil Carpas                                        460
KUabin Papel e Celulose                              850
Parani Basig-BOD
Campos Ponta Grossa-Particulatg Matter                            Lorenz National Industrial                           783
lguacu Papel Celulose                              5,000          Ind. Agro Com. Cassava                               288
Norte Velho-Particulate Matter                                    Parananema Basin-BOD
Cia. Senges Papel Celulose                          1000          Cia. Agri. Usina Jacarezinho                         600
Pipuizi Basin-BOD
Ind. Fecularia Lorenz                                197
Cirizas Basin-BOD
Usina Bandeirantes                                 4,674
AIR POLLUTION TOTAL:                               10,604
WATER POLLUTION TOTAL:                             11,182



36
ANNEX III
TABLE 4
STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO
(in thousands of dollars)
AIR POLLUTION                                                                        WATER POLLUTION
Compan                      Cost          Company                     Cost           Company                     Cost
Metropolitan Rio-Particulate Matter       Mddio Parafba-Sulfur Diodide               Parafba do Sul River Basin-BOD
Sid.Guan.Cosigua-S.Cruz     10000         Sider. Barra Mansa            1500         Tint. Estamp. Metropolitana    1100
Asberit                      1000         Sola S/A Ind. Alimentfcias     1S0         Malhas Lima Ltda.             1100
Prog.lnd.Bras Fab.Bangu       200         Copa Cia. de Papdis            135
Cia.Textil BrasD Ind.         100         S/A Martuscello                117         Guanabara Bay Basin-Heaw Metals
Wemer Fab.de Tecidos          100         Cynamid Qufmica do Brasl       106         Inddstrias Pumar              300
Fagam S/A Ind. Reunidas       100         Litogrifica Volta Redonda      100         CBV Inddstrias Mecanicas      200
Cimobras                       92         Tecido Sta.Rosa P.de Fontin    200         S/A Curtume Carioca           200
Shell do Brasil                71         Pncumiticos Michelin           100         Gen. Electric do Brasil       200
Grande Rio Alimentos           63         Fianna Ind.Com.de Conservas    100
Lincoln Brasoldas              57         Cia.Flum.de Refriger.          100         Guanabara Bay Basin-BOD
Sadia Concordia                S0         Laniffcio Alto da Boa Vista    100         Multifabril S/A              2700
Cibrapel                       S0         T6xtil Ferreira Guimarles      100         Tecidos Nova AmErica         2700
Industrias Granfino            S0         Fornasa S/A                    100         Cia. Cervejaria Brahma       2100
Linificio Leslie               45         Fibrica de Fitas Suissa        200         Metal Forty S/A              2100
CCPL-San Gongalo               40         Quim. Ind. Barra do Piraf       96         Converbras                   1700
Coca-Cola Refresco             40         IQR/Sandoz                      93         De Millus S/A Ind. e Com.    1500
Tasa Lubrificantes             36         Kodak Bras. Com. e Ind.         83         CCPL-Sio Gongalo             1500
Soc.Ind. Refrigera. Flexa      36         Quinvale Qufmica Industrial     79         Coqueiro Aiimentos S/A       1500
Refrigerantes Nlterdi          35         Seagram Conain. de Bebidas      71         Bloch Editores               1500
Fdbrica de Papel Tijuca        25         Wander Prod. Alimentfclos       43         Refinaria Piedade            1500
Cargil Agricola                15         A. Estanffe.a do Brasil        100         Unilo Bras.Pesca/Conserv.    1200
Conservas Piracema-Fil.      1200
Metropolitan Rio                                                                     Conseivas Rubi               1200
-Odors and Toxic Substances               AIR POLLUTION                              Conservas Piracema-Matriz    1200
Bayer do Brasil             10000         TOTAL                       53,428         Refinaria de Manguinhas      1100
Unigo Fabril Exportador      5000                                                    Atlan.lndal de Conservas     1000
Ref.de Petr. Manguinhos      5000                                                    Cia.Quim.Ind.de Laminados     900
Solutec                      1000                                                    Cibrapel S/A-Mage             900
The Sidney Ross Co.          2000                                                    Rloquimica                    800
Fabrimar Ind.e ComErcio      2000                                                    Progresso Ind. do Brasil      800
Curtume Carioca Penha        2000                                                    Fildusa Frigortficos          800
Lubifitcantes Salutec        ????                                                    IFF Essencias/Frag.           500
Merck Ind. Qufmicas          1000                                                    Unilo Fab.Exportadora         300
Cervejaria Brahma Centro     1000                                                    Kibon S/A                     200
Vulcan Material Plastico     1000
Cervejarias Reunidas Skol    1000                                                    Sepetiba Bay Basin-Heavy Metals
Cia.Bras de Antibi6ticos     1000                                                    Cia.Slder.Guanab-Cosigua     2500
Rioquimica                   1000
Westinghouse Ind. Bras.       S00                                                    SeMetiba Bay Basin-BOD
Zimbra Agropeucuiria          S00                                                    S/A Curtume Carloca           S00
Ciba Geigy Ind. Qufmica       S00
Prosint. Prod. Sintdticos     200                                                    Jacarepxeg; Latoon Basin
Conservas Piracema Matriz      70                                                    .Heaw Metals
Conservas Rubi                 70                                                    Cobra Computadores            500
Conservas Piracema Filial      70
Atlantic Ind. de Consezvas     70                                                    Jacareoatud Lagoon Basin-BOD
Coqueiro Alimentos             70                                                    Reginaves Ind.Com de Aves     800
Cia Quim.lnd.de Lam-Form.   1000
Bally Qutmica S/A            1500                                                    WATER POLLUTION
Fundigio Curicica            1000                                                    TOTAL                       38,200



37
ANNEX III
TABLE 5
STATE OF SANTA CATARINA
(in thousands of dollars)
AIR POLLUTION
Company                                             Cost   iHAZARDOUS WASTE
Southen Reslon                                                     Company                                             Cost
Particulate Matter & S02
Ind. Carboquim Catarinense                          1,500          Hazardous Waste Treatment Centers
Ibracoque                                             420          Southern Region                                      2500
Inccol                                                420          Northern Region                                      2500
Coquesul                                              420          Itajai Valley                                        2500
Coque Cricuima                                        420          Peixe River Basin                                    1500
Micol                                                 420
Ind.Carboquim Rio Dcserto                             420          HAZARDOUS WASTE TOTAL                                9,000
Ingusa                                                420
Cocalit                                               420
Coque Palermo                                         420
Incopiso 1                                            190
Magasa III                                            190
Incocesa                                              180
Magasa 1                                              180
Cesaca                                                180
Cecrisa                                               180
Magasa 11                                             180
Incopiso 11                                           180
Ceramica Portinari                                    180
CerAmica Eldorado                                     180
Cemaco                                                140
Ceusa                                                 140
Pisos Tubarlo                                         140
Cerimica Imbituba                                     140
Colorobbia                                            140
Fritasul                                              140
CerAmica dc Lucca                                     140
CerAmica Page                                         140
Centr,EI/Sul do Brasil                                140
Ferro Enamel                                          140
Mecril                                                130
Sidesa                                                130
Northern Reelon
Particulate Matter
Tupy                                                 1750
Northern Retion.Odors
PCC                                                   400
Manville                                              400
Primo Tedesco                                         400
Rigesa                                                400
AIR POLLUTION TOTAL                                12.110



38
ANNEX III
TABLE 6
STATE OF SANTA CATARINA
(in thousands of dollars)
WATER POLLUTION
Companv CoMRany                                                       COst           Company                     Cost
Ararangua -River Basin.IDBO               Urussanta River BasinSulLates              Itaiaf River BasinaDBO
Arafcolua EliaerBso n         200          Carbonifera Rio Deterto       280         Ind. Textii Gaspar             300
Avfcola Bliano                200                                                    Frigovale                       60
Dalbo e Cia                   700          Cachoeira/Cubatio BssinsDBO               Linhas Leop.Schmatz           1000
Dohler                        200         Irmlos Verdi                    60
Ararantua River Basln-Fenols              Malhari Catryma                400         Cia Hering-Matriz              200
Cesaca                        200         Lumiere S/A                    300         Tecelagem Tomazoni             120
Incopiso 1, ll                100         Tricot Ai(r Marquardt         300          Sul Fabril                    350
Tecidos Dona Francisca        150         Pescados Kowalski              100
Ararangua River Basin-Heaw Metals         Fla9go Joinvillense            200         Hering-Itoro                   250
Cerimica de Lucca             170         Scala T8xtil                   40          Felpudos Fanix                 125
Cerimica Portinari            300         Malharia Arp                   100         Novesul S/A                    350
CerAmica Eldorado             150                                                    Itasul S/A                      70
Cemaca                        170         Cachoeira/Cubatlo Basin                    Davi Greg6rio Neto             150
FleawMetals                               Chantelle MaU/Tintur           70
Araran ua River Basin-Sulfates            *Heaw Metals                               MalhaTeitur Salveira           150
Carbort(ffra Prosperas       1100         Fundiglo Tupy                 750          CMah/ntrd                      80vir  S
Carbonffera Criciuma          190         Ctadocu River Basin-D80 ma                                                180
Carbonflera Metropol          290         Marisol                        150         Industrial Appel               120
Carbon(fera Ararantua         270         Jaragui Fabril                 S00         Femepe Pescados                580
Carbonifera Treviso            32         Dalcelis                      450          Sul Atlintico                 200
Coque Catarinense              61         Nanete Roupas                 300          Quaker Alimentfcios           250
Carbondfera Catarin.          260         Curtume Arnol. Schmidt        350          Estamparia Florisa             130
Carbonffera Urussanga         450          ncatex Ltda.                  150         TSxtil Karsten                300
AraLaneua River Basin-Susy. Solids        Lael Malhas                    180         Cremer Texteis                 430
Teka-Indalal                  120
Carboqu(mica Catarin.         270         Itanocu River Basin-HIeav Metals           Mipesca Pescados               600
Tubarlo River Basin-Fenols                Weg Motores                     80         Furtado                        100
Tubocesar o00 RiverCia. Schlosser                                                                                  350
!ncocesa                      100         Chapeco River Basin-DBO                    Teka Teciagem                 450
Sadia Concordia             2100         Maju Textil                    450
Tubarbo River Heavv Metals                 Sadia Avicol                 1100         Intepe                         300
Carbonifera Catarinn         2320         Celulose Irani                450          Aguas Negras/paper              80
Tubarlo River Basin-Sulata                 Chapeco Alimentos             150         Itaiai Rivr Basin-DBO
lbracoque-Mneragio  164         Chapeco Alimentos             300         Iaa  ie  al-B
Ibracoqiue-Mineraqlo          164         Seara Industrial              250          BlufIx                         200
Carbonitera Palermno          140                                                    Metalva Ltda.                   40
Lavador Capivari             3200         Canoss River Basin.DBO                     Lorenzetti Inebrasa             90
MinerBarro Branco             300         PapeUCelul. Catarin           400          Hering Brinquedos               60
Ulrussanee River Basin-Fenols             Manville Florestals           300
Urussanae Riwr i3asin Fenos   2Perdiglo Agroindust.                     700          ItaCai River BasinT ar
Magasa 1~ Ill 111             200         Curtume Legeano               S00          Ceroinca Ranha                  40
Urussanga River Basin-Leay Metals         Celucat                       320          Porcelana Schmidt              100
Cecnsa                        ISO         Cartnes Sbravalti              ISO
Cerimica Urussanga            100
Recel                         100
WATER POLLUTION TOTAL 31,842



39
AN-NEX I
BRAZIL
STAF APPRAISAL RE;POR
NAITONAL INDUSTIAL POLLUTION CONTRQL PROJECT
ESlAM&U]2 SCHEDULSE QE DIS5BURSEMENTS
IBRD FY                                              Disbursements (US$ millions)
and
Quarter Ended                                  By Quarter                  Cumulative
FY93
September 30                           ----
December 31                            3.0
March 31                               3.0
June 30                                4.0                              10.0
FY94
September 30                           5.0
December 31                            5.0                               --
March 31                               5.0                              ---
June 30                                5.0                              30.0
FY95
September 30                           4.0
December 31                            4.0
March 31                               4.0
June 30                                3.0                              45.0
FY96
September 30                           3.0
December 31                            2.0                              50.0



xbX  ( V E N E Z U E L A 8ts  /  (FRENh  .  s'r   - -                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IDRD 22413
I       C -                 1  .SURINAME;eUIANAA                         B R A Z I L
C O LO M BI Ag  PRoaishdft\ ,j/' \NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL
\>\ fX,<,,;stRORA VA 7=,> t AM PA\ POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
o 0.                                 @                           Macpa
>   ('\  ,)S/"<!    t   ') 2     \  2,¢tlliplb                                                 °t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
<                                            A/RIOCRAI$DIDSFIWR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I6pli
z                                  p                         AR  iHA /                          C I` AA  w/  euj
X   (  B O L I V I A   wS z    z       Goicinio-    i    ;       °^r;wsg;> |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P  AU 
O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ C                                           F.I    d.  N i1'<w \XAALAY   
t 5t-4>, ( igoronoBuo 2 StofwswiJISwoegios~~~~~~~~~G                                             vado
t\<8t>aBOlAL  }  A R G E N T lo°/N A  ,/   ~~~~~~~~~X°ria/dJodis               2   Sfofetw;^Sfr<"iinund-erfO,enG   I  swanf16
o, S g   ltwmrllevvtplpc   ols        tr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tolt o.
_ - 4S.    suc mosrs         6, >                    Sr                       P              _             UGUS 1S9



