Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 17536
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
(LOAN 3480-BR)
March 24, 1998
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Local Currency Unit                                          = Real (R)1
Rate at Appraisal (April 20, 1992)                           = US$1/Cz$1,800
Rate at Closing (June 30, 1997)                              = US$1/R $1.0761
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
BNDES               National Bank of Econormic and Social Development (Batnco Nacioial
de Desenivolvimento Econ6mico e Social)
CETESB              State of Sao Paulo's Environmental Protection Agency (Companthia de
Tectnologia e Saneamiento Ambiental
CRA                 State of Bahia's Environmental Protection Agency (Centro de Recursos
Ambientais)
FATMA               State of Santa Catarina's Environmental Protection Agency (Fundacao
de Amparo a Teciologia e ao Meio Ampibiente)
FEAM                State of Minas Gerais' Environmental Protection Agency (Funda('do
Estadual de Meio Ambienlte)
FEEMA               State of Rio de Janeiro's Environmental Protection Agency (FuundaCdo
Estaddual de Engeniheiria de Meio Amibiente)
FEPAM               State of Rio Grande do Sul Environmental Protection Agency
(Fundac~do Estadual de Protecdo Amtlbietital)
Fl                  Financial intermediary
IBAMA               Brazilian Institute of Environment (Inistituto Brasileiro de Meio
Ambietnte)
ICB                 International Competitive Bidding
ICR                 Implementation Completion Report
MOP                 Memorandum of the President
SAR                 Staff Appraisal Report
SEAMA               State of Espirito Santo's Environmental Protection Agency (Secretaria
de Estaclo para Assuntos de Meio Ambientte)
SEMA                Special Secretariat of the Environment in Ministry of Interior
(Secretaria Especial do Meio Ambiente)
SEPA                State Environmental Protection Agency - Generic acronym
TA                  Technical Assistance
The Real was introduced in 1994.
Vice President        Shahid J. Burki
Country Director      Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Director       Maritta Koch-Weser
Task Manager          Laura Tlaiye



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
(Loan 3480-BR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page N°
PREFACE .............................................                                              i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY ............................................. iii
Project Objectives ..................................................... iii
Implementation Experience and Results .....................................................  iv
Suummaiy of Lessons Learned ......................................................v
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ............1........... 
A. Background .....................................................1I
B. Project Design and Objectives ......................................................2
C. Achievement of Project Objectives ......................................................4
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project ......................................................8
E. Bank Performance ...................................................... 11
F. Borrower Performance .....................................................              12
G. Project Sustainability .....................................................            13
H. Assessment of Outcome .................                                                 13
I. Lessons Learned .................                                                       14
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION ................................                                16
Table 1.   Summary of Assessments                                                             16
Table 2. Related Bank Loans .18
Table 3. Project Timetable .19
Table 4.   Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .19
Table 5. Project Costs and Financing .20
Table 6. Status of Legal Covenants .21
Table 7. 'Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .23
Table 8. Bank Resources: Missions .24
APPENDIX:         A. Mission's Aide Memoire
B. Borrower's evaluation report
C. Borrower's comments
D. Map No. IBRD 22413R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
(Loan 3480-BR)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the National
Industrial Pollution Control Project in Brazil (Loan 3480-BR). This loan, in
2
the amount of $50 million , was approved by the Board on June 25, 1992, was
signed on September 21, 1992, and became effective on March 9, 1993. The
Export-Import Bank of Japan provided cofinancing for this project, in the
amount of $50 million. A Japanese Grant provided additional funds for
technical assistance.
The Loan closed on June 30, 1997. The Bank made its last
disbursement on October 29, 1997. Following the termination of the grace
period for disbursement of expenditures incurred before the loan Closing Date,
an undisbursec[ balance of $833,247.10 was canceled from the loan on October
31, 1997.
This ICR was prepared by Ede Ijjasz under the-supervision of Laura
Tlaiye of the Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Unit of
the Latin America and the Caribbean Region. The Borrower provided an
independent evaluation report as well as comments on the draft version of the
ICR, included in Appendices B and C, respectively.
The ICR mission took place in March 1997. This document is based
upon material in Bank files, interviews with Bank staff responsible for the
project, and exchange of information with the Borrower.
2All figures in this report are in US dollars



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
(Loan 3480-BR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    The National Industrial Pollution Control Project (Loan 3480-BR and JEXIM 306)
grew from the intention to support various industrialized states in Brazil following the
experience of Bank assistance to the State of Sao Paulo in industrial pollution control (Loans
1822-BR and 2831-EBR, approved in 1980 and 1987, respectively).
Project Objectives and Structure
2.    As stated in the Memorandum of the President (MOP), the primary objectives of the
Project were:
a)    Improve public health and living conditions of the population concentrated in and
around industrialized areas, particularly the urban poor;
b)    Familiarize the banking system with financing free-standing pollution control
investments and hence allow industry to have easier access to this type of loan through
a variety of intermediaries or directly through the Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento
Econ6mico e Social (BNDES);
c)    Enhance the capability of BNDES to understand pollution control problems, seek
possible solutions, and process loans of this nature; and
d)    Assist in strengthening institutional capacities of the most active State Environmental
Protection Agencies (SEPAs) in monitoring and analyzing environmental problems,
leading to a greater level of enforcement.
3.    The project was structured in three parts, as follows:
Pollution Control Credit Component (Part A - $199.6 million): a credit line for
pollution control investments in existing industrial facilities;
BNDES's Technical Assistance Component (Part B - $100,000): to develop its
professional staff skills in environmental assessment, environmental project analysis,
and analytical frameworks for dealing with economic aspects of pollution control
regulations; and
SEPAs Technical Assistance Component (Part C - $300,000 supplemented by a
Japanese Grant of $500,000): to strengthen the institutional capacity of the SEPAs.



- iv -
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    Pollution Control Component. Over 400 pollution control subprojects were financed
with the credit line provided under Part A of the Loan. The subprojects were located in seven
states (Bahia, Espirito Santo, Minas Gerais, Rio de Janeiro, Rio Grande do Sul, Santa
Catarina, and Sao Paulo). The subprojects were implemented to reduce pollutant emissions in
various industries, ranging from steel to petrochemicals, fertilizers, pulp and paper, as well as
central waste treatment facilities.
5.    The two largest subprojects were part of comprehensive modernization and pollution
control packages for steel companies that were privatized in 1992. The two facilities -COSIPA
and USIMINAS- were considered to be among the main polluters in the cities of Ipatinga
(State of Minas Gerais) and Cubatao (State of Sao Paulo), respectively. These subprojects were
technically complex and included numerous components. For example, the COSIPA
subproject was part of a $160 million environmental program, of which about 17% was funded
by the Bank. Nine different components were approved for financing by the Bank, including
dedusting systems to reduce particulate emissions, effluent water treatment and recycling
systems, and solid waste management units. COSIPA and USIMINAS accounted for 65% of
final commitments.
6.    Regarding the environmental results of the investments supported under this loan, the
Project was aimed at improving public health and living conditions of the populations
concentrated in and around industrialized areas. The SAR indicates that by targeting larger
industrial polluters, the Project was expected to have an appreciable impact by reducing the
level of pollutant concentrations. Hence, it is implied in the SAR that, while indicators linking
health improvements with Project outcomes were difficult to establish, environmental quality
indicators could be used as surrogates for such improvements.
7.    Data collected during supervision missions indicate that when the entire environmental
programs of COSIPA and USIMINAS (not just the portion financed under this loan) are
completed, there will be substantial reductions in pollutant emissions which should result in
improved environmental quality indicators. For example, according to the air quality report
for the State of Sao Paulo, prepared by CETESB in 1995, one of the main pollutants of
concern in the Cubatao area is particulate matter, which is generated mainly by industrial
sources, with a large portion of these emissions caused by the COSIPA facility. Using
CETESB emissions inventory of 178,409 kg/day of particulate matter for the main sources, the
implementation of COSIPA's environmental program would cut these emissions by 99% (the
subprojects financed by the Bank would contribute to approximately 30% of the total
reduction). If everything else remained equal, COSIPA's reductions, once all components of
the program are operational, should produce a noticeable improvement in air quality as
measured by reduced concentrations of particulate matter.
8.    For the balance of the approved subprojects (accounting for the remaining 35% of loan
funds not associated with USIMINAS and COSIPA), the achievement of environmental quality
improvements is more difficult to establish with precision because the contribution of the
pollutant reductions achieved relative to other pollution sources is smaller and, in some cases,



v 
unknown. This relative dispersion of the environmental benefits of this portion of the loan had
its origins in two features of the project design: (i) nationwide coverage, and (ii) the
expectation that a large number of subloans would flow through financial intermediaries (FIs)
to help them become familiar with environmental lending (the SAR states that the average
subloan would be about $1 million). Indeed, about 27.9% of the loan flowed through FIs
contributing to the achievement of objective (b), while reducing the targeting that was needed
to increase the contlibution of the project to measurable environmental improvements. Despite
the opposing tendencies of these two design features, the overall results of the credit line
component, in terms of objectives (a) and (b), are considered satisfactory.
9.    Despite significant disbursement delays at the beginning of the project, 98 % of the
funds assigned to Part A were disbursed by the closing date. BNDES was directly involved in
the detailed evaluation of 10 subprojects which accounted for 72. 1% of total commitments; the
rest of the projects were handled through FIs. All subprojects were reviewed and approved by
the SEPAs. The initial disbursement delay was due to the complexity of the COSIPA and
USIMINAS subprojects, which required prior review by the Bank.
10.   Technical Assistance to BNDES. BNDES was slow in planning this component and it
was implemented only in 1997. Despite these delays, the strengthening objectives were
achieved throughout the actual implementation of the Project. Environmental awareness and
project review skills have increased at BNDES and, in 1997, environmental protection projects
were defined as one of their four main institutional priorities. Disbursements by BNDES in
environment-related projects have grown from $201 million in 1990 to $567 million in 1996.
This signal from BNDES may have a ripple effect through its FIs. These institutions gained
experience in managing small free-standing environmental loans to industry through this
Project.
11.   Technical Assistance to SEPAs. The ability of environmental agencies to enforce
regulations is a necessary condition to motivate firms to use funds available through credit
lines designed to support industrial pollution control investments. Part C was structured to
strengthen the institutional capabilities of SEPAs and, at the same time, motivate these
agencies to increase enforcement. The mechanism for allocation of funds to the various
SEPAs was designed using an innovate arrangement where the agencies would receive one
percent of the total value of subprojects located in their jurisdictions. Despite the fact that
most of the funds were disbursed, the institutional needs of the various SEPAs were so large
that the small amounts assigned to Part C of the project were not sufficient to advance
significantly the development objectives of this component. The TA funds were used, in many
cases, to complement other institutional strengthening programs from the Bank and other
donors, increase leverage and focus on the most urgent needs of SEPAs.
Summary of Lessons Learned
12.   The key lessons learned from the implementation of the project include:
The use of a large portion of the Project funds to support environmental programs in large
facilities recognized as major polluters of a region will result, once the programs are fully



- vi -
implemented, in substantial reductions in pollutant emissions and improvements in
environmental quality indicators.
* The Project empowered BNDES as a facilitator of the dialogue between the SEPAs and
polluting companies formerly owned by the state. Before the implementation of the
project, the SEPAs had little or no influence to enforce environmental regulations on these
companies. A constructive dialogue has been initiated and enforcement agreements have
been signed and are currently under implementation.
* The success of credit lines designed to improve environmental quality depends, among
other factors, on effective targeting. Broad and open national-level credit lines may dilute
environmental quality improvements. A clearly defined strategy from the beginning and
during all phases of implementation (e.g., a given geographical area, a group of polluting
industries, a given industrial sector with critical pollution effects and restricted access to
credit, or specific demonstration/technical assistance objectives) increases the ability of the
credit line to improve environmental quality.
* There are two important forces that motivate firms to use funds from a credit line to
control pollution. The first one is enforcement pressure (either from government agencies,
justice or the public) and the second one is promotion of the credit line (ideally combined
with technical advice) by the lead financial institutions and the FIs. A credit line may
serve as a mechanism to initiate the coordination among these two motivating forces in a
combined strategy that reaches sustainability.
* The potential institutional and technical weakness of the two main actors in the
implementation of a credit line project (enforcement agencies such as SEPAs and financial
institutions such as BNDES and FIs) needs to be clearly understood during project
preparation. Adequate funding for strengthening activities must be clearly defined and
focused towards the solution of the problems identified. The implementation difficulties of
incentive mechanisms for SEPAs to obtain TA funds need to be considered during design.
* During project preparation it is important to note that potential demand for credit line
resources may be different from actual demand, depending on the level of enforcement or
public pressure.
* The incorporation of large and technically complex subprojects in a credit line for pollution
control brings implementation difficulties and increases the risk of disbursement delays. At
the same time, large facilities with decades of environmental neglect are commonly one of
the main sources of pollution in the areas where they are located. It is important to
appraise this type of subprojects prior to loan approval to increase targeting and avoid
disbursement delays.
* Clear communication and common understanding of conditions linked to the credit line
(procurement, conditionalities, disbursement, co-financing) among all participants
(financial institutions, government agencies, private companies, and the Bank) is necessary
for speedy and efficient project implementation. In particular, the incompatibility of
private sector procurement practices for large packages with Banks' ICB procedures,
contributed to delays and reduced the scope of projects that could have been financed by
the Project.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
(Loan 3480-BR)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Background
1.    The National Industrial Pollution Control Project (Loan 3480-BR) was designed to
provide support to Brazil's industrialized states in their industrial pollution control activities
along the same lines of two previous projects in the State of Sao Paulo. At the time of project
preparation, the Bank had been supporting Sao Paulo's pollution control efforts since 1971,
first in the sanitation sector (Loans 757-BR and 758-BR) and later with two operations
associated with industrial pollution (Loans 1822-BR and 2831-BR).
2.    Loan 1822-BR (Sao Paulo Industrial Pollution Control Project) was approved by the
Bank in 1980. This loan was the first free-standing environmental project supported by the
Bank in Latin America. The original goals of the project were to support Sao Paulo's efforts
to control industrial air and water pollution in the Greater Sao Paulo Metropolitan Area, and to
provide for strengthening of the Companhia de Tecnologia e Saneamiento Ambiental
(CETESB). Loan 1822-BR was difficult to implement and the funds encountered very limited
demand due to lengthy review and approval procedures, the severe recession, and the lack of
consistent enforcement of environmental regulations. In 1982-83, the loan was restructured,
reducing the loan amount from $58 million to $34 million, simplifying the approval
procedures, and expanding the list of pollutants and area of coverage to the entire State of Sao
Paulo. Demand for the loan accelerated due to a politically visible clean-up effort in the area
of Cubatao that resulted in specific compliance agreements with about 20 polluting firms. The
loan was fully disbursed by December 31, 1986 (three years later than planned) but the PPAR
(Project Performance Audit Report) concluded that the Project objectives were achieved and
the environmental consciousness in the State of Sao Paulo was raised.
3.    The design of the Second Industrial Pollution Control Project (Loan 2831-BR) was
based on the structure of the previous loan but with modifications to minimize subsidized
lending rates and to speed subproject review. This Loan, in the amount of $50 million, was
approved by the Bank in 1987. One of the components of Loan 2831-BR involved a federal
TA (technical assistance) intended to help the nascent institutions at the federal level (SEMA,
later IBAMA) and other state environmental protection agencies (SEPAs), to identify pollution
problems in states other than Sao Paulo, and to strengthen their capabilities. This second loan
also experienced delays due to insufficient pipeline preparation, inefficient subproject



-2-
processing, lack of enforcement, and indebtedness limits of the State of Sao Paulo vis-a-vis the
Federal Government. The project improved from June 1992 and, by closing, the loan had
supported 103 investment subprojects in 61 firms. However, some subprojects were canceled
as a result of interruptions in the flow of funds, and 12 % of the loan amount was canceled by
the Closing Date. In terms of the distribution of funds by region, 14% was absorbed by
Cubatao, 39% by the Greater Metropolitan Area of Sao Paulo with Santos, and 47% in other
regions of the State. The objectives of the TA for CETESB were achieved, as opposed to the
Federal TA component which was closed in June 1994 with only $0.6 of the $2.4 million
disbursed.
4.    In 1992, the National Industrial Pollution Control Project was appraised after three
years of preparation. The Project grew from the intention of various industrialized states in
Brazil to follow Sao Paulo's example in its approach to industrial pollution control. As part of
the activities under Loan 2831-BR, CETESB carried out for IBAMA a series of diagnostic
studies in 12 states. These studies identified areas with critical pollution problems within those
states. Additionally, six states prepared pollution control strategies: Sao Paulo, Rio de
Janeiro, Santa Catarina, Parana, Espirito Santo, and Minas Gerais. These studies provided
significant initial input to the design of the Project.
B. Project Design and Objectives
5.    As stated in the Memorandum of the President (MOP), the primary objectives of the
Project were:
a)    Improve public health and living conditions of the population concentrated in and
around industrialized areas, particularly the urban poor;
b)    Familiarize the banking system with financing free-standing pollution control
investments and hence allow industry to have easier access to this type of loan through
a variety of intermediaries or directly through the Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento
Econ6mico e Social (BNDES);
c)    Enhance the capability of BNDES to understand pollution control problems, seek
possible solutions, and process loans of this nature; and
d)    Assist in strengthening institutional capacities of the most active State Environmental
Protection Agencies (SEPAs) in monitoring and analyzing environmental problems,
leading to a greater level of enforcement.
6.    The project was structured in three parts, as follows:
Pollution Control Credit Component (Part A): a credit line for pollution control
investments in existing industrial facilities;
BNDES Technical Assistance Component (Part B): to develop its professional staff
skills in environmental assessment, environmental project analysis, and analytical
frameworks for dealing with economic aspects of pollution control regulations; and
SEPAs Technical Assistance Component (Part C): to strengthen the institutional
capacity of the SEPAs.



- 3 -
7.    As shown in Table 5, the total estimated project cost at appraisal was $200.5 million,
with the great majority of funds ($199.6 million) for subprojects under Part A, and the rest for
the BNDES TA component ($50,000) and SEPAs TA component ($850,000). The original
estimates were modified slightly after the co-lender's agreement was finalized. The Export-
Import Bank of Japan co-financed the three components, matching the Bank's financing of
$49.8 million for Part A, $50,000 for Part B, and $150,000 for Part C. A Japanese grant was
used to provide a supplement of $500,000 for Part C.
8.    The Borrower of the Loan was BNDES and it onlent the resources either directly to
industries or via Financial Intermediaries (FIs). The implementation of Part A called for close
coordination between BNDES, the FIs, and the various SEPAs. First, each SEPA would
approve pollution control subprojects in their respective states from the viewpoint of technical
feasibility. Polluting firms could then request financing from an Fl of their choice or BNDES,
and these institutions would evaluate the creditworthiness of borrowers. BNDES would
administer disbursements for approved subprojects and carry out regular supervision visits
during project implementation and repayment periods. The subloan interest rates were
designed to be in line with BNDES's long-term rates, which are equivalent to the TJLP (Taxa
de Juros de Longo Prazo) plus a spread defined for each product by BNDES. Parts B and C
of the Loan were implemented by BNDES and the SEPAs, respectively.
9.    As shown in Table 4, the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) estimated a relatively smooth
loan disbursement schedule with $10,20,15, and 5 million in FY93-96, and almost constant
quarterly disbursement within each fiscal year, as the average subloan size was expected to be
less than $1 million.
10.   The SAR states that the funds allocated to Part A of the Loan could be used either for
discharge reduction schemes in existing industries (e.g., end-of-pipe controls, in-process
modifications, and recycling/recovery) or for construction of new joint facilities (e.g., a
hazardous waste incinerator or a waste-water treatment plant) that would service discharges
from several companies. The funds in Part B of the Loan would be used to develop BNDES's
professional staff in environmental issues. Part C funds would be allocated, pari passu, to the
various SEPAs according to projects in their jurisdiction. The original design of the project
called for payment of one percentage point of each subproject loan to the SEPA where the
project was located. This mechanism was viewed as a tool to motivate the SEPAs to enforce
pollution control regulations more vigorously. The TA funds would be used to: (a) develop
pollution control strategies including specialized studies on market-based pollution control
mechanisms; (b) acquire laboratory and monitoring equipment; and (c) upgrade staff's
technical capability.
11.   As preparatory work for the design and implementation of the project, six states
proposed pollution control strategies that identified the key investment subproject needed in
critically polluted areas in their jurisdictions. The objective of these strategies was to
maximize the impact of project funds by concentrating on investments that could improve
environmental quality rather than only reduce industrial emissions. The priority investment
projects in the six strategies added up to a total estimate at about $600 million. The selection
of specific subprojects for funding within the strategies was left unrestricted. The project



- 4 -
funds could also be used in other states once they prepared a strategy or in subprojects not
listed, after the Bank's approval.
12.   Apart from the list of priority projects, the SAR also presents a brief description of
four pollution problems considered to be important at a national level. The SAR mentions that
project funds could be used to support programs aimed at solving these problems. The four
issues mentioned in the SAR are: (a) environmental compliance of parastatal organizations, (b)
acid mine drainage in Criciuma, (c) hazardous waste management and the Tiete River in Sao
Paulo, and (d) deficiencies in pollution characterization and strategies at the state level.
However, as the project was designed as an open credit line, there was no mechanism to
ensure that the funds would be used on these issues.
C. Achievement of Project Objectives
13.   This section presents an assessment of achievement of project objectives according to
the three parts of the Project: pollution control credit line (Part A-objective (a)), BNDES TA
(Part B-objectives (b) and (c)), and SEPAs TA (Part C-objective (d)). Section D discusses
implementation difficulties and factors affecting the project.
Part A - Pollution Control Credit Component
14.   Over 400 pollution control subprojects were financed with the credit line provided
under Part A of the Loan. Even though the majority of projects focused on end-of-pipe
controls and process modifications, two of the subprojects considered were central treatment
units (for energy recovery from industrial waste and for wastewater treatment from a group of
textile companies). The subprojects were located in seven states (Bahia, Espirito Santo, Minas
Gerais, Rio de Janeiro, Rio Grande do Sul, Santa Catarina, and Sao Paulo). The subprojects
were implemented in various industries, ranging from steel to petrochemicals, fertilizers, pulp
and paper, as well as central waste treatment facilities.
15.   The two largest subprojects were part of comprehensive modernization and pollution
control packages for steel companies that were privatized in 1992. The two facilities -COSIPA
and USIMINAS- were considered to be among the main polluters in the cities of Ipatinga
(State of Minas Gerais) and Cubatao (State of Sao Paulo), respectively. These subprojects
were technically complex and included numerous components. For example, the COSIPA
subproject was part of a $160 million environmental program, of which about 17% was funded
by the Bank and the same amount by the co-financier. Nine different components were
approved for financing by the Bank, including dedusting systems to reduce particulate
emissions, effluent water treatment and recycling systems, and solid waste management units.
16.   Project objective (a) was the improvement of public health and living conditions of the
population concentrated in and around industrialized areas, particularly the urban poor. The
reasoning presented in the SAR indicates that by targeting larger industrial polluters in areas
where industrial pollution is the major source of air or water quality problems, the Project was
expected to have an appreciable impact in reducing the level of pollutant concentrations. It is
argued in the SAR, the health of populations living near polluted industrialized areas would



-5-
improve, the life expectancy would increase, and the costs associated with health care and
productivity declines due to poor health would be reduced. Hence, it is implied in the SAR
that, while indicators linking health improvements with Project outcomes were difficult to
establish, environmental quality indicators could be used as surrogates for such improvements.
17.   The design of the project called for the collection of two sets of environmental data that
could eventually be used to monitor the impact of project activities during implementation.
The first set is related to pollution discharge data and the responsibility for their collection
corresponded to the ultimate borrower (the polluting industry). The second set was ambient
air and water quality data and their collection was part of the SEPAs' responsibilities. The
collection of both sets depended, to a large extent, on the institutional capacity of the SEPAs;
in the first case, on their ability to enforce emission data collection by polluters and, on the
second case, on the availability of equipment and technical expertise to collect and analyze
ambient environmental data.
18.   The collection of these data proved difficult for SEPAs and only partial data is
available at the time of preparation of this ICR. Emission reduction estimates exist for the
most important sources, but not all sources have been quantified by the firms. Even though
some of the pollution control packages financed by the subprojects included a monitoring
component (particularly the larger subprojects USIMINAS and COSIPA), some of the
pollution control equipment has only been recently installed. The data collection networks
managed by the SEPAs are not fully capable of measuring regional environmental
improvements directly associated with the project and the TA funds were not sufficient to
solve this deficiency.
19.   These data limitations not withstanding, analysis of data collected during supervision
missions indicate that when the entire environmental programs of COSIPA and USIMINAS
(not just the portion financed under this loan) are completed, there will be substantial
reductions in pollulant emissions which should result in improved environmental quality
indicators. For example, according to the air quality report for the State of Sao Paulo,
prepared by CETESB in 1995, one of the main pollutants of concern in the Cubatao area is
particulate matter, which is generated mainly by industrial sources, with a large portion of
these emissions caused by the COSIPA facility. Using CETESB emissions inventory of
178,409 kg/day of particulate matter for the main sources, the implementation of COSIPA's
environmental program would cut these emissions by 99% (the subprojects financed by the
Bank would contribute to approximately 30% of the total reduction). If everything else
remained equal, COSIPA's reductions, once all components of the program are operational,
should produce a noticeable improvement in air quality as measured by reduced concentrations
of particulate matter.
20.   For the balance of the approved subprojects (accounting for the remaining 35 % of loan
funds not associated with USIMINAS and COSIPA), the achievement of environmental quality
improvements is more difficult to establish with precision because the contribution of the
pollutant reductions achieved relative to other pollution sources is smaller and, in some cases,
unknown. The two new central treatment facilities supported by the Project may serve as pilot
experiences that could be replicated in Brazil. However, the effect of a large number of small



-6 -
subprojects spread over seven states is different from that of a focused effort on the largest
polluters in industrial areas with critical pollution problems. This relative dispersion of the
environmental benefits of this portion of the loan had its origins in two features of the project
design: (i) nationwide coverage, and (ii) the expectation that a large number of subloans would
flow through financial intermediaries (FIs) to help them become familiar with environmental
lending (the SAR states that the average subloan would be about $1 million). Indeed, about
27.9% of the loan flowed through FIs contributing to the achievement of objective (b), while
reducing the targeting that was needed to increase the contribution of the project to measurable
environmental improvements. Despite the opposing tendencies of these two design features,
the overall results of the credit line component, in terms of objectives (a) and (b), are
considered satisfactory.
21.   Despite significant disbursement delays at the beginning of the project, 98% of the
funds assigned to Part A were disbursed by the closing date. The undisbursed balance was due
to a difference in calculation of exchange rate variations between the Borrower and the Bank.
BNDES was directly involved in the detailed evaluation of 9 subprojects which accounted for
72. 1 % of total commitments; the rest of the projects were handled through FIs. The initial
disbursement delay was due to the complexity of the two COSIPA and USIMINAS projects,
which required prior review by the Bank, the advanced agreements between BNDES and some
of the companies with subprojects being proposed (which left little room for design
conditionality), and the extension of deadlines in environmental compliance agreements
approved by the corresponding SEPAs.
Part B - BNDES's Technical Assistance Component
22.   BNDES was slow in planning this component and the specific proposals were received
and implemented only in 1997. Funds were used for short-term training of BNDES personnel
in the environmental department. Despite the delays in use of the TA funds, objectives (b) and
(c) were achieved in a satisfactory manner through implementation of the Project.
Environmental awareness and project review skills have increased at BNDES and, in 1997,
environmental protection projects were defined as one of their four main institutional
priorities. Additionally, disbursements by BNDES in environment-related projects reached
$567 million in 1996. This signal from BNDES will probably have a ripple effect through its
FIs that review and manage the financing of smaller environmental projects. These FIs gained
experience in this area by managing the small free-standing environmental loans to industry
through this Project. These loans accounted for 27.9% of total commitments. Therefore,
achievement of financial objective (b) and of institutional development objective (c) is
considered substantial.
Part C - SEPAs Technical Assistance Component
23.   The SAR recognizes the importance of the institutional capacity of SEPAs for the
success and sustainability of the project. For example, the SEPAs were required, in order to
receive TA funds, to prepare a pollution strategy for their states. Annex II of the SAR
presents a list of pollution control investments identified in the state strategies. One of the
reasons for the Project's design was to motivate strong SEPAs to use the credit line as a tool to



induce compliance with regulations that are progressively enforced as part of an overall
strategy. Furthermore, the mechanism for allocation of funds to the various SEPAs was
designed using an innovative arrangement where the agencies would receive one percent of the
total value of subprojects located in their jurisdictions. Given the delays in disbursements of
Part A of the Project, the allocation structure was modified during project implementation, and
funds were assigned based on commitments to subprojects by June 1996. This modification
was an approximation close enough to the original design that allowed review of SEPAs'
investment proposals and disbursement of funds by the Loan's closing date. The following
table shows funds allocated to each participating SEPA, including both loan and grant funds.
State          SEPA      Funds
Allocated
($1000)
Bahia          CRA            69
Espirito Santo   SEAMA            37
Minas Gerais      FEAM          271
Rio de Janeiro   FEEMA            25
Rio Grande do Sul    FEPAM         29
Santa Catarina   FATMA            43
Sao Paulo       CETESB         415
TOTAL        889
24.   SEPAs had serious difficulties in preparing institutional strengthening proposals, in part
because of administrative weaknesses, but also because the funds allocated were insufficient to
attract managerial attention. Despite BNDES's insistance in requesting such proposals, one
SEPA (FEPAM of Rio Grande do Sul) did not present an institutional strengthening proposal
needed for disbursement of funds, and that portion of the TA funds was canceled. All the
other SEPAs used the TA funds for computers and basic support equipment for operations.
25.   Despite the fact that most of the funds were disbursed, the institutional needs of the
various SEPAs were so large that the small amounts assigned to Part C of the project were not
sufficient to advance significantly the development objectives of this component. The 1980s
and early 1990s saw a trend of deterioration of SEPAs (even in the stronger cases of Sao Paulo
and Rio de Janeiro) as a result of fiscal austerity and the relatively low priority placed on
environmental matters. SEPAs were reorganized, lost key personnel, and had serious
difficulties in planning and budgeting functions. The SAR presents seven objectives related to
the TA component, including acquisition of monitoring equipment, development of an
inventory of pollution sources, and design and adoption of incentive systems such as user
charges to reduce pollution, among others. The SAR also mentions six activities that were
supposed to be executed by the SEPAs, such as collection of ambient air and water quality data
and preparation of progress reports on impact of project investments to the environment.
Overall, these goals were not in line with the modest amounts assigned to Part C. The
institutional weakness and lack of strong enforcement were among the factors that caused the
difficulties encountered in the implementation of the project.



- 8 -
26.   The funds were used, in many cases, to complement other institutional strengthening
programs from the Bank and other donors by focusing on the most urgent needs of SEPAs.
For example, in the case of CETESB (State of Sao Paulo), the TA funds were used to acquire
basic computer equipment and much needed vehicles for enforcement activities. At the same
time, CETESB was receiving funds to strengthen its institutional capacity from Loan 2831-BR.
The funds from both sources were used in a coordinated way to maximize their impact. In
conclusion, despite delays in fund availability at the beginning of the project, the TA
allocations were used for urgent hardware needs of the SEPAs. The small amounts were not
sufficient to significantly strengthen the SEPAs, and the achievement of institutional
development objectives, with all the components described in the SAR, was negligible.
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project
27.   Three important issues that can be highlighted from Section C are the following: (a) the
Project presented important disbursement delays in the initial phases; (b) the Project was not
able to adequately provide the support needed to strengthen the SEPAs involved; and (c) the
dispersion of potential improvements in ambient quality associated with the Project. This
section discusses the main factors that influenced the implementation of the Project, with
special emphasis on the three issues above. This section is subdivided in three parts: (a)
factors affecting disbursements; (b) institutional capacity of SEPAs; and (c) credit line design.
Disbursements
28.   The following figure illustrates cumulative estimated and actual disbursements. Apart
from the initial $5 million deposited in the Special Account, no additional disbursements were
requested until August 1995, 29 months after effectiveness.
Cumulative Disbursements (Estimated and Actual)
50                                    .        
45
40
35
30                  W
4co25
20
15        A
10
5.                                                         Es  ..  timnated
0                                                     -u*Actual
) co                    X     0 00t0
a o  a  a a  a  a                         a0  a  000000 Y
Quarter FY



-9 -
29.   The observed delay in commitments and disbursements was related to the following
factors:
*  A change in targeting strategy from multiple small to large complex subprojects: The
approval of the Project coincided with a period of privatization of state steel mills. BNDES
proposed to focus the initial efforts of project implementation on this group of steel milis.
BNDES had a long relationship with the steel sector and was well acquainted with the credit
worthiness of these large companies. In some cases, the industry sites were among the worst
polluters of the regions where they were located, and they had large environmental liabilities
after decades of neglect in environmental protection. The Bank agreed to change the initial
emphasis from a series of relatively smaller projects with a smoother disbursement pattern, as
envisioned in the SAR, to larger and technically complex projects. However, the
disbursement schedule was not modified to reflect this change in strategy.
*  Difficulties in approving large subproiects: The environmental component was, in most cases,
part of a larger comprehensive modernization loan that BNDES was evaluating at the time.
The approval of subprojects related to the Loan was slow for reasons that go beyond the size
and inherent technical complexity of the subproject components. For example, in some cases
agreements had already been signed between BNDES and the companies (as part of the
overall modernization loan), thereby leaving little room for Bank's review and approval. In
other cases the companies had procurement procedures that conflicted with ICB practices
required by the Bank for the larger components of the subprojects. The lack of standard ICB
bidding documents at the time was a difficulty.
*  Overdependence of commitments on few large subprojects: In the initial phase of the project,
commitments and[ disbursements were highly dependent on USIMINAS and COSIPA, the two
largest subprojects financed by the Loan. They accounted for 95% of the commitments by
10/95, 75% by 3/96, and eventually diminished to 65% by 9/96, as corrective actions were
taken and smaller subprojects were added to the pipeline.
* Internal BNDES organization for project implementation: Financing of free-standing
environmental projects was a new area for BNDES and the coordination among
organizational units within BNDES took some time to adjust and learn about Bank
procedures and requirements. As project implementation progressed, these internal difficulties
were solved.
*  Negotiations between SEPAs and sub-borrowers were productive but time-consuming:
BNDES had to go beyond its role as financier and act as "broker" between the steel
companies and the SEPAs to promote an effective interaction among them. The
environmental agencies had not been able to enforce regulations on the steel mills due to their
political and administrative weakness. The Project opened new channels of communication
and fostered the signature of compliance agreements. However, the timetables included in
these agreements were renegotiated and, in some cases, more than once, thereby delaying
project implementation.



- 10-
30.   Commitments and disbursements began to improve after the mid-term review when
streamlined review procedures were agreed between BNDES and the Bank, and the focus for use
of Loan funds was broadened again to include smaller subprojects. In order to identify projects,
BNDES used its existing programs that provided support to small and medium enterprises
through FIs. Some of the projects financed with the BNDES programs were directed towards
pollution control and these were selected for financing with Project funds. One of the conditions
for application to this program was the approval of subprojects by the appropriate SEPA as
required by the environmental licensing system.
Institutional Capacity of SEPAs
31.   The design of the allocation system for TA funds of this Project was innovative and should
have promoted competition among SEPAs under ideal conditions. However, the institutional
needs of the SEPAs were so large due to their deteriorating institutional conditions that the TA
funds were inadequate to address the basic capacity needs of the state agencies. Many of the
SEPAs went through organizational restructuring during project implementation, and some were
subject to strikes (e.g., CETESB, FEEMA and FEAM). Also, there was a delay in the signature
of the Japanese Agreement (signed only in March 1994, 12 months after loan effectiveness), and
the transfer of TA funds from the central government only began in August 1995 to BNDES. As a
consequence, the agreements between BNDES and the SEPAs that defined procedures for fund
transfers and related conditions were signed only by March 1995. An additional difficulty was the
delay in disbursements of Part A funds that caused a delay in transfer of funds to SEPAs. In order
to solve this problem, fund allocation to SEPAs was calculated based on commitments (rather
than disbursements), providing them sufficient time for preparation of proposals and disbursement
of funds.
32.   The deteriorating institutional capacity of the environmental agencies and the inability of
the Project to support in a comprehensive way their institutional needs implied that regulatory
enforcement, one of the main motivations for companies to use the line of credit, was not as
effective as expected. However, enforcement was undoubtedly one of the factors behind the
decision of companies to improve environmental performance. Public relations was another
important factor observed especially in the larger companies that participated in the Project.
These companies have recently incorporated environmental issues in their public relations
strategy.
Credit Line Design Features
33.   The SAR states that although credit lines should, under most circumstances, be avoided in
an unstable macroeconomic environment (such as the one that prevailed in Brazil at the time of
project preparation), the environmental focus of this project provided a justification. As
macroeconomic conditions improved in Brazil during the period of project implementation, the
effects of high inflation were not viewed as a significant problem, although it appeared to have
affected the level of interest of potential participants and the overall pace of the project at the
beginning of the Project.



- 11 -
34.   The credit line structure of the project had certain features that were related to
implementation difficulties, such as:
* The unrestricted nature of the credit line may have resulted in a dispersion of environmental
benefits (with the exceptions of the larger subprojects that are expected to improve the
environmental performance of some of the worst polluters in certain regions). By not having a
clear focus during implementation (e.g., a given geographical area, a critical polluting group
of facilities, a given sector of industrial pollution -such as medium/small firms,- or specific
demonstration/technical assistance objectives), not every investment in the credit line had the
capacity to impact the pollution problem in a noticeable way.
*  During project preparation, no subprojects were analyzed in enough detail and the credit line
was left open and relatively unrestricted. The long time required for evaluation of proposals
for technically complex subprojects should have been considered in the disbursement
projections. A slow rate of disbursements may not necessarily be undesirable because the
impact of the project depends on the quality of subprojects approved and implemented.
-  The attractiveness of Project funds was, in many cases, not sufficient to interest industry in the
credit line given the procurement and environmental monitoring conditions. The financial
advantage of the credit line over other long-term lending available to industry in Brazil was
not substantial. Furthermore, the line of credit was a very small part of BNDES lending
program (total lending levels were $5.5 billion in 1994, $7.7 billion in 1995, and $9.5 billion in
1996).
-  The co-financed nature of the credit line increased the level of management difficulty for
BNDES and may have contributed to disbursement delays.
E. Bank Performance
35.   This section evaluates Bank performance in three stages of the Project: preparation,
supervision before mid-term review, and supervision after mid-term review, each of which had
a different Task Manager.
36.   The identification mission for this project took place in May 1989. The SAR was
prepared in April 1992. The mission reports indicate that the potential difficulties associated
with institutional weakness of most of the SEPAs and the lack of comprehensive environmental
strategies were well understood. In 1990, the preparation mission was exploring the
possibility of a loan to the Federative Republic of Brazil to be managed by IBAMA. This
proposed loan included not only a lending component of $135 million for pollution control
subprojects, but also a policy/TA component of $15 million, in line with perceived needs of
SEPAs. In preparation for the pre-appraisal mission in April 1990, some SEPAs made a
significant effort to take the first steps towards the definition of state strategies for industrial
pollution control. T'he pre-appraisal mission report emphasizes again the issues of
underfunding and institutional constraints on most of the SEPAs. By August 1991, the
proposed Borrower had changed from IBAMA to BNDES due to differences of opinion with
the Bank regarding project design. As a consequence, the policy/TA component was reduced



- 12 -
to just the evaluation commission on loans that BNDES agreed to transfer to the SEPAs,
supplemented by a Japanese Grant. The reduction of this component in the project design was
not in line with clearly identified institutional needs and made it more difficult to achieve the
development objectives of the project.
37.   During project preparation the Bank did not analyze in detail any specific subprojects as
it concentrated on state environmental strategies and priorities, in line with project design.
The lack of a pre-screened list of projects with firm commitments from the companies that
could readily use funds, combined with the initial change of focus to large and technically
complex projects, implied that supervision activities during the initial phase of the Project had
to be devoted almost exclusively to the technical review of subproject components, and the
reconciliation of companies' procurement practices and Bank procurement guidelines.
Multiple problems of different nature, already described in previous sections, delayed the
progression of commitments and disbursements up to mid-term review. For example, in the
initial phases BNDES proposed the refinancing various large subprojects for which BNDES
had already made commitments to potential borrowers, resulting in no effective Bank prior
review and compliance with procurement policies. Better communication between the Bank
and the implementation unit at BNDES may have avoided problems of this type.
38.   After the mid-term evaluation, corrective measures were taken to improve the
disbursement delays, including greater focus on review and approval streamlining, change to a
combined strategy that included both large and small subprojects, clear definition of deadlines,
and back-up plans (if a subproject schedule was significantly delayed, other subprojects of
smaller size were added to the list to reallocate loan proceeds). In addition, the allocation and
disbursement mechanism for the SEPA TA grants was adjusted to allow for a definitive
commitment of funds and disbursements.
F. Borrower Performance
39.   The Borrower of this loan was BNDES with the Federative Republic of Brazil acting as
guarantor. Before the implementation of this Project, direct financing of environmental
remediation measures, whether free standing or associated with productive investments, was a
relatively new area of activity for BNDES. An implementation unit for the project at BNDES
was set up only after approval and not during preparation. The definition of BNDES's staffing
of the unit, subproject review procedures, and operating arrangements with SEPAs and FIs
was slow. Also, the use of TA funds to strengthen BNDES's ability to process environmental
projects was delayed until the end of the project. However, as project implementation
proceeded, BNDES greatly improved its internal capacity to handle environmental projects and
the internal coordination among the lending operation and environmental departments was very
good.
40.   By the end of the project, BNDES had adopted environmental protection projects as
one of the four main institutional priorities in 1997 (along with modernization of the Brazilian
industry, export financing, and private infrastructure projects). Overall, the performance of
the Borrower was satisfactory. The initial problems were not unexpected from an institution
that starts a new line of work outside its traditional activities. The Project served to strengthen



- 13 -
BNDES's technical and negotiating capacity in the context of large and complex environmental
projects. Through project implementation, BNDES was empowered as "broker" between
SEPAs and major polluters (USIMINAS and COSIPA are two examples) whose relationship
was seriously deteriorated after many decades of environmental neglect. Finally, the covenant
compliance status is presented in Table 6, and it is considered satisfactory. Overall, the
borrower performance during preparation and implementation is considered satisfactory.
G. Project Sustainability
41.   The sustainability of the Project can be analyzed at two levels, either at the subproject
level or the credit line as a whole. At the subproject level, sustainability is related to the
correct operation, maintenance and upgrading of components financed by the Project, in a way
that fulfills its function and protects the environment up to design standards. The credit line
sustainability is related to the existence and growth of funds available at BNDES and FIs for
environmental prqjects, either free-standing or as part of general investment projects. The
sustainability at both levels depends in part on the level of enforcement activities carried out by
SEPAs, the continued public awareness on environmental protection in Brazil, and in the
ability of BNDES to maintain low cost funding for its environmental credit program.
42.   Without active vigilance by environmental authorities, communities or other sectors of
society, the incentives for companies to operate and maintain pollution control equipment will
disappear, as well as the need for a credit line directed to environmental projects. This
vigilance has increased in past years and will be an important factor in the sustainability of
subprojects. Some of the participating companies, such as USIMINAS, have obtained
IS014001 certification and their environmental management systems may serve as an
additional compliance evaluation tool. Furthermore, the new lines of interaction opened by
the Project between the SEPAs and large companies formerly owned by the State will facilitate
enforcement activities in the future. Finally, BNDES included, as part of contractual
obligations with the larger companies receiving funds, the implementation of programs such as
environmental audits, preventive maintenance, environmental training, and monitoring.
43.   Given this outlook, the sustainability of subprojects is considered likely.
Environmental projects will probably continue to be part of BNDES portfolio, as the
institution has defined environmental protection as one of the main priorities in 1997.
Disbursements by BNDES in environment-related projects have grown from $201 million in
1990 to $567 million in 1996. This trend is an indication that Project sustainability is likely.
A plan for future operations was not part of the original design and was not prepared at the
end of the Project.
H. Assessment of Outcome
44.   The final outcome of the project is considered Satisfactory despite the described
difficulties during implementation. The physical objectives of the Project were achieved. The
Project supported a wide range of pollution control subprojects from large comprehensive
environmental protection programs in the steel industry to smaller projects in industrialized
states. The larger projects were reviewed and approved by the Bank and are expected to bring



- 14 -
significant reductions in pollutant emissions at the plant level. While conclusive monitoring
data is not available at this time to quantify improvements in regional environmental quality, it
is expected that such improvement will take place in areas where the largest subprojects are
located (e.g., CubatAo and Ipatinga). The funding of environmentally related projects at
BNDES has grown rapidly and BNDES recognizes that the Project contributed to its capacity
to review this type of projects. The funds for institutional strengthening of SEPAs, though
limited, were used for critical needs in these institutions.
I. Lessons Learned
45.   The key lessons learned from the implementation of the project include:
* The use of a large portion of the Project funds to support environmental programs in large
facilities recognized as major polluters of a region will result, once the programs are fully
implemented, in substantial reductions in pollutant emissions and improvements in
environmental quality indicators.
* The Project empowered BNDES as a facilitator of the dialogue between the SEPAs and
polluting companies formerly owned by the state. Before the implementation of the
project, the SEPAs had little or no influence to enforce environmental regulations on these
companies. A constructive dialogue has been initiated and enforcement agreements have
been signed and are currently under implementation.
* The success of credit lines designed to improve environmental quality depends, among
other factors, on effective targeting. Broad and open national-level credit lines may dilute
environmental quality improvements. A clearly defined strategy from the beginning and
during all phases of implementation (e.g., a given geographical area, a group of polluting
industries, a given industrial sector with critical pollution effects and restricted access to
credit, or specific demonstration/technical assistance objectives) increases the ability of the
credit line to improve environmental quality.
* There are two important forces that motivate firms to use funds from a credit line to
control pollution. The first one is enforcement pressure (either from government agencies,
justice or the public) and the second one is promotion of the credit line (ideally combined
with technical advice) by the lead financial institutions and the FIs. A credit line may
serve as a mechanism to initiate the coordination among these two motivating forces in a
combined strategy that reaches sustainability.
* The potential institutional and technical weakness of the two main actors in the
implementation of a credit line project (enforcement agencies such as SEPAs and financial
institutions such as BNDES and FIs) needs to be clearly understood during project
preparation. Adequate funding for strengthening activities must be clearly defined and
focused towards the solution of the problems identified. The implementation difficulties of
incentive mechanisms for SEPAs to obtain TA funds need to be considered during design.
* During project preparation it is important to note that potential demand for credit line
resources may be different from actual demand, depending on the level of enforcement or
public pressure.
* The incorporation of large and technically complex subprojects in a credit line for pollution
control brings implementation difficulties and increases the risk of disbursement delays. At
the same time, large facilities with decades of environmental neglect are commonly one of



- 15 -
the main sources of pollution in the areas where they are located. It is important to
appraise this type of subprojects prior to loan approval to increase targeting and avoid
disbursement delays.
* Clear communication and common understanding of conditions linked to the credit line
(procurement, conditionalities, disbursement, co-financing) among all participants
(financial institutions, government agencies, private companies, and the Bank) is necessary
for speedy and efficient project implementation. In particular, the incompatibility of
private sector procurement practices for large packages with Banks' ICB procedures,
contributed to delays and reduced the scope of projects that could have been financed by
the Project.



- 16 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
(Loan 3480-BR)
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1. Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial     Partial      Negligible  Not applicable
Macro Policies                        ]          L              L             K
Sector Policies                    F]            LI]           F]             7]
Financial Objectives               F7             LI           LI            [I]
Institutional Development           AB           [I             K] 
Physical Objectives                 K]            LI            LI            LI
Poverty Reduction                  L]            F]             K]           F7
Gender Issues                      LI            7I            LI            K7
Other Social Objectives               I             I           L             K
Environmental Objectives            K]            LI            K             L
Public Sector Management            LI            K]                         F K]
Private Sector Development            ]           K]            K 
For BNDES
For SEPAs



- 17 -
Table 1. Summary of Assessments (Continued)
B. Project Sustainability               Likely           Unlikely          Uncertain
(v')              (/)               (/)
E1El                            O
C. Bank Performance               Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactory      Deficient
(I)              (/)                (/)
Appraisal                            E                 El
Supervision                          LI                                  El
D. Borrower Performance           Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactory      Deficient
Preparation                          El                                  El
Implementation                          l              [S                E
Covenant Compliance                  El                                  El
E. Assessment of Outcome       Highly                                            Highly
Satisfactory    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory
El              Z)               El              El



- 18 -
Table 2. Related Bank Loans
Project Title/                        Purpose                          Year       Status
Loan No.                                                            Approved
Preceding
Operations
1. Sao Paulo      (i) to improve the air and water quality standards in the  1980   Closed
Pollution       Greater Sao Paulo Metropolitan Area, by reducing
Control Project.  industrial pollution, and (ii) to train CETESB's staff to
(Ln. 1822-BR)   carry out the enforcement program.
2. Second          (i) to improve public health by further reducing air, water  1987  Closed
Industrial      and solid waste pollution within the State of Sao Paulo,
Pollution       and (ii) to strengthen SEMA and SEPAs, including
Control Project.  CETESB, by developing these agencies' operational and
(Ln. 2831-BR)   technical capabilities to design and implement long-term
industrial pollution control strategies and programs within
their jurisdictions.
Following
Operations
1. Water Quality   (i) abate current water pollution levels, and preserve water  1993  Ongoing
and Pollution    quality in the cities of Sao Paulo and Curitiba; (ii) help
Control-Sao     establish a sound policy for water pollution control in the
Paulo/Parana    two project states including the creation of waterbasin
(Loan 35050)    management units; (iii) help develop the financial capacity
for the provision of services under the jurisdiction of the
waterbasin unit, based as much as possible on the
"polluter-pays principle"; and (iv) set up project
preparation financing and assistance to help start water
pollution control projects in some of the most congested
urban areas of Brazil.
2. Minas Gerais    (i) help to recuperate environmentally deteriorated river  1993  Ongoing
Water Quality   basins through improved flood control and urban drainage,
and Pollution    and the collection, treatment, and disposal of municipal
Control (Loan   and industrial sewage and solid waste; (ii) strengthen
35540)          environmental protection and water basin management;
and (iii) promote institutional strengthening of the State
Environmental Agency.
3. Environmental   (i) support the entire environmental program of the    1996     Ongoing
Conservation    Companhia Vale do Rio Doce (CVRD) by financing high-
and             priority investments throughout its operations; (ii) bring
Rehabilitation    about changes in CVRD's policies, systems and
(Loan 39240)    procedures needed to reinforce sound environmental
policies and management; and (iii) correct some of the
negative indirect environmental and social impact of
CVRD's operations in sensitive portions of its area of
influence, in particular the Carajas corridor.



- 19 -
Table 3. Project Timetable
Date Actual/
Steps in Project Cycle      Date Planned         Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)               MAY-1989
Preparation                                              SEP-1989 / SEP-1991
Appraisal                                                APR-1992
Negotiations                                             9/13-MAR-1992
Board Presentation                                       25-JUN-1992
Loan Signing                                             21-SEP-1992
Loan Effectiveness                   23-DEC-1992         09-MAR-1993
Loan Closing                                             30-JUN-1997
Project Completion                                       30-JUN-1997
Table 4. Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
($ Million)
Fiscal Year      Appraisal Estimate          Actual        Actual as % of
Estimate
1993                   10.0                 5.0              50.0
1994                  30.0                  5.0              16.7
1995                  45.0                 11.8              26.2
1996                  50.0                 36.1              72.2
1997                  50.0                 49.2              98.4
Final Disbursement:  October 29, 1997
Canceled Amount: $833,247.10*
* Amount undisbursed due to exchange rate variations



- 20 -
Table 5. Project Costs and Financing
(including cofinancing by Export-Import Bank of Japan)
A. Project Costs"')
($ Million)
Item                    Appraisal Estimate         ActuallLatest
Estimate
Part A                                             199.60               197.98(¢'
Part B                                               0.05                 0.08 (3)
Part C                                               0.85                 0.78 (3)
Total Project Costs                                200.50               198.84
B. Project Financing
($ Million)
Item                    Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest
Estimate
Part A
IBRD                                               49.80                48.99
BNDES                                              50.00                50.00
Japan ExIm Bank                                    49.80                48.99
Beneficiaries                                      50.00                50.00 (21
Subtotal                                          199.60               197.98
Part B
IBRD                                                0.05                 0.04
Japan ExIm Bank                                     0.00                 0.04 (3)
Subtotal                                            0.05                 0.08
Part C
IBRD                                                0.15                 0.14
Japan ExIm Bank                                     0.20                 0.14 (3)
Japanese Grant                                      0.50                 0.58 (4)
Subtotal                                            0.85                 0.86
Total Financing Plan                              200.50               198.84
("SAR did not subdivide total costs in local and foreign components.
) The amounts financed by BNDES and the beneficiaries are not known exactly for each of the over 400
subprojects; however, the minimum limits for financing participation were observed by BNDES according to loan
conditions.
(3) SAR was prepared prior to negotiations of the Co-lender's agreement. As part of this agreement, the Export-
Import Bank of Japan co-financed the three components of the project.
(4) The difference between estimated and actual amount is due to exchange rate changes between project appraisal
(April 1992) and signature of grant agreement (March 1994).



-21 -
Table 6. Status of Legal Covenants
Description
Covenant  Present                     of
Agreement  Section            Type        Status              Covenant                        Comments
Project        2.02 (a)         5           C       Loan withdrawal procedure
Agreement
2.02 (b)         5           C       Maintain special account in
commercial bank
3.02 (a)         5           C       Financial intermediary (F})
agreement
3.02 (c)         5           C       Borrower to inform Fl's of
project and terms and conditions
for participation
3.03 (a) (b)     5           C       Sub-loan procedures, terms and
conditions
3.04 (a)         10          CP      SEPA agreements to: (a) prepare   SEPAs had already prepared
and/or carry out pollution control  strategies during project appraisal;
strategy, (b) review technical fees  all SEPAs have complied with the
of investment projects, (c) semi-   subcovenant associated with
annual progress reports on sub-    review/clearance of subprojects;
project impact and ambient      however,-the semi-annual progress
quality                        reports were not complied with.
BNDES had limited leverage to
enforce this covenant because the
TA grants were made available
only since mid-1995 and because
of SEPAs' weaknesses in
monitoring and reporting
functions. The grants proved to
be small to improve these
functions.
3.04 (a)         3           C  --Borrower grants to SEPAs
3.05             5           C       Procurement of goods, works,
services
3.06 (a)         10          C       Mid-term review
3.06 (b)         10          C       Mid-term report
Status:         C        = covenant complied with                         NC       = not complied with
CD       = complied with after delay                      NYD    = not yet due
CP       = complied with partially                        SOON   = compliance expected in reasonably short time



- 22 -
Table 6. Status of Legal Covenants (Continued)
Description
Covenant  Present                      of
Agreement  Section             Type        Status              Covenant                         Comments
3.07              3           C       Sub-loans shall be, on average, at
least 60% of total costs of
investment projects
4.01              2           C       Project record keeping
accounting procedures
4.02 (a) (b)      1           C       Annual independent audit for
special account and other project
financial records
4.02 (a) (ii)     I           C       Furnish to Bank audited          1996 audit received 11/12/97
(iii)                                 account/audit report
4.02 (b)          I           C       Retention of disbursement
documentation
6.01 (a)          5           C       Register Loan Agreement with
Bank of Brazil
6.01 (b)          5           C       Notification of EXIMBANK
Status:         C         = covenant complied with                           NC      = not complied with
CD       = complied with after delay                        NYD    = not yet due
CP       = complied with partially                          SOON   = compliance expected in reasonably short time



- 23 -
Table 7. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Actual
Stage of
project cycle                 Weeks              $ (000)
Preparation up to appraisal                125.6              294.6
Negotiations through Board approval         29.7               61.8
Supervision                                 71.4              183.0
Completion                                   4.0               10.5
Total                          230.7              549.9



- 24 -
Table 8. Bank Resources: Missions
Days   Specialized    Performance Rating5
Stage of      Month/   No. of   in    staff skills      Impl.     Develop.      Types of
Project Cycle    Year   persons  field  representedc    Status    Objectives    problems
Through          5/89      2       10
Appraisal
9/89     2        10
11/89     3       17
3/90     7       20
5191     2        13
Through          6/92    N/A     N/A
Board
Approval
Through         11/92      2       14    TM, IES          1           1          M-TA
Effectiveness
Supervision      3/93      2       11    TM, IES          1           1          M-TA
6/93     2        9    TM, IES          2           1          M-TA
2/94     2       11    TM, IES          2           2         M-P-TA
6/94     1        10      TM            S           S         M-P-TA
3/95     1        11      TM            S           S       M-T-TA-ME
10/95     1        6       TM            U           S       M-T-TA-ME
3/96     2        5    TM, IES          U           S       M-T-TA-ME
9/96     1        3       TM            S           S          M-ME
3/97     1        6       TM            S           S            --
Ratings are based on hardcopy versions of 590s. 1=Minor problems; 2=Moderate problems;
S = satisfactory; U = unsatisfactory
6TM: Task Manager (Environmental Specialist); IES: Industrial Environmental Specialist;
F=Financial; M=Management; ME=Monitoring and Evaluation; P=Procurement; T=Training;
TA=Technical assistance.



APPENDIX A
LOAN 3480: NATIONAL INDUSTRLAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
SUPERVISION AND ICR MISSION - March 1997
AIDE MEMORE
1.    Ms. Laura Tlaiye (Task Manager) conducted a supervision and ICR mission of the
aboveprojectonMarch 11-12, 17-18, and21, 1997. ThemissionthanksBNDES'steam,
especially Mr. Mauro Stein of the Intemational Dept. for the assistance and coUaboration.
The Project will close on June 30, 1997; thus, the mission's objectives were to assess the
necessary actiorns that may be required to ensure timely completion of the Project and to
identify lessons of implementation later to be explored in detail within the preparation of
the Implementation Completion Report.
Disbursements under the Credit Component
2u.    Table 1 shows the commitment and disbursement projection for the NIPCP. It is
of fundamental importance that BNDES submit the application request before
March 30 to show the progress already achieved in the 1st quarter of 1997.
Disbursenents by June 1997 will be extremely vulnerable to the timing of contract si
between BNDES and USIMINAS. The expenditures to be incurred by USINAS were
estimated at $2(0 million by May 1997. BNDES's board is to receive the investment
proposal only later this month because of internal difficulties in agreeing about which
financing programs within BNDES would be used for USIMINAS's new investment
program (which includes the undisbursed environment packages finced by NIPCP).
BNDES estim=es that, if everything runs well, the $20 milion could be disbursed before
June 30. The mission recommends that as soon as the contract is signed (or before if
feasible) BND31S begin to verify expenditures by USTIfENAS so that the
corresponding disbursement application may be sent to the WB before June 30. A
physical status report should also be submitted at that time.
3.    As shown in Table 1, commitments dropped slightly due to the cancellation of
CSN (A-1 1), COSIGUA (A-13), and PRONOR (A-5). The last column ofthe table shows
that total disbursements would be just about the fuill loan amount. Since this is an
opdmistic scenaro, BNDES has already identified a DEPOC 3 list which will be fizrther
analyzed for eligibility. BNDES agreed to prepare the application for the DEPOC 3
list and submit it to the Worid Bank and JEXIM by Apri 30.
Status of Individual Subprojects
4.    The implementtion status of individual subprojects is as follows:
CQSIP& Table 2 shows the status of disbursements and projected disbursements based
on an optimistic scenario. The figures in bold at the bottom of the table represent the



-A2-
most risky tranches due to likely delays during implementation. The mission estimates that
a more realistic scenario for disbursements is a total of about S29 million as listed in the
last line of Table 2. However, these disbursements will be dependent on the physical and
effectiveness verification of completed systems. COSIPA presented a detailed status of
each package financed under the PAC (Projetos Ambientais da COSIPA) and the misson
sent this table to CETESB to obtain its opinion on the report's description of emission
reductions and status. Specifically, the status of the following systems in completion stage
were of particular interest: (1) systems No. 1 and 6 (PAC 7511 and 7505) have been
completed but they are not meeting the expected targets; thus, CETESB considers these
emissions sources as non-compliant with the Termo de Compromiso (COSIPA is
proposing additional systems to correct the problems and is negotiating an extension with
CETESB); (2) system 9 (PAC 7520). is reported by COSIPA to be concluded with
satsfactory results (this is an important source of particulate load); however, CETESB
was not able to confirm this result but expects to do so in the next few weeks; (3) system
13-A for the disposal of industrial waste class I and 2 had a conceptual design
conditionally approved by CETESB which foUowed from the characterization of waste
and geological/hydrological tests of tie landfill area. Upon the fufillment of these
conditions, CETESB provided this month its no-objection to the basic design criteria for
the landfill; the detailed engineering will now be developed by COSIPA's contractor.
Although the overall attitude and transparency of COSIPA's management is evident
to CETESB and the Bank, it is important to ensure that intentions materialize as
results on the ground. The Bank wiD send a follow-up letter to CETESB's Peident
so that COSIPA is pressed to facilitate CETESB's verification of completed projects
and to correct the systems with unsatisfactory performance. Since the project is
entering a crucial stage this year, the mission recommends an expanded effort by
BNDES to conduct very close monitoring of the corrective measures that COSIPA
agrees with CITESB. The Bank would expect a report after the planned Aprfl visit
by BNDES to COSIPA (which should involve subsequent consultations with
CETESB). The report would be a condition of the last disbursement from NIPCP to
COSIPA.
USIMNAS. The expenditures incurred for packages financed by the World Bank
(excluding those already disbursed by BNDES under the first contract) was reported by
USIMJNAS with reference date December 1996 to be S 15.3 million. The June 1996
position given to the Bank during the September mission indicated S12.7 million. This
means that the fLrm spent only about $2.3 million in 6 months. The firm is projecting to
spend about SI0.3 million by June 1997, which would mean that BNDES could be
reimbursing about S 25 million; however, a more realistic estimate is at best S20 million.
FEAM has not conducted the supervision of implementation requested in previous
contacts; the mission was unable to conduct a physical evaluation of the project due to
time constraints. However, BNDES provided a description of the implementation status
to date based on information supplied by the company which shows some limited progress
from the December 1996 position. The lack of finding from BNDES may have caused
some delays in execution which will impact the overaUl timetable for the project. The



-A3-
physical status report by BNDES indicated in item 2 above is therefore extreely
important.
CEJEN. The mission visited the CEJEN industrial effluent treatnent plant owned by
Anglian/CEJEN pardally financed under the loan. The plant began operations in January
1997 and is operating at a bout a third of its capacity because only 5 of the 13 textile
companies that had originally agreed to connect to the treatment plant have not done so.
The difficult financial situation facing some of this companies with the opening of the
Brazilian textile imports from Asia, has discouraged the adhesion to the original
agreement. The plant is barely covering its operating costs and CEJEN is askdng for a
renegotiation of the BRDE loan payment conditions. FATMA is giving these companies a
waming to connect to the plant's network or meet the effluent discharge standard in 40
days. In additiorn, the municipality is investing in the sewer network so that domestic
effluents may also be treated by the plant. This would help in increasing the efficiency of
the plant and reduce the chemical requirements (operating costs). The mission finds that
the financial fate of the Anglian/CEJEN venture will be of significance beyond the State of
Santa Catarina since foreign investment in this area is looldng carefully at the first
experiences. The Bank will send a letter to FATMA to emphasize its important role
in encouraging compliance with the original participation of poUuting firms which
will help the financial viabdity of the project.
4.    BNDES informed that COFAP (A-4) is proceeding slowly and that it expects
delays in disbursements because the firm has been slow in the past in present expense
documentation. The disbursements schedule was adjusted accordingly. BNDES Thus,
there is a very small overcomitment even considering USDMINAS at about S28 mllion.
The mission requested BNDES a brief completion report for CPC (A-8) and Aracruz (A-
14). May 30,1997 was agreed as the due date for this reports.
Environmental Benefits and Monitorine
5.    The mission insisted once more with CETESB and FEAM during meetings in Sao
Paulo and Belo :Horizonte, respectively about the importance of ensuring that the largest
subprojects were leading to specific indicators of environmental performance and a
correlation of ambient quality. This has proved to be a much more difficult task than
envisaged in the project design because (a) for Sao Paulo, CETESB's relatively limited
strategic coordination between the control function in Cubatao and the ambient quality
monitoring function in Sao Paulo; (b) for Minas, FEAM's overall lack of monitoring and
enforcement weakness. The status of each case as analyzed by the mission is as folows:
COSIA   The Company had delivered to BNDES the environmental indicators it
expects to improve with the implementation of its en-vironental program (ie.,
inventory of emissions and abatement targets). The mission approached CETESB to
confirm that the reductions in pollutant loads presented by the company agreed with
CETESB's own calculations. CETESB reports that COSIPA's calculations are based



-A4-
on literature factors of potential emissions which CETESB deems acceptable fbr
purposes of a first approximation. CETESB is not actively verifying this inventory
because (a) the emissions estimates are highly variable with operational practice and
production levels; (b) not much actual controls have installed in COSIPA (i.e., the
potentials should remain pretty much the same in 1992); and (b) it prefers to
concentrate its efforts on control actions. In addition, the monitoring approach
planned for this year according to specific goals set by CETESB, is to characterize the
inhable particles according to chemical species conducting extensive sampling to
derive the relative contnbution of specific emission sources. This means that CETESB
would be able to identify more reliably than with emission factors and dispersion
models (highly dependent on meteorological conditions) the relative importance of
each source (e.g., COSIPA, fertilizer plants, etc.) and apply the necessary control
measures. This new monitoring-based emissions assessment may substitute de ABC
curve approach which had been used thus far for the reductions agreed in Termosde
Compromiso. The mission received the 1995 monitoring data for Cubatao which
shows that inhalable particles had a peak in 1994 of about 200 jgglm3 (standard is 80
g_g/m3) and is decreing in 1995. According to CETESB, the daily maxima coninue
to show the same levels as those experience after the 1984 control plan for Cubatao.
The mission recommends BNDES that for at least those systems completed by
COSIPA, the final verification of efficiency and emissions reductions be
requested from CETESB as a means to indicate that instalation and initiai
operation has adequate performance. This recommendation wil be reflected in
the follow-up letter from the World Bank to CETESB's President CETESB
remains responsible under its legal responsibility to oversee the continued proper
operation and maintenance of these systems as this fals beyond the scope of BNDES
scope of action.
UBINAS  Since USD!INAS has not complied with BNDES's earlier requests for a
quantification of expected environmental benefits, FEAM agreed to assign a
technical staff to conduct an evaluation on-site of the emission reductions
expected from the investment program (air and water poUutants). FEAM also
agreed to indicate its opinion about the implementation status reported by
USIMNAS. The Bank will send a letter to FEAM's president summarizing this
agreement. In addition FEAM's President indicated that it would be useful to
indude an environmental audit as a contractual obligation in the contract
between BNDES and USIMINAS. FEAM also indicated that USIMINAS has a
monitoring system in place for specific point sources which is submitted to FEAM
however, interpretation of the data is sometimes problematic. FEAM indicates
however that on average the ambient air quality standard for PM is below the norm
(100 jgglm3). On SO2 FEAM is unhappy because earlier measurements by
USIMNAS, a CETESB expert, an SETEC have differed considerably. The Bank is
recommending FEAM to contract an intemational specialist on SOX monitoring to
advise FEAM on this matter. FEAM plans to invest in a new monitoring network
which will include one station in Ipatinga.



-AS-
Status of SEPAs Technical Assistance ComRonent.
6. BNDES informed the mission that disbursements for FEAM (MG) and FEEMA (RI)
took place on March 18, 1997. The disbursement CRA in BA had already taken placc
The tranche for ES is pending the confinnation of the new Secretirio de Meio Ambiente
(who took office on March 3) and the identification of the account where the flmds are to
be deposited. Upon the mission's request, the last tranche of CETESB's grant will be
withheld until CETESB present a proposal for the use of these funds. The mission did
evaluate the scope of the software and computing equipment to be requested by CETESB
which will expedite its approval. FATMA (SC) is yet to present a proposal for TA
support for the balance of $30,000) although during the visit to CEJEN they indicated that
a proposal would be forwarded to BNDES. The mission recommends to have a check
point on the status of commitments by April 30, 1997. In addition, BNDES shall request
to each beneficiary documentation of the approved expenditures (CETESB submitted the
signed contract for the first tranche disbursed and will submit bills and other
documentation indicating actual payments made). The audit report for the PHRD portion
(the Japanese Granit) of the SEPA grts for 1996 is due June 30, 1997.
7.    The Bank will submit an official letter to BNDES approving the allocation of
TA grants as currently disbursed to document that despite subsequent commitment
adjustments in the subproject credit line, the Bank agreed to a fixed allocation for
purposes of efficiemcy. Otherwise, SEPAs would have not been able to plan for and use
the TA grants comniderig the long lead times that they require to use these resources.
BNDES TA pronram.
8.    BNDES's staff of the Environment and Regional Development Department
presented a proposed program of two semina  and study tours to enhance the technical
skills of the environmental unit. The mission agreed to the scope of the proposal and
requested BNDES to quickly proceed with detailed arrangemnents for the semina
including obtaining no objections for TORs for seminar participant charging consultant
fees. BNDES agreed to submit to the Bank a detailed budget for the program by
April 15.
mnilementation Completion Renort
9.    The mission explained BNDES the process and purpose of the ICR (BNDES is
familiar with ICEs as it was the Borrower in past WB loan). The mission and BNDES
commented on sorne of the preliminary lessons that have so far emerged from this project
the Project served to strengthen BNDES technical and negotiating capacity with the
large subprojects allowing it to foster a new view of environrental management wihin
these companies (e.g., COSIPA's wi}lingness and adoption of recomendaons of an
environmental audit);



-A6-
= the Project empowered BNDES as "broker" between SEPAa and major poluters
(COSIPA, USIMIAS) whose relationship was seriously deteriorated after many
decades of environemtal neglect;
_  the loan's procurement limits and Bank procedures proved a major difficulty because
the large steel compaies now in private hands had very large procurement packages,i
for which commercial practices were used (imcompatible with Bank ICB and LCB);
the incentives for active SEPA participation in the Project (TA rants) both, for
subproject monitoring and environmental quality evaluation were insufficient as
project design did not anayze in depth institutional feasibiity of the SEPA
responsibilities under the Project;
-the dispersion of the Project on a nationwide basis coupled with the Bank's limited
supervision budgets contributed to limited physical supervision of subpr
,ldB~ Jose Roeo Fiorencio
M*zWrl  ank 2NDE4 1
NWr.h 24, 199?                                                ,



T A B L E 1. Natdonal Industial PollulFon Control Project -NIPCP
DISBURSEMENT FORECAST FROM 3480-BR & JEXIM LOAN ACCOUNTS
Status as of March 21, 1997
7  0   I   Initial  Amount  |       Forecast (US$)           Total
subproject    Company     Approval Authorization   Disbursed   1st 1997 1 2nd 1997  DDocuments  Dsbursed |
____________  _ | PDate      (us$)        (US$) |             _____    (up to 09/97)  _
A-1       Usiminas                  28,300,000    5.163.628       0 20,000,000 3.100.000    28.263,628
A-2        Cosipa                   35,831.000   13,503,408  7,102,000  3,704.000  3.576,000   27,885,408
A-3         CeJen      09/01/95      1,695.792    1,695,792                                  1,695,792
A-4        Cotap        10/02/95     3.309,000    1,154,496   310,000    300,000    300,000    2,064,496
A-5        Pronor      05/21/96       136,703      136,703                                     136,703
A-6      Ultraferill S.A    06119/96  798,600     798,600                                     798,600
A-7       Resicontrol    06/19/96    1,153,500    1,141,335                                  1,141,335
A-8         CPC        06/26/96      4,868,490    4,868,000                                  4,868,000
A-9        Copesul     06/26/96      1,970,000    1,468,046   300,000                        1,768,046
A-10      DEPOC Llst    06/26/96    17,091,234   15,383,776  .1,900,000                      17,283,776
A-11        CSN         06/26/96            0           0                                           0
A-12   Carbocloro Oxypar  06/26/96   2,199,661    2,199,661                                  2,199,661
A-13       Cosigua      07/02/96            0           0          0          0                     0
A-14       Aracruz      07/02/96     3,400,000    3,413,924                                   3,413,924
A-15    OPP Petroquimica  08/15196     301,000          0    301,000                           301,000
A-16       DEPOC 2                   8,573,940    4,687,410            3,900,000             8,587,410
TOTAL                  109,628,920   55,614,778  9,913,000 27,904,000  6,976,000  100,407,778
Ws Only                  54,814,460   27,807,389  4,956,500 13,952,000  3.488,000   50,203,889
Figures In bold denote values adjusted during this mission and referred to In the aide-memolne.



T A B L E 2. COSIPA ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM - NIPCP NO La 3480 and JEXIM oan)
OPr1MISTIC DISBURSEMENT FORECAST
Project Status as of March 15, 1997 (00 US$)
system                                                    03196     091K   Match 97 Disbursed" Disburseent9    Docs.    Toal    Balance
COSIPA                         Approval  Status' Stats    bY 31597  lstQt   2nd 0I   03197  Disbursed from 0357
systsms Ancraye kV lbe World Bank and Ceteab
1            Bast FumacM01 Silo Hous Dedustl              1,170     1,697    1,547      1,535       0        0       0      1.535        12
2           Blast Funace 41 Slag Ruwner Dedusting         2.551     2.294    2,288      2,075       0        0       0      2,075       213
4           Coke Bateds 4&5 Unloading Dedusting           1,900     3.245    1.300         0        0        0   1,300      1.300         0
cNil works                         250               1,300
mater  & ihnstalation                 1,650                 0
5                    Coke 2 Deoduting                      988       337       490       271        0      219       0       490          0
9                 Calcining Plant Dodustg                 4,800     3,853    4.071      2,601    1.470       0       0      4,071         0
19        Lamintion Effluent Water TreabmntlRecycdn      11,851    11.631    13.583       449    2,167    4,179   3,576    10.371      3.212
clii works                       7,570               7,844              1,504    2.274
mateal & instalaton                  4,281               5,739               603    1,0S05
20     Coke Oven Plant Seld Chargin Car BaXtre 1, 2 £ 3   5,109     5,029    6.014      2,583      893    1,538       0     5,014         0
(1st of w sealng machines only)
22          Ankiam nand Cyan  Treatmont Plant             1.722      1,872    1,842     1,502        0      340       0     1,842         0
13-A               Solid Waste (Class I & 111)             2,751     3,197    3,577        133       0    1,134   1,167      2,434      1,143
EUgible but sendlna senroval by Cftesh iwe
8            ContamInated Coke Elfluent Treabmnt          2,598     2.673    5,172      2,354       0    2,313       0      5,172         0
8     DOF Pln  11 & 2 Slag 1andUn and Scrap Troabtnt'     1,800        0         0         0        0        0       0         0          0
TOTAL                           37,241    35,831   38,88      13.503    4,530   10,228    6,043    34,306     4,579
WORLD BANK ONLY                      18,620    17,916   19,442      6,752
RISKY TRANCHES                                                                       3,952    2.467
Total minus risky tranches                                 2;.8                                                     10,098
I Comanbunts revied bsd on Septenber 1998 mnsin
' Dibured by Word BankIJEIJM as of 0311697
I Ott Iha   finani packe due to labt disbursement schedule,



BN'^                        APPENDIX B
APIAMA
Projoto Nacional de Controlo da Poluiio Industrial       GmAvrw
Rstat6rlo Preliminar de AvBliaqio
I. IntrodugAo
Em 21 de setembro de 1992, BNDES firmou contrato de financiamento para o
Proieto Nacional de Controle da Poiuigio Industrial, com o Banco Mundial -
BIRD 3480-BR e com a EXIMBANK do Japio por co-financiamento.
O Proieto, no valor total de US$100 milh6es, teve por objetivo o reforpo ao
Programa cle Conservsago do Meio Ambiente. a PCMA do BNDES e as
recursos disiponfveis foram totalmente aplicados, at6 a data ostipulada em
contrato, no financiamento a projetos ambientais, visando ac controle da
poluigio industrial de empresas localizadas em diversos Estados brasileiros,
dasde o Rio Grande do Sul, Santa Catarina, Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Mines
Gerais, Espinto Santo ate a Bahia.
I. Projeto Nactonal de Controle da Polui;io Industrial
11.1. Aprosentavo
o presente relat6rio apresentarA os principais registros verificados durante o
gerenciamento do Projeto, os quais destacamos a seguir:
desenvolvimento de parcerla nas relaXes entre empresas a 6rgios
ambientais;
* implementagio de poditica ambiental pelas empresas sob nova consacncia;
desenvolvimento do sistema de gestiAo empresanal baseado no principio
da sustentabilidade e insergio da auditonsa ambental por parte das
empresas mutu*rias;
* difiuldacie em participar de processo licitat6rio/concorrincia intemacional
para aquisigAo de sistemas de controle de poluigio, dado os requisitos
burocrAticos;
* Avallabio do custo/beneficio dos investimentos ambientais;
aprimoramento dos conhecimentos tecnicos cia equipe BNOES;
transferincia do recursos financeiros nio reembols3veis a a Estados
brasileirms, com a intervenAincia da Secretaria de Meio Ambiente e Orgoes
Ambientais.
11.2. RelaSto sabre a Execuiao
Da totalidade de empresas apoiadas no imbito do Proieto Nacional, dues
siden5rgicas sio merecedoras de destaque, COSIPA- Companhia Sidenrrgica
Paulista, no Estado de Sic Paulo a USIMINAS- Usinas Sidenrrgicas de Mins
Gerais, no Estado de Minas Gerais.
Ambas, privatizadas nessa decada, obtiveram apoio financeiro com recumos
onundos do Projeto Nacional e do BNDES pam investimentos ambientais,
aspecialmente para saneamento da poluipio industrial e mais recentemente,
com recuros do BNDES, parm o processo de modemizagio dos respectivos
parques produtivos.
Cabe descrever nos casos COSIPA e USIMINAS, que ao longo dos iltmos
quatro anos, vim demonstrando, mudanga de comportamento com a
consolidagAo de novo estilo de gestic empresarial o atuagio estrat6gica por



8* S |N^PIME                      -B2-
parte dos dingentes dessas empresas, extensivo aos demais executivos e
ompregados, onde procuram conciliar desenvolvimento tecnologico. qualidade
de produtos, valorizacAo do ser humano e preservamo do meio amnbiente.
COSIPA e USIMINAS vbm adotando politicas de acordo com as pnncipios do
desenvolvimento sustent6vel, implementando estilo de gestio ambiental com
visao mais ampla, resgatando motivacAo de suas equipes de trabalho e
buscando interagio de suas empresas com as respectivas comunidades.
Vale lembrar que diversas intervenqLes coordenadas pelo BNDES e
BIRDfE)UM foram muito importantes ao longo do processo de analise e de
acompanhamento dos projetos de controle de poluicao industrial,
especialmente durante o processo das negocia;6es iniciais entre as
empresas e os 6rgios ambientais, no sentido de obter o claro entendimento
dos objetivos comuns.
O relacionamento entre as citadas empresas e os orgAos ambientais dos
Estados de Sdo Paulo e Minas Gerais apresentavam, visivelmente, situa;ao
de completo desgaste, descrenQa e estrangulamento nas relaXes dos partes,
em conseqWncia de degradego ambiental provocada polo nio cumpnrmento
de exigsncias ambientais e pela aus6ncia de investimentos generalizados por
parte das empresas, em pelo menos uma decada.
Atualmente, com o avanvo dos entendimontos ao longo dos anos, o que so
verifica 6 a condiglo de parcena e de negociaego entre as partes.
Um exemplo desse quadro fbi a que ocorreu entre COSIPA e o 6rgia
ambiental de Sao Paulo, CETESB - Companhia de Tecnologia de
Saneamento Ambiental, onde cabe destacar a atuegAo tecnica dessa,
exigindo o cumprimento a legislaAo ambiental de formna coerente,
determinada, firme e persistente.
A pnmeira grande dificuldade vencida foi a compatibilizag6o das priordades
para a investimento, conciliando os sistemas propostos pelas empresas com
o ponto de vista e as exig6ncias estabetecidas pelos 6rgAos ambientais, na
medida em que a situag&o era de grand. degrada;So ambiental.
Ap6s exaustivo periodo de negociagao, as sistemas de controle de poluiko
industrial foram definidos, prionzados e finalmente apresentados pelas
empresas ao BNDES para an6lise completa e avaliagIo dos aspectos
ambientais.
Considerando o aKto grau de impacto ambiental inerente ao setor .6
degradagAo acumulada ao longo da exist6ncia do empreendimento, somado a
carincia de tecnicos ambientais no equipe de anilise do BNDES na cpoca,
houve a consequente contrata9io. pelo BIRD, de consultor t6cnico
especialista para o caso USIMINAS,
Postenormente, com a flexibilizagdo do BIRD foi se dando a transfer6ncia de
mais responsabilidades ao BNOES na avaliagao. quando entiao se deu a



-B3-
B  FD  E 
contratasao de consultores extemos especializados, visando a anhlise ticnica
* emiso de pareceres dos sistemas de controle propostos pelas empresas
siderirgicas.
Outro aspecto a ser mencionado 6 a inclusao de cleusula contratual
especifica doe meio ambiinte solicitando da empresa, implantaXo dos
seguintes procedimentos:
-programa de auditora ambientai extemna e apresentaso dos respectivos
resultados ao BNDES,
-polftica de manutenoo preventve,
-programa cle treinamento e educaio ambiental, e
-programa de monitoramento perrnanente.
Cabe citar, ainda, quo BNDES solicitou As empresas apoiadas, obtenfo de
garantia para atingimento da efici4ncia exigida pelo 6rgAo ambiental quanto
As tecnologias escolhidas.
Recomendou-se as empresas apoladas, requerer dos fornecedores, garantia
de performance dos equipamentos de controle e a adog3o de parAmetros
operacionais compativeis com a legislagao vigente.
Em complemento, BNDES oxigiu, ainda. solicitadAo de Parecer Tecnico ao
rgiao ambiental sobre a adequa9Ao da tecnologia proposta para o
atingimento da eficiencia de cada sistema de controle.
Nesse aspecto, ressaltamos a atuago Ca CETESB que flexibilizou os
procedimentos, adequando-os para os investimentos de grande porte no setor
sider&rgico a as prAticas comerdais ajustadas pera instala9io de sistemas em
tum key.
Outro fator importante que deve ser mencionado 6 a soiicitaCfo de definiqao a
avaliagio da melhor rela9lo custolbeneficio dos investimentos ambientais, ou
seja, qual o beneficio ambiental sera obtido ap6s cada d6lar investido?
A partir dessa relago, foram requendas definig6es previas do beneficio
ambiental, por sistema de control. de poluiAo para COSIPA e USIMINAS.
As empresas constituiram seus inventdrios de cargas poluidoras para toda a
usina, considerando os rrimios ar, agua e solo e identificaram os respectvos
beneficios ambientais.
Tomaram consciincia da importincia de so implantar o monitoramento
permenente e a quantificago dos resultados apos implantaIao dos sistemas
para avaliar o investimento e a eficiencia proposta.
USIMINAS 3 a prmeirs siderurgica brasileira integrada a coque a receber o
certtficado cia ISO 14001, em 1996.
A COSIPA, quo por ocasijo da pnvatiza9io encontrava-se em estado de
obsolescdncia por fatta de investimentos, ultimamente vem empreendendo
esforgos no resgate de sua credibilidade, a partir de investimentos,
prioritanamente, em atualizagb tecnol6gica para recuperagio de sua
competitividade, assim como no sistema de qualidade a gestlo ambiental na
busca da eoxeldncia empresarial.



ed                            -B4-
DNDEg^X
Se ffzerrnos uma comparagao entre as situag6es anterior e posterior 8
execuiao do Projeto Nacional, podemos afirmar que COSIPA 4 a que
apresentou maior mudanga so longo dos investimentos, a ponto de seu
Presidente, am pibIico. ter pronunciado a sentimento de orgulho pela
conquista da atual poslaoo da empresa.
A CSN - Companhia Sidernrgica Nacional, no Estado do Rio de Janeiro era
outra empresa eleita pare obter os recursos do Projeto Nacional, no entanto
encontrou dificuldades em compatibillzar seus procedimentos de licita;4o para
aquisi9io de sistemas de controle de polui9io. corn as condi;des/requisitos
burocraticos de concorr4ncia intemacional estabelecidos no Projeto.
A CSN Ja havia feito sua tomada do preos no mercado intemacional pars
aquisi94o de aiguns pacotes, considerando a melhor tecnica e o melhor prego,
apds visitas a outras usinas no mundo pam conhecer a eficacia em mais de
um pafs, no entanto. por ter apresentado est*gio avangado no processo, nio
conseguiu atender a conjunto de exig4ncias estabelecidas pelas normas do
Iicita94o do BIRD.
Originaimente, o Projeto baseava-se em estrat4gias de controle de polui;4o
industrial por Estado, por4m nAo houve a procura esperada apbs algum
tempo decorrido do lan9arnento do Projeto (ref. Staff Appraisal Report -
janeiro/92).
As raz6es foram diversas e podemos relaciona-las:
- a fragilidade institucional dos 6rg4os ambientais, sobretudo com rela9io a
fiscalizag4o a exifgncias de controle:
- as condiges estabelecidas nia foram consideradas suficientemente
atraentes polos empres6rios para investimentos em meio ambiente. Di-nos
a impressio de que para a maicria dos empresinos, os investimentos em
meio ambiente nio trazem resultados financeiros esperando, portanto, quo
sejam financiados com recursos concessionais, subsidiados ou doados. Nio
so sentem responsaveis pela corre9io dos passivos ambientais;
- dificuldade do repasse via agentes financeiros, dada a caracteristica de
muites operag6es de pequeno valor e a insuficiente capacitagio tacnica
desses agentes financeiros em meio ambiente. No sentido de aumentar a
capacita94o dos bancos brasileiros foi criada a iniciativa do Protocolo Verde
em novembro de 1996 com resultados timidos ate a momento nesse sentido;
- burocracia envolvids em todo o processo de intemaliza9io dos recursos, o
estabelecimento dos conv4nios, o processo licitat6no, mecanismos de
an4lise t6cnica e de acompanhamento, para citar os exemplos mais
expresivos.
111. BNDES
Entre suas atribuig6es coma instituigio oficial de cr6dito, BNDES considera
de fundamental importincis o cumrpnmento da polftica ambiental. no sentido
de atuar preventivamente a partir de an4lise preilminar do projeto ate a sua
fetfva implemenltaio.



*Nltaxf5'-a"s             ~~~~~-B5-
H& pouco mais de 20 anos, BNDES vem empreendendo esfor9os na
intemalizagAo da variAvel ambiental em seus procedimentos de concesslo do
cr6dito e disponibilizando recursos financeiros para investimentos ambientais
de empresas no Brasil.
Na d6cada do 80. a partir de urn intercAmbio com o Banco Mundial, comosou
a intensificagAo do seu envoivimento com a questAo ambiental, levando a
criar uma linha especifica para apoio ao meio ambiente.
Com a assinatura da Carta de Princnpios para o Desenvolvimento
Sustentivel, firmada em 1995, juntamente com mais quatro outras instituigos
financeiras oficiais, BNDES ratiflcou sua atuagio de empreendedor de
politicas e pnAticas bancArias em harmonia com a promo#o de um modelo de
desenvolvimento quo nao comprometa as necessidades das geragdes
futuras.
Portanto, atuar em conjunto com o Banco Mundial no Projeto Nacional foi de
grande importAncia para o processo dinAmico de aprimoramento dos
conherimentos t6cnicos das equipes que atuam na avaliaCAo de risco
ambiental a no gerenciamento dos recursos disponibilizados por conta do
Projeto.
Com vistas a atender um dos objetivos do contrato, no que diz respeito ac
lortalcemento da equipe tdcnica envolvida, recursos do BIRD/EXIM, no valor
de US$100 mil foram aplicados sob a coordenaglo do BNDES em diversas
modalidades de treinamento envolvendo temas de maior relevAncia em meio
ambiente segundo caracterfsticas do Contrato.
Os processos se deram na forma de dois semin&rios, um sabre AvaliagiAo do
Impacto Ambiental am Operag6es do CrZdito (corca de 30 participantes do
BNDES )e ouitro sobre Financiamentoa  Mvidade Florestal (17 participantes
do BNDES), acrescido de training on the job e visitas tdcnicas para 2 tcniCOS
e 6 executivos do Banco em diveoros segmentos, quais sejam:
- analise de rsco ambiental sob a coordenagAo do UNEP - USA
(Superintendente AS):
- novos equipamentoas produtos a servigos de fomecedores intemacionais
reladonados A protao ambiental, coordenado pola Associa#o Industrial
Portuguesa - Portugal (1 Gerente de Meio Ambiente);
- mecanismos de financiamento da atividade de base fforestal a fundos de
investimento desenvolvido por INNOPRISE Corporation e GTZ - Malisia;
RIET - Regional Institute of Environmental Technology - Singapura e
Coopers & Lybrand e SGS Forestry - Inglaterra (1 Gerente Desenvolvimento
Regional);
- protegho ambiental - preveng5o, preservag&o e recuperagio de nos e
corpos d'Agua coordenado por EPA- Environmental Protection Agency - USA
( 1 Coordenador de Servi*cs);
- financlamento de ag6ncia de bacias e controte de poluigio industrial nos
meios hidricos junto aos MinistArios de Meio Ambiente da Franga, Inglaterra
e Espanha ( 1 Gerente de Meio Ambiente e I Tkcnico Meio Ambiente); e



-B6-
- sistema de gestio ambiental e tocnologias ambientais empregados por
usinas da Nippon Steel Corporation e da Kawasaki Steed Corporation -
JapAo (Chefs de Departamento Setor Siderugico o I T6cnica Meio
Ambiente).
IV. Programa de Cooperac&o Institucional (texto ainda em elaboraio final)
Conv6nios loram celebrados em margo de 1994 entre o BNDES e os Est8dos
do Espirito Santo, Rio de Janeiro, Minas Gerais, Sao Paulo. Rio Grande do
Sul, Santa Catarina e Bahia, com a interveniencia das respectivas Secretarias
e brgacs Ambientais dos respectivos Estados.
Os objetivos estabolecidos eram a alocagio de recursos financeiros
provenientes do BIRD e EXIMBANK do JapAo para incentivo A agao dos
citados Estados na proteBo do meic ambiente, visando a implementagAo do
Proieto nos seguintes aspectos:
- fortalecer a capacsdade t6cnica e institucional dos 6rgaos ambientais no
monitoramento e analise dos problemas ambientais;
- buscar uma adequads regulamentagio para o controle;
- definir e exocutar estrategca de controle de poluiqao e
- reforcar o comprometimento com a melhoria do meio ambiente.
Foram liberados recursos referentes A colaboraio financoira n3A-
reembolsdvel para os Estados de Espirito Santo, Rio de Janeiro, Minas
Gerais. Sao Paulo, Santa Catarina e Bahia apos terem apresentado os
respectivos programas de investimento com vistas ao atendimento dos
objetivos.
Cabe ressaltar alguns aspectos relacionados so tempo de resposta por parte
dos Orgios Ambientais aos requisitos do Conv6nio:
- dificuldade de atander encaminhamento de relat6rios de investimentos
ambientais em andamento,
- troca de titular e staff no periodo, no caso da Secreana Estadual de
Desenvolvimento Sustentivel do Estado de Espirito Santo,
- burocracia para o processo de licitagoes. Em urn dos casos, Espirto Santo,
tiveram qua refazer a licitaiAo por nao terem conseguido nenhurn fomecedor
dado o alto grau de exig6ncia e especificaio, enfrentando ainda a problema
de mudanga de instalages ffsicas (ediflcio), dificultando o processo para a
parte do cabeamento no caso de instalagiao de microcomputadores,
- dificuldades para liberabo de licengas ambientais, aprovag6es diversas a
pareceres, exceto CETESB,
- fragilidade no acompanhamentao monitoramento, e
- numero insuficiente de t6cnicos em reiabo a demanda.
Em sintese, at6 o momento, temos comprovada a utilizaqAo dos recursos
para aquisigio de veiculos e sistemas de informatizagio de alguns dos
6rgios ambientais.
Estamos em fase de entendimentos para conclusbo da prestagio de contas a
fim de encerrar o processo.



*. .......... - : . . APPENDIX C
. I tOAN a480-BR  NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
*BORROWER'S COMMENTS ON-THE iMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
1.    On the whole, BNDES agrees with te Bank's assessment of the main topics
concerningl.1- different gspects ofthe Project
2.    As:s Cgards the Bank's performance, we. would like to stress the contents of
paragraphs%.2 and 37 emphasizing.that the Bank's initial identification/pre-appraisal of
the projec;t tpok place in 189/1890 and the. contract only became effective four years
later with "the lack of a pre-screened list -f projects with firm, commitrnents from the
companies .*tat could readily use funds5 (para.37). Also, the Bank's required
procedures. .egarding procurement practices (ICB> to be complied with. bythe private
companies gccessing the Project's funds resulted in the delay and even in the non-
elegibilftyafertain projects.
3.   :On: he other hand, the corrective measures adopted after the mid-term
evaluation: greatly improved the execution of the. Project Better communication
between:th .Bank and BNtES  led; t closer cooperation between both: insituiton;
tearru..
4.  -  N9lOES also agrees wiF-the Bank!s  asasessment of thle structural institutional
* weakness oa the SEPAs (paragraphs 23.26). and the poor outcome in tle achievement
of tito .instititonal development objectives under Part C of the Project. Indeed, the
iimitd- (personnel and technical) resources.. on which the SEPAs count has been a
factor of obstruction in the preparation of the environmental gains reports by BNOES
team. T      reports on the environmental qualty indicators for the COSIPA and
uSIMINAS. projects require a full evaluation of technical parameters, tat oan onl be
hfumishedbithe companies and the SEPAs involved. The BNDES Environmental Unit
in charg:;eofthis issue considers tsk a real limitatton and part of the partes process of
convergenca.
: 5.   . As Yor the Borrower perfornance. we do recognize that ENDES was somewhat
lorig in deelbping its internal capacity fr handling complex environmental projects and
implementing an efficient coordination scheme among the lending operation and the
environmental and the intermational funding departments so as to deal with the
Projeceas oprations. These factors contnbuted to the poor perfonnance of the Projec&s
first toyeas
5.    Corci ming the BNOES. Env'rOnmental Unit (Assessoria Especial do Meio.
Ambiente - AMA). the Loan's Technical Assistance Component has greatly. contributed
-to the development of its professional.stff -skills- in environmental assessment Thi
featuro ts h;.n wih the effrts -currmly. being made by BNDES to improve- the Units
: tchni"C, 11009citY' in dealing with. -thia complwitles of the technical -and -economic.:
aspects otilh environmental pruject analypis.
K\GC.ori.R~40~ CR_          :m-



'o~~~~~~~~~ IBRD 22,413R
( VE NE ZU E LA  ,,             O    J(FRENCH                     504
I   9>/             \  i  SS.2 /URINAMEbGUIANA                                        B  R  A  Z  I L
C O L O M B I A,,,'oVii /%\                                                                                 NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL
_t t-       ;=tROAIM (t  Yf3_5-lK~ JPOLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
O.   S                   S            q                      f ~~~~~~~~~~~Maca,ay
'   \                 . r '         t                       .      0,a,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"o  OS. m6p.16,
\  -   -    i       j Mansus   n   /                                      -       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sao Luis   Prob
I     ' *    -'     '                                     .                  /o Sllfl   ; j  como m    J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fortaleza
A    M    A    Z   O    N   A 5                //A                                                                               .OO
5                   (                                                                                       * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Natal
A C R E        .      ,_<        Vehoi=-c-*o   tagm                                                                                           eooPss
_l0  ~  |  ioBrancoRONDONIA                         .;'  i
L  rt    \   - >-  ,                                           =                             ~~~~~~~ ~             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A'-accju   1
P E R U                             ._)                      M   A                                                  A   H   I 0   irdSn=AO
~~ x         ~G   R   0    r                                                              SoWlvoor
2         iL         Culabrn                         i  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DiStrict Ap  ;\l WRo; u
B O  L I V  I A                                   ,I        Gaai-                            6r54 
,          r--          V    AA I F   R              '     bX I NC-j  G-G EBela i           ITO SANTO
fiJ  f          \,PAR AG5uAY a
SO jT!      I           ~~~A  R G   E N  T  1. N  A                 V=C                                               u  ihbgeUdrvlqmn
85rosiliere o mt2hswbmtwx           J        jr10 GRAND OSL
AM ER1CA                                                               W      Port Al.greT  O T--od.i      B                   Sot.on CJP4.al
<1   ans 1Mh'_ .tolFW.nC   :;     t      >>  o WX.3. L ' . ,.  KlOMETRFS 0  . 200 30 4c 500          S.I.-td T-_n
ne t 2 sl on me S S! l mUR UG U AY                                                                                                Rie 30M_
d mf oUemenl or P0r                                       50m  e ol  0,
such bounOj .t@$  65 ': {j.:   i   SO'                          AD'                                   611C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UGS11T 1099



