Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3480 BR
(National Industrial Pollution Control Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO NACIONAL DE DESENVOLVIMENTO ECONOMICO E SOCIAL
Dated September 21, 1992
LOAN NUMBER 3480 BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 21, 1992, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and BANCO NACIONAL DE DESENVOLVIMENTO 
ECONOMICO E SOCIAL (the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Federative Republic of Brazil (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, 
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of 
the Project;
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of the Loan;
(C) 
the Borrower intends to contract from the Export-Import Bank of Japan 
(EXIMBANK) a loan in an amount equivalent to $50,000,000 (the EXIMBANK Loan) to assist 
in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and EXIMBANK (the EXIMBANK Loan Agreement); and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth in 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Cruzeiros" means the currency of the Guarantor; 
 
(b)
"Financial Intermediary" means a financial institution considered by the 
Borrower as eligible to participate in the carrying out of Part A of the Project;
(c)
"Financial Intermediary Agreement" means any of the agreements to be 
entered into by the Borrower with a Financial Intermediary pursuant to the provisions 
of Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(d)
"Free-limit Subloan" means a Subloan, as so defined, which qualifies as a 
free-limit Subloan pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule 7 to this 
Agreement;
(e)
"FSRMM" means Adicional ao Frete Para a Renovacao da Marinha Mercante - 
AFRMM, the Guarantor's Freight Surcharge for the Renewal of the Merchant Marine 
established by Decree Law 1,142 of December 30, 1970, as amended to December 31, 1987, 
or any other tax, levy or charge that, in the reasonable opinion of the Bank, may 
substitute it, in whole or in part, after January 1, 1988;
(f)
"Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise included in the corresponding 
Strategy or approved by the Bank and the Borrower to carry out an Investment Project, 
and to which the Borrower or a Financial Intermediary proposes to make or has made a 
Subloan;
(g)
"Investment Project" means an industrial pollution control project to be 
carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a Subloan, 
consisting of civil works, services, studies on the design of pollution control 
mechanisms and/or acquisition and utilization of pollution control equipment, 
including, inter alia, advanced combustion equipment, fabric filters, scrubbers, 
electrostatic precipitators, water pretreatment facilities and primary and secondary 
water treatment facilities, incinerators, landfill preparation equipment, equipment 
related to change of process, and recovery and recycling equipment;
(h)
"SEPA" means the State environmental protection agency which has entered 
into a SEPA Agreement;
(i)
"SEPA Agreement" means any of the agreements to be entered into by the 
Borrower with a SEPA pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement;
(j)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(k)
"State" means Estado, a political subdivision of the Guarantor;
 
(l)
"Statement of Policy" means the statement of lending and investment 
policy approved by the Board of Directors of the Borrower on January 18, 1990, as 
amended from time to time;
(m)
"Statutes" means the statutes of the Borrower as set forth in Decreto No. 
104 of the Guarantor, dated April 22, 1991, as amended from time to time;
(n)
"Strategy" means the State strategy, satisfactory to the Bank, for air 
and water pollution control and for hazardous waste management; and
(o)
"Subloan" means any loan made or proposed to be made by the Borrower or 
by a Financial Intermediary to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project 
under Part A of the Project, and funded, in whole or in part, with the proceeds of the 
Page  3
Loan.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, various currencies that shall 
have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of fifty million Dollars 
($50,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) amounts 
paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of 
withdrawals made by an Investment Enterprise under a Subloan to meet the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Investment Project in respect of which the 
withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; and (ii) for expenditures made (or, if 
the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for
Parts B and C of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30,1997 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined 
in respect of such Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Page  4
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest 
Period."
"(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
"(c)
(iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on May 
15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project and conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with sound 
financial standards and practices, with qualified management and personnel, and in 
accordance with the Statutes and the Statement of Policy.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall enter into agreements with Financial 
Intermediaries (the Financial Intermediary Agreements), under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include those set forth in the Statement of 
Policy, for purposes of the participation of such Financial Intermediaries in the 
carrying out of Part A of the Project.
(b)
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or 
terminate the Financial Intermediary Agreements, or fail to enforce any provision 
thereof, in a manner to affect materially and adversely the carrying out of the 
Project.
(c)
Not later than seventy-five days after the Effective Date, the Borrower 
shall inform all Financial Intermediaries about the availability of the proceeds of 
the Loan, such information to include, inter alia, the main conditions for the 
participation of such Financial Intermediaries in the carrying out of Part A of the 
Project, and the procedures for and terms and conditions of Sub-loans.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, Subloans shall be made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Statement of Policy and in Schedule 7 to 
this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall, and shall cause each Financial Intermediary to, 
exercise its rights in relation to each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) 
protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower; (ii) enable the Borrower to comply 
with its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the 
Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall enter into agreements (the SEPA 
Agreements), under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, with each SEPA 
having jurisdiction over any Investment Project, whereby: (i) the SEPA shall 
undertake, inter alia, to (A) in the case of a SEPA located in a State without a 
Strategy, present to the Borrower, as a condition of effectiveness for such SEPA 
Agreement, a plan of action, satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, to develop a 
Strategy for such State, and thereafter to carry out such plan of action in a timely 
manner; (B) in the case of a SEPA located in a State with a Strategy, carry out its 
pollution control program in accordance with the corresponding Strategy; (C) review 
the technical feasibility of any proposed Investment Project to be carried out within 
its jurisdiction; and (D) send to the Bank and the Borrower, not later than June 30 
and December 31, each year during the execution of the Project, starting in 1992, 
Page  5
progress reports on ambient quality in its State, the impact of the Investment 
Projects on the environment and the institutional development resulting from the use 
of the technical assistance referred to in subparagraph (ii) hereof; and (ii) the 
Borrower shall undertake to provide to the SEPA, as a grant, an amount equivalent to 
0.2 percent of the amount of each Subloan made for an Investment Project within the 
SEPA's jurisdiction, the proceeds of such grant to be used exclusively in the carrying 
out of Part C of the Project.
(b)
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or 
terminate the SEPA Agreement, or fail to enforce any provision thereof, and shall duly 
comply with its obligations
thereunder.
Section 3.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.06. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, and not later than two years after the Effective Date, the 
Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank with regard to (i) the progress of the 
execution of the Project, the performance of the Borrower and each SEPA of their 
respective obligations under this Agreement and the SEPA Agreements, and (ii) the 
achievement of the objectives of the Project, including the Strategy for each State.
(b)
At least 30 days prior to the exchange of views referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of 
such scope and detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, describing the Borrower's 
actions with respect to the execution of the Project and the status thereof and of its 
obligations under the Loan and SEPA Agreements, respectively.
Section 3.07. The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the amount of Subloans financing Investment Projects shall be, on average, 
equivalent to at least 60% of the total costs of such Investment Projects.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall: (a) maintain procedures, records and accounts 
adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Project and of each Investment 
Project and to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting 
practices the operations and financial condition of the Borrower; and (b) cause each 
Financial Intermediary to maintain records and accounts
adequate to record the progress of each Investment Project financed by such Financial 
Intermediary and to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound 
accounting practices the operations and financial condition of the Financial 
Intermediary.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of this 
Agreement, its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related statements) and the 
records and accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of said financial statements for such year as so 
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the said 
records, accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof 
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
(b)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
Page  6
(i)
maintain, in accordance with Section 4.01 of this Agreement, 
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during the 
corresponding fiscal year, together with the procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take such steps which, in the reasonable 
opinion of the Bank, are necessary to protect the Borrower against risk of loss 
resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between the currencies (including the 
currency of the Guarantor) used in its borrowing and lending operations. For such 
purpose, the Borrower shall continue to fully hedge its foreign exchange exposure. 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the Statutes shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the operations or the financial 
condition of the Borrower or its ability to carry out the Project or to perform any of 
its obligations under this Agreement;
(b)
the Statement of Policy shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the operations or the 
financial condition of the Borrower or its ability to carry out the Project or to 
perform any of its obligations under this Agreement;
(c)
the adjustment of the principal of the loans made by the Borrower in 
Cruzeiros together with the interest rates applicable to such loans shall, in the 
Bank's opinion, have failed to be positive for three consecutive months in relation to 
the prevailing inflation rate in Brazil as measured by the National Consumer Price 
Index of Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatistica or such other index, 
satisfactory to the Bank, adopted by the Borrower or the Guarantor; and
(d)
(i)
subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the 
EXIMBANK Loan shall have been suspended, cancelled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms 
thereof, or
(B)
the EXIMBANK Loan shall have become due and payable prior to 
the agreed maturity thereof;
(ii)
subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that:
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of 
its obligations under the EXIMBANK Loan Agreement; and
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
Page  7
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur;
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (b) or (c) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower and the Guarantor; and
(c)
the event specified in paragraph (d) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (d) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by the Central Bank of 
Brazil; and
(b)
EXIMBANK has notified the Bank that the conditions for first disbursement 
under the EXIMBANK Loan Agreement have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by the Central Bank of 
Brazil; and
(b)
that all acts, consents and approvals, together with all necessary powers 
and rights in connection therewith, have been duly and validly performed or given and 
that no other such acts, consents or approvals are required in order to authorize the 
carrying out of the Project and to enable the Borrower and the Guarantor to perform 
all of their respective covenants, agreements and obligations
contained in this Agreement and the Guarantee Agreement, respectively.
Section 6.03. The date December 23, 1992 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The President of the Borrower is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For the Borrower:
Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico
   e Social
Av. Republica do Chile 100
Page  8
20139 Rio de Janeiro, R.J.
Brazil
Cable address:
Telex:
 
BADEC-BR
0213389
Rio de Janeiro,
BNDE-BR
Brazil
With copies to:
DEAIN - Departamento de Assuntos
   Internacionais
Ministerio da Economia, Fazenda e
   Planejamento
Esplanada dos Ministerios - Bloco "K" - 5o andar
70063 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Telex:
0611146
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Armeane Choksi
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO NACIONAL DE DESENVOLVIMENTO
   ECONOMICO E SOCIAL
By /s/ Eduardo Marco Modiano
   /s/ Maria Silvia Bastos Marques
Authorized Representatives
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
Subject to paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the table below sets forth the 
Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of 
the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items 
so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Investment                49,800,000        25% of expen-
    Projects                                    ditures financed
                                                under Investment
                                                Projects, up to
                                                50% of the amount of
                                                the respective
                                                Subloan
Page  9
(2) Consultants'                  50,000        50%
    services
    under
    Part B of the
    Project
(3) Goods and                    150,000        50%
    services under
    Part C of the
    Project
         TOTAL                50,000,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) under Category (1) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless: (i) 
the Subloan for the financing of the respective Investment Project has been made in 
accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in the Statement of Policy and in Schedule 7 to this Agreement; and (ii) in the 
case of a Subloan made through a Financial Intermediary, a Financial Intermediary 
Agreement has been entered into between the Borrower and the Financial Intermediary 
making the Subloan; (b) under Categories (1) and (3) of the table in paragraph 1 of 
this Schedule, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, unless a SEPA Agreement 
has been entered into between the Borrower and the SEPA having jurisdiction over the 
Investment Project being financed by the Subloan; and (c) in respect of payments made 
for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an 
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000, may be made in respect of 
Category (1) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made 
for expenditures before that date but after May 1, 1991.
3.
Notwithstanding the percentages for withdrawals set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule, if an expenditure under Categories (1), (2) or (3) of 
such table, eligible for financing under the Loan, shall not have been approved by 
EXIMBANK to be financed out of the proceeds of the EXIMBANK Loan, the Bank shall 
increase, as applicable, the percentage of such expenditure to be financed as follows:
                                                     % of
                                                 Expenditures
     Category                                   to be Financed
(1) Investment                                  50% of expendi-
    Projects                                    tures financed
                                                under Investment
                                                Projects, up to
                                                the amount of the
                                                respective Sub-
                                                loan
(2) Consultants'                                100%
    services under
    Part B of the
    Project
(3) Goods and ser-                              100%
    vices under
    Part C of the
    Project
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve public health and living 
conditions of the population concentrated in and around industrialized areas, 
particularly the urban poor who live near major pockets of industrial pollution; (b) 
to motivate the States in which an Investment Project is carried out under the Project 
in (i) devising an adequate regulatory framework for pollution control,
(ii) pursuing a political commitment to improve the environment, (iii) strengthening 
the institutional capabilities of their respective SEPAs in monitoring and analyzing 
environmental problems, (iv) implementing their Strategies, and (v) seeking the 
availability of medium to long-term financing for industries for pollution control 
purposes; (c) to familiarize the banking system with financing free-standing pollution 
Page  10
control investments; and (d) to strengthen the Borrower's ability to process loans for 
pollution control investments.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A
Financing of Investment Projects through Subloans.
Part B
A training program for the Borrower's staff to develop their professional skills 
in environmental assessment, environmental project analysis, and analytical frameworks 
for dealing with the economics of pollution control regulations.
Part C
A technical assistance program designed to strengthen the institutional capacity 
of the SEPAs.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
 
On each November 15 and May 15
beginning November 15, 1997
through May 15, 2007
2,500,000
 
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent Dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
Page  11
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a percentage 
per annum) applicable to the Loan on the
day of prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.20
before maturity
More than three years but
0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.73
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.87
more than 13 years
before maturity
More than 13 years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Brazil may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.
All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly indicate any 
preference which would be granted, the information required to establish the 
eligibility of a bid for such preference, and the methods and stages that will be 
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.
After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the following two 
groups:
(1)
Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Brazil if the bidder shall 
have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that such 
goods contain components manufactured in Brazil equal to at least 50% of the 
value of the complete goods.
(2)
Group B: bids offering any other goods.
 
3.
In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group, all evaluated bids 
in each group shall first be compared among themselves, without taking into account 
customs duties and other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or 
the sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery of the 
goods pursuant to the bids. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be compared with 
each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid from group A is the lowest, 
it shall be selected for the award.
4.
If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above, the lowest evaluated 
bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids shall be further compared with the lowest 
evaluated bid from group A after adding: (a) to the evaluated bid price of goods to be 
imported in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of: (i) the amount of 
Page  12
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay 
for the importation of the goods offered in such group B bid; or (ii) 15% of the 
c.i.f. bid price of such goods; and (b) to the ex-factory bid price of goods supplied 
domestically offered in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of: (i) the 
amount of customs duties and other import taxes which would be levied on the goods 
offered in such group B if they originated from the same foreign country as the bid 
included in group B which enjoys the lowest customs duties and other import taxes, or 
(ii) 15% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods. If, as a result of this 
comparison, the bid from group A is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if 
not, the lowest evaluated bid from group B, as determined under paragraph 3 above, 
shall be selected for the award.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $10,000,000 per contract may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with established commercial 
practices acceptable to the Bank.
2.
Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $5,000,000 per contract may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
obtained from at least three suppliers, of which at least two shall be foreign 
suppliers, eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to 
the Bank. 
3.
Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $3,000,000 per contract may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with established commercial 
practices acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract to be awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Part A of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to 
be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that 
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant 
to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the 
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding subparagraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure.  
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Part E:
FSRMM
 
For purposes of this Schedule and the Guidelines, the term "customs duties and 
other import taxes" includes the FSRMM.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of Parts B and C of the 
Project, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed consultants whose 
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be 
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for 
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing 
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Page  13
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $5,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
Page  14
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Modifications of the General Conditions
For purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions 
of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
(c)
The words "the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, 
terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount. 
Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled" set forth 
at the end of Section 6.03 are deleted and the following is substituted therefor:
"or (f) by the date specified in subparagraph (c) of paragraph 2 of 
Schedule 7 to the Loan Agreement, the Bank shall, in respect of any portion of 
the Loan: (i) have received no  applications or requests permitted under 
subparagraphs (a) or (b) of said paragraph; or (ii) have denied any such 
applications or requests, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the 
Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to submit such applications or 
requests or to make withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may be, 
with respect to such amount or portion of the Loan. Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."
 SCHEDULE 7
Procedures for and Terms and Conditions
of Subloans
1.
No expenditures for goods or services required for an Investment Project shall 
be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless the technical 
feasibility of such Investment Project shall have been approved by the SEPA having 
jurisdiction over it and unless:
(a)
the Subloan for such Investment Project shall have been approved by the 
Bank and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than 180 days (except in 
the case referred to in paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement) prior to the 
date on which the Bank shall have received the application and information required 
under paragraph 2 (a) of this Schedule in respect of such Subloan; or
Page  15
(b)
the Subloan for such Investment Project shall have been a Free-limit 
Subloan for which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account and such 
expenditures shall have been made not earlier than 180 days (except in the case 
referred to in paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule 1 to this  Agreement) prior to the date on 
which the Bank shall have received the request and information required
under paragraph 2 (b) of this Schedule in respect of such Free-limit Subloan. For the 
purposes of this Agreement, a Free-limit Subloan shall be a Subloan (i) in an amount 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan which shall not exceed the sum of 
$5,000,000 equivalent, and (ii) for an Investment Project which is (A) included in the 
corresponding Strategy; and (B) to be carried out in the jurisdiction of a State in 
which a SEPA Agreement is signed and in which the SEPA is in compliance with its 
respective obligations under such SEPA Agreement, to the satisfaction of the Bank.
2.
(a)
When presenting a Subloan (other than a Free-limit Subloan) to the Bank 
for approval, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form 
satisfactory to the Bank, together with (i) a description of the Investment Enterprise 
and an appraisal of the Investment Project, including a description of the 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the 
proposed terms and conditions of the Subloan, including the schedule of amortization 
of the Subloan; and (iii) such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)
Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make withdrawals from 
the Loan Account in respect of a Free-limit Subloan shall contain: (i) a summary 
description of the Investment Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a 
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, and (ii) the terms and conditions of the Subloan, including the schedule of 
amortization therefor.
(c)
Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of 
subparagraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented to the Bank on or 
before June 30, 1996.
3.
Subloans shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower or the Financial 
Intermediary, as the case may be, shall obtain or shall have obtained, by written 
contract with the Investment Enterprise, rights adequate to protect the interests of 
the Bank and the Borrower, including the right to:
(a)
require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound industrial, 
environmental, financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records;
(b)
require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the 
carrying out of the Investment Project;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if the 
Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction 
included in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records 
and documents;
(d)
require that: (i) the Investment Enterprise shall take out and maintain 
with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as 
shall be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon 
the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;
(e)
in respect of Subloans made on or after April 15, 1992, require the 
Investment Enterprise to prepare and carry out a pollution discharge monitoring plan, 
satisfactory to the Borrower, the respective SEPA and the Bank, and promptly provide 
to the Borrower and the respective SEPA all data obtained as a result thereof. Each 
such monitoring plan shall include a list of the monitoring equipment to be used in 
the execution thereof;
(f)
obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial 
condition of the Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the 
Investment Project; and
(g)
suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of 
Page  16
the proceeds of the Subloan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its 
obligations under its contract with the Borrower or the Financial Intermediary, as the 
case may be.
