Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TRUST FUND NO. 27140
Japanese Grant Agreement
(National Industrial Pollution Control Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by JAPAN
and
BANCO NACIONAL DE DESENVOLVIMENTO
ECONôMICO E SOCIAL
Dated March 16, 1994
Page  2
TRUST FUND NO. 27140
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 16, 1994, between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC 
OF BRAZIL (the Recipient) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as Administrator 
(the Administrator) of grant funds provided by JAPAN (Japan), and BANCO 
NACIONAL DE DESENVOLVIMENTO ECONôMICO E SOCIAL (BNDES), as 
executing agency.
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to a letter agreement dated July 30, 1990 between 
Japan and the Bank and International Development Association (the 
Association), Japan has requested the Bank and the Association, and the Bank 
and the Association have agreed, to administer grant funds to be made available 
by Japan for the financing of certain programs and projects supported by the 
Bank and the Association, as the case may be, in accordance with the provisions 
of such letter agreement;
WHEREAS (B) Japan has agreed to make available to the Recipient a grant 
out of said grant funds (the Grant) to finance the cost of carrying out the 
technical assistance described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Technical 
Assistance) on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS (C) BNDES will be the Borrower's executing agency for 
purposes of administering the use of the Grant;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions 
Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 
1985, with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the 
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (18) and 
(20), 2.02 and 2.03;
Page  3
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 6.04 
and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; and
(x)
Article XI.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
other than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last 
use of such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
acting as Administrator of the Grant pursuant to the letter 
agreement between Japan and the Bank and the Association 
referred to in Recital (A) of this Agreement, except that in 
Section 6.02, the term "Bank" shall also include the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
acting in its own capacity;
(ii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Recipient;
(iii)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(iv)
the term "Loan", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Grant;
(v)
the term "Loan Account", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Grant Account, an account opened by 
the Administrator on its books in the name of the Recipient 
to which the amount of the Grant is credited;
Page  4
(vi)
the term "Project", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the technical assistance described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; and
(vii)
Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
"Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made 
in yen; provided, however, that if the expenditures to be 
financed out of the Grant have been paid or are payable in 
another currency, the Administrator shall, at the request of 
the Recipient, purchase such currency with the proceeds of 
such withdrawal."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context 
otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in 
the Recitals to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth; 
and the following terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"SEPAS" means the environmental protection agencies of the States 
of the Recipient which participate in the Technical Assistance;
(b)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 
of this Agreement; and
(c)
"yen" and "¥" mean the currency of Japan.
Section 1.03. The Consultants are expected to provide a total of 22.5 
man-months of service.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, 
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the Grant 
in the amount of sixty-three million yen (¥63,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the 
Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement 
between the Recipient and the Administrator, for expenditures made (or, if the 
Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
Page  5
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the Grant.
(b)
The Recipient shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Administrator, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or such later 
date as the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly 
notify the Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. BNDES shall cause the SEPAS to carry out the Project with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative 
and financial practices, and, to this end, shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and 
to be financed out of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) BNDES shall maintain records and separate accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b)
BNDES shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each such 
year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Administrator shall have 
reasonably requested; and
Page  6
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof 
as the Administrator shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, BNDES 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by 
said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Administrator
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that BNDES shall have failed to 
perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness; Termination
Page  7
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by 
the parties hereto.
Section 5.02. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Grant has 
been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their 
obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VI
Representation
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient and the President of 
BNDES are designated as representatives of the Recipient and BNDES, 
respectively, for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministério da Fazenda
Esplanada dos Ministérios
Bloco P, 6 andar
70048 Brasília (DF)
Brazil
Cable address:
Telex:
MEFP
  61-1506 MFAZ BR
Brasília,
Brazil
For the Administrator:
Director
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  8
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
  197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
  248423 (RCA),
   64145 (WUI)or
   82987 (FTCC)
For BNDES:
Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento
  Econômico e Social
Av. República do Chile 100
20139 Rio de Janeiro, R.J.
Brazil
Cable address:
Telex:
BADEC-BR
  0213389
Rio de Janeiro,
  BNDE-BR
  Brazil
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names as of the day and year first above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Edgard Lincoln de Proença Rosa
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
  AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of the Grant
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Page  9
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO NACIONAL DE DESENVOLVIMENTO
  ECONôMICO E SOCIAL
By /s/ Paulo Sotero P. da Costa
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Grant
1.
The Grant will finance 100% of the expenditures in respect of consultants' 
services and equipment for the execution of the Technical Assistance.
2.
No withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for 
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an 
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of ¥6,300,000, may be made on 
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after a date one 
year before the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of Technical Assistance
A
program to provide technical assistance in the preparation and 
execution of the different components of a National Industrial Pollution Control 
Project, which shall include studies and other activities required:
(a)
to evaluate the adequacy of existing regulations and the need for 
new ones in order to achieve the desired ambient quality objectives, including a 
review of the institutional aspects of pollution abatement and enforcement and 
an assessment of the adequacy of the SEPAS;
(b)
to devise pollution control strategies for air, water and hazardous 
waste;
(c)
to design and implement technical assistance programs to build-up 
the capabilities of the SEPAS to enable them to carry out their responsibilities;
Page  10
(d)
to equip such SEPAS, through the acquisition of laboratory and 
monitoring equipment as required; and
(e)
to assess the financial situation of industrial and mining companies 
and their ability to absorb the costs of pollution reduction.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I
.  Procurement of Goods
Part A
:  
Procedures
Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
established commercial practices acceptable to the Administrator.
Part B
:
Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions
1.
(a)
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans, and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines) shall apply to all contracts for goods.
(b)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (a) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Administrator has authorized withdrawals on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the SEPAS in carrying out the Technical Assistance, 
BNDES shall cause the SEPAS to employ consultants whose qualifications, 
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the 
Administrator. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles 
and procedures satis- factory to the Administrator on the basis of the "Guidelines 
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as 
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
Page  11
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Technical Assistance 
and to be financed out of the amount of the Grant in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(b)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of ¥6,750,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be 
made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Administrator a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which 
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis 
of such request or requests, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit in the Special Account such 
amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Administrator requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Administrator shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, BNDES shall 
furnish to the Administrator the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to para-graph 4 of this Schedule 
for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Administrator from the Grant Account in 
Page  12
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, 
BNDES shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish 
to the Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such 
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all 
further withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions 
and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant, less the amount 
of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the Administrator 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Grant shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall 
specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Administrator shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any 
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an 
amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Administrator, BNDES or the 
Recipient, as the case may be, shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so 
request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the 
Administrator shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator 
into the Special Account shall be made until BNDES or the Recipient, as the case 
may be, has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case 
may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any 
Page  13
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further 
payments for eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), 
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
