Report No. PID7028
Project Name                     Middle East and North Africa- Implementation...
of the Strategic Action Program for the Red
Sea and Gulf of Aden
Region                           Middle East and North Africa Region
Africa Region
Sector                           Environment
Project ID                       5MGE63717
GEF Grant Amount                 US$19.0 million
World Bank managed funds         US$5.61 million
Beneficiaries                    Djibouti, Egypt, Jordan, Saudi Arabia
Northern Somali Coast, Sudan and Yemen
Implementing Agency              Regional Organization for the Conservation of
the Environment of the Red Sea and Gulf
of Aden
(PERSGA)
PO Box 1358
Jeddah 21431
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
Tel./Fax. 966 2 651 4472
Email: persga@computec.com.bh
Date this PID Prepared           November 1, 1998
Appraisal Date                   December 1998
Project Board Date               January 1999
Background
1.     With the support of the Global Environment Facility (GEF), the Regional
Organization for the Conservation of the Marine Environment of the Red Sea and
Gulf of Aden (PERSGA), which serves as the Secretariat for the Jeddah
Convention, initiated and coordinated the preparation of the Strategic Action
Program for the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden (SAP). Members of the PERSGA SAP Task
Force included representatives of Djibouti, Egypt, Jordan, Saudi Arabia,
northern coast of Somalia, Sudan and Yemen. The SAP process was jointly
supported by the three GEF partners--UNDP, UNEP and World Bank--and the
Islamic Development Bank, which is based in Jeddah. The SAP was adopted by the
PERSGA Council of Ministers in 1997 and issued by PERSGA in 1998.
Project Objectives
2.     The global environmental objective of the Project is to implement the
SAP through a series of concrete interventions (see paragraph 5 below);
thereby helping to safeguard the coastal and marine environments of the Red
Sea and Gulf of Aden Region and to contribute to sustainable use of its
resources.
3.     The Project's development objective is to design and implement
interventions around specific thematic components that improve the capacity of
PERSGA and cooperating countries to undertake preventive and curative actions



at the regional, national and local level to manage the coastal and marine
environment. The Project supports the cooperating countries in implementing
the provisions of the Jeddah Convention, other international agreements and
national policies and legislation.
Project Description
4.     The Project includes seven complementary components to be managed by
UNEP, the World Bank, and UNDP respectively. Those components are:
- Component 1 - Institutional Strengthening to Facilitate Regional Co-
Operation (UNEP);
- Component 2 - Reduction of Navigation Risks and Maritime Pollution (World
Bank;);
- Component 3 - Sustainable Use and Management of Living Marine Resources
(UNDP);
- Component 4 - Development of a Network of Marine Protected Areas-MPAs
(UNDP);
- Component 5 - Support for Integrated Coastal Zone Management-ICZM (World
Bank);
- Component 6 - Enhancement of Public Awareness and Participation (UNDP);
and
- Component 7 - Monitoring and Evaluation of Program Impacts (UNDP).
5.     The GEF-Bank supported elements of the SAP include Component 2 -
Reduction of Navigation Risks and Maritime Pollution and Component 5 - Support
for Integrated Coastal Zone Management (ICZM). The key elements of these
components are as follows:
(a) Component 2 - Reduction of Navigation Risks and Maritime
Pollution. This component will support measures to identify and overcome
constraints by cooperating governments in signing, ratifying, and implementing
major maritime conventions and agreements. It will also facilitate
establishing a regional framework for Port State Control. These policy
measures will be complemented by institutional strengthening measures, through
the activities of the Navigation Working Group, to provide specialized
seminars, training and information on these issues to decision makers and
personnel concerned with regional maritime affairs. Additionally, this
component will, working with the national maritime authorities, install new
aids to navigation and facilitate the establishment of new Traffic Separation
Schemes (TSS) supported by hydrographic surveys of areas of high traffic
density in the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden.
(b) Component 5 - Support for Integrated Coastal Zone Management
(ICZM). At the regional level the ICZM Working Group will work to promote and
exchange good practices in coastal zone management. In the four southern
countries--Djibouti, Sudan, northern coast of Somalia and Yemen--this will be
further supported by preparing national "ICZM Frameworks," and undertaking
"Model ICZM Plans" to demonstrate these approaches at the national and local
level. Seminars and training activities under this component are planned to
support the establishment of basic institutional capacities concerning this
issue by improving planning, management and enforcement of existing
regulations.
Project Cost and Financing
-2-



6.     The total cost for the two Bank-implemented components is estimated to
be US$6.23 million, of which GEF will finance US$5.61 million (90%), with
US$3.5 million and US$2.11 million for Components 2 and 5 respectively. The
GEF grant will finance all foreign and local investment costs and part of the
recurrent costs. PERSGA will provide from its operational budget and
cooperating governments will provide in kind contributions estimated to be
US$0.62 million. The PERSGA contribution will finance part of the recurrent
costs including office space, salaries of PERSGA staff members, and some
overhead costs.
Project Implementation
7.     Executing Agency. The Project will be implemented by PERSGA, which
gained experience in project planning and management during the preparation
process for the SAP. This included regular interaction with representatives of
the GEF Partners. PERSGA, with the support of UNDP, has already
internationally recruited a Chief Technical Advisor who worked on preparation
of the SAP, and an individual with experience in international project
management to serve as the Procurement and Finance Specialist. The Navigation
Advisor and the Lead Specialists responsible for implementation of the GEF-
supported components must have professional training, practical experience and
language skills. These individuals will be appointed by PERSGA in formal
consultation with the GEF Partners.
8.     Project Management. The Program Management Team (PMT) has been
established by PERSGA and already has taken an active role in the preparation
of the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). Some personnel assigned to the PMT
gained earlier experience through their work on preparation of the SAP. To
ensure that the PMT will have the required capacity to carry out Project
implementation, technical assistance in project planning, procurement,
disbursement, accounting, auditing and project monitoring has been included in
Project design. Special training efforts will be undertaken during the first
year of implementation to allow all members of the PMT to gain an
understanding of project management skills and requirements. In addition, a
Riyadh-based UNDP-Program Coordinator has been regionally recruited who has
previous experience with UNDP and GEF projects and will be able to provide
support to the PMT on a range of issues.
Project Sustainability
9.     Government and Stakeholder Commitment. The cooperating Governments have
demonstrated their commitment to regional cooperation for conservation of
coastal and marine resources though their ratification of the Jeddah
Convention, establishment of PERSGA and participation in development of the
SAP. The development of the SAP has been a participatory process demonstrating
the broad-based commitment of a wide range of stakeholders in conservation of
the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden.
10.    Financial Sustainability. Member countries have provided annual
contributions in cash to support the work of PERSGA, including implementation
of the SAP. The budget of PERSGA for fiscal year 1996 included contributions
of US$930,000 from member countries. This was complemented with supplemental
support from various international and regional sources. The Kingdom of Saudi
Arabia also provides PERSGA with offices and covers selected operational
costs. The anticipated support of SAP implementation by the Jeddah-based
-3 -



Islamic Development Bank, an international financial institution, provides a
regionally based source of support for the Project. The planned participation
of the European Commission in SAP implementation brings the experience and
resources of the European Union to support proposed priority actions. As noted
in the SAP, there also exists significant potential for participation of
internationally and regionally based private sector organizations through
contributions in cash and kind. All operational components of the Project
include activities to develop appropriate resource mobilization measures to
allow for full or partial funding of routine operational costs.
Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Involvement
11.    To support preparation of the SAP, the Bank prepared a review of the
"lessons learned" from regional environmental programs and evaluated their
specific application to the work of PERSGA. The review included evaluation of
the experience from planning and implementation of regional environmental
programs for the Baltic Sea, Black Sea and Mediterranean Sea and also
benefited from experience with the Aral Sea and Danube River Basin Programs.
This was supplemented with a detailed review of lessons learned by the
Helsinki Commission and World Bank for the updating of the Baltic Sea
Environment Program. In addition, the Bank, in cooperation with UNEP and the
Mediterranean Action Plan (MAP), prepared an in-depth review of the experience
of ICZM in the Mediterranean region. Preparation also included review of
recent documents concerning the management of transboundary waters resulting
from German and World Bank cooperation--the "Petersberg Declaration" and the
"Berlin Recommendations." These reviews indicate three key features for
preparation and implementation of a successful program. They include: (a)
sustained commitment--demonstrated by the regionally funded operation of
PERSGA and willingness of countries to prepare and implement the SAP; (b) a
shared vision--provided by the cooperatively-developed SAP which was based on
regional and country level studies; and (c) broad-based partnership--provided
by the well-established cooperation between PERSGA, the cooperating countries,
GEF partners and IsDB.
Environmental Aspects
12.    The proposed Project has been placed in environmental assessment
screening category "C" consistent with the provisions of World Bank
Operational Directive 4.01, "Environmental Assessment." Activities for
reduction of marine navigation risks, oil spill management and ICZM are
focused on planning, management and training activities that will not have an
adverse environmental impact. Project-supported studies for installation of a
regional Vessel Traffic System (VTS) and model ICZM plans will include
preparation of environmental reviews to support integration of these concerns
into their design. The establishment of the VTS may require the construction
of a small building and support structures which would have minimal impact.
Implementation of the model ICZM plans would not involve construction
activities. An environmental data sheet is attached.
Participation Arrangements
13.    The SAP was prepared using an active participatory process and GEF
support for SAP implementation includes a component for "Enhancement of
Public Awareness and Participation." This component will be implemented by
UNDP with support from local nongovernmental organizations and will facilitate
work with stakeholders and civil society. The two Bank-managed components of
- 4 -



the SAP have been designed to provide social benefits to regional populations:
(a) Component 2 will assist national governments and local
populations in supporting preventive measures to avoid potential adverse
impacts associated with navigation accidents and marine pollution. Actions
under this component will focus on the reduction of oil spills in coastal and
marine areas and lower the incidence and severity of accidents associated with
the shipment of oil and other hazardous types of materials through regional
waters.
(b) Component 5 will provide support on a regional basis, and on a
national basis in the four southern countries, to improve participation of
communities in management of coastal and marine resources and to improve
social welfare by promoting sustainable use of these critical and fragile
resources. Special attention will be given to the needs of individuals
involved in locally based commercial and artisanal fishing operations.
Project Benefits
14.    The primary benefit from implementation of the SAP, with support from
GEF, will be the long-term conservation and management of the coastal and
marine resources of the Region. The benefits of Bank-implemented components
will result from actions to strengthen regional, national and local management
capacity, and preventive measures to reduce navigation risks and maritime
pollution and to promote adoption and application of ICZM. By investing in
preventive measures to manage the coastal and marine resources of the Region,
the cooperating countries will save much needed resources which would likely
be required for future curative actions and reduce the need to address
emergency situations. Specific beneficiaries include:
(a) Maritime Community will benefit from clearer navigation guidelines
and improved conditions and safety of vessel traffic. Nearshore communities
will benefit from a reduced threat of spilled oil affecting living marine
resources.
(b) Coastal Communities. Will begin to see benefits from more coherent
and better standardized development practices that follow logical zoning, and
make use of environmental assessment and other regulations to provide coastal
residents with needed services while protecting them from significant
environmental impacts.
(c) Tourism Interests. Will benefit from a positive recreation
experience that emphasizes the natural resource and cultural values of the Red
Sea and Gulf of Aden's coastal environment, which directly contributes toward
a sustainable tourism industry.
(d) Fishing Communities. Should benefit as the resource base is
sustainably managed over time; therefore, it can continue to be relied upon as
a way of life. These are among the lowest income populations in the region and
special efforts will be undertaken to support their interests in the four
southern countries.
Contact Point:           The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
- 5 -



Task Team Leader:        Mr. Stephen F. Lintner
Tel: 1 202 473 2508
Fax: 1 202 522 0367
Email: slintner@worldbank.org
Contact Person
at PERSGA:               Dr. Nizar I. Tawfiq
Secretary General
PERSGA
P.O. Box 1358
Jeddah 21431
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
Tel./Fax: 966 2 651 4472
Email: persga@computec.com.bh
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending November 13, 1998.
- 6 -



