Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 1 8565-MNA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED GRANT FROM THE
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4 MILLION (US$ 5.61 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
DJIBOUTI, EGYPT, JORDAN, SAUDI ARABIA,
NORTHERN SOMALI COAST, SUDAN AND YEMEN
FOR THE
REGIONAL PROJECT FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE STRATEGIC
ACTION PROGRAM (SAP) FOR THE RED SEA AND GULF OF ADEN
WORLD BANK COMPONENTS:
COMPONENT 2: REDUCTION OF
NAVIGATION RISKS AND MARITIME POLLUTION
COMPONENT 6: SUPPORT FOR
INTEGRATED COASTAL ZONE MANAGEMENT (ICZM)
February 3, 1999
Rural Development, Water and Environmenlt (MNSRE) - Middle East and North Africa Region
Agriculture and Environment (AFTAE) - Africa Region
I Non-GEF Resources.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit U US$
FISCAL YEAR - July 1 - June 30
ABBREViATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIS                 Automatic Identification System
C'FA                Chief Technical Advisor
DNV                 Det Norske Veritas
EU                  European Union
FAO                 Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
GEF                 Global Environment Facility
GIS                 Geographic Information System
GMDSS               Global Maritime Distress and Safety System
GPS                 Global Positioning System
GRT                 Gross Registered T'onnage
IALA                International Associationi of Lighthouse Authorities
ICR                 Implementation Completion Report
ICRI                International Coral Reef Initiative
ICZM                Integrated Coastal Zone Management
IFAI)               International Food and Agricultural Development
I LO                International Labor Organization
IMC                 International Maritime Organization of'the United Nations
lOMoU               Memorandum of Understanding on Port State Control in the Indian Ocean
IsDB                Islamic Development Bank
IIUJCN              World Conservation Union (formerly International Union for the Conservation of Nature)
LACI                Loan Administration Change Initiative
MARPOL              International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships
MEMAC               Marine E'mergency Mutual Aid Center
MPA                 Marine Protected Area
N'GO                Non-governmental Organization
nm                  Nautical mile (I international nautical mile  1.852 km   1 1,508 miles)
NEAIP               National Environmental Action Ptlan
NPC                 National P'rogram Coordinator
PFS                 Proculemiienit and Finance Specialist
PC'                 Program Coordinator
P(l                 Program Coordination Unit
PDF                 Project Development Facility
PERSGA              Reoional Organization tor the Conservation of the Environment of the Red Sea and G,ulf
of Aden
PM'F                Project Management Team
PSC                 Port State Control
SAP                 Strategic Action Program for the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden
SDR                 Special Drawing Rights
SOLAS               Safety of life at Sea Convention
3'BD                To Be Determined
'I'F                Task For-ce
I'SS                Traffic Separation Schemes
UKH-I)              UJnited Kingdom 1-lydrographic Office
UNDP                Uinited Nations Development Programme
tUNDP-PC            UJNDP Programme Coordinator
13NEP               U'nited Nations Environmental ProgLramme
VHIF                Very H ligh Frequency
VTS                 Vessel Trafftic System
W13                 World Bank
WG                  Working Group
Vice Presidents: Kem-nal Dervis and Callisto Madavo
Coutitrv Directors: Inder K. Sod. Khalid Ikram. Oev Astra Meesook. and Michael Sarris
Sector Directors: Doris Koehn and Hans Binswanger
'Fask Team Leader: Stephen F. Lintner



DJIBOUTI, EGYPT, JORDAN, SAUDI ARABIA,
NORTHERN SOMALI COAST, SUDAN AND YEMEN
REGIONAL PROJECT FOR THE
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE STRATEGIC ACTION PROGRAM (SAP)
FOR THE RED SEA AND GULF OF ADEN
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective ......................................................2
1.   Project development objective ......................................................2
2.   Key performance  indicators ......................................................3
B. Strategic Context ......................................................5
1. Sector-related CAS goal and GEF Operational Program
supported  by the Project .....................................................5
2.   Main  sector issues and Government strategy ..............................                                 ........................6
3.   Sector issues to be addressed  by the Project and  strategic choices .................                                  ................7
C. Project Description Summary ......................................................7
1.  Project components ......................................................7
2.   Key policy  and  institutional reforms supported  by the Project ..................................... 10
3.   Benefits and target population ......................................................                                               10
4.   Institutional and  implementation  arrangements .....................................................                                11
D. Project Rationale .....................................................                                                                     14
1 .   Project alternatives considered  and reasons for rejection .............................................. 14
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or
other development agencies .....................................................                                                  15
3.   Lessons learned  and reflected  in the Project design ..................................................... 15
4.   Indications of borrower commitment and  ownership .................................................... 16
5.   Value added of Bank  and  global support in this Project ............................................... 16
E. Summary Project Analysis .....................................................                                                               17
1.   Economic ..................................................... 1 7
2.  Financial .....................................................                                                                      17
3. Technical .....................................................                                                                       17
4.  Institutional .....................................................                                                                  18
5.   Social ..................................................... 18
6.   Environmental assessment .....................................................                                                      18
7.   Participatory  approach ......................................................                                                      19
F. Sustainability and Risks .....................................................                                                              20
1.  Sustainability .....................................................                                                                20
2.  Critical risks .....................................................                                                                21
3.   Possible controversial aspects .....................................................                                               22



G. Main Loan Conditions ................................................                                                    23
1.  Effectiveness conditions .....................................................                                     23
2.  Other  .....................................................                                                       23
H. Readiness for Implementation ................................................                                            23
I.   Compliance with  Bank Policies ................................................                                        23
Annexes
Annex 1. Project Design Summary .25
Annex 2. Detailed Project Description .31
Annex 3. Estimated Project Costs.                                                                                            55
Annex 4. Incremental Cost Analysis .56
Annex 5. Financial Summary .65
Annex 6. Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .66
Table A.    Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements                              ................................. 69
Table B.  Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review                                           . .    69
Table C.    Allocation of Grant Proceeds .....................................................                         70
Annex 7.    Project Processing Budget and Schedule .....................................................                      71
Annex 8.   Documents in Project File .....................................................                                  72
Annex 9.    Red Sea and Gulf of Aden at a Glance .....................................................                       74
Annex  10.  Public Participation Summary .....................................................                              75
Annex  11.  Threats to Coastal and Marine Environments and Resources ................................. 77
Annex 12.  Transboundary Analysis .....................................................                                      84
Annex  13.  Environmental Data Sheet .....................................................                                   88
Map
Map I Strategic Action Program for the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden - IBRD 29042



DJIBOUTI, EGYPT, JORDAN, SAUDI ARABIA,
NORTHERN SOMALI COAST, SUDAN AND YEMEN
REGIONAL PROJECT FOR THE
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE STRATEGIC ACTION PROGRAM (SAP)
FOR THE RED SEA AND GULF OF ADEN
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Region
Rural Development, Water and Environment Sector Unit
Africa Region
Agriculture and Environment Sector Unit
Date: February 3, 1999                              Task Team Leader: Stephen F. Lintner
Country Directors: Joint MNA and AFR Regional Project   Sector Directors: Hans Binswanger and Doris Koehn
Project ID: GE-63717                                Program Objective Category: Environmentally Sustainable
Development
Sector: Environment                                 Focal Area: International Waters
Lending Instrument: GEF Grant                       Program of Targeted Intervention:   [ ]  Yes  [x] No
Project Financing Data     [] Loan   [] Credit  [  Guarantee  [x ] GEF Grant   [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 19.0 GEF Grant (US$m5.61 managed by World Bank)
Proposed terms:                        [    Multicurrency  [x] Single currency, specify US$
Grace period (years): N/A        [    Standard       [   Fixed                 [   LIBOR-based
Variable
Years to maturity: N/A
Commitment fee: N/A
Service charge: N/A
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                            Local               Foreign             Total
GEF (Bank Managed)                                                        5.61                  5.61
GEF (UNDP and UTNEP Managed)                           -                 13.39                 13.39
Governments (in kind)                                 2.00                -                     2.00
PERSGA                                                4.60                -                     4.60
Islamic Development Bank                               -                  5.00                  5.00
European Commission                                    -                  6.00                  6.00
Total       6.60               30.00                 36.60
GEF Focal Point Agencies: Djibouti - Directorate of Environment; Egypt - Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency;
Jordan - Ministry of Planning; Somalia - N/A; Sudan - Ministry of Finance and National Economy; and Yemen -
Environmental Protection Council
Executing Agency: Regional Organization for the Conservation of the Environment of the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden
(PERSGA)
National Counterpart Agencies: Djibouti - Directorate of Environment; Egypt - Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency;
Jordan - General Corporation for Environment Protection; Saudi Arabia - Meteorology and Environmental Protection
Agency; Northern Coast of Somalia - Local Authority of Fisheries and Coastal Development, Hargeisa, and Executive
Council of Bari Region, Bosaso; Sudan - Higher Council for Environment and Natural Resources; and Yemen -
Environment Protection Council
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):   1999       2000       2001     2002    2003
Annual    0.58         2.31       1.78    0.77     0.17
Cumulative    0.58        2.89       4.67    5.44      5.61
Estimated disbursements (Global supplement FY/US$M):   1999     2000       2001     2002    2003
Annual    0.64         2.50       1.96    0.90     0.20
Cumulative    0.64        3.14       5.10    6.00      6.20
Project implementation period: 5 years Expected effectiveness date: Apr. 1, 1999 Expected closing date: Jun. 30, 2004



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective:
Project Development Objective. The Project development objective is to improve coastal and marine
environments of the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden through a range of activities under the SAP, of which two
would be carried out under the GEF/Bank administered project: a program to reduce navigation risks; and
support for Integrated Coastal Zone Management. Achievement of the objectives would be measured by
(a) reduction in shipping accidents and oil spills; and (b) adoption by selected local communities of
integrated coastal zone management plans, to be prepared under the project.
The Project supports the cooperating countries in implementing the Jeddah Convention, other
international agreements and national policies and legislation. It focuses on two sets of priority actions to
be undertaken with support from the World Bank during the first phase of the SAP implementation
process: Component 2 - Reduction of Navigation Risks and Maritime Pollution; and Component 6 -
Support for Integrated Coastal Zone Management (ICZM).
An Environmentally Important Region. Located at the junction of three major biogeographical realms and
characterized by an arid coastal zone with minimal freshwater input, the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden
contain some of the world's most important coastal and marine environments and resources. The
topography ranges from nearshore, protected shallows, to exposed sandy and rocky shorelines, and depths
of over 4,000 meters, giving rise to complex ecosystems and high biological diversity. Although the Red
Sea is still one of the least disturbed seas relative to other enclosed international water bodies, pressures
on it are rapidly increasing. Transboundary concerns are wide ranging, from major navigation risks
caused by international shipping, to unregulated exploitation of shared fish stocks, to widespread habitat
destruction by uncontrolled coastal zone development leading to loss of important species. There is a
growing risk of marine pollution, notably from maritime transport of petroleum, and environmental
degradation from rapidly expanding coastal zone development including tourism facilities. In the Gulf of
Aden, fisheries are under great pressure from over-exploitation and illegal fishing.
Cooperative Development of the SAP. With the support of the Global Environment Facility (GEF), the
Regional Organization for the Conservation of the Marine Environment of the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden
(PERSGA), which serves as the Secretariat for the Jeddah Convention, initiated and coordinated the
preparation of the Strategic Action Programme for the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden (SAP). Members of the
PERSGA SAP Task Force included representatives of Djibouti, Egypt, Jordan, Saudi Arabia,3 northern
coast of Somalia, Sudan and Yemen. The SAP process was jointly supported by the three GEF partners-
UNDP, UNEP and World Bank-and the Islamic Development Bank, which is based in Jeddah. The SAP
was adopted by the PERSGA Council of Ministers in 1997 and issued by PERSGA in 1998.
First Phase of SAP Implementation. In late 1997 the GEF Council approved a US$19.0 million grant to
support the initial implementation phase of the SAP. This support is intended to allow GEF to play a
"catalytic role" by establishing an institutional and technical foundation to undertake a long-term program
of actions. Under the first phase, GEF support will strengthen the capacity of PERSGA to coordinate and
manage the SAP implementation process, create a forum to bring together the key actors at the regional
and national level, provide support for selected high priority activities and facilitate mobilization of
resources from domestic and international sources. The SAP will be implemented in a series of phases
that will require adjustments in their design to incorporate lessons learned from the GEF-supported
activities and to address new issues that may arise in the future. It is not anticipated that future phases of
SAP implementation will receive further core funding from the GEF; however, assistance may be made
available for specific activities on a case-by-case basis.
2  Final Act of Jeddah Plenipotentiary Regional Conference on Conservation of the Marine Environment and
Coastal Areas in the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden.
3  Costs for participation of Saudi Arabia in the SAP activities will not be funded from GEF resources.



Page 3
Removing Barriers for Transboundary Management. The GEF funding provided for the proposed Project
is designed to achieve global environmental benefits by removing barriers against implementation of the
SAP by supporting incremental costs. These include additional transaction costs for joint planning of
activities, development of common approaches to sectoral policies, data collection and analyses, and
coordination of efforts among the participating countries. Consistent with GEF objectives, the Project
supports complementary policy and technical measures on a regional basis under Component 2 to reduce
navigation risks and associated marine pollution. Under Component 6, such measures are supported to
strengthen institutional capacity in use of ICZM to protect the critical interface between the terrestrial and
marine environments.
Project Components. The proposed Project will be implemented as an integrated activity by the Project
Management Team (PMT) based in PERSGA. In order to facilitate management and to allow for clear
assignments of responsibility within the PMT, the Project has been divided into a series of
complementary components that will be supervised by the indicated GEF implementing organization. It
will include the following outputs:
Component 1: Institutional strengthening to facilitate regional cooperation - UNEP;
Component 2: Reduction of navigation risks and maritime pollution - WB;
Component 3: Habitat and biodiversity conservation - UNDP
Component 4: Sustainable use and management of living marine resources - UNDP;
Component 5: Development of a Regional Network of Marine Protected Areas (MPAs) - UNDP;
Component 6: Support for Integrated Coastal Zone Management (ICZM) - WVB;
Component 7: Enhancement of public awareness and participation - UNDP;
Component 8: Monitoring and evaluation of program impacts - UNDP and;
Support for Project Management Team Costs - UNDP.
Assignment of responsibilities between the GEF implementing organizations has been based on the
comparative advantage of these organizations to provide administrative and technical support for these
activities. This includes use of the technical skills of the Bank and the well-developed network of UNDP
field offices throughout the Region to facilitate activities.
2. Key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
Key Performance Indicators. The key performance indicators for Components 2 and 6 will include:
Component 2. Reduction of Navigation Risks and Marine Pollution
Output Indicators:
Element A - Implementation of Conventions and Port State Control
* Ratification of PERSGA Protocols.
* Adoption of Port State Control by PERSGA members.
* Training of inspectors to international standards in Port State Control.
Element B - Traffic Separation Schemes
* Establishment by International Maritime Organization (IMO) of two new Traffic Separation
Schemes.
Element C - Hydrographic Surveys and Navigation Aids
*  Survey of two priority areas and printing of updated charts.
*  Installation of one navigational aid.



Page 4
Element D - Vessel Traffic Systems
* Conduct a feasibility study towards the establishment of a Vessel Traffic System for the
southern Red Sea for potential funding by EU, IsDB and/or other interested parties.
* Training of personnel in principles of Vessel Traffic Systems.
Element E - Oil Spill Prevention and Management
* Preparation and adoption of Regional Oil Spill Contingency Plan.
*  Djibouti MEMAC Transferred to Supervision of PERSGA.
Outcome Indicators:
Element A - Implementation of Conventions and Port State Control
* Expanded application of international maritime conventions in the Region that results in
reduced number of accidents and oil spills as monitored in international shipping databases.
* Reduction in occurrence of navigation, safety and environmental risks as measured by trends
in type and frequency of PSC actions concerning inspected vessels at participating regional
ports.
Element B - Traffic Separation Schemes
* Reduction of greater than 50 percent of maritime accidents resulting from vessel collisions
and "near misses" over a 10-year period, following official establishment of the new traffic
separation schemes, when compared to historic trends.
Element C - Hydrographic Surveys and Navigation Aids
-  Reduction of greater than 35 percent of maritime accidents resulting from vessel groundings
over a 1 0-year period, following official adoption, printing and dissemination of revised
navigation charts, when compared to historic trends.
Element D - Vessel Traffic Systems
e Development of a feasibility study towards the establishment of a Vessel Traffic System for
the southern Red Sea.
Element E - Oil Spill Prevention and Management
* Increased capacity of member countries to respond to oil spill emergencies as measured by
the availability of area specific contingency plans, trained personnel and available equipment.
Component 6. Support for Integrated Coastal Zone Management (ICZM)
Output Indicators:
Element A - Regional Networking and Training
* Workshops to develop a common regional framework for ICZM plans.
Element B - Geographic Information Systems
* Harmonization of regional and national GIS systems used for ICZM.
* Development of standardized GIS data base on coastal environments.
Element C - Model ICZM Plans
* Preparation of "Model ICZM" plans in Djibouti, northern coast of Somalia, Sudan and
Yemen.



Page 5
Element D - ICZM Activities in the Four Southern Countries
* Development of ICZM in Djibouti, northern coast of Somalia, Sudan and Yemen.
Outcome Indicators:
Element A - Regional Networking and Training
* A common approach to ICZM that includes application of good practices and builds upon
lessons learned from global and regional experience as measured by the establishment of
"ICZM Frameworks" which will vary between the countries in structure and form.
Element B - Geographic Information Systems
*  Harmonized GIS systems for ICZM used by PERSGA and cooperating countries result in
comparable maps and data sets being available within the Region and used for planning and
management at the regional, national and local level.
*  PERSGA and cooperating countries are able to develop and share data allowing for
development of a spatial information base that is used for planning and assessment of
environmental trends.
Element C - Model ICZM Plans
- Model ICZM Plans provide a basis for demonstrating application of ICZM approaches at the
national and local level which are adopted as part of the physical planning and management
frameworks at the operational level.
Element D - ICZM Activities in the Four Southern Countries
* ICZM capacities in the four southern countries are able to influence, at the local level,
development activities in a way that prevents unnecessary adverse impacts from major
development activities and reduces incremental impacts from small-scale actions.
B: Strategic Context
1. (a) Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the Project (see Annex 1):
This joint MNA and AFR Regional Project supports sustainable management of coastal and marine
resources by the cooperating countries belonging to PERSGA, as outlined in the SAP. It is consistent with
the priorities established under the Environmental Strategy of the MNA Region and the Coastal Zone
Management Strategy of the AFR Region. It is also consistent with Bank commitments to support the
objectives of the International Coral Reef Initiative (ICRI) and to implement the Global Representative
System of Marine Protected Areas. In the case of Egypt, Jordan and Yemen, which have had a CAS
prepared, the Project is consistent with their objectives of supporting sustainable development, sound
management of natural resources, strengthening of local institutions and development of human
resources. No CAS studies have been prepared for Djibouti, Somalia or Sudan. Saudi Arabia, as a non-
borrowing country, is not subject to the CAS process.
Egypt - CAS document number: 16533-EGT   Date of latest CAS discussion: May 5, 1997
Egypt - Improving Natural Resources Management. The SAP supports CAS objectives relating to
improved environmental management, specifically in the area of marine resources protection, and in the
development of environmentally sustainable tourism on the Red Sea. The SAP component on Reduction
of Navigation Risk and Marine Pollution also relates to the CAS in that it will help to improve the
efficiency and safety of the marine transport sector.



Page 6
Jordan - CAS document number: 14999-JOR Date of latest CAS discussion: September 29, 1995
Jordan - Promoting Rapid and Sustainable Outward-Oriented Growth. Environmental management is
identified as an area where more government involvement is needed to ensure private investment does not
damage the environment. The marine ecosystem in the Gulf of Aqaba is mentioned as an area where
environmental degradation is already of particular concern. The SAP supports CAS objectives relating to
improved environmental management, tourism development, and increasing local participation.
Yemen - CAS document number: 15286-YMN Date of latest CAS discussion: January 19, 1996
Yemen - Promoting Improved Environmental Management. Degradation of the coastal environment is
identified as one of the three major constraints to growth. Yemen's coastal areas are of major economic
importance because of the fisheries they support and their tourism potential. The SAP also supports CAS
objectives relating to the implementation of the National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) and
improving natural resources management.
(b)    GEF Operational Strategy/program objective addressed by the Project:
The Project addresses GEF Operational Program Number 9 (OP-9), "Integrated Land and Water Multiple
Focal Area Operational Program."4 The objective of OP-9 is to support "better use of land and water
resource management practices on an area wide basis." As required, the Project's activities have a
regional focus, include biodiversity considerations, and focus on the "prevention of damage to threatened
waters..." In particular, as called for under OP-9, this Project focuses on "preventive measures to address
threats rather than remedial, highly capital intensive measures." The Project supports measures to address
these issues in a group of African countries identified as a priority area in guidance provided by GEF.
The Project is consistent with GEF guidance and will contribute significantly to the "reduction of stress to
the international waters environment" in the Region. The Project will support PERSGA and the
cooperating countries in moving towards positive change in their sectoral policies and critical
investments, and in developing the programs required to achieve these objectives. The concerned
governments have demonstrated their long-term commitment to the fundamentals of the SAP by their
ratification of the Jeddah Convention, support for PERSGA, participation in the SAP Task Force, and
direct role in the individual Country Reports and Regional Studies, which cooperatively identified priority
actions. The support of GEF will play an important catalytic role in the Project, and the expected
participation of the European Community, international financial institutions, donors, and the private
sector will also contribute to this multi-country and multi-stakeholder effort. The emphasis in the
individual Project components on the evaluation of sustainable mechanisms for self-financing of a
number of activities will contribute to the long-term financial sustainability of Project-initiated actions.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
(a)    Sector Issues. The main sector issues concerning management of the coastal and marine
environment in the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden Region have been reviewed in the SAP. These include:
development of an effective management structure for coastal and marine resources at the regional and
national levels; reduction of navigation risks and maritime pollution; habitat and biodiversity
conservation; sustainable use of living marine resources; establishment and management of marine
protected areas; use of integrated coastal zone management; and promotion of public awareness and
participatory approaches in conservation of these fragile resources. This analysis is consistent with the
global experience of the Bank in coastal and marine resources management and the AFR and MNA
regional strategies for environment and coastal resources management. It also tracks with the findings and
recommendations developed for areas with extensive coral reefs under the International Coral Reef
4  Global Environmnent Facility (April 1997). GEF Operational Programs.



Page 7
Initiative (ICRI). The GEF-supported implementation program for the SAP has been specifically designed
to support key measures to address these issues.
(b)    Government Strategy. The Jeddah Convention, which will be implemented through the SAP,
provides a multi-government approved strategy that is designed to undertake preventive and curative
actions in a phased manner to maintain the sustainable use of shared resources. The Jeddah Convention is
complemented by a range of international agreements, many sponsored by the NMO, which further the
framework for protection of the marine environment. At the national level, many of the cooperating
governments have established environmental policies and priorities. The country studies prepared under
the SAP process provide specific recommendations for priority national and local actions, which
complement the cooperating countries' efforts in implementing NEAPs and related strategy studies.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the Project and strategic choices:
The Bank-implemented components of the SAP represent a strategic choice to concentrate available
human and financial resources on preventive measures that allow for cost-effective interventions to avoid
or minimize the degradation of coastal and marine resources. The activities under Component 2 support a
series of regional efforts at the policy and technical level to reduce the risk of navigation accidents and
associated pollution. Activities under Component 6 provide for development of skills and experience in
the practical application of ICZM, to allow the environmental dimension to be factored into the planning
and investment process in this complex environment where the land and the sea interface with each other.
C: Project Description Summary (for Bank implemented components)
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown)
The Bank implemented elements of the SAP include Component 2 - Reduction of Navigation Risks and
Maritime Pollution and Component 6 - Support for Integrated Coastal Zone Management (ICZM). The
key elements of these components are as follows:
Component 2. Reduction of Navigation Risks and Maritime Pollution
Five Complementary Elements. In order to support effective management and implementation of
Component 2, it has been divided into five complementary elements:
*  Element A - Implementation of Conventions and Port State Control
O  Identification of "baseline" conditions in each of the states with reference to the conventions.
O  Identification of technical, commercial, institutional or legal reasons why conventions have not
been ratified by the states concerned.
O  Means of promoting the ratification of these conventions, drawing upon the expenrence of states
in other parts of the world.
O  Review of existing PERSGA protocols and recommendations on the development of additional
protocols as necessary.
O  Establishment of regional system and capacity for Port State Control.
O  Preparation of an assessment of regional, national and local self-financing mechanisms for
navigation risk reduction and maritime pollution prevention and control.
*  Element B - Traffic Separation Schemes
O Actions to formally establish new TSS in selected priority areas. These areas include: Northeast
Side and Southwest Side of the Hanish Islands.
O Extension of Ras Muhammed TSS.
*  Element C - Hydrographic Surveys and Navigation Aids.



Page 8
O' Under the SAP, two priority areas are proposed to be defined and surveyed: the proposed TSS to
the northeast and southwest of the Hanish Islands
0  Additional areas that may be considered for priority survey, subject to availability of funds,
include: existing TSS in the Strait of Bab al Mandab; approaches to Port Sudan or Suakin in
Sudan; and approaches to the Port of Aden.
0  Support for a survey of the positions and characteristics of any navigational aids in the Region.
* Element D - Vessel Traffic Systems
0  A feasibility study would be prepared for establishment of a VTS that would initially monitor
traffic in the area around the TSS in the southern end of the Red Sea through the Strait of Bab al
Mandab. On the basis of this feasibility study, PERSGA would seek funding for the
establishment of the VTS from the EU, IsDB and/or other interested sources.
0  Regional Workshop on Vessel Traffic Systems.
o  Element E - Oil Spill Prevention and Management
O Regional Oil Spill Contingency Strategy.
0 Support for Djibouti MEMAC.
0 Oil Spill Combating Training.
Component 6 - Support for Integrated Coastal Zone Management-ICZM
C  Four Complementary Elements. In order to support effective management and implementation of
Component 6, it has been divided into four complementary elements:
Element A - Regional Networking and Training
0  Identify personnel to formn a Regional Working Group of experts on ICZM with specialists drawn
from each cooperating country.
0  Convene a series of meetings at the regional or sub-regional level to review the status of ICZM
and supporting instruments such as physical and environmental planning, environmental
assessment procedures and Geographic Information Systems.
0  Undertake site visits in the Region to review case studies at the field level in coastal zone
management and the application of ICZM and supporting instruments in specific locations.
C0 Conduct regional, sub-regional and national workshops to enhance capability in this area.
0  Based on the results of these activities, establish a common framework for regional ICZM plans.
0  Identify outreach activities to increase support by decision-makers and stakeholders in use of
ICZM as a mechanism for sustainable management of the coastal zone.
a Element B - Geographic Information Systems
0  Develop an improved understanding of the application of GIS to the development and
implementation of ICZM.
0  Support development by the Working Group of PERSGA guidelines for standardization and
routine updating of GIS.
0  Undertake a regional review of the present GIS and related databases in the Region that contain
data relevant to ICZM.
0  Provide technical advice and support to harmonize the different systems to facilitate and expand
information exchange with the Region.
0  Undertake well-designed GIS applications as an element of model ICZM activities supported
under the component.
* Element C - Model ICZM Plans. The component will support the preparation and assist in
implementation of model ICZM plans for selected sites in the four southern countries-Djibouti,
Sudan, the northem coast of Somalia and Yemen.
o Element D - ICZM Activities in the Four Southern Countries. The component will support
development of ICZM in Djibouti, Somalia, Sudan and Yemen and will focus on institutional



Page 9
capacities and applied training of personnel in the principles and application of ICZM. This will be
accomplished through national participation in the work program of the ICZM Working Group at the
regional level, conduct of country-specific training activities, preparation of a model ICZM activity
and use of GIS to support coastal zone management. These activities will be closely coordinated with
the National Program Coordinator and national PERSGA Task Force member. Activities will include:
O   A national representative will participate in the regional Working Group on ICZM. National
specialists will attend regional and international workshops, training activities, exchange
programs and study tours.
O   Country-specific ICZM training activities will be conducted to address specific issues.
O   A basic framework for ICZM at the national level will be developed to provide general guidelines
for use in the respective countries.
O   A model ICZM plan will be prepared for a site jointly selected by national and PERSGA
representatives.
O   The model ICZM activity will be supported using a participatory approach with broad-based
stakeholder involvement.
O   Support will be provided to facilitate national participation in a PERSGA regional GIS network
designed to support the SAP process.
O   Support for training of personnel in GIS applications will focus on the model ICZM plan and
sensitivity mapping of the coastline using regionally standardized methods.
Details concerning proposed locations for ICZM activities are provided in Annex 2 and the Project
Implementation Plan.
Component                   Category         Cost Incl.    % of      GEF
Contingencies   Total   Financing
(US$M)               (US$M)
2. Reduction of Navigation Risks and                         3.500      62%        3.500
Maritime Pollution
a. Implementation of Conventions and     Institution         0.953      17%        0.953
Port State Control                       Building
b. Traffic Separation Schemes              Physical/         0.112       2%        0.112
Institution
Building
c. Hydrographic Surveys and Navigation     Physical/         1.915      33%        1.915
Aids                                   Institution
Building
d. Vessel Traffic Systems                  Physical/         0.143       3%        0.143
Institution
Building
e. Oil Spill Prevention and Management   Institution         0.042       1%        0.042
Building
f Component Management                    Institution        0.335       6%        0.335
Building
6. Support for Integrated Coastal Zone                       2.110      38%        2.110
Management (ICZM)
a. Regional Networking and Training       Institution        0.470       8%        0.470
Building
b. Geographic Information Systems          Physical/         0.435       8%        0.435
Institution
Building
c. Model ICZM Plans                      Institution         0.187       3%        0.187
Building
d. ICZM Activities in the Four Southern    Physical/         0.709      13%        0.709
Countries                             Institution
Building
e. Component Management                  Institution         0.309       6%        0.309
Building
Total       5.610     100%        5.610



Page 10
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the Project:
The Project has no policy or institutional reform conditionality; however, the whole Project promotes and
supports coastal and marine resources management within the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden. Key policy and
institutional issues to be addressed under the Bank implemented components include:
(a)    Component 2 - Reduction of Navigation Risks and Maritime Pollution. This component will
support measures to identify and overcome constraints by cooperating governments in signing, ratifying
and implementing major maritime conventions and agreements. It will also facilitate establishing a
regional framework for Port State Control. These policy measures will be complemented by institutional
strengthening measures, through the activities of the Navigation Working Group, to provide specialized
seminars, training and information on these issues to decision makers and personnel concerned with
regional maritime affairs.
(b)    Component 6 - Supportfor Integrated Coastal Zone Management (ICZM). At the regional level
the ICZM Working Group will promote and exchange good practices in coastal zone management. In the
four southem countries this will be further supported by preparing national "ICZM Frameworks." and
undertaking "Model ICZM Plans" to demonstrate these approaches at the national and local level.
Seminars and training activities under this component are planned to support the establishment of basic
institutional capacities concerning this issue by improving planning, management and enforcement of
existing regulations.
3. Benefits and target population:
The primary benefit from implementation of the SAP, with support from GEF, will be coordinated
support for a series of measures for the long-term conservation and management of the coastal and marine
resources of the Region. The benefits of Bank-implemented components will result from actions to
strengthen regional, national and local management capacity, and preventive measures to reduce
navigation risks and maritime pollution and to promote adoption and application of ICZM. By investing
in preventive measures to manage the coastal and marine resources of the Region, the cooperating
countries will save much needed resources which would likely be required for future curative actions and
reduce the need to address emergency situations. Specific beneficiaries include:
(a)   Mlqaritime Community. Will benefit from clearer navigation guidelines and improved conditions
and safety of vessel traffic. Local communities will benefit from a reduced threat of spilled oil affecting
nearshore communities and living marine resources.
(b)    Coastal Communities. Will benefit from coherent, standardized development practices that follow
logical zoning, and make use of environmental assessment and other regulations to provide coastal
residents with needed services while protecting them from significant environmental impacts.
(c)    Tourism Interests. Will benefit from a positive recreation experience that emphasizes the natural
resource and cultural values of the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden' s coastal environment, which directly
contributes toward a sustainable tourism industry.
(d)    Fishing Communities. Will benefit from actions that will incrementally support a move towards a
sustained approach to the management of fisheries and conservation of critical habitats for these
resources. These are among the lowest income populations in the region and special efforts will be
undertaken to support their interests in the four southern countries.



Page 11
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
(a)    Role of PERSGA. Implementation of the SAP will be undertaken by the Project Management
Team (PMT) located in the PERSGA Secretariat, which will operate under the supervision of the
Secretary General of PERSGA. Day-to-day Project management will be the responsibility of the Program
Coordinator (PC) and the GEF-funded Chief Technical Advisor (CTA) in close cooperation with the
Navigation Advisor and Lead Specialists appointed for each component. For the GEF implementing
agencies, the UNDP Resident Representative's Office in Saudi Arabia will provide day-to-day
backstopping for the Project through the services of the UTNDP-Program Coordinator (lTNDP-PC) based
in Riyadh. The UNDP-PC will provide both technical and administrative backstopping and monitoring
for the Project on behalf of the three implementing agencies. The Riyadh-based UNDP-PC will travel to
Jeddah at least once a month to attend one of the weekly PMT meetings, to ensure substantive and
administrative support and backstopping to Project implementation. In the four southern countries-
Djibouti, northern coast of Somalia, Sudan and Yemen-the Project will fund a National Program
Coordinator (NPC). The NPC will coordinate various in-country components, in cooperation with the
Task Force member, and will ensure that implementation of these components is progressing smoothly.
(b)   PERSGA Task Force. GEF funded activities will be supported by the PERSGA Task Force (TF)
which operates under the Chairmanship of the Secretary General of PERSGA and includes
representatives from each cooperating country, the three GEF partners (UNDP, UNEP, World Bank) and
the Islamic Development Bank. The CTA and the UNDP-PC for the Project will also serve as members of
the Task Force. The Task Force will serve as the technical advisory body to PERSGA regarding
implementation of the SAP. It will coordinate the Project, provide strategic guidance, review and monitor
Project progress, provide technical and political support and facilitate Project implementation in the
respective countries. The TF is the forum whereby cooperation among participating countries,
international financial institutions and donors is enhanced. The TF will meet at least once a year to
discuss Project progress and facilitate implementation of the SAP. The membership of the TF may be
expanded in the future to include representatives of additional parties participating in the SAP process.
(c)    Cooperation and Coordination between the GEF Partners. This will be the first project jointly
prepared and implemented by all three of the GEF Partners-UTNDP, UNEP and the World Bank. The
three parties have taken specific measures to support a well coordinated and unified approach to
implementation of the proposed Project. They include: support for a single Project Management Team
under the supervision of PERSGA; use of a single Project Implementation Plan that has been jointly
prepared by all cooperating parties; and agreement on the use of unified procedures for reporting
implementation progress. In addition, all major activities related to supervision of overall GEF support to
the SAP will be undertaken by the three cooperating GEF Partners in a fully coordinated manner. This
will include joint undertaking of supervision missions, mid-term review and preparation of the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR).
(d)    Component 2 - Implementation Arrangements. Implementation of this component will be
coordinated by the Navigation Advisor. The Navigation Advisor will supervise the Navigation Working
Group that includes specialists in maritime affairs, navigation and marine pollution control from the
cooperating countries. The formal establishment of the PERSGA Navigation Working Group with a long-
term role and a mandate to contribute to the objective of increasing navigational safety and protection of
the marine environment in the Region will be a valuable means of achieving Project objectives. Special
attention will be given to coordinating activities under this component with those concerning ICZM,
habitat management and MPA development. The Navigation Working Group will build upon the
experience gained from regional meetings held in Egypt and Yemen during the SAP preparation process.
(e)    Component 6 - Implementation Arrangements. Implementation of this component will be
coordinated by the ICZM Specialist based in PERSGA. The Specialist will supervise the establishment
and operation of an ICZM Working Group, comprising specialists from the cooperating countries



Page 12
participating in this aspect of the SAP implementation process. Given the significant relationships
between ICZM activities and those supported under other Project components, the ICZM Specialist will
work closely with the PMT to exchange information, promote coordination and prevent duplication of
effort. Special attention will be given to coordinating activities under this component with those
concerning marine navigation, habitat management and MPA development. The component will also be
coordinated with current GEF-supported activities in Egypt, Jordan and Yemen.
(f)    Local Level Implementation. The Bank components of the proposed Project will be implemented
at the local level through the following mechanisms:
(i)    Component No. 2 - Navigation Working Group. Building upon the experience of the SAP
preparation process, the activities of the Navigation Working Group will be extended into the
implementation phase. This Group will oversee the work of Project-funded activities related to
international agreements, supervise the work of consultants and contractors, organize workshops
and training programs, and coordinate preparation of an analysis of opportunities for sustainable
financing. Workshops and training activities will be undertaken, as in the case of the SAP
preparation phase, at key ports in the Region to provide for development of a comparative
understanding of the issues shared by counterparts within the Region. All workshops and training
activities will be conducted in a structured manner and will be individually evaluated.
Counterpart organizations responsible for implementation of the activities of the Navigation
Working Group include institutions with direct responsibility for martime affairs and port
management: for example, the Egyptian Lighthouse Authority and Suez Canal Authority in
Egypt; the Port of Jeddah and the Royal Commission for Yanbu and Jubail in Saudi Arabia; and
the Public Corporation for Maritime Affairs and the Yemen Ports Authority in Yemen.
(ii)   Component No. 6 - ICZM Working Group. An ICZM Working Group, with a subsidiary
GIS Working Group, will be established to support implementation of Component No. 6. The
membership of the ICZM Working Group will be made up of individuals who have direct
responsibilities for planning and management of key coastal areas in the Region. Many of these
individuals will be from local governments of the main port cities and from special authorities
established for the development of new ports and special investment zones. Emphasis will be
given in the activities of the Working Group to sharing experiences gained within the Region
from more advanced programs in the northern countries-such as the Gulf of Aqaba
Environmental Action Plan-with those in the southern region where ICZM is less developed.
The same principles will be used in the application of GIS to coastal and marine planning and
management issues. Examples of counterpart institutions involved in the ICZM Working Group
include: Djibouti-Planning Department for the City of Djibouti; Egypt-Egyptian
Environmental Affairs Agency; Jordan-Aqaba Regional Authority; and Sudan-Red Sea
Governorate. The activities of the GIS Working Group will be undertaken by specialists drawn
from a range of organizations such as the GIS Center at the Meteorology and Environmental
Protection Administration of Saudi Arabia and the GEF supported ICZM Unit at Hodeida in
Yemen. Local counterpart units in Djibouti and the northern coast of Somalia will need to be
developed. Sites that will be the focus of the ICZM and complementary GIS activities in the four
southern countries are reviewed in Annex 2.
(g)   Procurement Responsibilities. The PMT will have the overall responsibility for procurement for
GEF-funded SAP activities. The PMT will work closely with the National Program Coordinators in
preparing bidding documents, carrying out evaluations and drafting contracts. The responsibility for
preparing technical specifications, terms of reference and draft bidding documents rests with the
Navigation Advisor and Lead Specialists who will undertake these tasks with the support of the
Procurement/Finance Specialist. Within the PMT, the Procurement/Finance Specialist will be responsible
for providing guidance and assistance, as necessary, and for reviewing procurement documents and
ensuring their compliance with the Bank's procedures. To ensure that the PMT will have the required



Page 13
capacity to carry out procurement work, the GEF Project makes provisions for technical assistance and
training on procuremnent, particularly in the first year of Project implementation. The Bank-implemented
components of the GEF grant are expected to be disbursed over a period of five years. The completion
date of the Project is expected to be December 31, 2003 and the closing date June 30, 2004.
(h)    Accounting, Auditing and Reporting Requirements. The PMT will establish an accounting and
auditing system which will have the capability of recording and retrieving all financial transactions
associated with the GEF-supported activities of the SAP in a timely manner and will comply with
generally accepted accounting standards. Project accounts will be audited annually, in accordance with
the "Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank." The
PMT will submit to the Bank and the other GEF Partners within six months of the end of each fiscal year
during the life of the Project, an audit report of such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably request.
To ensure that the PMT will have the required capability to meet the accounting and auditing
requirements, the Project makes provision for specialized technical assistance, particularly during the first
year of implementation.
The PMT will be responsible for preparing Project reports and submitting them to the Secretary General
of PERSGA and the GEF Partners including:
*  Annual, Semi-Annual and Quarterly Project Progress Reports to be submitted in the intervals
between Annual Reports. They will reflect: (a) status of implementation progress, problems
encountered and corrective actions needed; (b) current costs of each Project component and
estimated costs for completion; (c) degree of achievement of Project objectives, as measured by
status of Project indicators; and (d) summary of sources and use of funds, project balance
statement of affairs, cash withdrawal, cash forecast and special account statements. The annual
reports will include a revised work program and the updated procurement and disbursement plan
for the following year. Special sections on procurement and disbursement will provide
information on: progress of procurement activities against plans set forth in the PIP, variations in
progress, reasons for variations and actions taken to address these problems; and Project
expenditures (foreign and local costs).
* Annual Audit Reports of Project expenditures and accounts; and
* Implementation Completion Report (ICR) within six months of Project completion.
Consistent with the requirements of the World Bank, including the provisions of the Loan Administration
Change Initiative (LACI), an upfront agreement on accounting and auditing procedures acceptable to the
Bank will be reached with PERSGA. This will include a time-bound action plan to address financial
management issues, consistent with the requirements of LACI, that has been prepared as part of appraisal.
In order to address this issue, a Bank approved financial management specialist will visit Jeddah to work
with PERSGA and the GEF/LJNDP funded Procurement and Finance Specialist to establish a financial
management and reporting system that fully complies with Bank requirements.
(i)    Project Monitoring. The PMT will be responsible for ensuring that all GEF-funded SAP activities
are carried out in compliance with Project design and contracts. The role of the GEF Partners will be to
monitor the performance of GEF-supported elements of the SAP to ensure conformity with Project
objectives and to assist the PMT in addressing implementation issues. Special support will be provided
over the first year of the implementation process to ensure that the PMT and other key parties are fully
aware of Project implementation arrangements. The technical assistance nature of the Project and the
specialized activities supported under the Bank-implemented components mandate intense supervision. It
is planned that three supervision missions will be undertaken during the first year of implementation with
an average of two supervision missions during each of the following four years.



Page 14
(j)    Project Evaluation. A Mid-Term and Final Evaluation will be conducted to evaluate the impact
of the Project, degree to which Project objectives have been achieved, and the constraints encountered in
Project implementation. The evaluation will rely on both qualitative and quantitative methods and will
benefit from the data collected from the UNDP-implemented component of the SAP on "Monitoring and
Evaluation of Program Impacts." Resources have been set aside to support the conduct of both these
evaluations by independent reviewers. The Mid-Term Evaluation will provide suggestions on possible
improvement of the implementation plan and steps that could be taken to ensure achievement of Project
goals in the remainder of the implementation period. It is planned that the Mid-Term Evaluation will be
conducted during the early portion of the third year of Project implementation and that the Final
Evaluation will be carried out not later than four months prior to closure of the Project.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection.
Preparation of the SAP and the supporting GEF Project included evaluation of a wide range of potential
actions in a variety of sectors. The SAP Task Force reviewed these alternatives and decided to focus the
efforts of SAP implementation on seven priority areas that have been formulated as components.
Alternatives that were reviewed include:
(a)    Curative Investment Focused Program. Consideration was given to support a curative investment
focused program for major environmental infrastructure improvements in key coastal locations. This was
rejected due to the limited fumds available and the fact that the primary locations affected by point source
pollution from municipal and industrial sources could be funded by national governments with assistance
from international financial institutions and bilateral donors. A curative investment focused program
would also focus efforts only on a limited number of major urban-industrial areas of the Region.
(b)   ICZM Focused Program. The possibility of conducting a program restricted to ICZM, given its
critical importance to management of the coastal and marine environment within the Region, was given
consideration by the Task Force. This was rejected since the scope was restricted to only dealing with
coastal management and did not address issues related to navigation risks, maritime pollution or living
marine resources.
(c)    Maritime Pollution Focused Program. Consideration was also given to only conducting a marine
pollution focused program at the regional and local level. This was not adopted by the Task Force since
this was viewed as limited to a reactive approach that would not provide support for preventive measures
or address the full range of issues required for sustainable management of the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden.



Page 15
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector issue                   Project               Latest Supervision Ratings
(PSR)
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Regional
Regional Strategy (GEF)       Strategic Action Program for
Red Sea and Gulf of Aden
Bank-financed
Egypt - Environment (GEF)     Red Sea Coastal and Marine         S                 S
Resources Management
Egypt - Environment (GEF)     Gulf of Aqaba Environmental
Action Plan (awaiting final
approval)
Jordan - Environment (GEF)    Gulf of Aqaba Environmental        S                 S
Action Plan
Other development agencies
Djibouti - UNDP               National Environmental Action
Plan
Egypt - European Union        Ras Mohammed National Park
Egypt - Denmark/Netherlands   ICZM
Egypt - Denmark               Oil Spill Contingency Plan
Jordan - European Union/Japan  Oil Spill Management
Saudi Arabia - Self Financed  Oil Spill Management
Saudi Arabia - Self Financed  ICZM
Northern coast of Somalia - UNDP  Port Rehabilitation
Sudan - Self Financed         Maritime and Oil Spill
Legislation
Yemen - UNDP (GEF)            Protection of Marine
Ecosystems of the Red Sea
Coast
Yemen - UNDP (GEF)            Environmental Management of
Socotra, Yemen
Yemen - UNDP/World Bank       National Environmental Action
(IDF)                         Plan
Yemen - UNDP                  National Biodiversity Strategy  I
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the Project design:
To support preparation of the SAP, the Bank prepared a review of the "lessons learned" from regional
environmental programs and evaluated their specific application to the work of PERSGA. The review
included evaluation of the experience from planning and implementation of regional environmental
programs for the Baltic Sea, Black Sea and Mediterranean Sea and also benefited from experience with
the Aral Sea and Danube River Basin Programs. This was supplemented with a detailed review of lessons
leamed by the Helsinki Commission and World Bank for the updating of the Baltic Sea Environment
Program. In addition, the Bank, in cooperation with UNEP and the Mediterranean Action Plan (MAP),
prepared an in-depth review of the experience of ICZM in the Mediterranean region. Preparation also
included review of recent documents conceming the management of transboundary waters resulting fronV ,4,,
German and World Bank cooperation - the "Petersberg Declaration" and the "Berlin Recommendations."
These reviews indicate three key features for preparation and implementation of a successful program.
They include: (a) sustained commitment-demonstrated by the regionally funded operation of PERSGA
and willingness of countries to prepare and implement the SAP; (b) a shared vision-provided by the



Page 16
cooperatively-developed SAP which was based on regional and country level studies; and (c) broad-based
partnership-provided by the well-established cooperation between PERSGA, the cooperating countries,
GEF partners and IsDB.
In addition, a series of projects concerning management of the coastal and marine environment in the
Region were reviewed. These projects were undertaken with support of the GEF, international financial
institutions, European Union and bilateral donors. The review consistently noted the critical need for local
ownership of activities and expanded use of regional specialists. The constraints imposed by limited
opportunities for training and availability of materials in Arabic, especially when working with personnel
at the provincial and municipal levels, were another concern. In the area of navigation risk reduction and
maritime pollution management, with the exception of the Gulf of Aqaba, the limited experience in
addressing issues at the regional rather than national and port level was noted. Experience with ICZM,
especially from the Gulf of Aqaba Environmental Action Plan, underlined the importance of focusing
ICZM activities on land use planning and management, with an emphasis on development of enforceable
regulations. Regional experience with ICZM also indicated that implementing agencies and communities
should have maximum flexibility to adapt Project-supported activities to local and site-specific needs.
These "lessons leamed" have been applied in the development of the proposed Project. Key measures in
Components 2 and 6 include regional working groups to supervise activities, the use of Arabic in training
and materials to the fullest extent possible, navigation and maritime pollution activities that emphasize a
regional vision where appropriate, and adoption of a flexible approach to ICZM with a focus on land use
management activities.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The cooperating Governments have demonstrated their commitment to regional cooperation for
conservation of coastal and mnarine resources through ratification of the Jeddah Convention, establishment
of PERSGA and participation in development of the SAP. The development of the SAP was initiated at
the "Sea to Sea Conference," held in Jeddah in October 1995, which reviewed the challenges and
opportunities for conservation of the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden. The Project has been designed to support
implementation of agreed priority actions identified in the SAP. The Ministerial level PERSGA Council
has fully endorsed the outcome of the SAP process and has authorized the PERSGA Secretariat to pursue
implementation of the SAP and its related initiatives. The PAD has incorporated the comments and
suggestions gathered in the Fourth SAP Task Force Meeting and has received the official endorsement of
all participating countries (Annex 2). Government commitment is further demonstrated in their financial
contribution as listed in the finance section and the budget.
5. Value added of Bank and global support in this Project:
The external support provided to PERSGA is critical to the success of SAP implementation since the
Bank is able to provide a wide range of practical experience from a series of regional coastal and marine
environmental management programs (Baltic Sea, Black Sea, Mediterranean Sea). The global support
provided by GEF facilitates the mobilization of regional efforts and resources to overcome barriers to
addressing the management of transboundary environmental issues. Without the combined resources of
the Bank and GEF, implementation of the SAP would proceed at a slower pace and would not fully
benefit from the experience gained from other regional environmental programs worldwide.



Page 17
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the Projectfile, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4 - Incremental Cost Analysis).
Consistent with GEF Operational Policy, the Project would finance only the incremental costs associated
with addressing transboundary issues in the Region. The GEF Alternative Scenario has evaluated a series
of critical measures for transboundary management that require support from the GEF and other
international sources in order to remove barriers to implementation of the SAP. Support from the GEF
was identified as necessary for the transaction costs for joint planning activities, development of common
approaches to sectoral policies, data collection and analysis, and coordination efforts at a variety of levels.
The GEF alternative would allow realization of the SAP work program on an accelerated basis, with
support from a variety of sources. The cost of realizing the benefits of the overall SAP have been
estimated at $US 19.0 million and are additional to what each government could be reasonably expected to
finance if only national benefits were included in the economic analysis.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
The total cost for the two Bank-implemented components is estimated to be US$6.23 million of which
GEF will finance US$5.61 million (90%). The GEF grant will finance all foreign and local investment
costs and part of the recurrent costs. PERSGA will provide from its operational budget and cooperating
governments will provide in kind contributions estimated to be US$0.62 million. The PERSGA
contribution will finance part of the recurrent costs including office space, salaries of PERSGA staff
members, and some overhead costs. PERSGA is currently in the final stages of negotiations with the
European Commission which are anticipated to result in an allocation of up to US$1.0 million to support
activities under both Components 2 and 6. The budgets for these components will be revised following
completion of negotiations and formal signing of the cooperative agreement between these two parties.
3. Technical:
The technical issues associated with the Bank-managed components have been reviewed as part of the
SAP preparation process:
(a)    Component 2. The Navigation Task Force reviewed technical issues during the SAP preparation
meetings in Aden and Ismalia. It is recognized by PERSGA that technical approaches and standards for
international issues in navigation are supervised by bodies such as the IMO, IALA and other international
organizations. Personnel involved in maritime issues in the Region are generally well trained and have
significant practical experience in the operation of vessels and on-shore facilities. During the SAP
preparation phase they demonstrated a clear ability to identify problems, establish priorities and
recommend cost-effective actions. Proposed technology for use under this component is defined by
international agreements and is within the capacities of the cooperating countries to use and maintain.
(b)    Component 6. Professional skills and experience in ICZM are unevenly developed in the region,
with the northern countries being more advanced than the southern countries. In order to reduce this
difference in skills and experience, the component will support institutional strengthening and training in
the use and application of ICZM which is within the capabilities of counterparts to successfully master.
The activities included in this component will use "basic" GIS technology that is well tested in the region
and is now possible to use under a wide variety of conditions with limited support. The use of GIS in the
four southern countries will be supported by the PERSGA Secretariat. The use of GIS equipment will be
difficult in the northern coast of Somalia and it is planned that data will be collected in the field and then
plotted at the PERSGA Secretariat.



Page 18
4. Institutional:
Institutional arrangements for the implementation of the SAP have been developed as part of the
preparation process and are detailed in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). They include:
(a)    Executing Agency. The Project will be implemented by PERSGA, which gained experience in
project planning and management during the preparation process for the SAP. This included regular
interaction with representatives of the GEF Partners and their procurement procedures. PERSGA, with
the support of UTNDP, has already intemationally recruited a highly qualified CTA who worked on
preparation of the SAP, and an individual with experience in international project management to serve as
the Procurement and Finance Specialist. The Navigation Advisor and the Lead Specialists responsible for
implementation of the GEF-supported components must have professional training, practical experience
and language skills. The appointment of these individuals will be done by PERSGA in formal
consultation with the GEF Partners.
(b)    Project Management. The PMT has been established by PERSGA and already has taken an active
role in the preparation of the PIP. Some personnel assigned to the PMT gained earlier experience through
their work on the SAP. To ensure that the PMT will have the required capacity to carry out Project
implementation, technical assistance in project planning, procurement, disbursement, accounting, auditing
and project monitoring has been included in Project design. Special training efforts will be undertaken
during the first year of implementation to allow all members of the PMT to gain an understanding of
project management skills and requirements. In addition, a Riyadh-based UNDP-Program Coordinator
has been regionally recruited who has previous experience with UJNDP and GEF projects and will be able
to provide support to the PMT on a range of issues.
5. Social:
Given the use of an active participatory process during preparation of the SAP, a social assessment was
not prepared as part of the Project preparation process. GEF support for the SAP includes a component to
be implemented by UNDP for "Enhancement of Public Awareness and Participation," which will be
implemented with support from local nongovernmental organizations and facilitate work with
stakeholders and civil society. The two Bank-managed components of the SAP have been designed to
provide social benefits to regional populations:
(a)    Component 2. This component will assist national governments and local populations in
supporting preventive measures to avoid potential adverse impacts associated with navigation accidents
and marine pollution. Actions under this component will focus on the reduction of oil spills in coastal and
manne areas and lower the incidence and severity of accidents associated with the shipment of oil and
other hazardous types of materials through regional waters.
(b)    Component 6. Under this component, support will be provided on a regional basis, and on a
national basis in the four southern countries, to improve participation of communities in management of
coastal and marine resources and to improve social welfare by promoting sustainable use of these critical
and fragile resources. Special attention will be given to the needs of individuals involved in locally based
commercial and artisanal fishing operations.
6. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category  []A   []B   [X] C
The proposed Project has been placed in environmental assessment screening category "C" consistent
with the provisions of Operational Directive 4.01, "Environmental Assessment." Activities for reduction
of marine navigation risks, oil spill management and ICZM are focused on planning, management and
training activities that will not have an adverse environmental impact. Project-supported studies for
installation of a regional Vessel Traffic System (VTS) and model ICZM plans will include preparation of



Page 19
environmental reviews to support integration of these concerns into their design. Implementation of the
model ICZM plans would not involve construction activities. An environmental data sheet is provided as
Annex 13.
7. Participatory approach:
(a)    Primary Beneficiaries and Other Affected Groups. The development of the SAP has been a
participatory process demonstrating the broad-based commitment of a wide range of stakeholders.
Country Reports were prepared for all cooperating countries with direct participation of diverse local
experts, with a similar process used for the regional studies for navigation risk and living marine
resources. With the support of UTNDP, consultations were also held with the Government of Eritrea. To
widen participation and facilitate consensus building, a series of four regional Task Force meetings were
held to support joint preparation and review of the SAP. National workshops were held to support
development of Country Reports and to identify priority actions required by each country to promote
environmental management of the coastal and marine environment. A wide range of stakeholders
participated, including representatives from national and local government, universities, research
institutes, community groups, and NGOs. The activities of the Regional Navigation Working Group
benefited from major workshops held in Egypt and Yemen, which brought together maritime experts
from throughout the region. A regional workshop was also held to support preparation of the regional
study on Living Marine Resources.
(b)    Benefits of the Participatory Process. These processes, in some cases the first held in the
cooperating country, allowed participants to identify key issues that should be addressed in the SAP at the
regional, national and local level. In the case of Jordan, participants were able to identify a number of
important issues related to the effective implementation of an Oil Spill Contingency Plan and ICZM Plan,
which were already under implementation. They were also able to identify emerging issues such as
floating solid waste associated with a major increase in regional ferry traffic. In the lengthy meeting in
Yemen, special attention was given to the need to address navigation management and ICZM in a more
uniform manner on both the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden coasts of the country. In this meeting the
particular importance and management requirements of the Socotra Archipelago were also noted. The
regional meetings of the Navigation Working Group provided a critical opportunity to bring together a
full range of parties responsible for maritime and port affairs to self identify key issues and to reach
agreement on a priority framework for action. The participation of individuals who had direct experience
in the navigation of large and small vessels though regional waters, and their role in the identification of
specific sites that should be considered for hydrographic survey and installation of navigational aids,
provided a major contribution to the design process.
(c)    Other Key Stakeholders. Field surveys conducted in Djibouti, the northern coast of Somalia,
Sudan and Yemen included a range of informal meetings with local authorities and residents of coastal
communities. The model ICZM plans to be supported in the four southern countries will expand upon this
experience and increase the participation of local communities and stakeholders in planning and
management of coastal and marine resources. The proposed Project will include the UNDP-implemented
Component No. 7 - Enhancement of Public Awareness and Participation. This will support a wide range
of activities to provide a broad base of public support for the long-term implementation of the SAP. The
component will be implemented with the support of regional NGOs with experience in participatory
outreach programs, such as the Jordan Environment Society. The activities under this component will be
"cross-cutting" in their support of the SAP and specific activities will be designed to support the work
programs under Components 2 and 6.



Page 20
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
(a)     Government and Stakeholder Commitment. The cooperating Governments have demonstrated
their commitment to regional cooperation for conservation of coastal and marine resources through the
ratification of the Jeddah Convention, establishment of PERSGA and participation in development of the
SAP. The development of the SAP has been a participatory process demonstrating the broad-based
commitment of a wide range of stakeholders in conservation of the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden.
(b)     Support for PERSGA. Member countries have provided annual contributions in cash to support
the work of PERSGA, including implementation of the SAP. The budget of PERSGA for fiscal year 1998
included contributions of US$930,000 from member countries. This was complemented with
supplemental support from various international and regional sources. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia also
provides PERSGA with offices and covers selected operational costs. The anticipated support of SAP
implementation by the Jeddah-based Islamic Development Bank, an international financial institution,
provides a regionally-based source of support for the Project. The planned participation of the European
Commission in SAP implementation brings the experience and resources of the European Union to
support the proposed priority actions. As noted in the SAP, there also exists significant potential for
participation of internationally and regionally based private sector organizations through contributions in
cash and kind.
(c)     Financial Sustainability. The proposed Project includes a series of specific activities to develop
appropriate mechanisms for sustainable financing of various SAP-related actions. These have been
subdivided given the different parties that have authority and responsibility at the regional, national and
local level for undertaking these actions and resource mobilization. They include:
Component                         Action To Be Taken
Component I - Institutional       PERSGA will retain regional and international specialists to develop a
Strengthening to Facilitate Regional  feasibility study for establishment of a "Red Sea Environment Fund." This
Cooperation                       will review the experience of other environmental funds and evaluate
opportunities for public and private sector participation.
Component 2 - Reduction of        The Navigation Working Group, in cooperation with regional specialists and
Navigation Risks and Maritime     international maritime authorities, will undertake a detailed evaluation of
Pollution                         measures that can be adopted at the regional and national basis for funding
investments and improvements in marine navigation improvements. The
Regional Oil Spill Contingency Strategy and MEMAC Study will also
evaluate financing mechanisms for oil spill prevention and clean-up.
Component 3 - Sustainable Use of    The Living Marine Resources Working Group, with the support of regional
Living Marine Resources           specialists and the FAO, will undertake an evaluation of measures that could
be adopted to provide sustainable funding for a "Regional Fisheries
Monitoring and Surveillance System." This will draw upon the experience
of other regions in the cooperative funding of such programs and seek to
involve the participation of private sector fishery interests.
Component 4 - Development of a    The MPA Working Group, with the support of regional and international
Regional Network of Marine        specialists, will undertake a review of appropriate mechanisms for
Protected Areas                   sustainable funding of MPAs. This issue will also be evaluated in the plans
prepared for individual GEF-supported MPAs. The review will draw upon
the recent work of the World Bank in evaluation of funding mechanisms for
MPAs.
Component 6 - Support for         The ICZM Working Group will review mechanisms which could be used on
Integrated Coastal Zone           a regional and site specific basis to support planning, management and
Management                        implementation actions in national and local budgets. Measures to address
this issue will be included in the national level "ICZM Frameworks" and
"Model ICZM Plans" prepared in the four southern countries.



Page 21
While it may be difficult to undertake cost recovery activities, GEF-supported activities include a number
of actions to examine and test possible measures that could be used to support sustainable financing of a
number of activities.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
The risks associated with the proposed Project are summarized in the table below. Four areas require
special consideration:
(a)   Implementation of International Maritime Agreements. Effective implementation of international
maritime agreements requires policy, legal and technical actions that will allow implementation at the
national and local level. In order to minimize risks associated with this process, the Navigation Working
Group will conduct a series of workshops designed to review in detail the provisions and procedures of
key agreements, especially those related to Port State Control, to foster a good understanding of the issues
and implications. These will be complemented with technical support and structured training activities.
Guidance and support will be provided to assist in identification of measures required to harmonize the
provisions of these agreements with national and local procedures and requirements. Special emphasis
will be placed on addressing these issues in the context of port management and operations. Emphasis
also will be put on providing full texts and background information on these agreements in Arabic and in
French for Djibouti.
(b)    Transfer of MEMAC. A risk exists that the cooperating parties responsible for supervision of
MEMAC may not approve a Revised Agreement that would allow this facility to become a part of a
PERSGA-supervised network of response centers. If this is the case, measures will be taken to find an
alternative arrangement that allows the work of MEMAC to be more fully coordinated with the activities
of PERSGA and arrangements made to strengthen its work in the Bab al Mandab and Gulf of Aden. This
risk is reduced by the direct participation of the cooperating countries in the SAP process, including the
Navigation Working Group, which proposed this action. The proposed action also provides MEMAC
with increased opportunities for access to equipment and training through expanded regional cooperation.
(c)    Development of ICZM. The development of ICZM under the proposed Project will support the
adoption of an ICZM approach that integrates environmental management concerns into the land use
planning and management system in coastal areas. Given the wide range of legal and institutional
structures in the Region, the activities will use ICZM principles that can be adapted for use under national
and local conditions in a flexible manner. To achieve this objective, the ICZM Working Group will
provide regional and international specialists to work on the development of both the "ICZM
Frameworks" and "Model ICZM Plans," which will be designed to meet national and site specific
conditions. This will include regionally based administrative and legal specialists to support development
of measures required to integrate ICZM into land use planning and management procedures and to review
processes and facilitate the expanded use of environmental planning instruments, including environmental
assessment, into the decision making process.
(d)    Sharing of GIS Data. Traditionally countries in the Region have been reluctant to share many
types of data, including those required for GIS applications. To address this issue, GIS activities will be
coordinated by a Working Group composed of regional specialists who will jointly design the activities at
the regional, national and local level. This will provide local ownership and minimize misunderstandings
concerning the types of data required, potential applications and their control: Most data required will be
collected and processed by regional experts working at the national level, with selected types of
information shared with PERSGA for use in regional level analyses. By clearly recognizing this issue in
the design of GIS activities, it will be possible to minimize the risk of designing activities that cannot be
undertaken successfully due to data problems. It should be noted that the majority of the hydrographic
information for "international waters" in the Region is maintained by the United Kingdom Hydrographic
Office and is available without restriction by national governments.



Page 22
RRisk                 RiskRatin   |       Risk_ Minimization_Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
Poor coordination between IMO,            N       High level contacts maintained between
PERSGA, and PERSGA member states.                 PERSGA and [MO concerning navigation
risks and maritime pollution.
National Maritime and Port Authorities do  N      Ensure high level communication between
not participate at sustainable level.             PERSGA and National Maritime and Port
Authorities.
PERSGA will be unable to ensure the       N       The Navigation Working Group has identified
required hydrographic surveys are carried         a number of priority sites for surveys and will
out to reduce navigation risks.                   oversee this activity.
MEMAC member countries are unwilling      M       A review of MEMAC will be jointly
to transfer oversight to PERSGA.                  undertaken by PERSGA and its member
countries conceming its future role.
Appropriate political authority and       M       PERSGA will work with national
technical expertise is unavailable for            environmental authorities and local
participation in Regional and National            governments in coastal areas to ensure
ICZM Working Groups.                              participation and provide training as
appropriate.
National conmmitment to implement ICZM    N       Regional and National ICZM and GIS
models and sustain GIS systems is not             Working Groups will ensure political
obtained.                                         commitment is maintained through the
PERSGA Task Force.
Countries are unwilling to harmonize their  M     GIS Working Group is being established to
GIS Systems for use in ICZM.                      facilitate cooperation among countries.
Countries are unwilling to share data for  M      GIS Working Group is being established to
use in GIS systems.                               facilitate cooperation among countries. It will
access available data and develop a plan to
______________________________________  ______ _ collect data needed to fill gaps.
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
Additional regional and donor financing is  M     PERSGA will develop a resource mobilization
not forthcoming to support the                    plan to keep interested donors involved and
implementation of the SAP.                        informed of opportunities. The SAP will
support development of sustainable funding
mechanisms.
Overall Risk Rating     M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.



Page 23
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions.
(a)    The CTA and Navigation Advisor have been appointed by PERSGA with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)    A detailed work program and procurement plan for the first year of Project implementation is
submitted to and accepted by the Bank.
2. Other.
The PMT shall:
(a)    Maintain accounting practices acceptable to the Bank and arrange for an annual audit to be
undertaken by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(b)    Submit quarterly reports to the Bank and other GEF Partners in a format acceptable to these
parties; and
(c)    Undertake in coordination with the GEF Partners a Mid-Term and Final Evaluation.
HI. Readiness for Implementation
The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
The procurement documents for the first year's activities will be completed and ready prior to the start of
Project implementation.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
This Project complies with al  ble Bank policies.
_J&jooBaf
Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Stephen F. Lintner, ENV
oi3  k/&wt
Sector Manager/Director: Doris Koehn, MNSRE
Sector M   aer        a'r Has B i      NFTo
Director: Inder K. Sud, MNCMS
Director: Oey 4tra Meesook AFCO6






Annex 1
REGIONAL PROJECT FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE STRATEGIC ACTION PROGRAM (SAP)
FOR THE RED SEA AND GULF OF ADEN
Project Design Summary
for World Bank Implemented Components:
Component 2: Reduction of Navigation Risks and Maritime Pollution
Component 6: Support for Integrated Coastal Zone Management
Narrative Summary                        Key Performance Indicators                     Momnitoring and Evaluation                         Critical Assumpti4i's
Sector-related SAP Goal:                     On-going regional cooperation and             Improved data collection and sharing among    (Goal to Bank Mission)
Improved Natural Resource Management for   coordination for the environmental protection   intemational, regional and national maritime    Political commitment and support to PERSGA by
the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden.                and conservation of the Red Sea and Gulf of   and environmental organizations..              all member states.
Aden..
GFF Operational Program:                      -.     .                                                                                              effec....tive.... .   c r. .a.n..... ..       maritime
Reduced number of major marine accidents,    Statistics on accident rates, oil spills, and  affairs agencies.
OP-9 - Integrated Land and Water Multiple    particularly oil spills, and faster accident  response times routinely published by IMO.
Focal Area Operational Program.              response times.                                                                              Willingness to adopt ICZM to local conditions.
Improved national institutional capacity and    After project completion, PERSGA to         from the opertional blet fut ure
adoption/implementation of ICZM approaches  continue publishing Annual Report which         from the opeaitional budget of PERSGA,
in PERSGA member states                       monitors SAP Implementation                   such as the Islamic Development Bank, European
Union and bilateral donors.
Project Development Objective:               2. Ratification of key international maritime    2. Convention compliance confirmed by IMO.  (Objective to Goal)
conventions.
Improve the  coastal an  dmarine  environments    .........I .. .... . P.........  ........ ........   ......   ..... .........  .. ....... cewi......  PS ..fi  edby .I.... .....  .. .......   ...  rp rc odn to   ew e   D ,U E   n
of the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden through a    2. PSC adopted by PERSGA member states              mpliance with.PSC confirmed by           WB.irperecoodi activbtwes.
range   of  activities   under  the   SA P,  of  w hich  ........................................ ................I ........ ..... ........................ .........................  .....................
two would be carried out under thc GEF/Bank  2. Agreement reached on PERSGA Protocols.  2. Protocols confirmed by Bank                    Sustained political commitment for SAP
administered  project: a  program    to  reduce  .......... .............................. . ................... . .................... ..............................................................................  implementation   from     all PERSGA    member
navigation risks; and support for Integrated  2. Publication of updated navigation charts.    2. Revised charts approved by UKHO and      states.
Coastal Zone Management.                                                                   IMO.                                           PERSGA member states commit, on both
2. Revised agreement for MEMAC.               2. MEMAC integrated into PERSGA               regional and nationa  evels, to sustain and
framework.                                    finance GIS Operations.
.. .......... ... .. ...I.. .......   .   ....................Sustainable...financingl fandn i institutionalion schemese
6. Adoption of ICZM Plans by PERSGA           6 -PERSGA monitors and publishes results in   developed by PERSGA for: Regional and
member states.                                Annual Report.                                National Oil Spill Contingency Programs; and
................................................I...-.I........................................Regional..and.National..Navigation,....C.....and
6. Harmonization of regional ICZM databases  6. PERSGA monitors harmonization and           GIS Working Groups.
and GI S systems                              supports instillation/ training on standardized
software.
l . ........... ... ....    ................... .                .. ...... .   ................... . .. ..... ........swae
2. & 6. Countries sustain and participate in  2. & 6. Working groups in existence five
Working Groups established under SAP          years after project completion.



Narrative Sunimnary                                          Key Performance Indicators                                         Monitoring and Evaluation                                                 Critical A0sumptions
Outputs:                                                          2.a. 1 Implement PSC in PERSGA member                              2.a. I Review and approval of PSC agreement  (Outputs to Objective)
.  .                        ~~~~states.                                                         by IMO and adoption of procedures by
2. Reduction of navigation risks and maritime                                                                                        PERSGA member statce                            s b.                 Effective coordination among IMO, PERSGA,
pollution                                                                                                                                                              and PERSGA member states.SGAmembr sttes
pollutioli                                                                  ...................... ....... . ......                     . .........-...................I -   - I........... ...........    and     PE R SG A   m em ber  states.
2.a.2 Conduct a PSC seminar and annual PSC   2.a.2 Annual review and reporting of training
training courses.                                                 evaluations and evidence of national                                Participation of National Maritime and Port
implementation of training recommendations   Working Group.
by PERSGA to the Bank.
................        .................... .............- .     ..................... ...............                      Hydrographic surveys are possible to conduct in
2.b. I Implement proposed Traffic Separation    2.b. I TSS adopted and promulgated by IMO.   prorareas.
Schemes (TSS).proiyaes
............. ..................................... ........... ................  .....................................    ..................................... ............................. .... ........I..............................................................  .......................
2.c.1 Conduct hydrographic survey.                                2.c.I Hydrographic survey results dlivered                          MEM.AC  members are willing to transfer
and accepted by UJKHO, IMO and PERSGA.   oversight to PERSGA.
2.c.2       Conduct lighthouse survey.                            2.c.2        Lighthouse survey results delivered
by IALA and accepted by PERSGA.
2.c.3 Install lighthouse.                                         2.c.3 Lighthouse in place and operating.
2.d.1 Conduct Vessel Traffic System (VTS)                         2.d.1 VTS study results delivered and
feasibility study.                                                accepted by PERSGA Task Force.
2.d.2 Conduct VTS Feasibility Study.                              2.d.2 Feasibility Study completed; PERSGA
seeking funding for VTS based on results.
2.d.3 Conduct VTS training.                                       2.d.3 Annual review and reporting of training
evaluations and evidence of national
implementation of training recommendations
by PERSGA to the Bank.
...  ..... .............. ... .. ...  - -...... .. . ... ... ..... ... ...... ... ...... ... ... .. ... . .. ...... ... ...... ... .. ... ... ... ...... ... ...... .....S..... ... ... ..  ... .....
2.e.1 Draft Regional Oil Spill Contingency                        2.e.1 Contingency Plan and MEMAC study
Plan Study of MEMAC.                                              results delivered and accepted by PERSGA
Task Force.
. ... .....   ...   ...   .   .............................................  . ...........  ............................  ..................,...............,.. .............,....................  ....   ... ...........  .......................,-.......................  ............   ................................................ 
6. Support for integrated coastal zone                            6.a. I Establish Regional ICZM Working                             6.a. I PERSGA publishes minutes of ICZM                            Appropriate expertise and political authority
management (ICZM)                                                 Group.                                                             Working Group Meetings.                                            represented on Regional and National ICZM
6.a.2 Conduct annual regional ICZM training.  6.a.2 PERSGA annual review/reporting of                                                 Working Groups.
training evaluations and evidence of national   National commitment to implement ICZM
implementation of training recommendations.  Models and GIS systems.
6.b.1 Establish GIS Working Group.                                6.b. I PERSGA publishes minutes of GIS                              Countries willing to harmonize their GIS,systems
Working Group Meetings.                                            for use in ICZM.
6.b.2 Conduct Rcgional GIS Review.                                6.b.2 GIS Review delivered and accepted by    Countries willing to provide and share data for
PIERSGA Task Force.                                               use in GIS systems.
6.b.3 Develop model GIS applications.                             6.b.3 Model applications delivered and
accepted by GIS Working Group and
PERSGA T ask Force.



Narrative Summary                                                      key Performnance lndicators                                                    Monitoring 6snd Evaluation                                                            Critical Assumptions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......   ,,                ..     ........                      ......   ................ .                                 .................                  . ....   ..- ..   ... ...........   ......     .- . ..... ... ............   ...
6.c. I Develop model ICZM plans.                                             6.c. I Model ICZM plans delivered and
accepted by ICZM Working Group and
PERSGA Task Force.
...........................................................   ..  .... ............   ..........   .........   ....... - -.   ...   .   .................................... I -     ..........   ...  ........  .......................
6.d. 1 Establish National Working Groups in    6.d. 1 National Working Group minutes
Djibouti, northern coast of Somalia, Sudan                                   published by National ICZM Coordinator.
and Yemen.
.   - - .........................   ............    .... ..........   ... -.......... ............... ...........  .................... ....  ....................... ...  ...   ... ..............................................I........................  ... .......
6.d.2 Conduct annual training on ICZM and    6.d.2 Annual review and reporting of training
GIS in Djibouti, northern coast of Somalia,                                   evaluations (feedback from participants) and
Sudan and Yemen.                                                             evidence of national implementation of
training recommendations by PERSGA to the
Bank.
.......... I ,................   .......   .... .  ..... .    .....................   .........  ..    ................................. ...................... . ...... .................   .................................
6.d.3 Implement ICZM Model Activity in                                       6.d.3 Model ICZM plans delivered and
Djibouti, northern coast of Somalia, Sudan                                    accepted by national ICZM Working Group,
and Yemen.                                                                   regional ICZM Working Group and PERSGA
Task Force.
Project Components/Sub-components (see                                        Inputs (budgetfor each component)                                              2. & 6. Regular progress, procurement and                                     (Components to Outputs)
Annex 2for Project description)                                                                                                                             disbursement reports to UNDP, UNEP and
World Bank.                                                                   2. & 6. Additional regional and donor financing
2. Aids to Navigation.                                                        2. US$3.50 million                                                                                                                                          is available to support implementation of the
2. & 6. Mid-term and Final Evaluations for                                    SAP.
Project Management                                                            US$335.0 thousand                                                GEF, UNDP, UNEP and World Bank.
...... ................................. ......... ................... ............I - ...................   ...... ...... .. ......................   . ......... ....I..... ..... .......... ..... .................... ...............     .      .......    .......
2.a Implementation of International                                           2.a US$953.0 thousand                                                         2. & 6. Implementation Completion Report
Conventions and Port State Control.                                                                                                                         for World Bank.
2.b Introduction of new Traffic Separation                                    2.b US$112.0 thousand
Schemes.
.................. , ............. ................. ... . ............... . -....... .............. ........... . . ................................
2.c Conducting Hlydrographic Surveys and                                      2.c US$1.915 million
installing new Navigation Aids.
....... ......... .....................................I....................................... ..........................................- ..  ............................................
2.d Support for Vessel Traffic Systems.                                       2.d US$143.0 thousand
..................... ......... .. .....  ... .....................................................- ....... ......    ...............   ... ...... ....................................................
2.e Oil Spill Prevention and Management.                                      2.e US$42.0 thousand
6. ICZM.                    ---- -                                            6. US$2.1Imillion
Project Management                                                            US$309.0 thousand
6.a Enhanced Regional Networking and                                         6.a US$470.0 thousand
Training for ICZM
6.b Improved Regional Understanding and'"                                     6.b US$435.0 thousand
Use of GIS.
6.c Developing Model ICZM Plans                                               6.c US$187.0 thousand
6.d Compietion of ICZM Planning and                                           6.d US$709.0 thousand
Training Activities in Four Southern
Countries.
,~~~~~~~~~.,,,, .   .......        .....                                                 .. .. ... - -   ........                                     .  .    . ............  .....................  ... ... . .........  ............  ...........  ....  ......   ................................   . ..........   ....,.,,,...... .  .



Narrative Stmmmary                                            Key Performance Indicators                                          MN.onitoring and Evaluatio                                                  0Critica            m ions i0
Outcomes.
Component 2. Reduction of Navigation Risks
and Marine Pollution
1 - i - ... .......................               ........... ............. .........    ..                                                      ..................                                                                                                    . ..... ... . .... .Ii...
Element A - Implementation of .                                        R       cation of selected International                         . Expanded application of international                              (Components to Outcomes)
Conventions and Port State Control                                     Maritime Conventions and PERSGA                                     maritime conventions in the Region that
Protocols.                                                          results in reduced numbcr of accident and                         Effective coordination among IMO, PERSGA,
* Adoption of Port State Control by PERSGA                             oil spills as monitored in international                          and PERSGA member states,
members                                                             shipping databases.                                               Participation of National Maritime and Port
* Training of inspectors to international                           . Reduction in occurrence of navigation,                             Authorities in activities of component and
standards in Port State Control.                                    safety and environmental risks as measured   Working Group.
by trends in type and frequency of PSC
actions conceming inspected vessels at                           Hydrographic surveys are possible to conduct in
participating regional ports.                                    priority areas.
.......................        ..............-.......... .....................  .................................. ..................................  ..........................................
Element B - Traffic Separation Schemes                              . Establishment by International Maritime                           * Reduction of greater than 50 percent of                            An acceptable site is identified and agreed to for
Organization (IMO) of two new Traffic                               maritime accidents resulting from vessel                          the VTSa
Separation Schemcs.                                                 collisions and "near misses" over a 10-year
period, following official established of the   MEMAC members are willing to transfer
new traffic separation schemes, when                             oversight to PERSGA.
compared to historic trends.
... .............. .................. ................................... .... ...................  ..... ............-.. ................ .. ........ .   .... .... .... .....   . ... .............. ...  .....I -  1- 1.............I -.............
Element C - Hydrographic Surveys and                                * Survey of two priority areas and printing of  * Reduction of greater than 35 percent of
Navigation Aids                                                        updated charts.                                                     maritime accidents resulting from vessel
* Installation of one navigational aid                                 groundings over a 10-year period, following
official adoption, printing and
dissemination of revised navigation charts,
when compared to historic trends.
............... ....................-........................................................ ..-.............   .............. .. ........................ .............. .. ............... .............. .............. ..   . ...............  ....... I..........................................................
Element D - Vessel Traffic Systems                                  * Establishment of a Vessel Traffic System                          . Reduction of greater than 50 percent of
for the southern Red Sea.                                           maritime accidents resulting from vessel
* Training of personnel to operate Vessel                              collisions and "near misses" over a I 0-year
Traffic Systems.                                                    period, following official establishment of
the Vessel Traffic System in the southern
Red Sea, when compared to historic trends.
* Measurable increase in the number of
professionals capable of addressing vessel
traffic and navigation hazards based upon
standards.
. ............ ....................... ......- ........................................... ...  .........................  ...... .......-11111 ............................  .......................................... ................ ..............  ........ ...........  .............................
Element E - Oil Spill Prevention and                                * Preparation and adoption of Regional Oil                             Increased capacity of member countries to
Management                                                             Spill Contingency Plan.                                             respond to oil spill emergencies as
* Djibouti MEMAC Transferred to                                        measured by the availability of area specific
Supervision of PERSGA.                                              contingency plans, trained personnel and
available equipment.



Nearrfive SummaRlifry            E         KE\fX Pet'(Ul'rtance Indicators                 NMonitoring and ibEfEation                          Cr'itical Assutptions          -
Ontenines:f-_                                                                                                      _  _          _ _   __         _  _
Complonent 6. Suppori for IntegalYed Coustoli
Zone Mainagement (ICZM)                                                                      I                                 t
Element A - Regional Neokn agn                   Workshops to develop a comnmion regional      iA common approah c                              ppropriat expetis  and political au    h-vn
f rainling                                   |Iramework for lCZM planls.                   j  application of good practices anid builds    I representcd oni Regional arid National W(itM
}Upoin lcssons learned from global anid      Wolig &IOUpS.
Irogonal experiencc as rneasored by the
establishment of 1C7.M Framewoi-ks"         I latiionl col-mijlluhint 'Lo inpiullcine  IC i
xshich will var) between the countries in     Models and GIS svstems.
struicture and form                          Countie; willing   hanioi  ieteir GB systers
Fleraent it -- C eogaphie infrmatiori        I   larrnoiuiioln ofi regional andl n  al6on:i CiUS      7arfooired GB syrtenas ol      sd i      o use in sCIM.
Svrv-S.ms                                    I s syterna uscd for lC  M.I  P1iRSGA anid cooperaling countries restllt
Dlevclnpmert of standardized (Cil data has,    in eomparahle imaps and data sets being     | Consries willing LO rov idi and share   to
on coastal nm'iromemns.                     I  evaiiable within the Region and used fIr      usc in GIS systcms
plarning and marnagement at tic re_iorlat      s i
I                     i                                                   n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ratiotial ande iocal level.   
i  P I'.RSCA and cooperating courftries arc  
ablc to develop and share data allowing for
devclopment of a spatial information basc
that is used for planning and assessment of 
J mmmi  ciOuii~ i  i2ttot:  .. tropsatine ~   s~~>  . /   I  environmental treiids.
D)iibouti, northern coast of Somalia. Sudan    ciemonstratijg application of RICZM
and Yemen.                                     approaches at the national and local level
which are adopted as part of the physical
planning and management frameworks at
the operational level.
Element D - IC .ZNI Activities in the Four       b Developmenit of iC2M  in Djibouti, northern m  ICZM capacities in the four southern
Southern Countries                               coast of Somalia. Sudan and Yemen.              countries are able to influence, at the local
level, development activities in a way that
prevents unnecessary adverse impacts from
major development activities and reduces
incremental impacts from small-scale
actions.






Page 31
Annex 2
REGIONAL PROJECT FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE STRATEGIC
ACTION PROGRAM (SAP) FOR THE RED SEA AND GULF OF ADEN
Detailed Project Description
A.    Overview
1.    An Environmentally Important Region. Located at the junction of three major
biogeographical realms and characterized by an arid coastal zone with minimal freshwater input,
the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden contain some of the world's most important coastal and marine
environments and resources. The topography ranges from nearshore, protected shallows, to
exposed sandy and rocky shorelines, and depths of over 2,000 meters, giving rise to complex
ecosystems and high biological diversity. Although the Red Sea is still one of the least disturbed
seas relative to other enclosed international water bodies, pressures on it are rapidly increasing.
Transboundary concerns are wide ranging, from major navigation risks caused by international
shipping, to unregulated exploitation of shared fish stocks, to widespread habitat destruction by
uncontrolled coastal zone development leading to loss of important species. There is a growing
risk of marine pollution, notably from maritime transport of petroleum, and environmental
degradation from rapidly expanding coastal zone development including tourism facilities. In the
Gulf of Aden, fisheries are under great pressure from over-exploitation and illegal fishing.
2.    Strategic Action Program. In order to conserve these internationally significant resources,
the Regional Organization for the Conservation of the Marine Environment of the Red Sea and
Gulf of Aden (PERSGA), which serves as the Secretariat for the Jeddah Convention,1 initiated
and coordinated the preparation of the Strategic Action Program for the Red Sea and Gulf of
Aden (SAP). Members of the PERSGA SAP Task Force included representatives of Djibouti,
Egypt, Jordan, Saudi Arabia,2 northern coast of Somalia, Sudan and Yemen. The SAP process
was jointly supported by the three GEF partners-UNDP, UNEP and World Bank-and the
Islamic Development Bank, which is based in Jeddah. The SAP preparation process included a
number of Task Force meetings and preparation of regional and country studies. It benefited from
consultative meetings with a range of stakeholders at the regional and national level. The
preparation process was funded by the GEF PDF mechanism, with supplemental support from
PERSGA, the Government of Norway, UNDP and the World Bank. The SAP was adopted by the
PERSGA Council of Ministers in 1997 and issued by PERSGA in 1998.
3.    Project Objective and Goal. The Project development objective is to improve the coastal
and marine environments of the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden through a range of activities under the
SAP, of which two would be carried out under the GEF/Bank administered project: a program to
reduce navigation risks; and support for Integrated Coastal Zone Management. Achievement of
the objectives would be measured by (a) reduction in shipping accidents and oil spills; and (b)
adoption by selected local communities of integrated coastal zone management plans, to be
prepared under the Project. The Project supports the cooperating countries in implementing the
Jeddah Convention, other international agreements and national policies and legislation. The
Project will also enable implementation of a series of complementary preventive and curative
actions identified in the SAP. The GEF funding provided for the proposed Project is designed to
1 Final Act of Jeddah Plenipotentiary Regional Conference on Conservation of the Marine Environment
and Coastal Areas in the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden.
2 Costs for participation of Saudi Arabia in the SAP activities will not be funded from GEF resources.



Page 32
achieve global environmental benefits by removing barriers against implementation of the SAP,
which addresses transboundary issues, and to support high priority preventive actions to reduce
navigation risks in the Region. The SAP activities are designed to complement those being
supported under a series of already approved and proposed GEF-supported projects within the
Region. The SAP also supports implementation at the regional level of the International Coral
Reef Initiative (ICRI) and the Global Representative System of Marine Protected Areas
developed by the Government of Australia, IUCN and the World Bank.
4.    Components of the SAP. In late 1997, the GEF Council approved a Project Proposal for
"Implementation of the Strategic Action Program for the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden" with an
allocation of US$19.0 million. The Executing Agency for the GEF-supported implementation of
the SAP will be PERSGA. The Project includes seven complementary components with the
following budgetary allocations:
Component I - Institutional Strengthening to Facilitate Regional Co-Operation ($2,315,000).
Component 2 - Reduction of Navigation Risks and Maritime Pollution ($3,500,000).
Component 3 - Habitat and Biodiversity Conservation ($1,069,000)
Component 4 - Sustainable Use and Management of Living Marine Resources ($2,297,000).
Component 5 - Development of a Network of Marine Protected Areas-MPAs ($3,270,000).
Component 6 - Support for Integrated Coastal Zone Management-ICZM ($2,110,000).
Component 7 - Enhancement of Public Awareness and Participation ($2,546,000).
Component 8 - Monitoring and Evaluation of Program Impacts ($496,000).
Project Management Team Support Costs ($1,397,000).
Total - $19,000,000.
B.    Project Management
5.    Implementing Agency Responsibilities. At the request of the GEF Secretariat the
implementation of the SAP, as was the case with the preparation, is being undertaken
cooperatively between PERSGA and the GEF partners. Under the arrangement approved by the
GEF Secretariat, Implementing Agency responsibility has been assigned as follows:
UNDP - Components 3, 4, 5, 7 and 8.
UNEP - Component 1.
World Bank - Components 2 and 6. The World Bank has been assigned lead responsibility for
Components 2 and 6 due to its comparative advantage in undertaking these activities.
A Project Implementation Plan (PIP) for the GEF-supported elements of the SAP has been jointly
prepared by PERSGA, UNDP, UNEP and the World Bank. A summary of the budgets and
implementation schedule for the World Bank implemented components is provided in Tables A,
B and C.



Page 33
6.    PERSGA Project Management. The Project will be managed by a Project Management
Team (PMT) at the headquarters of PERSGA in Jeddah. The PMT will be managed by the
Program Coordinator who will be a PERSGA staff member, with the support of an internationally
recruited Chief Technical Advisor and a UNDP Program Coordinator. A regional specialist will
be recruited to coordinate implementation of each component. The PMT will also include an
internationally recruited Procurement/Finance Specialist. PERSGA staff will interact with the
established PERSGA National Focal Points and with Project supported National Program
Coordinators who will facilitate in-country activities. The headquarters costs for PERSGA are
paid for by Saudi Arabia.
C.    SAP Component 2 - Reduction of Navigation Risks and Maritime Pollution -World Bank
Serves as GEF Implementing Agency (US$3.5 million)
7.    Introduction. The Red Sea and Gulf of Aden extend over a distance of some 1700
nautical miles and are on average between 120 and 150 nautical miles wide. They form part of a
major world shipping route which currently carries around 7 percent of world seaborne trade.
Much of the world's crude and refined oil cargoes pass through the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden
and this Region would suffer significant damage if and when a major oil spill occurred. The
overall aim of this component of the Project is to support the objectives of the SAP by reducing
the risks of maritime accidents and minimizing maritime pollution in the Region. As per
agreement with the GEF Secretariat and PERSGA, the World Bank will serve as the
Implementing Agency for this Component.
8.    Component Preparation Process. In order to coordinate and support development of this
component of the SAP, the PERSGA "Navigation Working Group" was established in November
1996 and chaired by the PERSGA Navigation Advisor, a regional expert in maritime affairs. Two
regional workshops were held-one organized by the Public Corporation for Maritime Affairs of
Yemen in Aden and the other by the Suez Canal Authority of Egypt in Ismalia. At the first
workshop, Det Norske Veritas (DNV) of Norway, made an initial presentation on the report it
was preparing for PERSGA under the supervision of the World Bank, entitled "Navigation Risk
Assessment and Management Plan for the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden." The seminar in Aden
discussed matters relating to navigation safety and pollution control and generated a number of
recommendations. A follow-up seminar held in Ismalia brought together many of the same
experts from the Region to assess the semi-final DNV report, suggest amendments to this report
and put forward further recommendations to PERGSA. Following completion of the DNV Report
and the SAP, two internationally recognized experts in maritime affairs-one from the region and
a second with long-term experience in the region-prepared a detailed work plan for
implementation of the component under the supervision of PERSGA and the World Bank. This
work plan is available in the Project files.
9.    Component Objectives. The recommendations arising from these seminars, as reflected in
part in the DNV report, have been used in the SAP process for the identification of priority
actions to be included in this component for improvement of navigation safety and the control of
marine pollution in the Region. These objectives emphasize the need to take "preventive actions"
in a number of areas to avoid potential risks through better practices and improved navigation and
safety methods. The objectives of the component are to support PERSGA and cooperating
countries to:
Implement international conventions to which the countries are signatory.



Page 34
Establish a Memorandum of Understanding on Port State Control (PSC) specific to, or which
includes, regional states.
Provide means by which Port State Control training requirements may be met.
Introduce, in coordination with the International Maritime Organization (IMO), additional Traffic
Separation Schemes (TSS) and other routing systems.
Survey selected portions of the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden.
Consider the provision of additional aids to navigation in the Region.
Study requirements for additional Vessel Traffic Systems (VTS), particularly in the southern Red
Sea.
Strengthen regional cooperation in combating oil pollution.
Support regional workshops on key topics.
The Navigation Working Group will also review potential financing mechanisms to support long-
term operation of navigation systems and oil spill management programs at the regional, national
and local levels. Recommendations on these will be prepared for consideration and/or adoption
by regional states and local authorities. The implementation of the Navigation Working Group
recommendations will contribute directly to achieving the objectives of the SAP.
10.   Component Implementation Arrangements. Implementation of this component will be
coordinated by the Navigation Advisor who will be regionally based and make regular visits to
PERSGA. The Navigation Advisor will supervise the Navigation Working Group that includes
specialists in maritime affairs, navigation and marine pollution control from the cooperating
countries. The Working Group will be chaired by the Navigation Advisor who will arrange the
meetings, prepare the agenda and facilitate follow-on activities. The Navigation Advisor will
work at the country level with the National Program Coordinators, PERSGA National Focal
Points and specialist members of the Navigation Working Group to develop and implement
regional and national level activities. The Working Group will support regional training and
exchange programs and activities regarding environmental aspects of maritime affairs. The
Working Group will provide a forum for joint planning of activities, evaluation of progress,
exchange of data and lessons learned.
11.   Coordination of Working Group Activities. PERSGA will act as the channel through
which contacts with the IMO, International Labor Organization (ILO) and other international
organizations are made. Given the significant relationships between reduction of navigation risks
and control of maritime pollution activities, and those supported under other Project components,
the Navigation Advisor will work closely with the Project Management Team to exchange
information, promote coordination and prevent duplication of effort. Special attention will be
given to coordinating activities under this component with those concerning habitat management,
MPA development and ICZM. Copies of reports and all significant correspondence concerning
the activities of the Working Group will be provided by the Navigation Advisor to PERSGA.
12.   PERSGA Navigation Working Group. The-formal establishment of the PERSGA
Navigation Working Group with a long-term role and a mandate to contribute to the objective of
increasing navigational safety and protection of the marine environment in the Region will be a



Page 35
valuable means of achieving Project objectives in this regard. To this end, a number of steps will
be taken, including:
Definition of the Terms of Reference for the Working Group during the implementation phase of
the SAP.
Definition of the membership of the Working Group during the implementation phase, to be
made up of one expert from each of the cooperating countries, that is, Djibouti, Egypt, Jordan,
Saudi Arabia, northern coast of Somalia, Sudan and Yemen, led by an expert from the Region.
Definition of a five-year work program tied to the SAP implementation process.
13.   Elements of Component 2. In order to support effective management and implementation
of Component 2, it has been divided into five complementary elements:
Element A    Implementation of Conventions and Port State Control.
Element B    Traffic Separation Schemes.
Element C    Hydrographic Surveys and Navigation Aids.
Element D    Vessel Traffic Systems.
Element E    Oil Spill Prevention and Management.
Element A.   Implementation of Conventions and Port State Control
14.   Implementation of Major Maritime Conventions/PERSGA Protocols. Accession to the
major IMO conventions varies considerably among PERSGA member countries. Some countries
have acceded to many of these conventions, but others have not so far been able to do so. For the
successful introduction of Port State Control in the ports of the Region, it is essential that more
countries ratify key maritime conventions,3 particularly those relating directly to Port State
Control. A substantial amount of work will need to be carried out in order to move the ratification
of these conventions forward, including:
Identification of "baseline" conditions in each of the states with reference to the conventions.
Identification of technical, commercial, institutional or legal reasons why conventions have not
been ratified by the states concerned.
Means of promoting the ratification of these conventions, drawing upon the experience of states
in other parts of the world.
Review of existing PERSGA protocols and recommendations on the development of additional
protocols as necessary.
15.   The Working Group would play a key role in bringing to the attention of the
Governments concerned the need to accede to and implement these Conventions. It would obtain
guidance and assistance from IMO and bi-lateral sources on methods of obtaining support for
3 Such as the International Labor Organization (ILO) Convention on the inspection of crew's quarters.



Page 36
these procedures. It would also seek exposure for key personnel to the experience of states that
are well advanced in the ratification process and in the implementation of PSC procedures.
16.   Support for Port State Control. The SAP identified the establishment of a Regional
Agreement on Port State Control as a priority action to reduce risks from ships with substandard
conditions and crews. Under the component, the Navigation Working Group will receive support
to undertake the required administrative actions to establish PSC in the PERSGA Region;
conduct a Regional Workshop on PSC; and fund a series PERGSA-sponsored courses to train
Port State Control Officers in international standards and establish reporting procedures in the
Region. The objectives of the workshop are to inform key personnel in the Region and to bring
them together to discuss the benefits and methods used in implementation of Port State Control.
This will provide a framework for later Project-supported training activities for Port State
Control. As part of the process of developing PSC, the Navigation Working Group will review
Port Regulations at each port in the region and promote inclusion in the regulations of essential
safety clauses. Such clauses could include the requirement for anchors to be ready for dropping
from the time a vessel reaches the port approaches; requirements for berthing and final departure
from the port, and "model" rules on safety for use by regional ports.
17.   Regional Agreement on Port State Control. One issue that will need to be resolved is
whether the cooperating countries of PERSGA should develop a Regional Agreement for the Red
Sea and Gulf of Aden, or whether they should join the larger Regional Agreement for the Indian
Ocean that is currently being developed under the auspices of IMO and with the support of ILO.
This process has resulted in the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding on Port State
Control in the Indian Ocean (IOMoU) by nineteen countries in the "Indian Ocean Region." The
IOMoU is based on financial and other commitments by its members and provides for the
establishment of a Secretariat, located in Goa, India, and an Information Center located in
Pretoria, South Africa. The PERSGA countries represented at this meeting included Djibouti,
Eritrea, Ethiopia, Somalia (through a UNDP nominee), Sudan and Yemen, each of whom has
signed the IOMoU. However, a number of PERSGA countries bordering the Red Sea were not
represented at the Pretoria meeting, in particular Egypt, Jordan and Saudi Arabia. In light of the
new development, the Navigation Working Group, as a priority action, will review the matter and
make recommendations with regard to the most efficient way to develop a Regional Agreement
on PSC.
18.   Improved Communications for Shipping. A Global Maritime Distress and Safety System
(GMDSS) has been established in recent years. Under the IMO SOLAS (Safety of Life at Sea)
Convention, all vessels above 300 tons will need to carry radio and other equipment that allows
them to contact coast radio stations and communicate by satellite or other means with Maritime
Rescue Coordination Centers, "Ship Earth Stations" (ships), vessels in distress, etc. The GMDSS
system also requires "Coast Earth Stations" to be provided with modern equipment to allow them
to carry out their communications responsibilities. To accelerate implementation of this system in
the Region, the Navigation Working Group will review plans for the installation of GMDSS
equipment at centers in the Region and make recommendations on the most cost-effective means
of achieving satisfactory regional coverage, strengthening institutional capacities and training the
required skilled personnel.
19.   Financial Sustainability. The Navigation Working Group, in cooperation with regional
specialists and international maritime authorities, will undertake a detailed evaluation of measures
that can be adopted at the regional and national basis for funding investments and improvements
in marine navigation improvements. The Regional Oil Spill Contingency Strategy and MEMAC
Study will also evaluate financing mechanisms for oil spill prevention and clean-up. This will



Page 37
include an evaluation of ways user groups may be charged for development of improved
navigation charts, navigation aids and use of the VTS. The review will examine the distribution
of benefits from these investments and operational activities among global, national and local
beneficiaries. It will specifically review requirements for private sector trade association funding
of various types of oil spill management and emergency activities.
Element B.   Traffic Separation Schemes
20.   Traffic Separation Schemes (TSS). The whole of the Red Sea may be considered to be an
"environmentally sensitive area" and any damage to ships or spillage of oil may adversely affect
the area. The concept of TSS and other ships' routing measures has been accepted for more than
20 years as a means of improving the safety of navigation. The IMO is the only international
body that has been recognized as competent to approve ships' routing measures at the
international level. However, IMO does not act to initiate or provide routing measures. The
definition and submission to IMO for approval are primarily the responsibility of the government
or governments concerned. These requests can be organized and coordinated by special regional
bodies such as PERSGA.
21.   Reducing the Risk of Navigational Accidents. TSS were introduced some years ago in the
Gulf of Suez, the Strait of Tiran and the Strait of Bab al Mandab and have been amended from
time to time to improve the safety of navigation in these areas. The introduction of additional
routing measures under this component of the SAP is intended to further increase the safety of
navigation in the Region. Routing measures are introduced to improve the safety of navigation, to
prevent or to reduce the risk of marine pollution and/or other damage to the marine environment
caused by ships colliding and/or grounding, and to prevent or reduce the risk of new obstructions
being created along international trading routes. The accuracy of navigation on board ships has
increased in recent years due to the introduction of modern position fixing methods such as
satellite navigation systems (Global Positioning Systems-GPS, Doppler GPS etc.). DNV stated in
its report that around I million "end on" situations between northbound and southbound vessels
transiting the Red Sea occur each year. These vessels, when using the routes from Bab al Mandab
to the southern entrance to the Gulf of Suez, which are very similar, risk being involved in "end
on" collisions. The purpose of the routing measures proposed for the Red Sea is therefore to
separate the tracks of the northbound vessels from those of the southbound vessels by a suitable
distance.
22.   Proposed Areas for New TSS. Under the component, the Navigation Working Group, in
full coordination with the IMO and concerned national governments, would undertake actions to
formally establish new TSS in selected priority areas. These areas include:
* Northeast Side and Southwest Side of the Hanish Islands. It is proposed to improve the
safety of navigation in the Region thorough introduction of two new TSS on the northeast
and southwest side of the Hanish Islands. The schemes have been proposed since vessels
passing to the northeast and southwest of the Hanish Islands must navigate in areas in
which shallow water, rocks, islands and other navigational hazards are found. The
introduction of new TSS for these specific areas is intended to provide safe routes around
the various hazards, supported by additional aids to navigation where required. New
obstructions are being reported each year in areas which are used by transiting vessels.
By defining TSS and Recommended Tracks, the extent of the area that would ideally be
re-surveyed as a matter of urgency to handle the larger vessels "in transit" would be
reduced. Two TSS have been initially defined for submission to IMO. These would
connect with the existing TSS in operation for Bab al Mandab and the southern entrance



Page 38
of the Gulf of Suez through the use of "Recommended Tracks." The Tracks could be
shown on charts of the Red Sea, or could be referred to in notes on the charts covering
the area.
The Recommended Tracks have been designed to separate the two streams of traffic;
the proposed tracks lie 2.5 nautical miles on each side of defined positions. By
connecting existing TSS at the southern and northern ends of the Red Sea to the new TSS
around the Hanish Islands by tracks, the desired separation of northbound and
southbound traffic by a distance of around 5 nautical miles would be achieved. The tracks
have been designed to ensure that ships remain in deep water areas close to the center of
the Red Sea where possible; are routed well clear of shallow areas (to allow searoom in
the case of navigational errors, engine and/or rudder failure, drifting etc.); and make
maximum use of existing and possible future navigational aids and other routing
measures.
* Extension of Ras Muhammed TSS. Another "routing measure" which has been proposed
is the extension of the TSS around Ras Muhammed at the southern tip of the Sinai
Peninsula in Egypt. An "area to be avoided" is regarded as a routing measure as it
prevents vessels from entering certain defined areas at sea. UK Admiralty Chart No. 8
indicates that an "area to be avoided" exists south of Ras Umm Sidd. This is a
particularly sensitive area of the marine environment. The notes states that "to avoid risk
of pollution, vessels carrying dangerous or toxic cargoes, or any other vessel exceeding
500 Gross Registered Tonnage (GRT) should avoid the area indicated." It is
recommended that IMO be asked to extend this "area to be avoided" to the west of Ras
Muhammed to ensure that traffic is kept clear of the headlands and reefs around the
southern end of the Sinai Peninsula. An "area to be avoided" is considered by IMO to be
a routing measure which can be introduced when "...it is exceptionally important to
avoid casualties...". Any unauthorized vessel entering the area to be avoided would be
warned that it is entering this area by the VTS stations operating in Gulf of Suez and the
Strait of Tiran.
23.   Improved Navigation Tracks. The objective of separating northbound and southbound
traffic transiting the Red Sea is partially achieved by introducing the two proposed TSS adjacent
to the Hanish Islands. To confirm this separation, it is envisaged that this traffic would navigate
between Bab al Mandab and the southern end of the Gulf of Suez along Recommended Tracks.
These tracks will be defined for presentation to the IMO Navigation Sub-Committee responsible
for Routing Measures as soon as the necessary foundation work has been done. This work will
include and require the positive contribution of the Navigation Working Group in achieving the
approval of Egypt, Eritrea, Saudi Arabia. Sudan and Yemen for submission of agreed tracks to
the IMO.
Element C.   Hydgrographic Surveys and Navigational Aids
24.   Hydrographic Surveys and Navigational Aids. A fundamental requirement for safety
of navigation and implementation of this component of the SAP is the accuracy of navigational
charts and other navigational information that is made available to vessels operating in the area.
An examination of navigational charts for the Region reveals that surveys for large areas of the
Red Sea and Gulf of Aden were carried out many years ago, using the technology available at that
time. Subsequent surveys, or accidents to ships, have demonstrated that isolated rocks and other
obstructions were not discovered or recorded on surveys which may have been carried out 100
years or more ago, or that depths have changed since the surveys were done. Shallow water, rocks
or other obstructions in or near routing measures must be recorded on charts and in other



Page 39
navigational publications. The failure to carry out surveys in the past has led to problems in TSS,
and IMO requires survey results to be submitted to it before it will approve a new or revised
scheme.
25.    Survey Procedures. The United Kingdom Hydrographic Office (UKHO), is responsible
for producing charts of this area and for carrying out survey work in the Region. It receives data
from a nunber of sources. These include surveys carried out by naval or private survey vessels
for Governments in the Region, surveys carried out for oil companies involved in offshore
exploration, data from United Kingdom naval survey vessels which may be sent to the Region or
are in transit and depth recordings from commercial ships. Much of the survey work required by
the UKHO is now carried out by commercial survey companies under contracts with standards set
by the UKHO, and frequently under the direction of a naval survey officer or naval hydrographic
adviser. Charts are also produced by other organizations, such as the French Navy in the area
around Djibouti, and the Saudi Arabian Ports Authority for the coast of Saudi Arabia.
26.   Priority Areas for Survey. Under the SAP, two priority areas are due to be defined and
surveyed. The cost of hydrographic survey work is very high and it must be assumed that the
surveying required would be carried out by a commercial company at normal commercial rates.
In order to limit costs, it is recommended that the two areas selected for these surveys be the
proposed TSS to the northeast and southwest of the Hanish Islands. It is therefore proposed that
these areas should be surveyed, covering the planned TSS and beyond these to a distance of 500
meters on either side of the traffic lanes and 1000 meters to the north and south of the boundaries
of each scheme.
27.    Additional Areas for Survey. Additional areas that may be considered for priority
survey, subject to availability of funds, include: the existing TSS in the Strait of Bab al Mandab,
particularly if the Navigation Working Group decides that an amendment to thlis scheme should
be submitted to IMO; the approaches to Port Sudan or Suakin in Sudan, as these ports are being
expanded and the need for new survey work is recognized by the Government; and the
approaches to the Port of Aden, which may be given priority because it is anticipated that there
will be increased use of the port by very large container vessels from late 1999 onwards,
following completion of improvements currently under construction. As these locations are
relatively close to each other, additional mobilization costs for the survey vessel should be low if
a larger number of surveys can be conducted at one time.
28.    Survey and Improvement of Navigational Aids. The component would facilitate
arrangements and provide support for a survey of the positions and characteristics of any
navigational aids in the Region. This survey will be independently prepared and provide the basis
for possible SAP-supported actions to upgrade these facilities. It is planned that, subject to the
approval of the Navigation Working Group and concerned National Authorities, the regional
members of the International Association of Lighthouse Authorities (IALA) should ask IALA to
carry out a separate survey of navigation aids in the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden. This survey
would exclude the Gulf of Suez, which has already been inspected by IALA. The [ALA survey
would be required to determine the present status of these aids and what actions, if any, may be
necessary to improve or extend them. Proposals for improving their effectiveness and/or means of
operation may be put forward by IALA. These would then be reviewed by PERSGA and the
Navigation Working Group for consideration for funding under the SAP.



Page 40
Element D.   Vessel Traffic Systems
29.    Vessel Traffic System (VTS). A Vessel Traffic System (VTS) is described as "any
service implemented by a competent authority primarily designed to improve the safety and
efficiency of traffic and the protection of the environment." It may range from the provision of
simple information messages to extensive management of traffic within a port or waterway. It
may cover some or all of the following functions: provision of routine information; coordination
of ship movement reports; monitoring of compliance with established traffic rules; provision of
advice or guidance; and/or regulation of traffic. The principal function of the surveillance is to
monitor traffic flow in and around the TSS and detect any vessels that fail or may be about to fail
to comply with the traffic regulations. It is then possible to broadcast warnings to the vessel "at
fault" and to all vessels operating in the area. Modern VTS vary from simple radar/VHF-based
systems to complex installations involving multiple radars, VHF stations and channels, and
computerized data processing. The functions of the VTS can vary from the provision of relatively
simple information to relatively complex traffic regulation.
30.    Use of VTS. VTS are frequently associated with port areas and some, but by no means
all, IMO Traffic Separation Schemes (TSS). The establishment of ships' routing measures implies
that vessels in the area will be navigated in accordance with the requirements and constraints that
the measure imposes. Experience shows that this is not always the case and that some ships will
be navigated in contravention to the measure, leading to possibly dangerous situations for these
vessels and for other users. This implies that a routing measure should be monitored to achieve
maximum effectiveness, and that vessels which do not follow the requirements of the measure,
and which may be standing into danger, should be warned and/or penalized as appropriate. The
future fitting of transponders to ships carrying hazardous cargoes will allow for their automatic
identification (Automatic Identification System, AIS). It will then be possible to display on a
radar screen data on the ship's identity, type, size, course, speed, cargo carried etc..
31.    VTS in the northern Red Sea. Some of the larger Port Authorities in the region already
operate "Vessel Traffic Services." Outside the Suez Canal and port areas in the Red Sea, Traffic
Separation Schemes exist along the whole length of the Gulf of Suez and the Strait of Tiran. In
addition, certain vessels are not allowed to enter the environmentally sensitive area south of Ras
Muhammed on the Sinai Peninsula. The need to introduce VTS to allow both surveillance of and
guidance for these areas has been recognized for some years and steps are now being taken to
provide these. The Gulf of Suez VTS will be a multi-station installation covering the whole of
this Gulf to the southern limit of the TSS. It is expected to be in operation by the end of 1999.
The VTS for the Strait of Tiran and its approaches is also expected to come into operation in
1999. These VTS will monitor important areas in the northern end of the Red Sea.
32.    Support for VTS in the southern Red Sea. Traffic using the TSS in the southern end of
the Red Sea through the Strait of Bab al Mandab has not been and is not currently monitored. The
radar and/or VHF communications equipment could be set up on Mayyun (Perim) Island or on
the higher land (possibly on Jebel al Menhali, 270 meters high) on the coast of Yemen 5 nm east-
northeast of the island or on the Djibouti side of the Strait. If it is decided that the VTS should be
located on the Yemeni side of the Strait, it may be necessary to link the VTS to the Port of Aden.
Under the component, a feasibility study would be prepared for establishment of a VTS at the
southern end of the Red Sea that would initially monitor traffic in the area around this TSS. The
Terms of Reference have been prepared, based on consultation with IMO, IALA and local
authorities. Under the Terms of Reference, the Consultant would evaluate alternative sites for the
VTS, provide detailed cost estimates for investment and operation of the facility, review training
requirements for operators and users, and assess potential user-based funding mechanisms. On the



Page 41
basis of this feasibility study PERSGA would seek funding for the installation of the VTS from
the European Union (EU), Islamic Development Bank (IsDB) and/or other interested parties.
33.   Regional Workshop and VTS Training. The Consultant would also plan and conduct a
Regional Workshop on Vessel Traffic Systems. The objectives of the workshop are to increase
appreciation within the Region for the importance of VTS in monitoring Traffic Separation
Schemes and other routing measures, as well as their role in improving safety in port areas. This
will provide a framework for later Project-supported training activities for VTS. The workshop
would be attended by members of the Navigation Working Group and by other key personnel
involved in these issues.
Element E.   Oil Spill Prevention and Management
34.   Oil Spill Prevention and Management. The component, using GEF and PERSGA
funding, will support three complementary activities for oil spill prevention and management at
the national level, including:
*  Regional Oil Spill Contingency Strategy. Tenns of Reference for the conduct of a
feasibility study on a Regional Oil Spill Contingency Strategy will be prepared, within
which sub-regional, national and local Oil Spill Contingency Plans will be located.
Following evaluation and approval, the strategy will be implemented by the countries of
the Region, under the coordination of PERSGA.
*  Djibouti MEMAC. Under earlier international support to the Region, the Djibouti Marine
Emergency Mutual Aid Center (MEMAC) was established to provide support for control
of oil spills. Under this assistance a stockpile of equipment and materials for combating
oil spills has been established at Djibouti, and personnel have been trained. The current
agreement for operation of the center provides for its response to demands for assistance
in case of oil pollution incidents in Djibouti, Somalia and the Gulf of Aden coast of
Yemen. Under the component, technical assistance will be provided to prepare and
negotiate a Revised Agreement to allow this facility to become part of a PERSGA-
supervised network of response centers and to update its current Sub-Regional Oil Spill
Contingency Plan.
=  Oil Spill Combating Training. Under the PERSGA-funded work program, courses for oil
spill preparedness and combating procedures will be held, making use of centers within
the Region where possible and of opportunities for training at specialized centers outside
the Region as necessary in order to achieve training objectives.
D.    SAP Component 6 - Support for Integrated Coastal Zone Management - World
Bank Serves as GEF Implementing Agency (US$2.11 million)
35.   Introduction. Integrated coastal zone management in most countries in the Region is
adversely affected by weak coordination between ministries, overlapping jurisdictions,
conflicting objectives, and weak implementation of land use plans. Effective implementation of
Integrated Coastal Zone Management (ICZM) plans will reduce the incidence of inappropriate
development decisions and provide an effective mechanism for sustainable long-term use of the
coastal zone. Throughout the Region the adoption of this planning and management process to
support development decisions could significantly decrease unnecessary degradation of the
coastal and marine environments. The effective use of ICZM is especially important in supporting
the cooperating countries to meet challenges related to long-term development of coastal
settlements and development zones, further expansion of international and domestic tourism, and



Page 42
maintenance of the rich biodiversity and cultural heritage of the coastal zone. As per agreement
with the GEF Secretariat and PERSGA, the World Bank will serve as the Implementing Agency
for this Component.
36.   Strengthening ICZM. Preparation of the SAP identified the need to strengthen
integration of environmental and natural resource concerns into the planning and management of
the coastal zone. An important activity to be supported under the component will be the creation
of a PERSGA-coordinated network of regional specialists to promote the use of ICZM and
exchange experiences between cooperating countries. This will be complemented at the regional
level by support for training activities focused on the use of ICZM and related tools such as
environmental assessment and Geographic Information Systems (GIS) in planning and
management of the coastal zone. Current use of ICZM is concentrated in the northern countries in
the PERSGA Region and is mainly taking place at the national level. Under the component
support will be provided for model ICZM activities in the four southern countries to balance
efforts and to demonstrate sub-national approaches to ICZM for selected priority areas. A
mechanism for the promotion of ICZM in these areas will take the form of national and/or local
level ICZM working groups that include a full range of stakeholders including relevant
Government agencies, academic institutions, community leaders, private sector interests and
NGOs.
37.   Component Objectives. The component has as objectives to:
v  Enhance regional exchange of expertise, experience and information on coastal zone
management through establishment of a regional Working Group.
*  Strengthen national and local government capacity to develop and implement ICZM
plans at the national and local level through training and model projects.
*  Promote the capacity of both national and local government departments to work
cooperatively to implement land use planning and environmental planning policies and
procedures.
-  Provide training in the practical skills of policy planning, environmental assessment,
monitoring and management in the context of the ICZM process.
*  Reduce environmental degradation within the Region through use of management tools
such as environmental assessment and environmental auditing. Improve the technical
support base and the provision of information required by decision makers through use of
guidelines for standardization and routine updating of Geographic Information Systems.
*  Increase political and public support for ICZM by use of participatory approaches in
development and implementation.
A comparative summary of lCZM-related legislation and institutional capacity is provided as
Table D. This review shows the uneven development of ICZM between the northern and southern
countries of the Region.
38.   Component Implementation Arrangements. Implementation of this component will be
coordinated by the Integrated Coastal Zone Management (ICZM) Specialist based in PERSGA.
The Specialist will supervise establishment and operation of an ICZM Working Group that
includes specialists from the cooperating countries participating in this aspect of the SAP



Page 43
implementation process. The Specialist will work at the country level with the National Program
Coordinators and PERSGA National Focal Points to develop and implement national level
activities, including planning and management of model ICZM activities to be undertaken in the
four southern countries. Given the significant relationships between ICZM activities and those
supported under other Project components, the ICZM Specialist will work closely with the
PERSGA Project team to exchange information, promote coordination and prevent duplication of
effort. Special attention will be given to coordinating activities under this component with those
concerning marine navigation, habitat management and MPA development. The component will
also be coordinated with current GEF-supported activities in Egypt, Jordan, and Yemen; others
planned under the SAP for the four southern countries; and programs supported by national
Governments, international financial institutions and donor organizations in the cooperating
countries.
39.   Elements of Component 6. In order to support effective management and
implementation of Component 6, it has been divided into four complementary elements:
* Element A Regional Networking and Training
* Element B. Geographic Information Systems
* Element C. Model ICZM Plans
* Element D. ICZM Activities in the Four Southern Countries.
Element A.   Regional Networking and Training
40.   Regional Networking. The ICZM Working Group will constitute a forum for joint
planning of activities, evaluation of progress, exchange of data and lessons learned. It will be
chaired by the ICZM Specialist who will arrange the meetings, prepare the agenda and facilitate
follow-on activities. The ICZM Working Group will support regional training and exchange
programs and activities concerning GIS. It will also provide advice on the field level model
ICZM activities to be undertaken in the four southern countries. In addition, the Working Group
will act as a link between the regional Project and a range of national and local government
bodies responsible for ICZM. To support this process, the following will be undertaken:
*  Identify personnel to form a regional Working Group of experts on ICZM with specialists
drawn from each cooperating country.
*  Convene a series of meetings at the regional or sub-regional level to review the status of
ICZM and supporting instruments such as physical and environmental planning,
environmental assessment procedures and GIS.
*  Undertake site visits in the Region to review case studies at the field level in coastal zone
management and the application of ICZM and supporting instruments in specific
locations.
*  Conduct regional, sub-regional and national workshops to enhance capability in this area.
*  Based on the results of these activities, establish a common framework for regional
ICZM plans.



Page 44
Identify outreach activities to increase support by decision makers and stakeholders in
use of ICZM as a mechanism for sustainable management of the coastal zone.
41.   Regional Training and Exchange Program. The component will support regional
activities for capacity building and human resources development. Training programs will be
conducted in conjunction with meetings of the ICZM Working Group to the fullest extent
possible. The exchange program will be facilitated by the ICZM Working Group and activities
will be developed on an individual basis for a limited number of well qualified candidates. The
proposed training programs will be coordinated with complementary activities included under
other Project components. Exchange programs, study tours and fornal training outside the
Region are a non-GEF funded activity under the SAP for which PERSGA will seek to mobilize
funding from public and private sources.
42.   Planned Activities. In general, training and exchange activities will concern the
following:
*  Role of coastal and marine ecosystems in economic and social development.
*  Role of coastal and marine protected areas in ICZM.
4  Environment and development trends in the Region.
*  Planning and implementation of ICZM.
e  Use of physical and environmental planning in the ICZM process.
*  Use of environmental assessment and environmental audits in the ICZM process.
*  Use of strategic environmental assessment in the ICZM process.
*  Use of resource valuation and environmental economics in ICZM.
X  Mechanisms for inter-governmental and cross-sectoral coordination.
*  Public participation in the planning process in coastal areas.
*  Public information programs to support the ICZM process.
*  Methods of conflict resolution.
*  Monitoring and evaluation of ICZM programs and activities.
Element B.   Geographic Information Systems
43.    Geographic Information Systems. ICZM and related environmental planning and
management efforts in the Region require measures to strengthen operational use of GIS and
related information data systems. The component will include support for measures to:
* Develop an improved understanding of the application of GIS to the development and
implementation of ICZM.



Page 45
* Support development by the Working Group of PERSGA guidelines for standardization
and routine updating of GIS.
* Undertake a regional review of the present GIS and related databases in the Region that
contain data relevant to ICZM.
*  Provide technical advice and support to harmonize the different systems to facilitate and
expand information exchange with the Region.
*  Undertake well-designed GIS applications as an element of model ICZM activities
supported under the component.
Element C.   Model ICZM Plans
44.   Model ICZM Plans. The component will support the preparation and assist in
implementation of model ICZM plans for selected sites in the four southern countries-Djibouti,
Sudan, the northern coast of Somalia and Yemen. The development of ICZM in these countries is
less advanced than in the northern countries and measures need to be taken to improve their
knowledge of the ICZM planning and management process in order to achieve regional goals for
conservation of the coastal and marine environment. ICZM activities supported by the Project
will focus on a series of representative areas that are under pressure due to current and/or planned
development; locations potentially subject to major land use changes associated with port or
aquaculture development; important areas of critical habitat; or areas adjacent to declared or
proposed Marine Protected Areas (MPAs). All model ICZM plans will be prepared through use
of broad-based participation with a range of stakeholders. Work to be undertaken in these
countries will be closely coordinated with the activities supported under other components,
especially those concerning marine navigation, conservation of habitats and biota, and MPAs. In
order to support this activity a Terms of Reference for a representative ICZM study has been
prepared that can be used by PERSGA and the cooperating countries as the basis for development
of TORs for the site-specific model ICZM Plans.
Element D.   ICZM Activities in the Southern Countries
45.   ICZM Activities in Djibouti. The component will support development of ICZM in
Djibouti and will focus on institutional capacities and applied training of personnel in the
principles and application of ICZM. This will be accomplished through Djiboutian participation
in the work program of the ICZM Working Group at the regional level, conduct of country-
specific training activities, preparation of a model ICZM activity and use of GIS to support
coastal zone management. These activities will be closely coordinated with the National Program
Coordinator and national PERGSA Task Force member. Most elements of this component will be
executed nationally and measures will be taken to have national level training courses and
materials prepared in French. Activities in Djibouti under the ICZM component will include the
following:
*  A national representative will participate in the regional Working Group on ICZM.
National specialists will attend regional and international workshops, training activities
exchange programs and study tours.
* Country-specific ICZM training activities will be conducted to address the specific issues
in Djibouti, especially tourism development.



Page 46
  A basic framework for ICZM at the national level will be developed to provide general
guidelines for use of this approach in Djibouti.
*  A model ICZM plan will be prepared for a site jointly selected by Djiboutian and
PERSGA representatives; candidates for this site include the Djibouti City region and Iles
des Sept Freres and Ras Siyan.
i  The model ICZM activity will be supported using a participatory approach withl broad-
based stakeholder involvement.
  Support will be provided to facilitate Djiboutian participation in a PERSGA regional GIS
network designed to support the SAP process.
*  Support for training of personnel in GIS applications will focus on the model ICZM plan
and sensitivity mapping of the coastline usinlg regionally standardized methods.
The activities under this component will be coordinated with the MPA component activities at
lles des Sept Freres and Ras Siyan.
46.   ICZM Activities in the Northern Coast of Somalia. The component will support
development of ICZM in the northern coast of Somalia and will focus on institutional capacities
and applied training of personnel in the principles and application of ICZM. This will be
accomplished through Somali participation in the work program of the ICZM Working Group at
the regional level, conduct of country-specific training activities, preparation of a model ICZM
activity and use of Geographic Information Systems to support coastal zone management. These
activities will be closely coordinated with the two National Program Coordinators and PERGSA
Task Force members. Most elements of this component will be executed nationally. Activities in
the northern coast of Somalia under the ICZM component will include the following:
o  Two Somali representatives will participate in the regional Working Group on ICZM.
Specialists will attend regional and international workshops, training activities exchange
programs and study tours.
o  Country-specific ICZM training activities will be conducted to address the specific issues
in northern Somalia.
*  Discussions will be conducted concerning the use of ICZM in the future development
process in northern Somalia and a preliminary framework prepared with support from
local specialists.
*  A model ICZM plan will be prepared for a site jointly selected by Somali and PERSGA
representatives; possible locations include Berbera, Bosaso and the site of the proposed
MPA of Aibat and Saad ad-Din Islands and Saba Wanak on the coast near Zayla.
Depending on political developments in the future, consideration could also be given to
activities being undertaken in the Berbera and Bosaso regions, which include the largest
coastal settlements and port facilities.
e  The model ICZM activity will be supported using a participatory approach with broad-
based stakeholder involvement.



Page 47
* Support will be provided to facilitate Somali participation in a PERSGA regional GIS
network designed to support the SAP process.
* Support for training of personnel in GIS applications will focus on the model ICZM plan
and sensitivity mapping of the coastline using regionally standardized methods. It is
anticipated that for technical reasons, the data will be collected in Somalia and processed
at PERSGA for use by national counterparts.
The activities under this component will be coordinated with the MPA component activities at
Aibat and Saad ad-Din Islands and Saba Wanak.
47.   Activities for ICZM in Sudan. The component will support development of ICZM in
Sudan and will focus on institutional capacities and applied training of personnel in the principles
and application of ICZM. This will be accomplished through Sudanese participation in the work
program of the ICZM Working Group at the regional level, conduct of country-specific training
activities, preparation of a model ICZM activity and use of GIS to support coastal zone
management. These activities will be closely coordinated with the Port Sudan-based National
Program Coordinator and national PERGSA Task Force member. Most elements of this
component will be executed nationally. Activities in Sudan under the ICZM component will
include the following:
* A national representative will participate in the regional Working Group on ICZM.
National specialists will attend regional and international workshops, training activities
exchange programs and study tours.
* Country-specific ICZM training activities will be conducted to address the specific issues
in Sudan, including free zone and port development, expansion of aquaculture and
tourism.
e A basic framework for ICZM at the national level will be developed to provide general
guidelines for use of this approach in Sudan.
- A model ICZM plan will be prepared for a site jointly selected by Sudanese and
PERSGA representatives; candidates for this site include the Port Sudan region, proposed
free zone port area, selected areas being considered for aquaculture development and
Mukkawar Island and Dungonab Bay.
* The model ICZM activity will be supported using a participatory approach with broad-
based stakeholder involvement..
* Support will be provided to facilitate Sudanese participation in a PERSGA regional GIS
network designed to support the SAP process.
* Support for training of personnel in GIS applications will focus on the model ICZM plan
and sensitivity mapping of the coastline using regionally standardized methods.
The activities under this component will be coordinated with the MPA component activities at
Sanganeb Marine National Park, Mukkawar Island and Dungonab Bay.
48.   ICZM Activities in Yemen. The component will support development of ICZM in
Yemen and will focus on development of institutional capacities and applied training of personnel



Page 48
in the principles and application of ICZM. This will be accomplished through Yemeni
participation in the work program of the ICZM Working Group at the regional level, conduct of
country-specific training activities, preparation of a model ICZM activity and use of GIS to
support coastal zone management. These activities will be closely coordinated with the National
Program Coordinator and national PERGSA Task Force member. Most elements of this
component will be executed nationally. Activities in Yemen under the ICZM component will
include the following:
*  A national representative will participate in the regional Working Group on ICZM.
National specialists will attend regional and international workshops, training activities
exchange programs and study tours.
*  Country-specific ICZM training activities will be conducted to address the specific issues
in Yemen, including port development, oil and gas export facilities and expansion of
tourism.
*  A basic framework for ICZM at the national level will be developed which will provide
general guidelines for use of this approach in Yemen.
*  A model ICZM plan will be prepared for a site jointly selected by Yemeni and PERSGA
representatives; candidates for this site include the Aden region, Hodeidah region, areas
in the vicinity of current and proposed oil and gas export sites, and the Belhaf and Bir Ali
area.
-  The model ICZM activity will be supported using a participatory approach with broad-
based stakeholder involvement.
-  Support will be provided to facilitate Yemeni participation in a PERSGA regional GIS
network designed to support the SAP process.
*  Support for training of personnel in GIS applications will focus on the model ICZM plan
and sensitivity mapping of the coastline using regionally standardized methods.
The activities under this component will be coordinated with the MPA component activities in the
Belhaf and Bir Ali area.
49.   These activities will be coordinated with proposed World Bank-supported activities for
development of an enabling framework for ICZM at the national level, strengthening
environmental assessment and potential GEF medium-size grants for selected protected
areas. They will also be coordinated with the GEF-supported program for development of
a management plan for Socotra Archipelago.



Regional Project for the Implementation of the Strategic Action Program for the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden
Table A. Itemized budget by fiscal year for Component number 2, Navigation Risk Assessment
Budget Item                           1999       20001       2001       200        2003      TOTAL
Component Management    |                             _           _
Navigation Advisor and Support|  20,000     32,0001    33,000     33,000     16,000      134,000
Navigation Consultant   37_500                 55 000     28_500          0      201.000
Subtotal:                           57,500    112,000    88,000       61,500     16,000      335,000
A) Conventions and Port State Control                1
Working Group Meetings and Admin|   60,000     100,000    100,000|   100,000     60,000      420,000
International Conventions  18,000.    31,000      31,000          0          0       80,000
PSC Implementation     17,000      40,000     40,000     40,000          0      137,000
PSC Seminar       10,000     16,000          0          0          0        26,000
PSC Training     30,000      70,000      70,000     70,000         0      240,000
Contingency       8000      15000       15 000      8,000      4.000       50.000
Subtotal:                          143,000                           218,000     64,000      953,000
B) Traffic Separation Schemes                              ___
TSS Costs      12,500      29,500     29,000     29,000                1100,000
Contingency       1 500      4 0_00      3 500      3 000                  12.000
Subtotal:                           14,000      33,500    32,500      32,000                 112,000
C) Hydrographic Surveys and Navigation Aids         _  _          _          _
Hydrographic Seminar     12,000     12,000          0          0 _                 24,000
Lighthouse Survey         0      15,000          0          0                   15,000_
Hydrographic Survey Spec/Tender    25,000     25,000          0          0 _                 50,000
Hydrographic Surveys         0L   725,000,    721,000          0           |   1,446,0001
Hydrographic Survey Supervision       01    50,000      50,000         0                  100,0001
Lighthouse Installation      01     80,000|         0          0                   80,000 _
Contingencyi               150 000      50,000         01                 200.000
Subtotal:                           37,000   1,057,0001    821,0001        01               1,915,000_
D) Vessel Traffic Systems      _                                                  -     _ j_i_I
VTS Seminarj     15,0001     15 000          Ol        0                  30,0001
VTS Feasibility Study        01   100,000           0          0                 100,000
Contingency       3,000     10,00                      0            |      13.000 
Subtotal:                           18,000    125,000           0          0                 143,000 |
E) Ol Spill Prevention and Management                                                  j            1
Contingency Plan/Djibouti Studyl    0    39,0001           0!         0l                  39,000
Contingency         0_       3 000         0          0 -                  3,000
Subtotal:                                0      42,0001                    0[                 42,0001
TOTAL:                             269,600   1,61,500   1,197,500    311,600      80,000    3,600,000
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _--I_  -                              i__ _ _    I _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   __ _ _ _
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___ ._ __                1           _ ___        _ _   _ _ I   __     I    __ ._ _   ___   _
__             * __        ______ -_ --               --                  ____                  t



Regional Project for the Implementation of the Strategic Action Program for the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden
Table B. Itemized budget by fiscal year for Component number 6, I ntegrated Coastal Zone Management
Budget Item   __      ____         1999 __  2000     2001 i 2002 j   20031   TOTALi
C6omponent Managem-ent         _______ ________
__________  ICZM Coordinator' 25,000:  52,000   54,000   57,O000   28~~,00  1,0
Coordinator Travel   5,000    8,000    8, 0001   8,000~  4,000:    33, 0070
Admninistrative Support-,   7_0  i15,000i~__5O00   15 0_00    7 500  60,000
Subtotal:                         37,500   75,000   77,000 1  80,000!  39,500    309,000
A) Regional Network and Training___
ICZM Working -Group  15-, 00-0  4 5,00 0 730,00 0  3 -0,000   1 5, 0 00  -1-35VWO 
____  _____Regional Training    35,0001   o,o     -80,000-  75,000- 40,000 __31 0,000~
____ Contingencies!  0___0Q   6 _     6 0_00    5 0_00    3 000       0000
Su btotal:         __ __          55,0001 131,000  116,000  110,000' 58,000i  47j0000,
B) Geographic Information Systems
GSWorking  2rup        5,000 200   25,000   25,000i              90_00
Regional GIS Re`view,  15,000   15,000      0        0              30,000A
Harmonization of Systems (TA)'  10,000   30,000   10,000    5,000 1   _      55,000
Model GIS Applications & Ecuip~ 40,000   80,000,  50,09j_ 50,000            2000
____________    ~Contingenci-es    5-O    2000    10,00    5 oooi           40__________
Subtotal:                ~~~~~~~~85-,000  170,0001  95,000   85,000     435,0001
C) M~odel ICZM P-lans
Planning and Adv. Support,  15,000   70,000'~  46,000;  26,000          157,000-
Contingencies    5,00   10Q000   10Q000    5 0_00             300
Subtotal:       _____    ~~~~20,13000j  80,0001  56,0  3000 00 oo       187,000~
D) IC   Ac-tivities in Fo-ur -Countrie-s
Djibouti        __ ___         ___
National Specialist Working Groups,   5,000 10,000   10,000   10,000            35,000
ICZM and GIS Training    5,000;  10,000   10,000    8,000 _           33,000'
__ _____  _    Mode ActiviyLV_j000-g  20,000   20_000   45_000          65000
_______         ~~~~~Subtotal.`_ 20,000   40,000   40,000   33, 000       133,000'
Northern Somalia Coast.__-
-National Sp-ecialist Wor-king Groups~ 5,0  O 17              '07000   ~        3,0
ICZM and GIS Training    5,000   10,000:  10,000    8,000     ~       33,000
Model Activity   1 0_000   ?20       ~     _
_________      ~~~~Subtotal:  20,000   40,000   40,000 _ 33, 000   __ 133,000~
Sud-an
National Specialist Working Grus  5,000'10,000:  10,000.  10,000.               35,000:
ICZM and GIS Training    5.000   12,000~ 12,000,  10,000i             39,000'
____       ~~~~Model Activity  15,0007  30,00   3500    000              I QQ00
_______    ~~Subtotal.-.- 25,000   52,000   57,000   40,000,         174,0-00T
Nation-al Specialist Working G-roups-  5-~,00    1-0,000    000    000           500
ICZM and GIS Tmraining   5,000'  12,0001  12-,000- 10,0600            39,0001
Model Activity_1_i0__  0,00Q     3 __ 00Q.__Q2    _          10,Q0
Subtotal:  25,000   52,000   57,000   40,000,            174,000
_Component D Contingencies     0_00-3   0,    30 00    2Q0,00               95000
ComponentlD)Subtotal  105-,000  21-4,00-0! 22-4,0_00. 16V6,000:       709,00-0
ToTA-L:.                         302,500  670,000, 568,000' -47-2,0001 97,500i 2,110,000



Page 51
Table C. Regional Project for the Implementation of the Strategic Action Program for the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden
Component 2 - Reduction of Navigation Risk and Maritime Pollution
No. Components/Activities                             1999                    2000                    2001                   2002                     2003
Ql   Q2   Q3   Q4   Ql   Q2   Q3   Q4   Ql   Q2   Q3   Q4   Ql   Q2   Q3   Q4   Ql   Q2   Q3   Q4
Naviga)ion Risk and Maritime Pollution
1. 1 EstablishNavigation WG &Meetings             X         X               X         X           X     -X                X          X           X
1.2 Baseline study for Maritime Conventions
1.3 Reporting and consultation on MC
1.4 Ratfication of IMO + Il.O conventions
1.5 Review developments on PSC
1.6 Decide required measures                            X
1.7 Draft & implement MoU on PSC
1.8 Review proposals for TSS
1.9 Discuss with IMO and report to the WG
1. I Define provisions
1.11I Implement TSS
1. 12 Define 2 areas for hydrographic suiveys
1.13 Study costs and report to the WG Ii
1.1 4Contract and execute
1. 15 Define and imnplemen t the prograrmmc
1. 16 Prepare TOR for study of V'rMS
1.1   Consult authorities/Report to WG
1.18 Execute feasibility study
1.19 Evaluate study and its financing
1 .20 Contract and execute
1.21 Prepare TOR for study of Regional OSCP
1.22 Cany out study and report
1.23 Implement the strategy
1.24 Prepare TOR for MEMAC
1.25 Update its contingency plan              ====
1.26 Decide on its future actions
1.27 Provide traininig



Regional Project for the Implementation of the Strategic Action Program for the Red Sea & Gulf of Aden
Component 6 - Su ort for Integrated Coastal Zone Management
No. | Components/Activities                           1999                    2000                   2001                    2002                    2003
Qi   Q2   Q3   Q4   Ql   Q2    Q3    Q4   Ql   Q2    Q3    Q4    Ql   Q2   Q3   Q4   Ql   Q2    Q3    Q4
tIni tediCoasta1 Zone~ Mana   omWntf C  707 70            .                         _                 _                      .                  _    _
21 1Establishment of WG and meetings                          x                          x           x               
2.2 Regional training workshops l||=E=E=E=S=1        
2.3 Establishmnent of national working groups           
2.4 Dsgn mode ICZ  studies  1   ___ _ __
2.6 Review GIS at regional level* 
2.8 Prepare national GIS information_=                                   -                 __-                           ___
2.9lPrepare regional GIS information=               =     =    =                       *                                                     =     _     =     =



Table D. Regional Project for the Implementation of the Strategic Action Program (SAP) for the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden
Component 5 - Support for Integrated Coastal Zone Management (ICZM)
Status of ICZM Related Legislation and Institutional Arrangements
Cuntry                              ICZM Related Legislation                                       Plans                        Institutional capacity                    Agency
Law or Decree #IDate Ageo.y
Egypt       Unified Environment Protection -  1994      Egyptian Environmental       ICZM plans developed for the Red Sea  Some local and national capacity  National Committee for
No. 4                                       Affairs Authority (EEAA)     Coast and Sinai. Ongoing cooperation   established, but some jurisdictional    Integrated Coastal Zone
with GEF, European Union, Denmark,   and coordination issues remain to be    Management (EEAA).
Oil Pollution at Sea - No. 72     1968                                   Netherlands and United States in   resolved. Issues exist with
Conservation Law - No. 102        1983                                   ICZM.                               implementation of ICZM plans.
Ports Water Quality - No.56       1962
Port Territory Regulation - No.   1960
280
Oil Pollution - No. 478           1988
Oil Pollution -No.1948 (amended   1972, 1965
by No. 691)
Jordan      Environment Law No. 12            1995      High Council                 ICZM plan has been developed and is   Local, national and regional      Aqaba Regional Authority.
Standard 893                      1994      Water Authority              being implemented. Ongoing          institutions in place.
Standard 202                      1982      Water Authority              cooperation with GEF under Gulf of
ARA No. 7                         1987      Aqaba Region Authority       Aqaba Environmental Action Plan for
Port Law No. 49                   1976      Port Corporation             ICZM.
Port Law No. 20                   1987      Port Corporation
Agriculture Law No. 20            1973      Ministry of Agriculture
Aqaba Law No. 32                  1972      Port Corporation
Shipping Law No. 51               1961      Port Corporation
Saudi       Territorial Sea - No. 33          1377      Coast Guard                  ICZM plans developed for the Red Sea  Some local and national capacity  Meteorology and
Arabia      Oil Spill Response - 7B13307      1411      MEPA                          coast by MEPA. This includes       established, but some jurisdictional  Environmental Protection
Fishery and Ports Jurisdiction -  1406      Ministry of Agriculture &    "Assessment of Coastal Zone         and coordination issues remain to be    Agency (MEPA)
7505M & M9                                  Ministry of Petroleum        Requirements" in 7 volumes.         resolved. Issues exist with
Environmental Impact Standards -  1401      MEPA (EIA)                                                       implementation of ICZM plans.
7M8903                                              ._.
Sudan       Marine Fisheries &                1937      Marine Fisheries             Development of ICZM identified as a    Limited development of ICZM      No agency has been given
Fisheries Amendments            1975,1978   Administration               high priority in SAP Country Report.   institutional capacity at national and    responsibility for ICZM.
Marine Conservation Regulations   1975,1995   Ministry of Environ. &     No ICZM plan per se, although there is  local levels.
Tourism                      development of Marine Conservation
Environmental Health Act          1975      Ministry of Health & Local   Law and Regulations. Also,
Councils                     Management Plan for Sanganeb
Sudan Maritime Law             Draft,1996   Maritime Administration      developed.
HCENR & Atty. Gen.
Environmental Policy Act       Draft,1996   ____.
Yemen       EEZ & Shelf Law -No. 37           1991      Defense Ministry             Development of ICZM identified as a    Limited development of ICZM      None
high priority in National          institutional capacity at national and
Living Aquatic Resources - No.    1991      Ministry. of Fish Wealth     Environmental Action Plan and SAP   local levels. A number of ministries
42                                                                       Country Report. Limited activities  and organizations have
Free Zone Law - No. 4             1993      Free Zone Authority          conducted under GEF and bilateral   responsibilities; however,
Marine Pollution - No. 11         1993      Public Corporation of Maritime  activities. Ongoing management plan   jurisdictional and coordination issues
Affairs (PCMA)               for Socotra.                        remain to be resolved.
Maritime Law - No. 5              1995      PCMA



Coulr                                JCN R :03X   ae l eglatd.gitioni0                                Plans            _           J:n$titiilion4tl (opacity            RZNI Agnl f 0. iey
Environmental Protection           1995      Environment Protection
Council
Ministry. of Fish Wealth
Fishing Vessels & Gear-No. 101     1995      Ministry of Planning &
Socotra Protected Area - No. 4     1996      Development
Djibouti    Musha Territorial Park - Order      1972      DAM                           Development of ICZM identified as a    Limited development of ICZM        Directorate of Land-Use
72-1363/SG/CG                                                              high priority in SAP Country Report.   institutional capacity at national and    Planning and Environment
Ship Pollution - Law 76-599        1976      DAM                           No ICZM plan has been prepared at    local levels.                        (DATE) responsible for
Fisheries Regulations - Law        1979      DAM                           national or local level.
521AN/78                                                                                                                                             NEAP, but no agency listed as
Maskali Islands Reserve, LMR -     1980      MCTT
Decree 80-062(PRIMCTfT
Fisheries - Law 212/AN/82          1982      DAM
MPAs- Decree 85/103/PR/AG          1985      DAM
Coordination of maritime actions   1988      DAM
- Decree 88/013/PR/PM
Pollution Contingency Plan -       1990      DAM
Decree 90-0105/PR/AE
Northern    Sanitary Code                       1936      Ministry of Health            Development of ICZM identified as a    Some personnel have been trained in    None
Coast of                                                                                high priority in SAP Country Report.    physical planning, marine sciences
Somalia     Maritime Code                       1959      Ministry of Marine Transport    No ICZM plan has been prepared at  and environment; however, no
and Ports                     national or local level.             institutional capacity exists for ICZM.
Water Development Agency Law       1971      Ministry of Minerals and Water
No. 28                                       Resources
Territorial Sea and Ports, No. 31  1972      Ministry of Marine Transport
and Ports
Water Law No. 77                   1972      Ministry of Minerals and Water
Resources
Port Regulations, decree No. 67    1978      Somali Ports Authority
Sewage and Drainage Law No. 3      1983      Water Development Agency
Joint Venture Guidelines           1983      Ministry of Fisheries and
Marine Resources
Tourism Development Act            1984      Ministry of Tourism
Fisheries Law No. 13               1985      Ministry of Fisheries and
Marine Resources



Page 55
Annex 3
REGIONAL PROJECT FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE STRATEGIC
ACTION PROGRAM (SAP) FOR THE RED SEA AND GULF OF ADEN
Estimated Project Costs
Project Output                                 Local        Foreign       Total
--------------------US $ million-------------
Component 2: Reduction of Navigation           1.051         2.161       3.212
Risks and Maritime Pollution
Component 6: Support for Integrated            1.283           .637      1.920
Coastal Zone Management
Total Baseline Cost                              2.334         2.798       5.132
Physical Contingencies                                                   0.223
Price Contingencies                                                      0.255
Total Proiect Cost                                                         5.610
Detailed cost estimates have been prepared for each component and are available from the project files.



Page 56
Annex 4
REGIONAL PROJECT FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE STRATEGIC
ACTION PROGRAM (SAP) FOR THE RED SEA AND GULF OF ADEN
Incremental Cost Analysis'
Regional Context and Broad Development Goals
1.    In the last three decades, many countries in the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden Region have
had to address the consequences of war, civil strife, drought and famine, as well as the
challenges of environmentally and socially sustainable development. In addition,
demographic changes and pressures have remained major constraints. During this same
period, the countries of the Region have included among the lowest in per capita income,
while some have had good rates of economic growth, and one has a very high record of
providing donor assistance. In spite of these significant economic, social and political
differences, the countries of the Region share several environmental problems and
threats. These shared concerns have provided a firm justification for regional
collaborative efforts.
2.     The Red Sea and Gulf of Aden Region, with its characteristic arid coastal zone, contains
some of the world's most unique and diversified coastal and marine environments and
resources. The topography ranges from nearshore, protected shallows, to exposed sandy
and rocky shorelines, to depths of over 2,000 meters, giving rise to complex ecosystems
and high biological diversity. Extensive mangroves, seagrass and macro-algal beds occur
in the Region, forming highly productive habitats for unique species assemblages. The
great variety of reef types in the Red Sea is astounding. The diversity of corals, with
many species found only in the Red Sea, is greater than anywhere else in the Indian
Ocean. Endemism at generic, species and sub-species levels in the Red Sea is extremely
high, especially among reef fishes and reef associated invertebrates. Over 1,300 species
of fishes have been recorded from the Red Sea, which is more than any other enclosed
sea. The Gulf of Aden, one of the biologically least known branches of the Indian Ocean,
is heavily influenced by seasonal upwelling and contains fishery resources of global
importance.
3.    Development activities in the Region are heavily concentrated in coastal areas and
depend on a combination of fragile terrestrial and marine resources. While the coastal and
marine environments of the Region are globally among the least disturbed, it's living and
non-living resources are under increasing jeopardy. The Red Sea is one of the busiest
marine transport regions of the world-estimated at 60 tankers daily. The risk of
maritime pollution and environmental degradation is paramount and increasing due to the
rapidly expanding energy development and maritime activities. Throughout the Region,
fisheries are under pressure from over-exploitation, and in some areas, illegal fishing is
causing serious impacts. Coastal habitat is being converted to urban and industrial
development and limited freshwater resources are under intense pressure. Tourism and
recreational use are expanding quickly in the coastal areas of some countries, especially
I This incremental cost analysis has been previously reviewed by the GEF Secretariat and GEF Council.
It was provided as Annex I of the GEF Project Proposal -"Implementation of the Strategic Action
Program for the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden."



Page 57
adjacent to coral reef areas. The basic social needs of many coastal communities are yet
to be met.
4.    These shared concerns and threats have provided a firm justification for regional
collaborative efforts and integrated approaches. The key institutional framework for
regional environmental cooperation consists of the Jeddah Convention and the Regional
Organization for the Conservation of the Environment of the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden
(PERSGA). The Jeddah Convention of 1982 was the result of a UNEP supported regional
inter-govemmental conference, which also adopted a Program for the Environmenit of the
Red Sea and Gulf of Aden. PERSGA serves as the official regional organization
responsible for the development and implementation of regional programs for the
protection and conservation of the marine environment of the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden.
5.    PERSGA has been the main driving force for the development of the Strategic Action
Program for the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden (SAP), supported by the PDF mechanism of
the GEF and other contributions. The SAP presents an overview of the environmental
trends and threats on a regional basis and recommends a program of complementary
"preventive" and "curative" actions to address current and emerging issues. It delineates
key measures for institutional strengthening, human resource development and expansion
of public awareness at the regional, national and local levels. The SAP also reviews
opportunities for the mobilization of domestic and international resources, both public
and private, to undertake the program. These findings and recommendations, as well as
the entire process of the SAP, have been endorsed officially by the ministerial level
PERSGA Council. The PERSGA Council has also delegated responsibility to the
PERSGA Secretariat to work with donor organizations and countries to develop projects
stemming from the SAP.
Baseline
6.    PERSGA and the cooperating countries would continue to work on a limited scale within
the framework of the Jeddah Convention to address regional environmental issues and
would take a limited number of actions to implement the SAP. PERSGA would provide a
forum for periodic meetings to discuss transboundary issues and common problems
concerning the coastal and marine environment. Implementation of the SAP would focus
on a number of small-scale regional activities and a series of independent national level
activities. The majority of support for the management and conservation of coastal and
marine environments in the Region would continue to be on a national basis, which
significantly limits the ability of PERSGA and the cooperating countries to effectively
address major transboundary environmental issues. This is especially the case with regard
to the management of navigation risks and their associated maritime pollution, living
marine resources, and Marine Protected Areas, all of which require effective cooperation
at the regional level. In addition, the adoption and implementation of Integrated Coastal
Zone Management would remain a major common problem since coordinated actions to
manage this zone are critical to effectively addressing issues related to navigation, living
marine resources and Marine Protected Areas. Support for regional activities by
intemational financial institutions and donor organizations would continue to be
restricted to conferences and training courses. International support for environment and
natural resources activities may continue at current levels and be focused on addressing
national and local issues.



Page 58
Global Environmental Objective
7.     The global environmental objective of the proposed Project is to support the conservation
of the unique coastal and marine environment of the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden. This
would be accomplished by GEF provision of catalytic support for incremental costs
associated with implementation of the SAP. Consistent with the guidance for GEF
Operational Program Number 9, "Integrated Land and Water Multiple Focal Area
Operational Program," the SAP provides a sound technical basis for a prevention oriented
project to address priority activities. The objective of this Operational Program is to
support "better use of land and water resource management practices on an area wide
basis." Under this Operational Program, activities are supported which have an "area
wide focus, and with biodiversity considerations often included in project objectives,
more proactive interventions aimed at the protection of international waters with
important biodiversity are common." A major focus of this Operational Program is
support of measures for "prevention of damage to threatened waters..." and these focus
on "preventive measures to address threats rather than remedial, highly capital intensive
measures."
GEF Alternative
8.     The GEF alternative would support a proposed Project to "operationalize [a] sustainable
development strategy" for the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden. This would be accomplished
through GEF support to facilitate key measures for implementation of the SAP, combined
with additional resources from a large number of domestic and international sources. The
participation of GEF would provide support for incremental costs needed to remove
barriers to implementation of the SAP, including additional transaction costs for joint
planning activities, development of common approaches to sectoral policies, data
collection and analyses, and coordination of efforts among the participating countries.
Consistent with the objectives of the GEF, the proposed Project supports complementary
policy and technical measures on a regional basis for reduction of navigation risks and
associated maritime pollution; management of important living marine resources shared
by the cooperating countries; development of a network of representative Marine
Protected Areas to conserve unique biodiversity; and support for Integrated Coastal Zone
Management to protect the critical interface between the terrestrial and marine
environments.
9.     The proposed Project, consistent with GEF guidance, would contribute significantly to
the "reduction of stress to the international waters environment" in this region and
support PERSGA and the cooperating countries in "making changes in their sectoral
policies, making critical investments, [and] developing necessary programs" to achieve
these objectives. The long-term commitment on the part of the concerned governments is
demonstrated by the Jeddah Convention, support for PERSGA, participation in the SAP
Task Force, and a direct role in the Country Reports and Regional Studies, which
cooperatively identified priority actions. The support of GEF will play an important
catalytic role in the Project, and the participation of the European Community,
international financial institutions, donors and the private sector will also contribute to
this multi-country and multi-stakeholder effort. The emphasis in the individual Project
components on the evaluation of sustainable mechanisms for self-financing of a number
of activities would contribute to the long-term financial sustainability of Project initiated
actions.



Page 59
10.    The GEF alternative would support a regionally led initiative to promote the management
and conservation of the coastal and marine resources of the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden. It
would greatly facilitate the ability of PERSGA and the cooperating countries to address
transboundary environmental issues and common natural resources management
concems at the regional level. The GEF alternative would allow for the realization of a
dynamic action oriented work program for implementation of the SAP, to be undertaken
on an accelerated basis with support from a variety of sources. These goals would be
realized through support for the following specific Project objectives:
(a) Institutional strengthening to facilitate regional cooperation.This Project component will
strengthen PERSGA's capacity in policy planning, program management and regional
coordination, which are essential for the effective implementation of the SAP. It will make
use of active participation of national and regional expert groups in fulfilling PERSGA's
responsibilities in the SAP, hence further enhancing regional cooperation and technical
transfer among the countries involved. The component will also providetechnical support to
the national PERSGA focal points, facilitating the effective implementation and
coordination of program activities at the national level.
(b) Reduction of navigation risks and maritime pollution. This component places emphasis on
cost-effective preventive measures to reduce navigation risks in the Region, including Port
State Control, Traffic Separation Schemes, Vessel Traffic Systems, navigation aids, and
supportive training and awareness promotion. The Project will capitalize on the PERSGA
Navigation Working Group, which supported the preparation of the Navigation Risk
Assessment and Management Plan for the Region.
(c) Sustainable use and management of living marine resources. This component is designed
to develop strategies for the management of transboundary living marine resources,
including threatened or endangered migratory species. The component will strengthen the
capacity for management and monitoring of the resources through technical assistance and
training. Special effort will be made to promote the participation of fishermen in these
activities. Support will be provided to develop the legal and institutional framework for
regional cooperation in the management of transboundary resources.
(d) Development of a Regional Network of Marine Protected Areas (MPAs). During the SAP
process, twelve declared and proposed/suggested MPAs, representing different ecosystem
types and biodiversity richness and uniqueness, have been identified as regionally or
globally important The proposed component will emphasize institutional and capacity
building, including resource mobilization, for effective management of these MPAs. It will
focus on these priority sites while at the same time retaining a regional approach in
planning, management and provision of training.
(e) Supportfor Integrated Coastal Zone Management (ICZM). This component will enhance
the exchange of lessons learnt between countries at different stages of practicing ICZM,
and provide cost-effective regional training in related fields, including environmental
assessment, monitoring and evaluation. It will also aim at reinforcing the capacity of
national and local governments, including environmental and other sectoral ministries, in
developing and implementing ICZM. Effective national ICZM will contribute to the
management of the globally significant coastal environments and biodiversity of the
Region.



Page 60
(f) Enhancement of public awareness andparticipation. This component will promote broad-
based public awareness initiatives, facilitate dialogues among local environmental NGOs,
community groups, private sector and the Governments. The activities of this component
will be developed in line with the thematic areas of maritime pollution, sustainable use of
living resources and coastal zone management, and will provide support for other
components of the Project.
(g) Monitoring and evaluation ofprogram impacts. This component will develop regional,
standardized procedures with specified indicators to monitor and evaluate progress and
impacts of the different components of the program in line with the evolving GEF
monitoring and evaluation guidance. This is essential for the insurance of effective Project
implementation and provides timely warning for needed adjustments and improvements.
System Boundary
11.    The time boundaries for this Project are the five-year Project period during which it will
be implemented. Some of the benefits will clearly continue to accrue beyond this time
boundary. However, all the listed benefits will be achieved during the five-year
implementation period.
12.    The area of the Jeddah Convention, which includes the Red Sea and the Gulf of Aden,
defines the geographic boundary of the Project.
13.    The issues to be dealt with within the boundary of the Project are:
(a) inadequate institutional capacity for the management of transboundary environmental
issues;
(b) navigation risks and maritime pollution;
(c) exploitation of living marine resources;
(d) lack of management capacity for Marine Protected Areas of regional/global importance;
(e) coastal habitat destruction and environmental degradation;
(f) low public awareness and participation in environmental and resource management; and
(g) lack of recognized methodology for Project monitoring and evaluation.
14.    The design of the proposed Project has taken into full consideration its complementarity
with other existing projects in the Region and is developed to maximize regionality and
holistic management by ecosystems and issues.
Incidental Domestic Benefits
15.    While PERSGA has made a good start in regional cooperation, significant support over
the short and medium-term is required to overcome institutional, human resource and
information barriers to successful management of transboundary and common
environmental issues in the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden. Over the long-term, a variety of
domestic benefits would occur through implementation of the proposed Project; however,
these benefits would not be realized without critical catalytic transitional support from
GEF. The most valuable domestic benefits to be gained from the Project are associated
with substantially strengthened institutional and human capacity in environmental
planning, natural resources management and regional cooperation. Long-term domestic
benefits associated with the proposed Project would include the reduction of navigation
risks in international and national waters of the Region. This would result in lower



Page 61
shipping costs and obviate the need for major expenditures for emergency management
and clean-up activities. Potential domestic benefits from measures for the management of
living marine resources and Marine Protected Areas would be realized only after Project
supported activities are fully adopted and used as the basis for management programs. In
the case of coastal zone management, benefits may be realized in the medium-term
through implementation of decisions that improve spatial planning and avoid
unsustainable development patterns in these fragile areas. These benefits would be
significantly greater if, as planned under the Project, there is support for widespread
adoption of Integrated Coastal Zone Management throughout the Region.
Costs
16.   The incremental costs required to achieve all outputs of the Project amount to US$
36,606,000, of which US$ 19,000,000 is being sought from the GEF. The GEF
contribution will be allocated as follows:
Project Component                                        US$
1.    Institutional strengthening for regional cooperation  2,315,000
2.    Reduction of navigation risks and maritime pollution  3,500,000
3.    Sustainable use and management of living marine resources    3,366,000
4.    Development of a Regional Network of MPAs            3,270,000
5.    Support for ICZM                                     2,110,000
6.    Enhancement of public awareness and participation    2,546,000
7.    Monitoring and evaluation of program impacts           496,000
8.    Support for Project Management Unit                  1,397, 000
TOTAL                                               19,000,000
Agreement
17.   The technical contents of the Project, including the incremental cost analysis, have been
negotiated with the Governments of Djibouti, Egypt, Jordan, Saudi Arabia (non-GEF
funding), Sudan and Yemen, and the local authorities of the northern Somalia coast.






Page 63
Detailed Incremental Cost Matrix and Calculation for World Bank Implemented Outputs
Project Component     Cost       Cost                  Domestic Benefits                          Global Environmental Benefits
Category  ($million)
1. Reduction of    Baselinc       94.895 Few countries have ratified MARPOL and no     Weak implementation of existing protocols and an
Navigation Risks and                     regional agreement has been developed on Port State  absence of a Regional Agreement of Port State Control.
Maritime Pollution                        Control. Navigation aids have bcen installed at main   Reduction of navigation risk at the entry of the Gulf of
traffic lanes and port entrances, but they are few and   Suez and Strait of Tiran through installation of planned
poorly maintained. Most but not all countries have  Vessel Traffic Systems (VTS); however, major risks
national oil spill contingency plans. Some training for  would occur in the southem Red Sea where a Traffic
preparedness and combating of oil spills, and port  Separation Scheme (TSS) is needed and in the Bab al
management at national levels but far from adequate.  Mandab which requires a VTS. Hazardous navigation
conditions in the vicinity of some ports due to weak rules,
limited training of staff and outdated charts. Regional
coordination for oil spill response remains
underdeveloped.
Alternative   98.459  Reduced local navigation risks and maritime  Major reduction in risks of global/regional environmental
pollution. Ratification and implementation of  degradation from maritime traffic and pollution through
intemational conventions would support improved   establishment and implementation of an effective
navigation and safety standards. Support provided    "prevention" oriented program. Technical coordination of
for development and implementation of Port State   the program by a Regional Working Group which can
Control, preparation of updated port rules, and  conduct activities beyond the life of the Project. Key
training of specialized personnel. Improved TSS,    benefits would include: expanded ratification of
communications, navigation aids, charts and  intemational conventions; development of a Regional
emergency procedures for major ports in the region   Agreement on Port State Control and training of personnel
would reduce local risks. Working Group would    to implement this agreement; establishment of a TSS and
share lessons learnt and disseminate good practices   VTS to reduce risks in the southem Red Sea and Bab al
at the national level.                       Mandab; preparation of national and port oil spill
contingency plans; strengthened regional and sub-regional
cooperation for emergency management; and
identification and dissemination of good practices.
Provides a model that can be replicated in other areas.
Increment       3.564
(GEF)         (3.500)



Project Component     Cost        Cost                   Domestic Benefits                          Global Environmental Benefits
Category  ($million)
2. Support for      Baseline       55.898 Poorly coordinated development of valuable coastal  None
Integrated Coastal                         zones predominates in most countries of the Region
Zone Management                            and institutional capacity to address these issues is
weak. This results in unnecessary degradation of
important coastal habitats with significant adverse
secondary impacts on marine habitats. Inadequate
consideration of environmental issues in coastal
zone development results in insufficient investment
in management of water, wastewater and solid
waste. Tourism is often developed without attention
to impacts and infrastructure requirements.
Alternative    58.308 Strengthened institutional and human capacity in each  Adoption of common regional approaches to ICZM results
country to develop and implement national ICZM.    in reduced environmental degradation and loss of coastal
habitats for migratory species and global biodiversity; by
catalyzing the development and implementation of national
ICZM through regional training, exchange of lessons learnt
and sustainable financing. Supportive environments
provided for components 2, 3 and 4.
Increment       2.410
(GEF)         (2.110)
Project support     Increment       1.397
services            (GEF)          (1.397)
Totals              Baseline      270.994
Alternative   307 600
Increment    $36.606
_GEF_       ($19. 000)
Footnotes to Incremental Cost Matrix:
Sources of Non-GEF funding that contribute to the baseline costs include the Danish, Dutch, German, Japanese, US and Saudi Arabia Governments, the Governments of the
participating countries, and multi-lateral donors and international agencies including the EU, IFAD and World Bank. The list of projects relevant to the different componepts
of the proposal is presented in Annex 7.
Sources of co-financing that contribute to the incremental costs of the program include contributions under negotiation from the participating countries, European
Commission, Islamic Development Bank, PERSGA and UNDP.



Page 65
Annex S
REGIONAL PROJECT FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE STRATEGIC
ACTION PROGRAM (SAP) FOR THE RED SEA AND GULF OF ADEN
Financial Summary
Imnplementation Period                        Operational Period
99        00       01        02        03         04        05        06        07
Project Costs (US$ Millions)
Grant Costs Component 2           0.295     1.813     1.312     0.342     0.088     0.2       0.2       0.2       0.2
(Navigation Risk)
Grant Costs Component 6 (ICZM)    0.336     0.744     0.631     0.524     0.108     0.3       0.3       0.3       0.3
Total*                            0.640     2.50      1.96      0.90      0.20      0.5       0.5       0.5       0.5
Financing Sources (% of total
Project costs)
GEF                              90%       90%       90%       90%       90%
Co-financiers
Governments
PERSGA                                                                             50%       50%       50%       50%
Local (in kind)                  10%       10%       10%       10%       10%       50%       50%       50%       50%
User Fees/Beneficiaries
Total                           100%      100%      100%      100%      100%      100%      100%      100%      100%
a Total includes both the GEF Grant of US$5.61 million and support from PERSGA and in kind contributions from
cooperating countries of US$0.62 million.
Main assumptions: Upon comnpletion of the GEF Grant Financed Implementation Period, PERSGA-through the
support of the member Governrents and other Grant support-will cover the operational and management costs of
the Aids To Navigation and ICZM Comnponents.



Page 66
Annex 6
REGIONAL PROJECT FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE STRATEGIC
ACTION PROGRAM (SAP) FOR THE RED SEA AND GULF OF ADEN
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
A.    Procurement Methods (See Table A)
1.    Procurement Procedures. Procurement of works and goods financed by the GEF Trust Fund will
follow the World Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits " dated
January 1995, and revised Januarv and August 1996 and September 19, 1997. Procurement of services
financed by the GEF Trust Fund will follow the World Bank's "Guidelines for Selection and Employment
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January 1997 and revised September 1997. The World
Bank's standard bidding documents and contracts will be used. All procurement will be handled centrally
by the Project Management Team (PMT) to be established at the Regional Organization for the
Conservation of the Environment of the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden (PERSGA) in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.
These activities will be coordinated by the Procurement and Finance Specialist of the PMT who will
receive training on World Bank procurement procedures.
2.     Goods and Equipment (US$440,000). The lighthouse equipment and installation contract
estimated to cost US$80,000 equivalent will be subject to International Competitive bidding (ICB). For
goods estimated to cost between US$20,000 and US$200,000 and for specialized types of scientific and
technical equipment, contracts will be awarded on the basis of the Bank's international shopping
procedures (IS), where price quotations will be obtained from at least three qualified suppliers from at
least two eligible countries. Contracts below US$20,000 will be awarded on the basis of national
shopping procedures where quotations will be obtained from at least three qualified suppliers. In the case
of the northern coast of Somalia some off-the-shelf goods may be obtained from a United Nations
Agency.
3.    Services (US$3, 716,000): Consultants financed under the Project will be selected in accordance
with Bank consultant guidelines and by using the Bank's Standard Request for Proposals. Specialized
consultant services, technical materials, training, workshops, seminars and miscellaneous will be
contracted to professional firms, NGOs, local groups, and individuals using quality based selection (QBS)
or selection based on consultants' qualifications (CQ) (for small contracts under US$50,000) and output
based contracts. Since it is vital that these services be of the highest professional quality for the
development of the long-term program framework, price will not be a factor in the selection. The firms
could, at their prerogative, sub-contract specific parts of the contract to qualified local groups or NGOs.
The PMT will enter into a direct contract for a single-source selection to the United Kingdom
Hydrographic Office (UKHO) for quality assurance support for hydrographic survey activities to make
certain they meet international standards and can be directly used by the UKHO for updating navigational
charts. It should be noted that under international agreements the UKHO has responsibility for
supervision and production of all official navigation charts of the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden. It is
estimated that this contract will be for less than US$100,000.
4.    Incremental Operating Costs (US$1,454,000). The GEE grant will finance incremental operating
costs consisting of salaries and operating costs for the Project Management Team (PMT), Navigation



Page 67
Working Group and the ICZM Working Group. This will include: (a) salaries and per diem paid to staff
and working group members engaged under the Project; (b) travel expenses for staff and working group
members engaged under the Project to attend meetings; (c) operation and maintenance of equipment used
under the Project; (d) consumable office supplies; (e) telecommunications pertaining to the Project; and
(f) use of office space for facilities required outside of PERSGA. Evidence of actual expenses will be
retained by the PMT and will be reviewed by Bank staff randomly during supervision missions.
5.    Prior Review Thresholds (Table B). The World Bank will conduct a prior review of the
following procurement documentation:
(a)    Goods and Equipment: For all ICB contracts and contracts over US$50,000: the bidding
documents (or request for quotations), the technical specifications, evaluation report and
draft contract will be submitted to the Bank for "no objection." The first three goods and
equipment contracts below US$50,000 will also be subject to prior review, including the
request for quotations, techlnical specifications, evaluation request and the draft contract
or purchase order.
(b)    Services: For contracts above US$50,000: Terms of Reference, cost estimates request for
proposals with selection criteria, evaluation reports and draft contract will be submitted
of the Bank for "no objection;" for contracts below US$50,000 Terms of Reference and
cost estimates will be subject to the Bank's prior review (for contracts concerning
training and study tours, where no Terms of Reference are used, the objectives, scope,
targeted beneficiaries and estimated cost will be reviewed).
All sole-source selections will be subject to prior review.
(c)    Processing: All procurement packages will be prepared by the Procurement and Finance
Specialist at the PMT following the procurement plan and procedures agreed with the
Bank. The specialist will forward these packages to the Bank for prior review and 'no
objection', as required. All procurements which are not subject to prior review will be
reviewed on a random basis during supervision missions.
B.    Disbursement
6.    Allocation of GEF Grant Proceeds (see Table C)
(a)    Disbursements: The grant will be disbursed against 100% of eligible foreign
expenditures, 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost), 85% of local expenditures for
goods and equipment procured locally; 75% of local expenditures for works; and 100%
of eligible expenditures for consultant services and operating costs.
(b)    Use of Statements of Expenses (SOEs): Disbursement will be imade on the basis of
Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) for: (a) expenditures for goods under contracts below
US$50,000 equivalent; (b) for consultant services and training under contracts for firms
below US$100,000 equivalent; (c) for consultant services and training under contracts for
individuals below US$50,000 equivalent; and (d) travel and subsistence expenditures
with respect to Consultants' services and training activities below US$10,000 equivalent



Page 68
per person. The appropriate documentation will be retained by the PMT and made
available for review by the auditors and for examination by Bank supervision missions.
(c)    SpecialAccount: A Special Account denominated in US Dollars will be established by
PERSGA in a bank acceptable to the World Bank under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank. The authorized allocation of the Special Account is US$300,000 for the
equivalent of 4-5 months disbursements. The Special Account will be administered and
replenished in accordance with Bank guidelines, details of the disbursement procedures
will be included in the initial Disbursement Letters to be issued by the World Bank.



Page 69
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ thousands equivalent)
Expenditure Category               Procurement Method            Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB        NCB        Other
1. Goods and Equipment
(a) Computers and Software                            360,000
(b) Lighthouse Installation     80,000
440,000
2. Services
(a) Port State Control Training                       389,000
(b) Hydrographic Survey                             1,546,000
(c) VTS Feasibility Study                             100,000
(d) VTS Training                                       30,000
(e) Other Services and                              1,651,000
Training
3,716,000
3. Incremental Operating Costs
(a) Staff Salaries, Travel,                         1,454,000    1,454,000
Operating Expenses, etc.
Total                           80,000              5,530,000    5,610,000
Note: Other = The procurement arrangement for the items listed under "Other" are explained in the text.
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure         Contract Value         Procurement        Contracts Subject to
Category            (Threshold)             Method             Prior Review /
Estimated Total Value
Subject to Prior
Review
US $ thousands                               US $ millions
1. Goods                   <200,000*              ICB/IS          Contracts >50,000 and
>20,000                                 ICB contract
<20,000                 NS
2. Services                 >50,000                               TOR, RFP, evaluation
reports, contracts,
estimate
<50,000                                   TOR, estimate
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  3,900,000 (62%)
*Note: All Specialized Scientific Contracts will also be IS.



Page 70
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Expenditure Category         Amount            Financing Percentage
in US$
thousands
1. Goods                             440,000       100% of foreign expenditures
100% of local expenditures
85% of local expenditures for items
procured locally
2. Services (TA, Training and Studies)   3,716,000           100%
3. Incremental Operating Costs      1,454,000                100%
Total  5,610,000                100%



Annex 7
REGIONAL PROJECT FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE
STRATEGIC ACTION PROGRAM (SAP) FOR THE RED SEA AND GULF OF ADEN
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                        Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
GEF PDF Block B                                 $340,000               $340,000
(UNDP, UNEP, World Bank)
Government of Norway (Trust Fund)               $100,000               $100,000
PERSGA                                           $70,000                $70,000
UNDP                                             $50,000                $50,000
World Bank                                       $50,000                $50,000
B. Project Schedule                               Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the Project (months)   12 months (to date)       12 months
First Bank mission (identification)           January 23, 1998     January 23, 1998
Appraisal mission departure                  December 12, 1998    December 12, 1998
Negotiations                                 December 17, 1998      January 8, 1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  March 1, 1999         April 1, 1999
Prepared by: Regional Organization for the Conservation of the Environment of the Red Sea and
Gulf of Aden (PERSGA) with the assistance of UNDP, UNEP and World Bank
Preparation assistance:
Global Environment Facility (PDF-B Grant)
Government of Norway (Trust Fund)
Government of Saudi Arabia
Islamic Development Bank
United Nations Development Program
United Nations Environment Program
Bank staff who worked on the Project included:
Name                                      Specialty
Stephen F. Lintner                      Environmental Specialist
Jocelyne Albert                       GEF Regional Coordinator
Mohammed Bekhechi                             Legal Advisor
John Bryant Collier                      Environmental Specialist
Kristin Elliott                      GEF Regional Coordinator
Andrina A. Ambrose-Gardiner               Financial Management Specialist
Nicole Glineur                             Peer Reviewer
Katherin Golitzen                  SAP Production Coordinator/Editor
Hassan M. Hassan                             Peer Reviewer
Anthony J. Hooten                       Environmental Specialist
Samia Msadek                       Financial Management Specialist
Kristine Schwebach                          Project Assistant
Charles Sterling                          Financial Analyst



Annex 8
REGIONAL PROJECT FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE STRATEGIC
ACTION PROGRAM (SAP) FOR THE RED SEA AND GULF OF ADEN
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
PERSGA, UNDP, UNEP and World Bank. 1998. Strategic Action Program for the Red
Sea and Gulf of Aden. Project Implementation Plan.
B. Bank StaffAssessments
Key SAP Documents
PERSGA, GEF, UNDP, UNEP and World Bank. 1998. Strategic Action Program for the
Red Sea and Gulf of Aden (3 Volumes).
PERSGA, UNDP, UNEP and World Bank. 1997. GEF Proposal for Review -
Implementation of the Strategic Action Program (SAP) for the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden
UNDP. 1998. Project Brief for Implementation of the Strategic Action Program for the Red
Sea and Gulf of Aden - UNDP Components.
UNEP. 1998. Proj ect Brief for Implementation of the Strategic Action Program for the Red
Sea and Gulf of Aden - Institutional Strengthening to Facilitate Regional Cooperation -
UNEP Component.
Supporting Documents
Hatziolos, Marea, Carl Gustaf Lundin and Anders Alm. 1996. Africa: A Framework for
Integrated Coastal Zone Management (Second Edition). World Bank.
Hatziolos, Marea (et.al.) 1998. Assessment of Integrated Coastal Area Management
Initiatives in the Mediterranean: Experience of METAP and MAP (1988-1996). MNSRE
Technical Paper. World Bank (English and French).
Kelleher, Graeme, Chris Bleakley and Sue Wells (eds.). 1995. A Global Representative
System of Marine Protected Areas. Great Barrier Marine Park Authority, World Bank and
IUCN. (4 Volumes).
Lintner, Stephen F., Sherif Arif and Marea Hatziolos. 1996. The Experience of the World
Bank in the Legal, Institutional and Financial Aspects of Regional Environmental
Programs: Potential Applications of Lessons Leamed for the ROPME and PERSGA
Programs. World Bank (Arabic and English).



Page 73
World Bank. 1994. Forging a Partnership for Environmental Action: An Environmental
Strategy Towards Sustainable Development in the Middle East and North Africa. (Arabic,
English and French).
C. Other
Government of Germany and World Bank. 1998. "Petersberg Declaration." Proceedings of
the 1st Petersberg Round Table - International Dialogue Forum on Global Water Politics -
Cooperation for Transboundary Water Management.
Government of Germany and World Bank. 1998. "Berlin Recommendations - Lessons
Learned, Challenges and Issues for the Future." Proceedings of the Berlin International
Round Table on Transboundary Management - Experience of International River and Lake
Commissions.
Hatziolos, Marea, Anthony J. Hooten and Martin Fodor (eds.). 1998. Coral Reefs:
Challenges and Opportunities for Sustainable Management. Proceedings of an Associated
Event of the 5th Annual World Bank Conference on Environmentally and Socially
Sustainable Development. October 9-11, 1997. World Bank.
Helsinki Commission. 1998. Baltic Sea Joint Comprehensive Environmental Action
Program: Background Document on Recommendations for Updating and Strengthening.
Hooten, Anthony J. and Marea Hatziolos (eds.). 1995. Sustainable Financing Mechanisms
for Coral Reef Conservation: Proceedings of a Workshop. Environmentally Sustainable
Development Proceedings Series No. 9. World Bank.
*Including electronic files.



Annex 9
REGIONAL PROJECT FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE STRATEGIC
ACTION PROGRAM (SAP) FOR THE RED SEA AND GULF OF ADEN
Red Sea and Gulf of Aden at a Glance
Egypt   Jordan    Saudi   Sudan   Yemen   Djibouti  Somalia
Arabia
Area (million km2)     1.01      0.09     2.25      2.51     0.53      0.02      0.64
Estimated length of
Red Sea/Gulf of Aden    1,800    26       1,840     853     2,200      370      1,300b
Coastline (kms)a
Total population       65.9      4.9      19.4      28.0     13.2       0.6       9.2
(millions)
Population in coastal
urban areas on Red
Sea and Gulf of Aden    0.62     0.06     2.50      .70      1.20      0.50      0.27
(millions)c
Projected popuiation
growth rate            2.0       3.8       3.1      2.7       3.7       2.1       2.7
(1993-2000)
Urban population       2.6       4.7       3.6      4.6       6.6       7.6       4.3
growth rate
GDP per capita        3,847    4,187      9,338    1,084     805       1,270     712*
Literacy rate          50.5      85.5     61.8     44.8      41.1       45       24.9*
HDI                   .614       .73      .77       .33      .33        .31      .22*
HDI rank               109       84        73       158      148        162      172*
Sources:   Except where noted below, Human Development Report 1997, UNDP; World Resources 1994-
1995 and 1996-1997, World Resources Institute, and the World Development Indicators 1998,
World Bank.
a     Source: Country Reports prepared for the Strategic Action Program for the Red Sea and Gulf of
Aden.
b     This is for the North Coast of Somalia, which is included under the Jeddah Convention as part of
the PERSGA area.
c     Source: Country Reports prepared for the Strategic Action Program for the Red Sea and Gulf of
Aden.
*  1994 data (more recent data unavailable).
HDI = Human Development Index.



Annex 10
REGIONAL PROJECT FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE STRATEGIC
ACTION PROGRAM (SAP) FOR THE RED SEA AND GULF OF ADEN
Public Participation Summary
1.    Participatory Approach. Experience from a number of GEF and World Bank supported
regional environmental programs has demonstrated the importance of broad-based public support
for their successful development and implementation. This is especially important given the long-
term time frame under which these programs are implemented and the need to take both
"preventive" and "curative" actions to address the various causes of environmental degradation.
The sustained support of stakeholders requires specific measures and a UNDP-implemented
component of the GEF-funded SAP implementation process will support "Enhancement of Public
Awareness and Participation."
2.    SAP Preparation. An important element of SAP preparation was the use of a consultation
process for development and review of the Country Reports, Navigation Risk Assessment and
Management Plan, and the Study on the Status of the Living Marine Resources in the Red Sea and
Gulf of Aden and their Management. This process demonstrated that both regional and national
ievel consultations can contribute significantly to the development of a better strategy that is more
firmly based on "facts on the ground" and can be more readily implemented due to broad-based
support for the recommended interventions. They also showed that effective dialogue can take
place between representatives of PERSGA, national and local governments, academic and applied
research institutions and nongovemmental organizations in development and implementation of
program and project activities in support of the SAP. Expanded use of these approaches will
provide widespread information to decision-makers, user groups and the public conceming the
fragility of coastal and marine resources and measures needed for their efficient use and protection.
3.    Consultative Process. The development of the SAP has been a collaborative process
whereby national experts have cooperated to produce reports that analyze environmental issues of
regional, national and local significance. National reports were prepared by all cooperating
countries and field surveys were conducted in countries where baseline data are limited. To widen
participation and facilitate consensus building, a series of four regional Task Force meetings were
held to support joint preparation and review of the SAP. National workshops were held to support
development of Country Reports and to identify priority actions required by each country to
promote environmental management of the coastal and marine environment. The activities of the
Regional Navigation Working Group benefited from major workshops held in Egypt and Yemen,
which brought together maritime experts from throughout the region
4.    Implementation Phase. During the implementation phase of the SAP, the participatory
process will be continued both through the special component designed to address participation and
through actions under the other components. The two Bank-managed components of the SAP
include the following activities to support the use of participatory processes:
(a) Component 2. This component will assist national governments and local populations in
supporting preventive measures to avoid potential adverse impacts associated with
navigation accidents and marine pollution. The component will be implemented by the
Navigation Working Group that includes representatives of the major stakeholders in
maritime affairs issues in the region. In the policy elements of the component, measures
will be taken to conduct a series of outreach activities for government, stakeholders and the
public concerning the scope and objectives of these agreements, methods for their



Page 76
implementation and their benefits to the public and the environment. Input will also be
sought from maritime stakeholder groups in decisions concerning the use of Traffic
Separation Schemes and Vessel Traffic Systems.
(b) Component 6. Under this component, support will be provided on a regional basis, and on
a national basis in the four southern countries, to improve the participation of communities
in the management of coastal and marine resources and to improve social welfare by
promoting sustainable use of these critical and fragile resources. Special attention will be
given to the needs of individuals involved in locally-based commercial and artisanal
fishing operations. Field surveys conducted in Djibouti, the northern coast of Somalia,
Sudan and Yemen included a range of informal meetings with local authorities and
residents of coastal communities. The model ICZM plans to be supported in the four
southern countries will expand upon this experience and increase the participation of local
communities and stakeholders in planning and management of coastal and marine
resources.
5.     Project Monitoring and Evaluation. The Mid-Term and Final Evaluations for the project
will include review of the level and quality of participation by a range of stakeholders in the
implementation process, their perceived satisfaction with different types of SAP-supported
activities, and evaluation of the quality of the activities undertaken by the project.



Annex 11
REGIONAL PROJECT FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE STRATEGIC
ACTION PROGRAM (SAP) FOR THE RED SEA AND GULF OF ADEN
Threats to Coastal and Marine Environments and Resources
Threats to Coastal and Marine Environments and Resources
Issue         Syrnptoms I         Immediate         Root Causes           Scale        Severity
impacts            Causes
Habitat Destruction:
Coastal        Extensive dredging  Large-scale urban  Inadequate          Localized,      Moderate to
development   and filling; change   and industrial   environmental        throughout the  severe
of currents and    development; port  planning guidelines    Region;
coastal processes;  development and   for coastal          concentrated
destruction of coral  maintenance     development; lack of  in urban,
reefs, intertidal  dredging; tourist    enforcement; limited  industrial,
areas, lagoons,    development        use of environmental  tourism areas
seagrass beds and                     assessment; limited   and free zones
sabkhas                               awareness
Beach mining   Disturbance of     Sand collecting    Lack of regulations,   Localized     Low to
and quarrying   sandy beaches,    and quarrying for   and lack of                         moderate
increased          coral rock         enforcement
sedimentation,
smothering of
seagrass and
corals
Mangrove       Deterioration of   Landfill, camel    Mangroves exist      Regional        Moderate to
destruction    mangrove habitats; grazing, wood      under sub-optimal                    severe
decreased fish and  collection, shrimp   conditions; lack of
shrimp catches;    farm construction,  regulations and
reduced water      decreased          management, lack of
quality; coastal   freshwater supply   awareness, damming
erosion                               of wadis and rivers;
increased population
pressure
Destruction of  Signs of physical   Trawling, including  Lack of adequate  Localized,     Moderate to
seagrass beds  disturbance; loss of illegal trawling by   regulations and  adjacent to    severe
and other sub-  seagrass-         foreign vessels;    enforcement; limited   urban and
tidal habitats   associated species  coastal dredging    awareness; limited    industrial
and filling; release   knowledge of     areas; trawling
of untreated waste  seagrass distribution  impacts
waters from                             severe in Gulf
municipalities and                      of Suez,
shrimplfish farms                       southern Red
Sea and Gulf
of Aden
Physical       Loss of coral      Anchor damage,    Poor navigational     Regional        Moderate to
damage to      habitat by collision   coral mining, ship   control systems and            severe
coral reefs    and removal;       groundings         error; lack of
indirect impacts                      moorings; lack of
through siltation;                    awareness;
dedining reef-                       inappropriate mining
associated fauna                      operations;
inadequaite training



Page 78
Threats to Coastal and Marine Environments and Resources
Issue         Symptoms I          tmmediate          Root Causes           Scale        severity
Impacts            Causes
Damage to      Coral breakage by  Trampling of        Lack of educaffon    Northern Red   Moderate to
coral reefs by   visitors; decrease   shallow reef flats,   about sensitivity of    Sea and  severe
visitors       in live coral cover;  breaking of corals,  marine ecosystems;   westem Gulf
decline in reef-   collecting of marine lack of management;  of Aden;
associated fauna;   souvenirs; anchor  lack of enforcement   problem
presence of solid    damage                                anticipated to
waste                                                       spread
_______________________                                ~~~~~~Region-wide
Exploitation of Living Marine Resources:
Overfishing of   Decline in landings, Increased fishing    Lack of stock    Regional       Moderate to
finfish for local  decrease in     efforts, landing   assessment and                       severe
and export     average size        beyond Maximum   reliable statistics
markets                            Sustainable Yield   hampers fisheries
management;
mangroves
destroyed; lack of
surveillance and
enforcement of
existing regulations
Capture of     Dec;ine in shark    increased fishing    Lack of surveillance   Regional    Severe
sharks for     stocks; Other       effort, use of nets   and enforcement of
shark fin      impacts include     in shark fisheries,   existing regulations;
market,        bycatch of turtles,   high profits     expanding demand
frequently in    dolphins and finfish                 outside the Region
areas beyond                                          for shark fins
territorial
waters
Overfishing of   Decline in catches,  increased fishing    Lack of monitoring  Gulf of Aden    Severe
shrimp and     decrease in         effort, illegal fishing  and enforcement of   and southern
lobster for    average size                           existing regulations;   Red Sea
export markets                                        lack of stock
assessment hampers
resource
management;
destruction of nursery
habitats (mangroves
and seagrasses);
illegal trawling
Overf-ishing of   Decline in catches   Fishing effort  Lack of monitoring  Gulf of Aden    Severe
cuttlefish for                     beyond Maximum    and enforcement of
export markets                     Sustainable Yield,  regulations; lack of
improper fishing    trained staff for
practices          surveillance
Overfishing of   Decline in jandings  Increased fishing    Lack of stock   Southern Red   Severe
Strombus for                       efforts            assessment hampers  Sea
local markets                                         resource
management
Overfishing of   Decrease in       Increased fishing    Lack of stock       Southem Red   Low to
sea cucumber  average size         efforts in limited  assessment hampers  Sea and Gulf   moderate
for export                         areas              resource              of Aden
markets                                               management



Page 79
Threats to Coastal and Marine Environments and Resources
Issue        Symptoms I         Immediate         Root Causes          Scale       Severity
Itsusau           Causes
Turtle capture   Decrease in     Need for subsidiary Lack of public    Southern Red  Severe
and egg       nesting populations food supply in   awareness, lack of   Sea and Gulf
collection by                    areas of poor fish   alternative food  of Aden
local fishermen                  resources;        sources; lack of
and                              Economic returns   enforcement and
communities;                     from sales to     stock assessment;
sale of shells to               tourists; Bycatch of lack of protection of
tourists and for                turtles in fisheries;  eggs from stray dogs
export                           Lack of turtle-
excluding devices
Collecton of    Breakage of corals  Unregulated    Expansion of tourism; Regional,    Moderate to
corals and    and decline of live  collection of corals  lack of awareness;    especially the  severe
mollusks for    coral cover; decline and mollusks  lack of regulations    central and
souvenir trade  in reef-associated                 and enforcement     southern Red
fauna                                                   Sea
Omamental    Potential decrease  Potential         Lack of stock       Localized,     Presently
fish collection   in reef fish   overfishing of    assessment,         throughout the  low
for export    populations,       individual species,  monitoring and   Region
damage to the reef destructive fishing   management; lack of
methods           collector training
Conservation   Potential decline in  Accidental capture  Lack of awareness    Regional  Moderate to
of marine     populations       in fisheries                                          severe
mammals       (dugong as an
(especlally   endangered
dugong)       species)
Spearfishing    Decline in size and  Indiscriminate  Lack of enforcement  Localized,  Locally
stocks of reef fish;  spearing of many   of existing    throughout the  severe
reef fish avoid   species of reef   regulations; lack of   Region
divers            fishes, of all sizes;  relevant legislation in
often in dive sites   some countries
Shrimp and    Irreversible       Pond construction;  Lack of regulations    Currently  Severe
fish farming  conversion of      mangrove          and poor planning    localized with
coastal habitats;    destruction                        a growing
mangrove          resulting in                          potential
destruction;      reduced water                         throughout the
declining water   quality; use of                       Region
quality;          chemicals,
modification of   hormones and
coastline         nutrients
Navigation Risks and Maritime Transport:
Regional      Extensive and      Limited           Complex navigational Regional, with  Moderate to
navigation risks routine risks of ship  navigational  hazards combined    serious issues  severe
collisions and    devices and poorly  with heavy maritime   in the Gulf of
groundings in     separated traffic;   traffic, including  Suez, Gulf of
major international  weak regional  large-scale         Aqaba and the
traffic lanes     coordination on   movement of oil and   Bab-al-
navigation issues;  other cargoes     Mandab
inaccurate
navigational charts



Page 80
Threats to Coastal and Marine Environments and Resources
Local          Extensive and      Limited           Complex navigational Significant    Moderate to
navigation risks routine risks of ship  navigational  hazards due to     problems in    severe
collisions and    devices and poorly  limited depth of    areas of major
groundings in     separated traffic;   shipping channels    ports and key
approaches to     weak regional and   and approaches to    oil loading
major and minor    national          ports; large volumes  facilities;
ports, oil loading    coordination on  of maritime traffic  Anticipated to
facilities and near   navigation issues;  which includes a  become a
coral reefs       inaccurate         variety of vessels   concern in
navigational charts; operating with a wide  areas adjacent
increasing local    range of safety    to proposed
traffic by small  standards            free ports and
vessels                                free zones;
Petroleum and Mineral Development and Transport:
Oil and gas    Construction       Capped wells as a  Normal risks        Gulf of Suez,   Moderate to
exploration and  debris; tar balls  navigation hazard;  associated with oil    northem Red   severe
production     and slicks on      seepage of oil;   exploration and      Sea and
beaches and in    production         production, made     southem Red
water             emergencies        worse by poor        Sea
including blow-   operator performance
outs; pipeline    and poor field
breakages         procedures
Small oil spills  Beach           Discharge of      Lack of reception    Localized,     Moderate
(< 20 tons)    contamination,     ballast and bilge    facilities at ports;  throughout the
damage to coastal  water, bunker oil   inadequate control,   Region
and marine biota   spill             lack of enforcement
Medium oil     Beach              Discharges from    Inadequate control    Localized,   Moderate to
spills         contamination,     pipelines or      and monitoring of    throughout the  severe
(< 100 tons)    damage to coastal  terminals, small    procedures,       Region
and marine biota   accidents at sea    equipment and
personnel;
Inadequate training
Potential large  Destruction of   Rupture of oil tanks Insufficient tanker  Localized,  Severe
oil spills and    coastal and marine  in collision or  safety specifications;  throughout the
disasters      habitats and biota,  wreckage        Poor navigation aids   Region
devastation of
beaches
Industrial Activities:
Surface and    Excessive          Use of industrial    Allocation of limited    Regional,  Moderate to
groundwater    exploitation for   technology often    surface and        especially in   severe
use           industrial use and   with inadequate    groundwater sources  coastal urban
cooling; re-      concern for water  for industrial use with  areas
allocation to     conservation and   limited regard for
industrial uses;  excessive pumping  overall usage needs
draw-down of      of groundwater     and inadequate
limited           resources          pricing; lack of
groundwater                          incentives for water
resources;                           conservation; poor
saltwater intrusion                  regulation of water
into coastal                         exploitation
aquifers
Industrial     Health risk,       Accidental spill    Inadequate         Localized,     Moderate to
chemical spills  potential damage   during transport,    monitoring and  vicinity of    severe
to marine life    storage or use of   control of hazardous   chemical
chemicals         substances           industrial
installations
Cooling water  Increased          Release of high   Inadequate thermal   Localized in    Low
discharges     temperatures,     temperature        pollution control    the vicinity of
alteration of marine  cooling waters  standards           power plants,
environment       from power plants,                      industries and
industries and                         desalinization
desalinization                         plants
plants



Page 81
Threats to Coastal and Marine Environments and Resources
Issue        symptoms I         Immediate         Root Causes          Scale       Severity
Hypersaline    Increased salinity   Release of     inadequate salinity    Localized, in   Low
water          near ouffalls,    hypersaline water  control standards  vicinity of
discharges    alteration of marine from desalination                   seawater
environment       plants                                desalination
plants
Phosphate     Decreased coral    Release of        Inadequate polluton   Local        Low
dust emissions  growth           phosphate dust    control standards,
during port       monitoring and
operations        enforcement
Industrial    Decline in water    Chronic release of  Lack of regulations    Localized in    Currently
pollution     quality, marine life  pollutants     and enforcement;    the vicinity of   moderate
affected                            Inadequate          industrial
technology          zones and at
individual
facilities
Pollution from   Consolidation of    Deposition of  Lack of controls and   Localized  Severe
cement        beach sands;       cement dust      inadequate
factories     Altered coastal and                 technology
marine sediments;
Hampered turtle
nesting
Waste oil     Soil and           Improper disposal  Lack of proper oil    Localized,  Moderate to
disposal      groundwater        of used motor oil,  disposal or recovery  throughout the  severe
impacts           use of oil as dust   options; lack of  Region
suppressant       effective regulations
and enforcement
Urban and Tourism Development:
Surface and    Excessive         Use of water      Allocation of limited   Regional, in    Moderate to
groundwater    exploitation of   distribution and  surface and         municipal     severe
surface and       household systems groundwater sources  areas
groundwater for    often with       for municipal use with
municipal use; re-  inadequate      inadequate regard for
allocation of     concern for water   conservation
surface water to    conservation and   measures including
municipal uses;    excessive pumping  maintenance of
draw-down of      of groundwater    distribution systems
limited           resources         and household
groundwater                         plumbing; inadequate
resources;                          pricing of water; lack
saltwater intrusion                 of incentives for
into coastal                        water conservation
aquifers
Urban land use  Destruction of   Extensive         Inadequate          Regional       Moderate to
coastal areas and   development of    development                      severe
adjacent marine    coastal areas often  planning and coastal
habitats          with limited regard  zone management;
to availability of    lack of coordination
water resources;   between ministries;
inadequate        limited enforcement
infrastructure and   of regulations
development in
areas with fragile
coastal ecology
Discharge of   Raised water table, Lack of sewage    Inadequate pollution   Localized in    Severe
untreated or    groundwater      treatment plants or control regulations,   the vicinity of
insufficiently   impacts,        lack of           monitoring and      coastal urban
treated sewage  eutrophication and  maintenance of    enforcement      areas and
(municipal,    alteration of marine existing sewage                    large tourist
hospital,     environment,      treatment plants                       developments
slaughter     threats to public
house)        health



Page 82
Threats to Coastal and Marine Environments and Resources
sympatos Iase
Disposal of   Deterioration of    Improper garbage   Lack of adequate  Localized in    Moderate
solid waste   aesthetics,        disposal, beach   waste disposal      the vicinity of
alteration of coastal litter        regulabons and      coastal urban
habitats, physical                  enforcement,        areas, coastal
damage to coastal                   inadequate public    villages,
and marine life;                    awareness           tourism
contamination of                                        developments
groundwater from                                        and adjacent
landfill                                                to major
shipping lanes
Tourism        Destruction of    Intense tourism   Limited use of      Regional; with  Low to
development   coastal areas and   development;     coastal zone        current        severe
adjacent marine    over-exploitation    planning and    problems in
habitats          of available water  infrastructure    the Gulf of
resources; poor    planning; limited  Suez, Gulf of
infrastructure    awareness of        Aqaba and
linkages; excessive adverse tourism   northem Red
use of marine     impacts; unregulated  Sea; Problems
habitat; landfilling   tourism activities and  are developing
access             in the central
and southern
Red Sea
Degradation of  Direct and indirect  Inadequate    Lack of adequate    Regional,      Moderate to
Cultural      adverse impacts to  evaluation of    recognition of the  especially in   severe
Heritage      archaeological,    potential impacts to importance of cultural coastal urban
historical and    cultural heritage in  heritage, limited  areas and
sacred sites;    the planning,      application of      along
destruction of    design,           Antiquities Laws in   traditional
unique and non-   construction and    the cooperating   transportation
renewable cultural  operation of    countries and poor   routes
heritage sites in   investments;   integration of these
coastal areas with  Limited use of  concerns into the
serious pressure    chance find     planning process
on historic urban    procedures to
areas             address the
discovery of
unknown buried
artifacts during
construction
Special Concerns:
Illegal disposal  Threat to marine    Intentional disposal Lack of control  Southem Gulf  Severe
of harmful    biota and human    of hazardous      mechanisms and      of Aden
substances     health            waste at sea      enforcement
Sedimentation   Depletion of     Overgrazing by    Inadequate          Central and    Low to
from          vegetation cover   livestock,        management of       southem Red   moderate
agriculture and  resulting in    especially sheep    coastal grazing   Sea and Gulf
grazing        mobilization of   and goats         areas; increased,   of Aden
formerly stabilized                 unregulated access
sand sheets and                     to imported feed
dunes; smothering                   supplements; use of
of seagrass and                     tankers for
corals                              supplemental water
supplies
Discharge of   Detection of      Occasional runoff  Lack of control and    Southem Red  Low
pesticides and   pesticides in  from agricultural    management of     Sea
fertilizers   sediments and      areas after       agrochemicals
biota, fish kills,    torrential floods;
eutrophication    dust storms
Coral die-off   Large areas of   Unknown           Unknown, but could   Southern Red  Severe
dead coral reefs,                   be natural and      Sea
decrease in coral-                  related to unusual
associated                          sea temperatures; no
organisms and                       apparent human
fisheries                           cause



Page 83
Threats to Coastal and Marine Environments and Resources
Issue        symptoms I         Immediate         Root Cau8es          Scale       Sevedty
Imacts            Causes
Pollution from   Dedining water  Mangrove          Lack of planning,   Localized      Moderate
shrimp and fish  quality         destruction; use of  regulations and
farming                          chemicals and     enforcement
nutrients
Marine vessel   Localized marne    Direct discharge    Inadequate on-board  Regional  Moderate to
sewage        and beach pollution from ships      treatment, lack of                  severe
port reception
facilities
Ship discharge  Solid waste on   Discharge of solid  Inadequate disposal  Regional    Low to
of solid waste  shoreline,       waste from ships   facilities; excessive             severe
mangroves,                          fees for onshore
seagrass and coral                  disposal; lack of
reefs; aesthetic                    awareness;
impacts on                          inadequate
recreation and                      surveillance and
tourism; risks from                 enforcement
ingestion to marine
animals



Annex 12
REGIONAL PROJECT FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE STRATEGIC
ACTION PROGRAM (SAP) FOR THE RED SEA AND GULF OF ADEN
Transboundary Analysis
Table 1. Transboundary Analysis - Thematic Issues on a Sub-Regional Basis
THEMATIC ISSUES            Gulf of Gulf of North and  South Red  Gulf of Socotra
Suez   Aqaba  Central    Sea & Bab- Aden   Archipelago
Red Sea   al-Mandab
A. Management of Marine         * *            Sea   a*-Mandab
Protected Areas (MPAs)                 l
1. Establish a system of MPAs
2. Strengthen understanding and experience in principles of MPAs
3. Support stakeholder involvement in planning and implementation
4. Facilitate the mobilization of resources from international and domestic sources
B. Sustainable Use of Living  -***
Marine Resources                                  l
1. Avoid and mitigate coastal impacts from current and proposed shrimp and fish farming
2. Improve regional data on transboundary stocks
3. Address regulation of exploitation of high profile species including sharks & lobster)
3. Reduce threats to marine turtles, seabirds and marine mammals
4. Strengthen surveillance and enforcement mechanisms for existing fisheries
5. Support regional cooperation in management of shared stocks
C. Reduction of Navigation    ***         I **
Risks and Marine Pollution I                      I
1. Continuation of PERSGA Navigation Working Group
2. Implementation of International Conventions and adoption of Port State control measures
3. Development of improved traffic separation schemes and other routing systems in coordination
with IMO
i17v3 .m v
4. Development and implementation of Sub-Regional Vessel Traffic Systems for Gulf of Suez, Gulf
of Aqaba and Bab-al-Mandab
5. Establishment of a radio communications network to support Global Maritime Distress and Safety
Systems (GMDSS)
6. Upgrading of existing maritime navigation aids in Main Red Sea, Gulf of Aqaba and Bab-al-
Mandab
=not applicable                                           =important
=requires action                                          =very important
=requires priority action                             *   extremely important



Page 85
Table 1. Transboundary Analysis - Thematic Issues on a Sub-Regional BaFis
THEMATIC ISSUES            Gulf of Gulf of North and  South Red  Gulf of Socotra
Suez   Aqaba  Central    Sea & Bab- Aden   Archipelago
Red Sea   al-Mandab
D. Emergency Management           **                                     * **  *
1. Development and implementation of a Rgional Oil S ill Contincenc Plan
2. Development of a Sub-Regional System for Emergency Mutual Aid Centers
3. Expand system of Sub-Regional Marine Emergency Mutual Aid Centers by establishing the
planned center at Hurghada, in Egypt
4. Strengthen existing Sub-Re ionaMarine Emergenc Aid  nter in Djibouti
E. Environmental Education  **     **
Public Awareness and
Participaton
1. Support for training and public awareness in resource use
2. Increase awareness and prir  within existing government structure
3. Increase expertise within countries for environmental education
4. Increase participation of community groups
I _
5. Increase emphasis on environmental education and awareness in school curriculum
6. Increase financial resources for community qrouDS concerned with the environment
=not applicable                                          =important
=requires action                                         =very important
-requires priority action                         [**  =extremely important



Page 86
Table 2. Transboundary Analysis - Common Concerns on a Sub-Regional Basis
COMMON CONCERNS          Gulf of Gulf of  North and  South Red   Gulf  Socotra
Suez   Aqaba   Central    Sea & Bab-  of    Archipelago
| Red Sea   al-Mandab   Aden
A. Habitat Destruction   *       *
1. Coastal development
2. Beach mining and quarrying
3. Mangrove destruction
4. Destruction of seagrass beds and other sub-tidal habitats
5. Physical damage to coral reefs
_4                                     _
6. Damage to coral reefs by visitors
B. Living Marine Resources ***      =                *            *    | **
1. Current and potential overfishing of finfish for local and export markets
2. Capture of sharks for shark fin market, frequently in areas beond territorial waters
3. Current and potential overfishing of shrimp and lobster for export markets
4. Current and potential overfishing of sea cucumber for export markets
5. Turtle capture and egg collection by local fishermen and communities' sale of shells to tourists
and for export
6. Collection of corals and mollusks for souvenir trade
7. Ornamental fish collection for export
8. Conservation of marine mammals (especiallX dugong_
9. Spearfishing
10. Shrimp and fish farming
C. Navigation Risks                      l *         *        =
1. Review current navigation charts, conduct hydrographic re-surveys and prepare updated charts
in vicinity of major ports
2. Expanded use of emergency anchors
3. Expanded use of harbor tugs
4::       i       '                  |.._  'j
=not applicable                                          =important
=requires action                   **                     =very important
=requires priority action                           ***  =extremely important



Page 87
Table 2. Transboundary Analysis - Common Concerns on a Sub-Regional Basis
COMMON CONCERNS           Gulf of Gulf of  North and  South Red   Gulf  Socotra
Suez   Aqaba   Central    Sea & Bab-  of    Archipelago
Red Sea    al-Mandab   Aden
D. Emergency              **      **       **          **
Management                                                      .
1. Update or prepare National and Lcal Oil Spill Contingency Plans
E. Oil and Gas                ***          **                              n.a.
Development           I_I              I
1. Use of environmental management practices in oil and gas development, including major
pipelines and marine terminals
F. Industrial Activities  ***              **          **           *      n.a
1. Surface and groundwater use
2. Industrial Pollution
G. Urban and Tourism     .                 * _ _                           *
Development
1. Surface and groundwater use
2. Disposal of solid waste
3. Tourism Development
H. Special Concerns       * i                    **    *            ***    *
1. Illegal disposal of harmful substances
2. Sedimentation from agriculture and grazing
I  _    I        T:   -     0:  I         I 0-      1
3. Discharge of pesticides and fertilizers
r I               I                 7-  I 
F7  ==not applicable                                               =important
=requires action                                    |       very important
=requires priority action                                  =extremely important



JustificatiowRationalefor Environmental Category: (reasons for environmental category selected & explanation of any changes from initial
classification)
The proposed Project has been placed in environmental assessment screening category "C" consistent with the
provisions of Operational Directive 4.01, "Environmental Assessment." Activities for reduction of marine
navigation risks, oil spill management and ICZM are focused on planning, management and training activities
that will not have an adverse environmental impact. Project-supported studies for installation of a regional
Vessel Traffic System and model ICZM studies will include preparation of environmental reviews to support
integration of these concerns into their design. Implementation of the model ICZM plans would not involve
construction activities.
Status of Category A Environmental Assessment: (presents EA start-up date, EA first draft, and current status)
Not applicable.
Remarks: (gives status of any other environmental studies, lists local groups and local NGOs consulted, tells whether borrower has given permission to release
EA, etc.)
Preparation of the SAP was supported by a consultation process that included input from a range of stakeholders
including nongovernmental organizations at the regional and national level. Development of the navigation risk
and maritime pollution component included two regional workshops held in Egypt and Yemen. The SAP is a
public document available from PERSGA and the World Bank. ICZM activities under the project would include
support for the use of participatory approaches in the development and implementation of plans.
Signed by:                                                           Signed by:
Doris Koehn, Director, MNSRE                                         Stephen F. Lintner, Task Team Leader, ENV
date: November 16, 1998                                              date: November 4, 1998
Cleared by:
A    pSA. S &aw.                                    
Marjory-Anne Bromnhead, Acting Environmental Coordinator,
MNSRE
date: November 5,1998



Annex 13
REGIONAL PROJECT FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE STRATEGIC
ACTION PROGRAM (SAP) FOR THE RED SEA AND GULF OF ADEN
Environmental Data Sheet
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA SHEET FOR PROJECTS
in the IBRD/IDA Lending Program
Country:     Djibouti, Egypt, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, Northern  Project ID No:    GE-63717
Somali Coast, Sudan, Yemen                    Project Cost:    US$ 5.610 million
Project Name:  Implementation of the Strategic Action Program for the   Task Managers:   Stephen F. Lintner, ENV
Red Sea and Gulf of Aden                       Sector:         Environment
Appraisal Date:         November 1998                       Status:          Appraisal
Board Date:             December 1998
Managing Divisions:     MNSRE/AFTAE                         Date Assigned:   October 30, 1998
Lending Instruments:    GEF Grant
Date (est) for receipt of EA by Bank:  N/A
EA Category (A/B/C):    C
Date Sheet Prepared/Updated  October 30, 1998
(Please do not leave any items blank: use "N/A" or "To be developed" wheii appropriate)
Major Project Components: (presents description of project components)
The proposed project will provide Global Environment Facility (GEF) support for implementation of the
Strategic Action Program (SAP) for the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden. The objective of the project is to support the
cooperating countries in undertaking a series of complementary measures to support the conservation and
management of coastal and marine environments in the Region. The project will be executed by the Regional
Organization for the Conservation of the Environment of the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden (PERSGA) with the
support of the three GEF Partners - UNDP, UNEP and World Bank.
The GEF Project includes the following components: (a) institutional strengthening to facilitate regional
cooperation - UNEP; (b) Reduction of navigation risks and maritime pollution - WB; (c) sustainable use and
management of living marine resources - UNDP; (d) Development of a regional network of marine protected
areas (MPAs) - UNDP; (e) support for integrated coastal zone management (ICZM) - WB; (f) enhancement of
public awareness and participation - L-NDP; (g) monitoring and evaluation of program impacts; and UNDP and;
(h) support for project management team -UNDP.
The World Bank will serve as the implementing agency for two components focused on preventive
measures to avoid or reduce potential adverse environmental impacts:
(a) Reduction of Navigation Risks and Maritime Pollution. Under this component measures would be taken to:
(i) implement maritime conventions and port state control; (ii) establish improved traffic separation
schemes; (iii) update hydrographic surveys; (iii) improve vessel traffic systems; (iv) and prepare a regional
oil spill contingency strategy.
(b) Support for ICZM. This will support activities including: (i) establishment of a regional ICZM network;
(ii) expanded use of geographic information systems in ICZM; (iii) development of model ICZM plans;
and (iv) institutional development activities in Djibouti, northern coast of Somalia, Sudan and Yemen.
Major Environmental Issues: (describes major environmental issues identified or suspected in project)
None
Other Environmnental Issues: (describes environmental issues of lesser scope associated with project)
None
Proposed Actions: (describes actions proposed to mitigate envii-onmnental issues described in project)
None



RED SEA & GULF OF ADEN
Regm oral Organisar in tar Conser atiaii  Slobal Envi.n-1 Far ib         b0-d Nai- D-t1P-l                 Un ted Wm      e                 The ftdd B.nk
PO H, 1358 Aeddth 21431                 W 9eDC23P0B05                                                                                       Washintat,, DO 20433
W    Tel !Fan: 966-2-651 -4472  f     iilE F4t: 1-202-477-33 e1-2 33SO t:Z4-22EB3Ft: 0-T-3
SM A,~~~~~be  Tii 1 -202-477-1 234   'Ul                               Ti,,,bj Ki,,y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O: 102-77-A 4
hep://ty worldbant orgBlip]S  andn ar Tat fep l10W une                                     ennhp:' nnon,deenebana 9
\  1   |    |  |    |      |          ~~~CRITICAL MARINE HABITATS:                       *0/  DECLARED MARINE PROTECTED AREAS (MPAs)
F  M8j tSeeaa ea^)                    , d S  ~~ MANGROVES                                                       TOUJRISM AREAS
SEA GRASS BEDS                                        INDUSTRAL ARE A S
\~~~~~~~~I'0                                                                                          20            400            50   7 5 >g E
-'<1a|3n                  ----  IMPORTANT BIRD AREAS                                               lilt F 2i e2te96  20
hioSSqll' - - k                                                          ph     -   g
M    diterra iea                                         CO~~~~~~~~~~~~Ths  ReAiffr RtEEF ordsfntoaialofnitateaedea winPSEawaihi naARaNE  eRsTECTED es. S(MA
ne                                               a                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SAG ASSr BES4-IDSTIL]RA
r  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MS RDCIV IHN RUD   ;, IHPOETA O AIAINlAAD
V~~~~~~~~LWY O AO IDMGAIN
~~rs  a        ARAS tO UPWELLING'
irI#R4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                           0             0              o
AW   TURTLE NESTING SITES~~~
Kl-t- ~ ~ ~~~~N
IMPORTANT BIRD AREAS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n
Th bolgca1,pylalad   Itald-Styfth RdSe IldC I .'Ad     , h-f hi  gin   -e, -     0
Thi~ --if   the -Id  fi.,,t  ,, mi-t,-  -Odl-,,th o,-It,,f -t-l........
F(-  ,j,,,~bimttyp~. .... inth, ed SO  -d  .IfwA- Re., T- O,e,id   ,t~,l... on-,



