                                  Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                                Report No: 34859

                     IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                   (TF-21707)

                                      ON A

         GRANT FROM THE GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND

        IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4 MILLION (US$ 5.61 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                  TO DJIBOUTI, EGYPT, JORDAN, SAUDI ARABIA 1/,
                  NORTHERN SOMALI COAST, SUDAN AND YEMEN

                          RED SEA AND GULF OF ADEN

  FOR REGIONAL PROJECT FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE STRATEGIC ACTION
               PROGRAM (SAP) FOR THE RED SEA AND GULF OF ADEN

                          WORLD BANK COMPONENTS:

           ·COMPONENT 2: REDUCTION OF NAVIGATION RISKS AND
                             MARITIME POLLUTION

         · COMPONENT 6: SUPPORT FOR INTEGRATED COASTAL ZONE
                             MANAGEMENT (ICZM)




                                December 29, 2005




1/Non-GEF Resources

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                           (Exchange Rate Effective )

                           Currency Unit = US$

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1 - December 31

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIS        Automatic Identification System
CEDARE     Center for Environment and Development for the Arab Region and Europe
CTA        Chief Technical Advisor
DNV        Det Norske Veritas
EU         European Union
FAO        Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
GEF        Global Environment Facility
GIS        Geographic Information System
GMDSS      Global Maritime Distress and Safety System
GPS        Global Positioning System
GRT        Gross Registered Tonnage
IALA       International Association of Lighthouse Authorities
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
ICRI       International Coral Reef Initiative
ICZM       Integrated Coastal Zone Management
ICZM WG    ICZM Working Group
IDA        International Development Association
IFAD       International Fund for Agricultural Development
IIMS       Integrated Information Management System
ILO        International Labor Organization
IMO        International Maritime Organization of the United Nations
IOMoU      Memorandum of Understanding on Port State Control in the Indian Ocean
IsDB       Islamic Development Bank
IUCN       World Conservation Union (formerly International Union for the Conservation of
           Nature)
QAG        Quality Assurance Group
LACI       Loan Administration Change Initiative
LS         Lead Specialist
MAA        Maritime Affairs Authority (Yemen)
MARPOL     International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships
MEMAC      Marine Emergency Mutual Aid Center
MoU        Memorandum of Understanding
MPA        Marine Protected Area
NGO        Non-governmental Organization
nm         Nautical mile (1 international nautical mile = 1.852 km = 1,508 miles)
NEAP       National Environmental Action Plan
NOAA       National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration (United States of America)

NPC        National Program Coordinator
NWG        Navigation Working Group
PFS        Procurement and Finance Specialist
PC         Program Coordinator
PCU        Program Coordination Unit

PDF            Project Development Facility
PEMSEA         Partnership for Environmental Monitoring in the Southern Asian Seas
PERSGA         Regional Organization for the Conservation of the Environment of the Red Sea and Gulf
               of Aden
PMT            Project Management Team
PSC            Port State Control
SAP            Strategic Action Program for the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden
ROPME          Regional Organization for the Protection of the Marine Environment (Kuwait Action
               Plan)
SDR            Special Drawing Rights
SocMon         Global Socioeconomic Monitoring Initiative for Coastal Management
SOLAS          Safety of Life at Sea Convention
TBD            To Be Determined
TF             Task Force
TSS            Traffic Separation Schemes
UKHO           United Kingdom Hydrographic Office
UNDP           United Nations Development Programme
UNDP-PC        UNDP Program Coordinator
UNEP           United Nations Environment Programme
VHF            Very High Frequency
VTS            Vessel Traffic System
WB             World Bank
WG             Working Group


                             Vice President:      Christiaan J. Poortman
                             Sector Director      Inger Andersen
                            Sector Manager        Vijay Jagannathan
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          John B. Collier

                              RED SEA AND GULF OF ADEN
                                   REG'L RED SEA SAP


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data
2. Principal Performance Ratings
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
6. Sustainability
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
8. Lessons Learned
9. Partner Comments
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project ID: P063717                                                  Project Name: REG'L RED SEA SAP
Team Leader: John Bryant Collier                                     TL Unit: MNSRE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 30, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: REG'L RED SEA SAP                                        L/C/TF Number: TF-21707
   Country/Department: RED SEA AND GULF OF ADEN                                           Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (61%); Ports, waterways and shipping (39%)
                  Theme: Pollution management and environmental health (P); Water resource management (P);
                            Environmental policies and institutions (P); Participation and civic engagement (S);
                            Biodiversity (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 10/15/1997                                     Effective: 04/01/1999                09/21/1999
     Appraisal: 12/12/1998                                         MTR:                             07/03/2002
      Approval: 02/23/1999                                      Closing: 03/21/2003                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          DJIBOUTI, EGYPT,JORDAN, NORTHERN SOMALI
                                           COAST,SUDAN,YEMEN/PERSGA- REGIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR
                                           CONSERVATION OF THE ENVIRIONMENT OF THE RED SEA AND GULF
                                           OF ADEN
                      Other Partners:      United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and United Nations
                                           Environment Programme (UNEP)

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Kemal Dervis
Country Manager/Director: Inger Andersen                                       Inder K. Sud
Sector Manager:                 Vijay Jagannathan                              Doris Koehn
Team Leader at ICR:             John Bryant Collier                            Stephen F. Lintner
ICR Primary Author:             Francis Staub; Anthony J.
                                Hooten; Ai Chin Wee; John
                                Bryant Collier


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

The rating for borrower Performance refers to PERSGA and not the individual member countries.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Project Development Objective (PDO) is "to improve coastal and marine environments of the Red Sea
and Gulf of Aden through a range of activities under the SAP (Strategic Action Plan), of which
Components 2 and 6 would be carried out under the GEF/Bank administered Project", as follows:

                  SAP Components and lead GEF Implementing Agency Responsibility
Component                                      Description                             GEF Implementing
                                                                                            Agency
      1       Institutional strengthening to facilitate regional cooperation                 UNEP
      2       Reduction of navigation risks and maritime pollution                        World Bank
      3       Habitat and biodiversity conservation                                          UNDP
      4       Sustainable use and management of living marine resources                      UNDP
      5       Development of a Regional Network of Marine Protected Areas (MPAs)             UNDP
      6       Support for Integrated Coastal Zone Management (ICZM)                       World Bank
      7       Enhancement of public awareness and participation                              UNDP
      8       Monitoring and evaluation of program impacts ­ and support for Project         UNDP
              Management Team costs


This ICR focuses on the delivery of Components 2 and 6 for which the Bank served as the GEF
Implementing Agency,, within the overall framework of the Project.

The PDO is clear, realistic and tremendously important for the region in view of the strategic geographic
location and vulnerable environmental and resource situation. The Red Sea and Gulf of Aden contains
some of the world's most important coastal and marine environments and resources, complex ecosystems
and high biological diversity. A major maritime route that supports 7% of global trade, it is increasingly
threatened by major navigation risks requiring close management and control and marine pollution, notably
from transport of petroleum products. Environmental degradation from rapid coastal zone tourism and
other development and over-fishing of shared fish stocks have led to habitat destruction leading to loss of
important species and threat to sustainability. The PDO is consistent with the Bank and GEF's
development strategy in this region which aims to put in place a multi-national policy and institutional
arrangements and technical support to help its operation through SAP and its Components.

3.2 Revised Objective:
There was no revision of the original objective.

3.3 Original Components:
Component 2: Reduction of navigation risks and maritime pollution (US$3.5 million at appraisal)

This Component aimed to reduce the risk of maritime accidents and resulting marine pollution in the region
through (a) the implementation of conventions and port state control; (b) introduction of new traffic
separation schemes; (c) conduct of a hydrographic survey and installation of a new navigation aid
(lighthouse); (d) conduct of a regional assessment and training on vessel traffic systems; and (e) support for
the preparation and adoption of a regional oil spill prevention and management strategy.

Component 6: Support for Integrated Coastal Zone Management (ICZM) (US$2.11 million at appraisal)

This Component aimed to introduce ICZM as a management tool for participating countries through (a)


                                                           - 2 -

regional networking and training on ICZM; (b) support for regional and national Geographical Information
Systems (GIS), including the development of a GIS database on coastal environment; (c) preparation of
model ICZM plans in the four southern countries (Djibouti, Northern Coast of Somalia, Sudan, and
Yemen); and (d) implementation of ICZM activities in the four southern countries.
3.4 Revised Components:
The Components were not revised although some output indicators (see Annex 1) were amended after the
mid-term evaluation ­ for instance, for Component 6, ICZM activities had to be omitted for Somalia due to
political instability; however, specialists from the northern coast of Somalia participated in all regional
activities.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The ICR team concurs with the Quality Assurance Group (QAG)'s November 1999 assessment (albeit of
the entire SAP) that quality at entry was Satisfactory.        The SAP was prepared by the Regional
Organization for the Protection of the Environment of the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden (PERSGA), which is
also the Secretariat of the 1992 Jeddah Convention on the conservation of the marine environment and
coastal areas in the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden. PERSGA was responsive to the circumstances and the best
placed to identify the urgent development needs, priorities and activities to be carried out through regional
cooperation among its members. PERSGA's evaluation and analysis of the institutional and environmental
issues was done in a competent and professional manner. The two Components supported by the GEF
through Bank implementation were carefully appraised and designed for implementation within the
multi-country institutional framework.       Throughout its design and execution, the Project was an
outstanding example of Bank-UNDP cooperation.

At appraisal, the following Risks were correctly assessed:

·        The anticipated non-GEF financing did not materialize, preventing full delivery of some of the
UNDP-GEF components. However, PERSGA was able to mobilize additional in kind funding from the
International Maritime Organization (IMO) ­ see section 4.2 below.
·        Some PERSGA countries remain unwilling to allow GIS data to be made publicly available via the
web although they are now willing share the information among the PERSGA member countries through a
password controlled link on the PERSGA website.

What was not (and could not be) anticipated was the heightened security concerns caused by terrorist
attacks in several cooperating countries including actions against ships, insecurity in the aftermath of
September 11, 2001, "Operation Desert Fox" and the subsequent Iraq war and continued political
instability in Somalia.    These factors considerably hampered travel within the Region and caused
considerable delays in implementation.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Achievement of the Project objectives is rated: Satisfactory. Despite the clearly complex and risky nature
of such a multi-country operation, the Project made significant headway towards achieving its objectives in
terms of helping to put in place two major Components of the SAP program. Achievement of the Project
(Components 2 and 6) objectives is measured by (a) reduction in shipping accidents and oil spills; and (b)
adoption by selected local communities of integrated coastal zone management plans prepared under the
Project. The first of the two listed indicators is difficult to measure, as it needs to be measured by
examination of the reduction of risk and there were no major marine accidents or oil spills in the years
immediately leading up to the Project. The second indicator is measurable under the Project and was, in



                                                    - 3 -

fact, successfully achieved in Yemen, Sudan and Djibouti.

Although it is difficult to measure the impact of the Project's contribution tot SAP's broad global
objectives in the space of five years, the Project has contributed considerably to reducing the risk of
contamination of international waters from maritime shipping and marine accidents (Component 2) and
improving the environmental integrity of the coastal and marine ecosystems of the Red Sea and Gulf of
Aden (Component 6). Major achievements include the following:

(a)         The establishment of new Traffic Separation Schemes (TSS) is a major achievement, particularly
as they cover restricted shipping lanes north of Baab al Mandaab where 85 million tons of oil transit
annually. The new TSS will help reduce the risk of maritime accidents resulting either from vessel
collisions, "near misses", or vessel groundings. The TSS is already being used by mariners, as observed by
during a supervision mission visiting Hanish al Kobrah in the spring of 2005.

(b)         The Project has increased awareness of the importance of maritime conventions, as evidenced the
subsequent ratification of another 32 International Maritime Organization (IMO) Conventions, a 34%
increase across the Region, as follows:


            Regional State           IMO Conventions Ratified in             IMO Conventions Ratified in                  Percent Change
                                                   1999                             November 2005
Djibouti                                             08                                    10                                     25
Egypt                                                32                                    33                                      3
Jordan                                               07                                    18                                    157
Saudi Arabia                                         18                                    25                                     39
Somalia                                              02                                    02                                      0
Sudan                                                04                                    09                                    125
Yemen                                                17                                    19                                     12
(Eritrea)*                                           06                                    10                                     67
Total                                                94                                    126                                    34
*Eritrea is not currently a PERSGA member state, but participated as an observer in most regional activities undertaken by the project.


In addition, the MARPOL 73/78 Convention (the main international convention covering prevention of
pollution of the marine environment by ships) is expected to be ratified soon by Saudi Arabia, Yemen and
Jordan, which will allow them to move forward in ratifying other key conventions related to
pollution.

(c)         PERSGA, in collaboration with the Regional Organization for the Protection of the Marine
Environment (ROPME) in the Arabian Gulf region, has developed two additional protocols to the Jeddah
Convention relating to (i) marine protected areas and biological diversity conservation in the Red Sea and
Gulf of Aden, and (ii) the protection of the marine environment from land-based sources of pollution.
These protocols are yet to be adopted.

(d)         The region's ports and shipping are safer, due to emphasis on Port State Control actions ­ for
example, in Jordan,, 299 ships were inspected and 17 placed in detention in 2004 ­ while in 1999, only 52 were
inspected. Additionally, 37% of ships calling at Egyptian ports are inspected and 15% of ships
calling at Sudanese and Yemeni ports are inspected.

(e)         The model Integrated Coastal Zone Management activities in Djibouti, Sudan and
Yemen provides recommendations for improved use of the coastal and marine resources
along the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden Coast. Decision makers now have new tools for



                                                                       - 4 -

preventing or reducing unnecessary adverse impacts from development activities.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 2: Reduction of navigation risks and maritime pollution (Rating: Satisfactory)

Outputs of this Component are rated Satisfactory because of the significant reductions of risk to marine
navigation accomplished, particularly through the introduction of the new TSS. Despite the Unsatisfactory
rating for Element E (Support for the preparation and adoption of the regional oil spill contingency
strategy) because the final plan is not yet adopted, there have been important achievements for the overall
Component in terms of the Project's contribution to having moved the agenda significantly forward during
the life of the Project. Project resources have also been supplemented by significant in-kind co-financing
that PERSGA raised from the International Maritime Organization (IMO) of the United Nations to support
the delivery of several activities of this Component.

The Navigation Working Group's (NWG) work formed the basis for the success of Component 2 - it
provided a forum for national delegates to meet, discuss, refine and agree on the actions to be taken to
increase marine safety, both in national and international waters. The NWG met during the course of
project preparation seven times over the course of the Project and remains active even after the Project
period; it recently participated in an IMO-sponsored training at PERSGA in November 2005.           At the
national level, NWG members lead efforts for increased Port State Control and build awareness for the
need to ratify IMO Conventions. Moreover, NWG members assisted PERSGA in raising significant
amounts of in kind co-financing from the IMO for the delivery of several activities.

Element A - Implementation of Conventions and Port State Control (Rating: Satisfactory)

Under this sub-Component, PERSGA raised awareness among its members on the importance of ratifying
and implementing IMO Conventions through the Navigation Working Group, PERSGA Task Force, and
PERSGA Council. At least partially because of PERSGA's efforts, a further 32 IMO Conventions have
been ratified, a 34% increase across the Region (see paragraph 4.1 (a) above). Additionally, inspectors,
port officers, and NWG members were trained on international standards in Port State Control.

Port State Control, established by IMO, authorizes Ports to inspect national and foreign ships to ensure
that they meet required safety, construction, equipment and manning standards and to detain violators. As
a result of the greater awareness of Port State Control brought about by PERSGA, the number of ship
inspections in the region is increasing.

The NWG has recommended that all PERSGA member states join the Indian Ocean Memorandum of
Understanding (M0U) on Port State Control, as it allows for a broader exchange of data because of its
large membership; however, this has not yet been fully accomplished due to the existence of various
precursor MoUs. Sudan and Yemen are members of the Indian Ocean MoU and Djibouti has expressed
interest in joining them. Egypt and Jordan are members of the Mediterranean MoU, and Saudi Arabia is a
member of the Arabian Gulf MoU.

Since Project start-up, international demands for better maritime security after the USS Cole and
Limberg terrorist incidents, as well as the events of September 11, 2001, had a major impact on ports,
particularly their regulations and entry requirements via the IMO International Ship and Port Security
(ISPS) Code. All major ports in the region now comply with this Code, which was translated into Arabic
by IMO for regional use.




                                                     - 5 -

Element B - Traffic Separation Schemes (Rating: Highly Satisfactory) and
Element C - Hydrographic Surveys and Navigation Aids (Rating: Highly Satisfactory)

Since elements B and C are interlinked, the reports are combined below.

Establishment by International Maritime Organization (IMO) of two new Traffic Separation Schemes;
and printing of updated charts ­With the congestion and heavy maritime traffic in the Red Sea and Gulf of
Aden, it is estimated that some 500,000 potential `end on' situations are likely each year. The Traffic
Separation Schemes introduced by IMO for use in international shipping can only be established following
rigorous hydrographic surveys, which have been completed (see paragraph below). With these and the use
of modern satellite-based navigation aids, ships would be able to navigate accurately and safely. New
routing measures were submitted to IMO in July 2002 by Yemen (with support from Djibouti and Eritrea)
and adopted by the IMO Maritime Safety Committee in December 2002. Seven charts, showing the new
routing measures, were published by United Kingdom Hydrographic Office (UKHO), which maintains the
charts for the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden under international agreements, in early 2003 and came into force
for use by international shipping on 01 July 2003. The IMO Routing Measures book and the Annual
Notice to Mariners 2004 now describe these new routes, which are mandatory for all ships transiting the
southern Red Sea.

Hydrographic Surveys - - Hydrographic surveys in many parts of the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden dated
from the 1800's and details of coastlines, positions and water depths were found to be significantly in error
when re-checked under the Project using modern equipment. Hydrographic survey, done in collaboration
with UKHO in two priority areas, enabled the establishment of new routes at the ship traffic `choke point'
in the shallow waters of the southern Red Sea around the Hanish Islands; these charts have been made
available to and used by mariners since 2002. Additionally, the survey found and precisely measured the
Avocet Rock, just north of the new TSS, making it possible to accurately chart this previously uncharted
hazard. PERSGA's work has been complimented at international conferences and by the International
Hydrographic Organization at their web site (http://www.iho.shom.fr/).           These achievements are an
example of cooperation between the World Bank, PERSGA and UKHO that has benefited the international
community.

Installation of one navigational aid - Navigational aids - A survey of the existing navigation aids in the
Hanish Islands showed that three of the four lights were not working. A new state-of-the-art lighthouse was
built in 2004, fitted with a main and stand-by lights and, more importantly, a state of the art Automatic
Identification Transponder that transmits the position of the lighthouse over a range of some 50-60 miles in
any condition of visibility. It is solar powered and linked by VHF to a computer-based monitoring system
at Mokha and by land line to the Yemen's Maritime Affairs Authority (MAA) office in Hodeidah.

Element D - Vessel Traffic Systems (Rating: Satisfactory)

Regional Training on the operation of Vessel Traffic Systems (VTS) as well as Automatic Identification
Systems (AIS) ­ A regional training on the use of VTS and AIS for marine traffic control was conducted in
Egypt in October 2003. At Project launch, an automated VTS was the standard approach for monitoring
traffic in shipping lanes; however, the introduction of AIS technology on ships since 1999 (mandatory as of
2004), rendered much of the VTS technology planned at Project launch obsolete. Therefore, at Project
mid-term, the Component output was modified to conduct training on VTS and AIS.             The training is



                                                     - 6 -

beneficial to maritime authorities in the region because a new VTS is being planned in the Port of Aden,
which will join the ranks of VTS being set up in many parts of the world, including those by Egypt in the
Gulf of Suez. Along the Yemeni mainland coast, radar stations and AIS receivers are being established by
the new coastguard service to monitor shipping. AIS is often combined with radar systems and their
targets often merged to allow radar targets to be easily identified.

Element E - Oil Spill Prevention and Management (rating: unsatisfactory)

It is critically important to have a regional contingency plan for dealing with oil pollution incidents in the
event of accidents involving tankers. Fortunately, so far, this Region has escaped the effects of a major oil,
or chemical, pollution incident.    Unfortunately, due to the high volume of shipping, the probability that
such an incident will take place one day in the region remains high.

Preparation and adoption of Regional Oil Spill Contingency Plan - PERSGA Council of Ministers
approved a "Draft Action Plan for the Development of National Systems and Regional Mechanism for
Preparedness and Response to Major Marine Oil Spills in the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden" in 2003 and four
workshops on contingency planning were held during the course of the Project. However, significant work
remains before a regional oil spill contingency plan is finalized and adopted by the member countries.
PERSGA will continue to work with its member countries to harmonize oil spill contingency plans and will
use the MEMAC center as a focus for those efforts.

Establishment of a regional Marine Emergency Mutual Aid Centre (MEMAC) to be supervised by
PERSGA ­ The Government of Egypt has provided PERSGA with premises for its location at Hurgadah.
Two senior staff members (one from Egypt and one from Yemen) have been appointed. The operation of
the regional MEMAC is a priority under PERSGA's upcoming Five Year Action Plan (2006-2010).

Transfer of Djibouti MEMAC Stockpile (Stockpile in this context refers to the storage of oil spill
combating material such as floating booms and oil dispersant chemicals). to PERSGA Supervision - The
Project had provided that the equipment from the Djibouti MEMAC should be transferred to PERSGA.
PERSGA is still discussing the advantages, if any, of taking over this equipment as much of the equipment
is outdated. In retrospect, the issue of whether a regional secretariat is the appropriate body for managing
a locally-based stockpile of equipment should have been given more careful consideration before making it
an objective of the Component.

Component 6: Support for Integrated Coastal Zone Management (ICZM) (Rating: Satisfactory)

Work on this Component only began in 2001 with the unexpected resignation of the first ICZM Lead
Specialist in 2000 and after his replacements were identified. The outputs are described below:

Element A - Regional Networking and Training (Rating: Satisfactory)

Establishment of a Regional ICZM working Group ­ Through a series of meetings and training activities,
PERSGA successfully established a core network of ICZM specialists in the form of an ICZM Working
Group (ICZM WG). Over the course of implementation, the membership of the ICZM WG expanded from
government representatives to include other national experts as well as representatives of NGOs and local
communities. The working group met five times during the Project and remains active, with their last
meeting in December 2005 in Jeddah.

Regional ICZM Training - Three training courses were held for the ICZM WG, whose members also


                                                     - 7 -

attended several ICZM-related events to present their work and share experiences; the February 2005 Sea
to Sea conference in Cairo was an excellent example of their participation.

ICZM Study Tour - Members of the WG participated in a study tour organized by the Partnerships for
Environmental Management in the Seas of East Asia (PEMSEA). The group visited the Philippines and
China in April 2005 to share lessons learned by the two Projects on ICZM. Since this study tour, experts
from PERSGA and PEMSEA are frequently in contact and continue to exchange information and
knowledge on ICZM issues facing the two regions.

Development of a "regional shared vision and confidence program"- The program envisages a
forward-looking approach to stakeholder involvement in PERSGA and ensuring long-term relevance of the
PERSGA Mission for its member countries. A concept paper was prepared and disseminated to all WG
and PERSGA Task Force Members as well as key focal points in member countries. The concept paper
served as the background paper for a regional retreat conducted in May 2005 for decision makers from
each of the PERSGA Countries. Two reports were produced and electronically disseminated following the
retreat: the Retreat's Word-to-Word Report and the Workshop Report (which includes the main outcomes
of the Retreat).

Element B - Geographic Information Systems (Rating: Unsatisfactory)

GIS System for PERSGA Region ­ PERSGA established a regional GIS database at its headquarters and
upgraded it into a web-based Integrated Information Management System (IIMS), which includes data
from all SAP Project Components and surveys as well as an on-line-library and a photographic library. A
GIS station containing national data was also installed at the Ministry of Environment in Djibouti.
However, the system is not fully complete with respect to content. Other limitations include the fact that
internet access is needed to use the system (a limiting factor for some collaborating countries) and made
available to registered users, due to concerns about potentially nationally sensitive data.

Establishment of a GIS Working Group ­ the Regional GIS WG was established to assist PERSGA in
prioritizing data and liaise with member governments on the GIS system. Two training workshops at the
Center for Environment and Development for the Arab Region and Europe (CEDARE) were conducted.

Element C - Model ICZM Plans (Rating: Highly Satisfactory) and
Element D - ICZM Activities in the Four Southern Countries (Rating: Unsatisfactory)

Since the activities under element C and D are closely related, the outputs are reported together, by
country.

The outputs defined were (a) develop model ICZM Plans, (b) establishment of national ICZM Working
Groups in Djibouti, Sudan, and Yemen, (c) conduct training, based on ICZM Model Plans and activities in
Djibouti, Sudan and Yemen, and (d) launch implementation of ICZM Model activities in Djibouti, Sudan
and Yemen. The outputs were revised as a result of changes adopted following the MTR.

Overall, ICZM Plans that provided recommendations for optimal use of the coastal and marine resources
were finalized and ready for implementation at the Project's close. However, while the hard work of the
PERSGA Team produced well prepared, locally owned ICZM plans the delay in the Component's start-up
prevented the launch of the implementation activities, except in Yemen where some have been initiated.

An important feature of the ICZM planning processes supported by the Project was the effective


                                                     - 8 -

engagement of sub-national and municipal government organizations, academic organizations, community
based organizations and nongovernmental organizations in these activities. This is a particularly significant
achievement in the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden given the traditional of highly centralized planning processes
with no or very limited participation of governmental or public stakeholders.

Yemen ­ The national ICZM team was established and trained. The Aden governorate was chosen for the
Model ICZM activity and the Coastal Profile for Aden was prepared and published in Arabic and used as a
basis for developing the ICZM Plan. Developing the plan involved several public participation and
consultation workshops with stakeholders. It took two years before the Plan was adopted by a cabinet
decree in May 2005. Although this delay meant that the Plan could not be implemented during the Project
period, several "pre-implementation" activities have taken place as follows: An implementation manual was
developed; an ICZM public information center was established in Aden to inform stakeholders about the
plan; three ICZM coordination units funded by the SAP Project were created; five public awareness
seminars on the ICZM Aden Plan for decision makers were held; and a land use map was formally adopted
­ this map was used as a key input document for the Master Plan for Aden prepared under the International
Development Association (IDA)-financed Port Cities Development Program.

Sudan ­ It was decided to implement the ICZM activities along the entire Sudanese coast. A national
ICZM team was established and trained. The ICZM team prepared and published a coastal profile for
Sudan in Arabic and conducted several public participation and consultation workshops at the local and
national level. Though initiated in early 2004, the formal adoption process of the ICZM plan by cabinet
has not been finalized; hence implementation could not take place under the Project. As in Yemen, several
"capacity building actions" to lay the groundwork for its future implementation have been undertaken,
including the establishment of an information center, training local stakeholders in Conflict Resolution and
Negotiation skills in Coastal Management and training on communication skills for stakeholders. A
Socioeconomic Baseline Assessment Study for pilot areas in Port Sudan was conducted in partnership with
the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) of the United States under the
Global Socioeconomic Monitoring Initiative for Coastal Management (SocMon) in order to give local
decision makers more complete information for making development planning decisions.

Djibouti ­ A national ICZM team was established and trained in ICZM tools and techniques, both through
training sessions and on-the-job. The coastal profile of Djibouti was published in French. The preparation
of the plan had included several public participation and consultation workshops at the local and national
level. In April 2005, the national ICZM plan was approved by the Council of Ministers and is in the
process of being adopted by Parliament. Due to its late adoption, the plan could not be implemented during
the Project period, although public awareness and media campaigns have familiarized all stakeholders with
the plan, in readiness for its implementation.

Northern Coast of Somalia ­ Though an ICZM plan and model activity program was to have been
undertaken, it was clear by mid-term review that political unrest had made implementation of this program
untenable. However, Somali representatives attended all training sessions except in situations where visas
were declined. An attempt to work with the newly-appointed National Government as well as the local
governments in Puntland and Northwest Somalia to develop a special ICZM activity in February 2005 was
again suspended due to political unrest and insecurity.

Regional and Sub-Regional ICZM activities accomplished under the ICZM Component:

·       Northern Countries: Egypt, Jordan, and Saudi Arabia ­ Working groups set up in each of these



                                                    - 9 -

countries prepared a Country Report on their ICZM experience and recommendations to make ICZM more
effective, nationally and for the Region. The Country Reports made important recommendations and were
presented to the Regional Seminar on Integrated Coastal Zone Management and Planning held in Jordan, in
December 2003.
·       Study on Public Participation and ICZM ­ This study investigated the effectiveness of the ICZM
plans in promoting good governance and public participation and made recommendations for a best
practice model for public participation in ICZM for the region. The study helped introduce the concept of
public decision making and stakeholder participation to local decision makers in the PERSGA Countries.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
(Rating: Modest)

The Project has enabled PERSGA to advance considerably as a regional coordinating body for the
development of an improved perception of coastal and marine resources in the region. The institutional
development impact has also extended beyond PERSGA to the national and local agencies and stakeholders
involved in the Project's various activities. Among its achievements, PERSGA has:

·       Strengthened the management structure and skills of PERSGA thereby moving the organization
from a coastal and marine "science focus" to a "management focus".
·       Created regional networks of professionals including those for Navigation and Integrated Coastal
Zone Management.
·       Initiated the establishment of an Integrated Information Management System for all data collected
under the SAP. Though currently hosted by PERSGA, the system can be expanded to serve all member
countries and the MEMAC, although this would still require considerable development and future support
for completion.
·       Adopted an automated financial management system capable of handling all aspects of PERSGA
operations including accounting, travel, procurement and human resource management, which has helped to
improve efficiency of transactions, recording and enhance transparency.
·       Undertaken a review of all environment-related legislation in the region and supported successful
actions that have built awareness among member governments of the importance of ratifying and
conforming to environment and maritime conventions.
·       Planned and undertaken a series of outreach activities around SAP activities through a variety of
mechanisms and media to increase government and public awareness of coastal and marine management
issues. These public awareness campaigns involved local and national stakeholders including schools,
fishing cooperatives, chambers of commerce, and the general public.
·       Through this Project, PERSGA's work on two important Components of the SAP Program has
helped increase PERSGA's effectiveness in facilitating relations among member countries, and improved
regional cooperation through the identification of navigation and ICZM focal points for sharing regional
knowledge and successfully bringing key issues to attention of decision makers.
·       Developed and launched a five year plan to continue and expand on activities begun under the
Project. PERSGA has done this in the months since the close of the Project by hiring additional regional
professional staff, providing budget for program activities and successfully putting the MEMAC at
Hurgadah into operation.


                                                    - 10 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The major factor that was not under the control of Governments or the implementing agency but which
adversely affected Project implementation were the rise of terrorist actions including September 11, 2001,
the bombing of the USS Cole in October 2000, the attack on the Limberg at sea in October 2002, and the
attack on the US Consulate in Jeddah in 2004. These events were compounded by the security issues
triggered by hostilities over Iraq including "Operation Desert Fox" and the 2003 invasion of Iraq. These
events restricted travel within the Region, slowed down planning activities and caused delays with the
conduct of several workshops and fielding of consultants. These events also increased concerns about
public access to what was perceived as sensitive data concerning the coastal and marine environment. In
addition, increased political unrest and security risk after Project startup caused the cancellation of ICZM
activities on the northern coast of Somalia because of the emerging political and security risks.

The political situation described above resulted in a significant reduction in donor grant support for
regional activities for coastal and marine management, given their new priorities to provide grant assistance
to other parts of the Middle East and North Africa as well as for reconstruction of Somalia.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The principal factor within the control of governments that impacted Project implementation and outcome
was the weak commitment from some of the member countries, for example:

·        Failure of most member Governments, particularly in the first four years of the Project, to meet
their financial commitments to PERSGA, such that their contribution totaled only US$1.35 million of the
US$4.6 million promised as co-financing during Project launch. Yemen was the only country to
consistently meet its annual commitments to PERSGA during the six years of implementation.
·        Failure of member Governments to facilitate travel and participation of consultant specialists such
that Project implementation was often delayed, particularly in the early years of the Project. Examples of
this were the difficulty of obtaining visas for Somalia and unnecessary detention and interrogation of Lead
specialists or denial of their entry to meetings in Egypt and Yemen.
·        Lack of commitment by individual countries to provide additional support such as local
transportation and facilities to support Project activities on the ground (such as training and survey work).
·        Poor selection of country-nominated staff with inadequate qualification or skills for training
opportunities under the Project. This situation seems to have improved as PERSGA increasingly takes a
role in selecting properly-qualified candidates for training - for example, PERSGA nominees for the last
IMO Training in November, 2005 were all accepted for the course.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The factors over which PERSGA had control and could have resolved earlier in the Project period included
tenure and management of staff travel, recruitment of staff and the communication between the regional
unit and country units.

For the first five years of the Project, PERSGA's Secretary General held the position as a part time
appointment. This adversely affected the internal communication and exchange of information between
PERSGA Headquarters, the national project offices and with high level counterparts from the member
governments which was often discontinuous and slow. A full time incumbent would have maintained
greater communication with and buy-in from member governments. Over the last Project year, however,
this issue appears to have been better addressed, as the current Secretary General is full time at PERSGA



                                                     - 11 -

and has been successful at garnering member country financing.

In the early years of the Project, PERSGA Lead Specialists were not authorized by management to travel
as much as was needed to support the implementation of the Project Components. The situation improved
in the later Project years.

The long and inefficient procedures for staff recruitment further delayed implementation progress. Some
PERSGA Lead specialists had to double for others not yet recruited and could not properly fulfill their own
work programs. Poor administrative and clerical support from PERSGA administration also detracted from
the technical and coordination tasks for which the Lead Specialists were hired.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The planned and actual Project financing is as follows:

                                             PLANNED                           ACTUAL
 Source                           Local         Foreign        Total      Local       Foreign        Total
 GEF (Bank Managed)                       0          5.610        5.610          0        5.584         5.584
GEF (UNDP & UNEP )                          0        13.390       13.390          0        13.185       13.185
Governments (in-kind)                 2.000              0         2.000      2.000             0         2.000
PERSGA                                4.600              0         4.600      1.349             0         1.349
Islamic Development Bank                    0         5.000        5.000          0         0.500         0.500
European Commission                         0         6.000        6.000          0             0             0
IMO (in-kind)                               0             0            0          0         0.232         0.232
Total                                 6.600        30.232        36.832      3.349       19.501        22.853


PERSGA contribution was a third of what was envisaged due to the aforementioned lack of financial
support from member governments and the European Commission contribution was not forthcoming due to
changing donor priorities. Thanks to the efforts of the Navigation Lead Specialist and consultant, the IMO
provided significant technical assistance to the Navigation Working Group (IMO staff and IMO
consultants attended the working group meetings and workshops). Smaller amounts of in kind support
were also provided through NOAA ICZM related activities.

The Grant Agreement between the World Bank and PERSGA was modified to reflect a reallocation of
resources from Component 6 to Component 2 in the amount of US$200,000.00 as Component 6 was
significantly delayed and Component 2 was short of funds due to the expense of the hydrographic surveys.

                                     Initial Allocation (US$ millions)   Revised Allocation (US$ millions)
Component 2                                                           3.5                               3.7
Component 6                                                           2.1                               1.9



6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The Project's sustainability is rated as Unlikely, based on the following assessment of PERSGA's
performance and the outcomes of Components 2 and 6:

In the past year, under a newly appointed Secretary General, PERSGA has succeeded in developing a
long-term plan and ensuring regular financing from its members. The future prospects to sustain PERSGA
and the SAP financially are thereby improved, albeit at a reduced level. Since June, 2005, PERSGA's core



                                                         - 12 -

budget has been able to fund close to twenty professional and support staff at headquarters and at the
MEMAC. PERSGA is also able to fund core programming activities to maintain activities initiated under
the SAP Project. The budget for 2006 is currently set at US$2.0 million. It is too early to tell if this
reversal in direction seen in the past year will be sustained but based on the experience over the past six
years, the sustainability of PERSGA and the SAP activities is rated Unlikely.

Sustainability for Component 2 is rated as likely. It satisfactorily utilized its funding to carry out the plan
that was developed in 1998 for Navigation Risks and it is anticipated that support from IMO will continue
with further ratification of Conventions within the Region. However, much work remains to be done to
improve navigation survey data and charts for international shipping, improve navigation aids, separate and
monitor traffic in transit through the area, reduce the risk of maritime incidents and marine pollution, and
ensure the adoption, harmonization and effective coordination of national oil spill contingency plans. This
work is recognized among the four post-SAP priorities listed in the PERSGA action plan for the next 5
years. The MEMAC Center has been established in 2005, thought the details of how the Center will
function as the coordinator of a regional response in the event of oil spills and be financed in the long-term
remain unclear.

Sustainability for Component 6 is also rated as Unlikely. Although the importance of PERSGA's work
on ICZM, particularly among the Southern countries, in the latter years of the Project is recognized, it is
unclear how the diminished resources to support ICZM in the post-Project period can sustain the
implementation of the ICZM frameworks that have been created in the three Southern countries. Of these,
only Sudan chosen to maintain a CZM office under the Ministry of Environment located in Port Sudan. It
is unlikely that the pace of work on ICZM under the Project can be maintained after the Project, unless a
follow-on project is planned to continue with this work.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Over the next five years (2006-2010), PERSGA will focus on the following priorities:

·       Capacity Building and Leadership - to achieve effective and adequately resourced leadership for
the management and sustainable use of coastal resources.
·       Marine and Coastal Science Research - to continue undertaking quantitative and qualitative
assessment of habitat and biodiversity and of marine environment pollution in the coastal areas.
·       Socioeconomic Initiative and Stakeholder Participation - to enhance social and economic effects of
marine and coastal conservation, particularly in terms of poverty alleviation and public participation and
good governance.
·       Navigation and Maritime Pollution ­ to continue coordinating the work of reducing risk of
maritime incidents and marine pollution, in particular, harmonization of oil spill contingency planning and
response operations at strategic locations throughout the region.

To meet these objectives, PERSGA has expanded its professional staff through a regional, transparent,
competitive selection process whereby staff represents all member countries and is gender-balanced.

Currently, PERSGA country contributions finance a US$2.0 million dollar annual budget that is evenly
split between program activities and staff and administrative costs for headquarters and the MEMAC
Center. PERSGA continues to seek additional support for expanding their existing program activities in
the four priority areas.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance



                                                    - 13 -

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance during project identification and preparation was Satisfactory. The Bank played an
important role in identifying the partner agencies in PERSGA member countries that collaborated in project
preparation and implementation and the specific Project Components that they would undertake as an
integral part of the Strategic Action Plan for the Red Sea and the Gulf of Aden. The Bank mobilized funds
to help with Project preparation and provided technical support to the PERSGA team during preparation
and implementation and applied lessons learnt from the fore-runner GEF International Waters Projects to
help ensure efficient cooperation and management among the three GEF implementing agencies that
provided support for the different Project Components (see Table in paragraph 3.1).

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision performance is rated Satisfactory. Bank supervision missions were regularly
conducted by technical teams to provide detailed advice and recommendations on relevant issues related to
project  management,       financial  management,     procurement,   improved     communication,   technical
improvement and advice on adjustment of Project plans to better link Project activities with the PDO and
expected outcomes. The team included a Task Team Leader who is a former naval officer, which proved
useful for the discussions and evaluation on Component 2.            ICZM specialists supported the team
throughout and joined supervision missions during critical junctures for Component 6. The team also
included Procurement, Financial Management, and Legal specialists.

Bank supervision was coordinated with the supervision by other GEF implementing agencies and with
PERSGA member country task force meetings on all aspects of project implementation and supervision and
its aide-memoires were shared with these implementation partners.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Given its catalytic role during project design and implementation, the overall Bank performance is rated
Satisfactory. Key factors in determining this rating include:

·        Close coordination it maintained among the three GEF Implementing agencies during preparation
and supervision of the Project;
·        Regular supervision and substantive dialogue it maintained with PERSGA; and
·        Frank discussion of short-comings, particularly the lack of counterpart financing between the Bank
and the PERSGA during supervision.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
PERSGA's performance during Preparation is rated as Satisfactory, both for its inputs into Regional
Project/SAP design and implementation. Despite its limited staff and financial resources, PERSGA
assigned its staff and effectively mobilized decision-makers at national levels to help prepare the Project.
As a regional organization hosted by the Saudi Government, PERSGA's pioneering efforts for gender
equality for staff were truly remarkable. PERSGA continues to encourage women to apply for professional
and support staff positions and remains committed to ensuring gender balance within the organization.
PERSGA should be recognized for its role and significant achievements in this regard

The performance of the regional Governments was also rated Satisfactory, as they assisted with the
preparation of National Reports as well as providing national and technical input into the SAP.

7.5 Government implementation performance:




                                                    - 14 -

The government implementation performance is rated Unsatisfactory. The PERSGA Council of Ministers,
comprising the Ministers of Environment from all member countries, did play an active role and took
decisions to enable the Secretariat to fulfill its duties under the Project. The PERSGA Council is supported
by the PERSGA Task Force, a working-level body comprising representatives of the national environment
agencies and providing over-sight for the SAP. Member governments also supported the Project through
the ratification/accession to IMO Conventions, staffing and organization of training activities, and other
commitments to further implement the SAP.

Despite the foregoing, PERSGA member countries provided only US$1.35 million of the US$4.6 million
they had committed towards Project financing. Yemen was the only country to consistently and fully meet
its financial obligations to PERSGA over the course of the Project. Saudi Arabia provided emergency
assistance from time to time to cover PERSGA's core budget, has met its annual contribution since 2003
and pledged to make-up on its arrears. It is only in the last Project year that PERSGA management has
secured either payment or firm commitments for the payment of the 2005 obligations from all member
governments (except Somalia). Three of these 7 countries have now included PERSGA contributions as a
line item in their annual budgets.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
For Components 2 and 6, PERSGA' performance is rated Satisfactory. PERSGA and its staff played a
catalytic role in coordinating Project activities and handling Project management and monitoring. PERSGA
Lead Specialists for both Components consistently delivered quality work in accordance with their terms of
reference. A problematic Lead Specialist for ICZM was replaced by two part-time co-Lead Specialists who
demonstrated exceptional ability to provide regional leadership. Working Groups from the two Components
met regularly and completed their tasks successfully. PERSGA also followed World Bank procurement
guidelines and implements a financial management system meets Bank requirements.

Delivery of some Project activities fell behind schedule, particularly during the Project's early years.
PERSGA was able to partially make up for delayed implementation of some activities over time and the
overall outcomes have been positive. PERSGA internalized lessons from the Special review (2001),
Mid-term Evaluation (July 2002), and the Terminal Evaluation (April 2004) in defining follow-up
activities.

Under the leadership of its new Secretary General, PERSGA has developed a long-term plan and ensured
financial commitment from its members, thereby improving the future prospects to sustain its work.
PERSGA's core budget for 2006 of US$2 million supports nearly twenty professional and support staff at
headquarters and at the MEMAC, as well as core programming activities that continue work initiated under
the Project. PERSGA's staff is now skilled, representative of its member countries, gender-balanced and
committed to PERSGA's mission.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
PERSGA performance is rated as Satisfactory. Key factors in determining the rating include:

·        Component 2 is a significant example of outcome achievement and technical excellence. Without
question, the success of improved Vessel Traffic Navigation and Safety in the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden
will go a long way in preventing maritime accidents now and in the future.
·        Component 6 demonstrated PERSGA's ability to adapt to challenges and deliver expected results.
·        PERSGA delivered a multi-million dollar project in a professional, transparent manner, meeting all
expected Bank standards for financial management and procurement.
·        PERSGA was pro-active in promoting gender balance, particularly among professional staff.



                                                       - 15 -

8. Lessons Learned

Lessons learnt that can be applied to future Bank and GEF project design and implementation include:

1. The Principle of Subsidiarity in Regional Projects. The principle of subsidiarity in the GEF
International Waters Project context suggests that decisions on the implementation of a particular policy
should be made at the lowest appropriate level, whether it is local, national or regional. Therefore, the
subsidiarity principle can help identify areas where a regional institution will have a comparative advantage
over well-established national and local agencies, which are also charged with working on these matters. A
key question to ask is whether an action in this field is part of the core mandate and whether a transnational
approach is the most appropriate way to tackle a particular issue. As a result of experience with this SAP,
future regional project design by GEF and the Bank should consider the time needed during preparation to
explore detail how national connections and commitments can be made stronger and earlier in the process.

2. The need for clear financial commitment to ensure Sustainability and Replicability. GEF financing is
designed to cover incremental costs on development activities supported by member governments and other
donors. The lack of counterpart or additional donor financing in this Project point to the need to secure
upfront commitment from participating countries at appraisal that they would fund their expected portion
of project costs, and agreement to sustaining their inputs after the Project period. Effective implementation
of transboundary projects requires pre-project work to build close coordination between a regional
coordinating agency and competent local authorities around shared goals so that project activities can be
completed within the project period. GEF-funded projects typically address development issues of shared
resources at holistic and eco-system level, while requiring coordinated transboundary actions locally, at the
levels of national and local governments and local communities. The experience of this Project suggests
that while an entity such as PERSGA can coordinate, communicate and educate across a region,
sustainability lies in strengthening and obtaining the commitment of participating national governments
collectively towards achieving common goals. Therefore, if governments demonstrate commitment through
the up-front assurance of counterpart financial contributions ahead of implementation, this model could be
replicated for other regional environmental issues.

3. Expanded Reliance on Regional and National Experts. The intent of this Project was to depart from
the extensive use of international experts and to make greater use of regional and national experts both in
PERSGA and within the cooperating countries. This approach significantly increased the capacity of
PERSGA and its counterpart organizations, created ownership of the process, and allowed for
internalization of plans and approaches. It should be recognized that at the same time the recruitment,
selection and retention of such professionals from within the region was complicated by a number of
factors, including relocation to the required duty station, issuance of residency visas and work permits,
length of appointment and salaries needed to attract the highest qualified candidates. The PERSGA
experience shows the importance of recognizing and addressing the constraints for the recruitment of
regional and national experts for GEF projects that seek to reduce the over excessive use of international
consultants.

4. The Careful Twinning of International Experts with Lead Specialists. An approach of careful
twinning of international experts with Lead Specialists was undertaken for the selected Components of the
Project. An international expert in living marine resources and marine protected areas who had supported
the design of Components 3, 4 and 5 was appointed to serve as the resident Chief Technical Advisor. This
arrangement was effective in building the capacity of the PERSGA Lead Specialist and stayed in place
until mid-term when PERSGA replaced the international expert with a regional project manager. In the



                                                     - 16 -

case of Component 2 an international specialist in marine navigation risk management, who had supported
the design of Component 2, provided regular support through short and medium term visits and worked
closely with highly capable regional and national expertise. The positive experience that the PERSGA staff
had with peers from the PEMSEA (see Section 4.2, Component 6) further emphasizes the importance in
linking with international counterparts. An important lesson for the GEF to consider in future project
design of regional transboundary programs is how to get an effective balance between international,
regional and national expertise and how to more carefully select specialists and use them in an advisory role
so they do not displace staff from the cooperating parties in making decisions and undertaking work.

5. Potential Follow-on Investments. The experience gained during a complex project such as SAP can be
used to identify complementary development projects which support the objective of sustainable
environmental development while ensuring livelihood opportunities, food security and income generation,
resource development and poverty alleviation in the project areas. An example from the Regional Project is
the use of coastal zone information to help regulate the exploitation and use of marine and other natural
resources in sustainable ways that can support local livelihood. Beyond ecosystem protection, the use of
navigational aids and knowledge relevant to the management of traffic in ecologically sensitive areas can be
used to help map out areas appropriate for fisheries, tourism, and other environmentally-compatible
economic development. Examples from this Project include the IDA financed Yemen Fisheries Resource
Management and Conservation Project and Yemen Port Cities Development Program, each of which
benefited from the Project's investments.

6. Decision-support Technology and Associated Risks. The wisdom of installing costly technology that
cannot be properly maintained after the Project period is a lesson from the Project. While sophisticated
technology such as GIS tools and integrated information management systems can handle complex
information that can support decision making at national and regional level, SAP's experience demonstrates
that the high cost (capital outlay, maintenance, unanticipated transactions costs of working with poorly
trained counterpart staff) delays the use of a system when it is needed the most. Outputs are not readily
available when needed, or the decision support technology maintenance is not serviced in a timely manner,
and these may eventually cause its abandonment after the Project period. The potential mismatch between
expensive modern technology and local institutional capacity to use its products needs to be carefully
evaluated during project preparation.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Regional Organization for the Conservation of the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden Environment
(PERSGA)
Recipient Contribution to the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) For the Regional Project for the
Implementation of the Strategic Action Program for the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden - Components 2 & 6 -
The following is a note on the overall implementation of components two and six of the SAP
project which were funded by GEF and supervised by the World Bank. This note aims to highlight
the outputs of the two components and focuses on long term outcomes. It also stresses the way
forward in order to insure the sustainability and effectiveness of the SAP process.

This note provides PERSGA Comments for the ICR for the Project (P063717, GEF-WB TF
21707)

The note is structured as follows



                                                   - 17 -

1.      Project performance and achievements;
2.      Project outcomes;
3.      Future and the way forward.

The overall SAP achievements and progress are very well documented. The external evaluation
reports were prepared and disseminated to all stakeholders during the whole period of the project
implementation phase.

Project performance and achievements

Institutional aspects
During the first phase of the project (1999-2002) efforts were made to better involve the
countries in project implementation. However, that task revealed to be more complex than
expected. PERSGA implemented the project activities in spite of serious difficulties at some
stages. After delivery of component 2 and 6 and other activities, PERSGA was able to secure the
involvement of Member Countries, which can best be described through the payment of their
annual dues to PERSGA, starting from 2004.

Project Management
From the basic management point of view all project documentation is fully available.
Implementation of activities followed the Logical Framework of the NRMP and ICZM
components. The activities were delivered professionally according to the World Bank
Procedures. All procurement and financial aspects were handled according to the regulations of
the World Bank. Full project documentation and financial records are available. Evaluation was
conducted on a regular basis by the World Bank and is documented in aide memoires and follow
up letters forwarded by the Bank to PERSGA following each supervision mission.

Project management lessons
·       Financial arrangements were organized in such a manner that the Regional Office
(PERSGA Secretariat) was in charge of the whole processes for procurement and financial
monitoring, allowing the countries to concentrate on deliverables rather than financial and
procurement processes. Although, this imposed a considerable burden on the PERSGA staff, it
helped build the capacity of the organization which is now able to manage operations and
multi-countries activities ;
·       The breadth, diversity and geographical spread of the activities tested and stretched the
capacity of PERSGA to both deliver practical outcomes and oversee NRMP and ICZM in the
RSGA region. PERSGA has now gained exceptional experience in this field and has the capacity
to deliver this experience to other regions.
·       Adaptive management was used during the GEF-funded SAP implementation phase and
revealed to be a useful and important Project management tool as PERSGA is working in areas
with either no or very limited experience in this field;

Sustainability
The new PERSGA leadership has adapted a new meaning for sustainability to ensure that
PERSGA becomes self-sustaining after the first GEF-supported SAP implementation phase.



                                                - 18 -

PERSGA, as an organization, is now much stronger and in addition to the partnership with the
World Bank and other UN Agencies which assisted in the first GEF SAP, has also benefited from
the following partnerships which were developed, and successfully implemented:

­       Partnership with Regional Seas and GPA
­       Partnership with IMO
­       With UNIDO ­ GEF POPs Project
­       With the private sector ­ ARAMCO in Saudi Arabia
­       Partnership with NOAA

In addition, PERSGA is working towards the preparation of a new project that will be proposed
for GEF and the WB financing. This new proposal is being prepared and would build on the first
GEF assist Project. The main objective of the new proposal would be to sustain the outcomes of
the first project and help shape the long-term financial and technical sustainability of PERSGA
and its member countries to address the various environmental and social challenges facing the
Red Sea and Gulf of Aden Area.

Institutional and financial capacities are critical to the sustainability of the SAP. Financial
sustainability is not an end by itself; rather it is both an output and an outcome of good technical
work. PERSGA prepared a Sustainability Plan in 2002, yet no solid actions were taken towards
implementing this plan within the lifetime of the SAP project.

Project Outcomes

Component 2:
In terms of effectiveness and value added, Component 2 was successful. Its outcomes of reflect
the international face of the SAP, as the outcomes have had very significant impacts on
international shipping using the main maritime trade route through the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden,
reducing hazards and potential negative impacts on the overall Red Sea and Guld of Aden
environment. The routing measures for ships designed and surveyed by the component were
adopted by the International Maritime Organization (IMO) in July 2003 and are now used by all
ships in transit along this route, around 25,000 ships per year and rising. The seven new charts
produced by the agency responsible for charting this region, the United Kingdom Hydrographic
Office (UKHO), are in use by all ships operating between the Suez Canal and Socotra, and on
routes between regional ports that pass through the southern Red Sea. Similarly, the new
lighthouse built on Hanish Al Kubra provides a day mark and light for ships passing east and west
of the Hanish Island group, marking a critical part of the route to the south west of these islands
where there are many navigation hazards.

As ships continue to grow in size and speed, accurate charting of the waters over which they are
passing is highly important to their safety and to the environmental protection of international
waters. Making available electronic charts of the region is also critical to the effective use of the
integrated navigation systems fitted on most modern vessels, and these charts depend on accurate
surveys to modern standards.




                                                    - 19 -

The most significant expenditure under the Component was allocated for the hydrographic survey,
which cost around US $1.8 million in total. It may be estimated that the operating costs for ships
in transit through the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden is in excess of $4 billion annually, discounting the
value of the cargo carried. As another measure, the cost of salvaging and repairing a new
container ship that grounded on Mayyun Island, due to an error by a navigating officer, is of the
order of $20 million, paid by the ship's insurers and eventually by the shipping industry.

With regard to the reduction of marine pollution, the Action Plan prepared by IMO Consultants
gives PERSGA the framework for improving, where necessary, and putting in place where these
do not yet exist, national contingency plans for preparedness and response to major marine oil
spills that continue to threaten the region. These plans will benefit from the recent decision by
PERSGA to initiate the work of the MEMAC at Hurghada (Egypt), which is intended to put
national efforts into a regional context.

Training in the various aspects of Component 2 was provided throughout the SAP by bringing
together regional representatives, harbor masters, port officers, environmentalists, and bringing in
outside expertise to make presentations on what is happening in other parts of the world and what
new technologies, such as Automatic Identification Systems (AIS) for ships, were becoming
available. It is important that the value of the regional meetings of the Navigation Working
Group (NWG) should be recognized, providing as a mechanism for bringing together highly
qualified delegates and giving them opportunities for `continuing professional development', as
they are exposed to changes in the maritime field that impact their work and performance of the
institutions they belong to..

What might have been done differently? Better communications with the members of the NWG
could have been established from the beginning, and an early appreciation of the implication of a
change in the leadership of the Maritime Affairs Authority in Yemen on the establishment of the
new lighthouse, and what corrective action was needed when this happened to brief the new
leader, would have been very beneficial. At the project design stage, tying outputs to specific
technology should have been avoided, as technological advances overtook the original document.

But overall the elements of Component 2 remain entirely relevant to navigation safety and the
reduction of marine pollution in the region. It is evident that efforts need to be maintained to
sustain the benefits of the activities implemented under this component. The lessons learned from
Phase I of the SAP have provided a core group of regional experts, and PERSGA, with valuable
experience for future action and have given the World Bank a viable template for actions in other
parts of the maritime world.

Component 6: Integrated Coastal Zone Management
Effectiveness and value added: initiatives towards implementing ICZM in this region have been
taken place with the GEF support. As a component it was delivered and the desired outputs were
endorsed by stakeholders. However, their long term effectiveness can only be measured during
the strategic planning period beyond that of this project. In order to measure this, we are presently
in the preparation process of an evaluation matrix (attached). This is being adapted from a model
currently being developed by the EU. It contains indicators and will measure on a five year basis



                                                 - 20 -

on the following three milestones: before the project 2000, completion in 2005 and 2010.

Local specificity: The hidden intangibles of local power structures and cultural factors are most
difficult to manage in development projects. Through adaptive management, we have absorbed
these intangibles and used them as part of the process. Work was done almost entirely using
regional resources in terms of staffing and consultants and this is a sign of capacity building on
national and regional levels. More specifically major benefits and lessons learned from the ICZM
component are:

§        Administrative systems - PERSGA invested in enhancing the capacity of local
administrative systems. This was an investment of fundamental value to achieving the long term
sustainability of the outcomes of this investment. PERSGA ensured that the activities be
implemented with full collaboration of local administrations, taking into account the capacity and
maturity of local systems instead of relying on foreign models which often reveal not adapted to
local circumstances.
§        The legal framework ­ Legal frameworks vary enormously in each country, although they
are within the same region. Therefore a single legal template for ICZM was not possible.
Presently, PERSGA is working towards reflecting the different legal contexts in the Evaluation
Matrix. Yemen, Djibouti and in the near future, Sudan will join the few number of countries that
have developed an integrated coastal zone management legislation.
§        Lack of dissemination at international level ­ The project has not been shared with other
regions at the international level in the field of ICZM. PERSGA has now practical experience to
offer, particularly to countries sharing international waters to use SAP approach to ICZM and/or
compare it with other alternatives. International dissemination is crucial to the sustainability of the
component's activities.
§        Project champions and leaders - these have been critical to the success of our activities and
should never be underestimated.
§        Public participation (PP) - PP should be seen as an integral part of both ICZM and the
poverty reduction agenda. The community development projects are clear evidence on this fact.
ICZM is not just about the environment or a technical exercise, but it is also about people,
socio-economic values and place. Acknowledging this fact was instrumental in achieving the
component's deliverables.
§        The Role of indicators - Effective ICZM requires information that is `fit for the purpose'.
It is clear that hard decisions require hard science. PERSGA learned that it is of crucial
importance that meaningful and comprehensive data that are fit for the purpose are essential to
effective management and protection of coastal zone and their resources.

Future and the way forward

Accelerated Activities
At the completion point of the GEF-funded SAP project, PERSGA took the following accelerated
actions:

1 - Developing an effective organizational structure and the organization manual:
         a- PERSGA contracted The Arab Administrative Development Organization


                                                  - 21 -

(ARADO) to develop a new structure along with a new organizational manual;
        b- Gaining fresh momentum - The Regional Shared Vision and Confidence Building
        Programme has been launched and a brain-storming retreat held. The feedback from the
        retreat has been strongly reflected in the work of ARADO.

2 ­ Establishing a new organizational culture

Having a secretariat, which is small and staffed with properly qualified, competent and highly
motivated personnel with recognized interpersonal skills, is essential for the success of a regional
programme. Following the completion of the SAP, PERSGA faced a shortage of technical staff
members. Keeping in mind the above mentioned criteria, new staff members were hired based on a
transparent and impartial recruitment process. Applications were received in response to the
advertisements and recruitments were based on qualifications and regional representation, with
priority given to those who had previous experience with SAP implementation. The gender
balance was a further important criterion. Currently all PERSGA Member States are represented
within the PERSGA Secretariat.

3 ­ Preparing the Framework of Action 2006 - 2010

PERSGA has prepared its Framework of Action for 2006-2010. This document states clear and
limited objectives for PERSGA to work on. The Framework will be discussed thoroughly during
the Regional Working Groups meeting in Dec 15, 2005. The final document will be officially
adapted by PERSGA council in Feb 2006.

The Framework will be implemented along the following basic Principles/cross cutting themes:

§       Poverty alleviation
§       Good governance and public participation
§       On the ground activities

In general, PERSGA will implement its activities through small-scale projects on the ground.
These projects will be designed in such a manner to support the implementation of the PERSGA
Framework of Action and result in tangible improvements to the environment and support poverty
alleviation efforts in the region.

The main focus of the Framework of Action will be to strengthen and enhance all activities related
to:

§       Capacity Building and Leadership
§       Marine and coastal Science Research
§       Socioeconomic initiative and stakeholder participation
§       Navigation and Maritime pollution control

Conclusion
Although PERSGA was established before the preparation and adoption of the SAP, the



                                                 - 22 -

implementation of this latter helped a great deal to shape PERSGA as an effective organization
and to strengthen its ability to perform its duties and mandates under the Jeddah Convention and
other international conventions related to the protection and conservation of marine environment
in the Red Sea. As such, it might be seen as a direct output of the SAP. The RSGA SAP was one
of the first GEF IW projects and as Dr. Al Duda spelled out to us recently `as much as we both
(referring to PERSGA and GEF) share the success we do share the responsibility of what did not
work well, it was a learning experience for both sides'.

The breadth, diversity and geographical spread of the SAP activities have tested and stretched the
capacity of PERSGA to both deliver practical outcomes and oversee NRMP and ICZM in the
RSGA region. PERSGA has now gained exceptional experience in this field and has the capacity
to deliver this experience to other regions and is able to manage operations and multi-countries
activities.

During the project implementation, the World Bank made itself and its knowledge available to
PERSGA and contributed in a significant manner to the success of the SAP. Bank staff provided
feedback whenever it was needed by PERSGA and was responsive when questions and issues
were raised. The Bank team also provided a pool of fresh ideas for consideration by PERSGA to
ensure the successful completion of the RSGA SAP. Regular contact with the Bank was critical to
ensuring progress made throughout the SAP implementation period.

PERSGA has prepared the Framework of Action for 2006-2010 and is planning to establish an
Environmental Fund as a sustainable financial mechanism for the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden
Environmental Protection and Conservation of its Biological Diversity. Experience gained by
PERSGA showed that a well established fund is crucial and a strong regional and international
partnership is required to develop this fund and contribute to the protection and conservation of
the global environment.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

List of persons interviewed during ICR Mission

Dr. Ziad                                         PERSGA, General Secretary
Dr. Mohammed Fawzi                               PERSGA, Deputy Secretary General
Kahlan Abu Ghanem                                PERSGA, MEMAC Deputy Manager
Abdullah H. Alsuhaibany,                         PERSGA, Manager, Natural Resources and
                                                 Protected Area Unit
Islam Thah Mohamed                               PERSGA, IT Manager
Zaher Al-Agwan                                   PERSGA, Environmental Specialist
Dr. Dirar Nasr                                   PERSGA, Senior Technical Director
Khulood Tubaishat                                PERSGA, Advisor and former ICZM


                                                 - 23 -

                                   co-Lead Specialist
Osama Qurban                       Former PERSGA Task Force Member for
                                   Saudi Arabia and ICZM co-Lead Specialist
Mohamed Satti                      PERSGA/SAP Finance Officer
Najmuddin Awad                     PERSGA/SAP Procurement &
                                   Administration Officer
CAPT Roy Facey                     SAP Navigation Working Group Chair
Abdullah Hamod A. Abo Al-Futooh,   Environment Protection Agency (Yemen),
                                   Director General of Natural Resources
Dr. Khaled Hariri                  PERSGA Consultant and former Living
                                   Marine Resources Lead Specialist
Mahmoud Shidewah                   Chairman, Yemen Environmental Protection
                                   Authority and member of PERSGA Task
                                   Force




                                    - 24 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Narrative summary            Results / Achievements (at end of the project,      ICR Rating, Comments &
                                              June 30, 2005)                     additional information
Sector-related SAP       There is on-going regional cooperation and
Goal:                     coordination for the environmental protection and
                          conservation of the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden. A
Improved Natural          major example is the commitment of countries in
Resource Management       paying their dues. Also, the fact that the Working
for the Red Sea and Gulf Groups are still active is another good example of
of Aden.                  this on-going regional cooperation.

GEF Operational           On-the-ground observations of shipping in the area
Program:                  show clearly the advantages of the new separation
                          scheme to ships passing the Hanish Islands which
OP-9 - Integrated Land had been an area that was recognized by the IMO as
and Water Multiple focalpresenting significant navigational risks. Thus, the
Area Operational          new separation scheme will clearly help to reduce
program.                  the risk of maritime accidents. Moreover, the
                          increasing number PSC actions will also help
                          reducing major accidents.

                          PERSGA member states, especially Somalia, Sudan
                          and Djibouti, adopted ICZM plans.
Project Development      PERSGA member countries accessed and/or                 Before the start of the Project the
Objective:               ratified additional international conventions,          status of international
                         notably those administered by IMO. Number of            conventions administered by IMO
Improve coastal and       additional conventions to which PERSGA member was as followed: Djibouti (08),
marine environments of countries accessed and/or ratified range from 1 for       Egypt (32), Jordan (07), Saudi
the Red Sea and Gulf of Egypt, 2 for Yemen and Djibouti, 5 for Sudan, to 11 Arabia (18), Somalia (02), Sudan
Aden through a range of for Jordan and 7 for Saudi Arabia. Somalia did not (04) and Yemen (17).
activities under the SAP, ratify or accessed to any additional conventions. This
of which two would be     is a 36 accessions (from 94 to 132), or a 34%          Some of the PERSGA member
carried out under the     increase across the region (component 2).              countries are already part of
GEF/Bank administered                                                            PSC-MoU in different regions.
project: a program to     (component 2                                           For example, Egypt and Jordan
reduce navigation risks; PERSGA did not develop a Red Sea and Gulf of            are part of the Mediterranean
and support for           Aden specific Memorandum of Understanding on           MoU, Sudan and Yemen joined
Integrated Coastal Zone PSC. However, the number of inspections                  the Indian Ocean MoU and Saudi
Management.               increased. In Jordan,, 299 ships were inspected and Arabia is part of the Gulf MoU.
                          17 placed in detention in 2004 ­ while in 1999, only
                          52 were inspected. Currently 37% of ships calling atDraft protocols are similar to those
                          Egyptian ports are inspected, and 15% of ships         developed for other regional seas.
                          calling at Sudanese and Yemeni ports are inspected In addition and in cooperation
                          (component 2).                                         with FAO, the member countries
                          PERSGA member countries have developed two             of PERSGA decided not to develop
                          additional protocols to the 1992 Jeddah Convention. the additional protocol for
                          These two protocols relate to (i) land based pollution transboundary fish stock, as
                          control and (ii) marine protected areas and            planned in the PIP, and instead to
                          biological diversity                                   establish a Regional Commission
                                                                                 of Fisheries (RECOFI). A Report
                          Updated navigation charts were publicized              is being prepared under the



                                                       - 25 -

                          (component 2).                                      responsibility of Sudan and with
                          There is now an agreement for MEMAC. It is          FAO assistance.
                          based in Egypt and is now staffed. Moreover,
                          MEMAC is integrated into the PERSGA framework
                          (component 2).

                          Adoption of ICZM Plans by PERSGA for Yemen,
                          Sudan and Djibouti (component 6).

                          The Working Groups established under SAP are
                          still in activity. The Navigation Working met in
                          November 2005 and the ICZM Working Group will
                          meet in December 2005 (components 2 & 6)


OUTPUTS - Component 2: Reduction of Navigation Risks and Maritime Pollution


     Output         Achievements ( at end of the project,          Rating       Comments & additional information
   indicators                     30 June 2005)
2.a.1 - Implement No Port State Control / MoU was                               The situation in the region is not
Port State Control developed (see the comments section).                        easy and developing a MoU was
in PERSGA                                                                       not an easy task. Nevertheless, 3
Member states                                                                   countries (Eritrea, Sudan and -
                                                                                during the SAP - Yemen) joined
                                                                                the Indian Ocean MoU on Port
                                                                                State Control and 2 are members
                                                                                of the Med'n MoU, Egypt and
                                                                                Jordan.
2.a.2 - Conduct a An intensive workshop took place in            Satisfactory   It was decided not to do training
Port State Control Jeddah 2002. Moreover, it is important to                    because IMO and other
seminar and        state that the number PSC actions did                        organization are providing
annual Port State increase (For example, in Jordan, the                         training for free at the request of
Control training   Jordan Maritime Authority inspected 229                      the countries.
courses was        ships and 17 were place in detentions. In
revised to         1999, only 52 were inspected).
Conduct a
regional PSC
seminar
2.b.1 - Implement The implementation of the proposed         Highly SatisfactoryIt is important to note that
proposed Traffic   Traffic Separation Schemes (TSS) was                         PERSGA/SAP through this
Separation         completed                                                    major accomplishment
Schemes (TSS)                                                                   addressed a major regional
                                                                                deficiency.
2.c.1 - Conduct    A hydrographic survey was conducted.      Highly Satisfactory
hydrographic
survey
2.c.2 - Conduct    A lighthouse survey was conducted. The Highly Satisfactory
lighthouse survey survey showed that three out of four of
                   the lights were not working.
2.c.3 - Install    The lighthouse is installed.                  Satisfactory
lighthouse
2.d - Conduct      A regional training was conducted in          Satisfactory   The introduction of Automatic



                                                      - 26 -

Regional Training Hurghada, Egypt, on October 2003.                         Identification Systems (AIS) on
on the use of VTS                                                           ships since 1999 was an
and AIS for                                                                 important new development and
marine traffic                                                              rapidly made activities linking to
control (see                                                                VTS obsolete. Thus the outputs
comments                                                                    2.d. 1, 2.d.2, 2.d.3 were revised
section).                                                                   to Conduct Regional Training
                                                                            on the use of VTS and AIS for
                                                                            marine traffic control".
2.e.1 - Draft      A "draft action plan for the              Unsatisfactory The subcomponent is rated
regional oil spill development of national systems and                      unsatisfactory because a regional
contingency Plan regional mechanism for preparedness                        oil spill contingency plan was
study of MEMAC and response to major marine oil spills                      not finalized.
                   in the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden" was
                   published in 2005.
                  However, work remains to be done to
                  complete the development of national oil
                  spill contingency plans in 3 regional
                  states and to incorporate these plans into
                  a regional oil spill contingency plan.




                                                     - 27 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                            Appraisal         Actual/Latest       Percentage of
                                                                             Estimate            Estimate            Appraisal
                                 Component                                 US$ million          US$ million
Reduction of navigation risks and maritime pollution                            3.50                 3.70                 106
Support for Integrated Coastal Zone Management (ICZM)                           2.10                 1.90                  89

Total Baseline Cost                                                             5.60                 5.60
                                    Total Project Costs                         5.60                 5.60
                           Total Financing Required                             5.60                 5.60


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$)
                                                                                                     Total Cost (including
                   Expenditure Category                            Procurement Method
                                                                                                         contingencies)

                                                            ICB           NCB           Other

1. Goods and Equipment

a. Computers and Sofware                                                             360,000.00

b. Lighthouse installation                                80,000.00

                                                    Total                                                 440,000.00

2. Services

a. Port State Control Training                                                       389,000.00

b. Hydrographic Survey                                                               1,546,000.00

c. VTS Feasabily study                                                               100,000.00

d. VTS Training                                                                       30,000.00

e. Other services and training                                                       1,651,000.00

                                                    Total                                                3,716,000.00

3. Incremental Operating Costs

a. Staff salaries, Travel, Operating Expenses, etc.                                  1,454,000.00

                                                    Total                                                1,454,000.00

TOTAL                                                     80,000.00       0.00       5,530,000.00        5,610,000.00


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual) (US$)




                                                               - 28 -

                                                                                                         Total Cost (including
                   Expenditure Category                               Procurement Method
                                                                                                             contingencies)

                                                               ICB           NCB           Other

1. Goods and Equipment

a. Computers and Sofware                                                                 150,000.00

b. Lighthouse installation                                  155,396.00

                                                    Total                                                      305,396.00

2. Services

a. Port State Control Training                                                            7,000.00

b. Hydrographic Survey                                                                  2,817,554.00

c. Other services and training (including salaries)                                     2,009,050.00

                                                    Total                                                     4,833,604.00

3. Incremental Operating Costs

a. Staff salaries, Travel, Operating Expenses, etc.                                      471,000.00

                                                    Total                                                      471,000.00

TOTAL                                                       155,396.00       0.00       5,454,604.00          5,610,000.00




It should be noted that the planned VTS study was cancelled at mid-term due to changes in standard vessel
tracking technology. The VTS/AIS training was covered by inkind condributions from IMO.
Also, professional staff salaries were reported under the services section by the loans department.


                                            Initial Allocation (US$ millions)    Revised Allocation (US$ millions)
Component 2 - Reduction of                                                   3.5                                3.7
navigation risks and maritime
pollution
Component 6 - Support for                                                    2.1                                1.9
Integrated Coastal Zone
Management




                                                                - 29 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

No economic cost and benefit analysis was done for the project as this was a regional technical assistance
GEF Grant rather than an investment project.




                                                - 30 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               10/15/1997


 Appraisal/Negotiation
               11/15/1997
               1/08/1999

 Supervision

               11/08/1999                 1    SUPERVISION/OPERATIONS               S               S
                                               (1)
               02/13/2000                 1    SUPERVISION/ICZM (1)                 S               S
               06/07/2000                 1    SUPERVISION/OPERATIONS               S               S
                                               (1)
               10/08/2000                 3    CO-TTL (1); PARTNERSHIP              S               S
                                               (1); ICZM (1)
               04/21/2001                 4    MISSON LEADER (1);                   S               S
                                               PARTNERSHIP COORD. (1);
                                               BANK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                               ICZM (1)
               04/03/2001                 1    TEAM LEADER (1)                      S               S
               05/08/2001                 1    TEAM LEADER (1)                      S               S
               10/24/2002                 3    SENIOR ADVISOR (1); LEAD             S               S
                                               COUNSEL (1); ENV.
                                               COORDINATOR (1)
               03/05/2003                 1    TEAM LEADER (1)                      S               S
               07/18/2003                 1    TTL (1)                              S               S
               07/18/2003                 2    TTL (1); UNDP TTL (1)                S               S
               12/10/2004                 1    TTL (1)                              S               S


 ICR
               12/1/2005                 3     TEAM LEADER (1);                     S               S
                                               LEAD COUNSEL (1),
                                               CONSULTANT (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                  20
  Appraisal/Negotiation                        8
  Supervision                                 48
  ICR                                          6



                                               - 31 -

Total    82




          - 32 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Global Environment Facility - Trust Fund Grant Agreement, March 1999

Global Environment Facility - Trust Fund Grant Agreement, Amendments

Supervision aide-memoires from 1999 to 2005

Project Status Reports (PSRs)

Implmentation Status and Resulsts Reports

Final Report of the Mid-Term Evaluation of the GEF ­ supported Project for the implementation
of the Strategic Action Programme for the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden, July 2002

Terminal Evaluation of the GEF ­ supported Project for the implementation of the Strategic
Action Programme for the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden, April 2004

Integrated strategy and business plan (2004-2014), June 2004, PERSGA

Terminal report (1999-2004), November 2004, PERSGA

Final report for component 2, June 2005

Final report for component 6, PERSGA, November 2005

PERSGA Framework of action for the period 2006-2010

WWW.PERSGA.ORG




                                             - 35 -

- 36 -

