International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
E- 214
VOL. 2
FROM: The Secretary                                       January 16, 1998
BOLIVIA
PARTICIPATORY RURAL INVESTMENT PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT EXECUTIVE SuMMARY
1     Attached is the Environmental Assessment Summary (EAS) for the proposed
Participatory Rural Investment Project, classified as environrnental category A.
2.    The Environrmental Assessment Summary was prepared by the Borrower, and has
not been evaluated or endorsed by the Bank. The Environrnental Assessment is subject to
review and possible change during the appraisal process.
3.    Questions may be referred to the Task Manager, Mr. Pierre Werbrouck, LCSES,
ext. 34494. The full Environmental Assessment Report is available upon request from the
office of the Director LCC6C.
Distribution:
Executive Directors and Alternates
President
Bank Group Senior Management
Vice Presidents, Bank, IFC and MIGA
Directors and Department Heads, Bank, IFC and MIGA
FILE COPY



PARTICIPATORY RURAL INVESTMENT PROJECT
ENVIRONkENTAL ASSESSMENT EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The project aims to (i) increase rural incomes by co-
financing rural investments which have been identified and
formulated by rural communities and municipalities in
participatory planning processes; and (ii) strengthen the
capacity of municipalities, communities and private sector
organizations to plan, implement, and maintain the
investments.
The project would have two components: C i ) rural
investments; and (ii) institutional strengthening.  Total
project cost would be US$82 million of which US$60 million
would be financed by IDA.
Component 1: Rural Investments - US$66.5 million.
This component would include the financing of pre-investment
studies, wo-rks, goods and operational costs for rural
investments (subprojects) of the following types:
Basic Infrastructure, including (i) construction and
rehabilitation of rural roads; (ii) construction and
rehabilitation of one lane vehicular and pedestrian
bridges;
(iii)communal small-scale irrigation, including
multiple use water reservoirs, sprinkler irrigation and
other forms of water supply for productive or multiple
use;
(iv)municipal and community markets; (v) produce
storage facilities in the rural areas; (vi.) communal
agro-processing infrastructure and equipment; (vii)
river embankment improvements including boat ramps;
(viii) micro-hydro-electric schemes'; (ix)
rehabilitation and maintenance of municipal
infrastructure;  (x) rehabilitation of cultural heritage
works;
Natural Resources Management : communal soil
conservation works; and agro-forestry works;
Production Support: technical assistance to communities
in production, processing and marketing;
From Mid-Term Review onwards and after positive evaluation of five pilot operations



-2-
Pre-investment Studies: feasibility and detailed
engineering studies of basic infrastructure works;
Municipal Investment Programs and Specific Pilot
Operations
Aggregate municipal rural investment programs tranched
over several years and specific pilot operations which
would be agreed upon with IDA on a case by case basis.
Above investments would be financed under the following
conditions and eligibility criteria: (i) subprojects are
included in the Municipal Development Plan which has to have
been formulated in a participatory manner; (ii)
beneficiaries, i.e. municipalities and communities (OTBs),
contribute in money, labor or kind in various percentages
but at least 10 percent of the cost of the subproject;
(iii) design and cost of the individual subprojects are
subject to economic, financial, technical, environmental and
sustainability criteria which are included in FDC's
Operational Manual; (iv) beneficiary municipalities and
communities belong to the Category II, III, IV and V poverty
rating in accordance with the 1993 Poverty Map and are
ranked the lowest on the human development index; and
(v) technical specifications for subprojects would follow
FDC's technical requirements.
Component 2: Institutional Strengthening US$15.4 million
This component includes training and institutional
strengthening of: (i) 200 local governments; (ii) 2,000 OTBs
in 200 municipalities; (iii) 200 vigilance committees; (iv)
nine Prefecturas; and (v) the Vice-Ministry of Popular
Participation and Municipal Strengthening. The training and
strengthening would include a menu of possibilities for
technical assistance and support amongst which the
municipalities could choose up to a certain annual ceiling.
The ceiling would depend on the number of municipal
inhabitants and their poverty level.
The investmen. component of the project would be carried out
by the Fondo de Desarrollo Campesino (FDC).  The
institutionial strengthening of the municipalities and
communities would be carried out by the Vice-Ministry of
Popular Participation and Municipal Strengthening under the
Ministry of Sustainable Development and Environmental
Planning (VMPPFM). The promoter agencies and implementing
agencies for both components (except the training centers)
would be recruited by the municipalities and communities
from a list of eligible NGOs and private companies.



ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSIMNT
The objective of the environmental assessment carried
out during project preparation has been to ensure that the
subprojects (financed as separate investments or as
aggregate subprojects under municipal program financing) are
environmentally sound and sustainable. Consultations with
NGOs and stakeholders and impacts on indigenous peoples are
dealt with under social assessment.
The bulk of the environmental impacts of subprojects
financed under the Project is expected to come from: (i)
the construction and rehabilitation of access roads to
communities; (ii) small-scale irrigation; (iii) micro hydro-
electric power units (if they would be financed under the
Project); and (iv) the use agrochemicals in agriculture.
Watershed management, forestry and technical assistance
would be beneficial for the environment. Because the
Project will finance the construction of rural roads it is
categorized as an environmental category A project. The
environmental assessment has been carried out under the
2
responsibility of the Borrower
The Environmental Assessment covers the following aspects.
(i) the natural environmental conditions;
(ii) evaluation of environmental management in Bolivia
and the legal and                    regulatory framework;
(iii) the project and FDC's project cycle;
(iv) recommendations for environmental management of
the subproejcts
(v) environmental institutional strengthening in the
municipalities and FDC
Conclusions of the Environmental Assessment
The EA describes and stresses the main natural
characteris  - s of Bolivia and the regulations on key
aspects, relevart to this work, such as planning schemes and
tools, popular participation development, land reform,
forestry and environmental definitions and enforcement
mechanisms. In the last years Bolivia has developed a
consistent framework for sustainable development, based on
regulations, which define the basis for environmental
2 Aspectos Ambientales del Proyecto de Inversion para el Desarrollo Rural Participativo, FDC, Diciembre
de 1997.



-4-
criteria and screening procedures recommended for FDC and
project environmental management.
-FDC does not have an environmental consistent management
neither in subprojects nor in administrative procedures at
central and department levels. At this moment the sole
environmental consideration in projects is the Ficha
Ambiental, requested by the environmental legislation. This
one is completed, not by project owners but by the
evaluation groups at departmental FDC offices.  This
indicates the lack of knowledge and interest of subproject
owners in environmental considerations and management. FDC
does not consider environmental impact an important aspect-
Further, the environmental categorization of Fichas
Ambientales is being carried out by the central offices of
the Vice-Ministry of Sustainable Development, due to lack of
institutional capability of Prefecturas, creating "positive
silence" or ad hoc environmental approval of projects, after
10 days delay answering period. Therefore the Ficha
Ambiental has converted into a "less than legal" requisite.
Environmental impacts are mainly related with lack of
technical and environmental considerations of secondary
works in projects such as material extraction areas and
procedures, secondary access roads, remaining material from
road excavation. The last one is specially worrisome in
mountainous areas where materials are thrown away onto
slopes, creating erosion and instability problems.  The root
of all this environmental impacts and lack of management is
also the lack of environmental specific designs and/or
environmental criteria in technical designs.
Implications of the Environmental Assessment on Project
Design
Negative Subproject Eligibility Criteria
The following subprojects will not be eligible for financing
under the P-oject:
(i) investments localized in natural and protected
habitat areas, including 21 protected areas under
management, 13 with a legal base, 5 which are being proposed
and 4 with bio-diversity potential.
(ii) investments localized in areas of Forest
Protection in accordance with the Forestry Law of 1996;



-5-
(iii) rural roads and bridges or other infrastructure
leading to forest exploitation which need a forest
concession;
(iv) investments in zones which have no potential for
agriculture, livestock, or which are defined in the Plano de
Uso del Suelos or Plano de Uso Departamental o Municipal1 as
forest or protected areas, sustainable management forests,
and the like. Are excluded from this category areas where
brazil nuts, rubber, and other agricultural products which
are the backbone of the livelihood of indigenous peoples and
OTBs.
(v) construction of roads which do not lead to existing
community settlements, or which do not have a connection
with the primary and secondary road network.
(vi) construction of infrastructure which would lead to
involuntary resettlement.
Positive Subproject Eligibility Criteria.
The following subproject are to be included under category
Natural Resources Management: (i) development of municipal
forest reserves; (ii) protection and rehabilitation of water
capture networks; (iii) zoo-creation of native animal
species to reduce economic pressure on communities; and (iv)
other projects similar nature.
Environmental Screening
FDC's environmental screening procedures are deficient.
They comply with the requirements of the Bolivian
legislation, but there is little or no field compliance.
Therefore the EA recommends that FDC sets up, with the help
of a specialized institution and financed under the Project,
an own environmental screening mechanism which would reject
non-eligible projects.  This screening process would be
based on guidelines for the Definition of Environmental
Analysis Critera-.
Subproject Environmental Management Guidelines,.
FDC staff have little or no knowledge of how certain
engineering or management techniques could reduce negative
local environmental impacts.  To increase environmental
awareness and to ensure compliance, FDC should study the
environmental impact of past basic infrastructure
investments and, on the basis of the study results,
elaborate Guidelines for environmental subproject



-6-
management.  These guidelines should be discussed with FDC
staff and contractors and been adopted in the technical
desigr. of the works contracts.
Mitigation and Monitoring Plans
Moreover, all infrastructure subprojects should (besides an
environmental data sheet) have an environmental mitigation
and monitoring plan in accordance with the Environmental Law
1333 of 1992. This plan should be based on Guidelines for
Environmental Project Management, which should be drawn up
under the project.
In particular for the subprojects under consideration in
construction of rural roads, bridges and small-scale
irrigation, the following mitigation measures should be
included: (i) identification of alternative localization if
important ecosystems are involved; (ii) localization and
topography of earth removal and borrow areas; (iii) solid
waste and rubbish disposal; (iv) erosion control measures;
(v) construction on drainage canals and water evacuation
infrastructure; (vi) waste management of work camps,
including disposal of oils and grease; and (vii)
resettlement of people.
Implementation of these measures should be monitored by FDC
staff and by IDA staff (if budget resources are available)
under an environmental monitoring plan.
Enviro=nental Management in the Subproject Cycle
The Environmental Assessment document proposes to integrate
negative environmental impact mitigation measures in all
aspects of the subproject cycle. Such integration is
obviously a long-term objective which can only be reached by
the end of the project life. Environmental criteria in FDC
operational and administration procedures are recommended.
Within ex ante phase, project preparation should include
environmental criteria for technical design and
environmental designs, inciuded in Mitigation and Monitoring
Plans, according to management criteria guidelines. This
should be a subproject approval requisite. During the
implementation phase, aside of project environmental
management practices implementation, environmental clauses
in contracts of supervisors, executing entities and
contractors are suggested. Ex-post environmental
administration criteria, including the follow up of projects
through the indicators defined in Monitoring Plans. A
project environmental monitoring data base is defined.



-7.-
Annual Environmental Audi t
The Environmental Assessment suggests to carry out an annual
environmental audit of projects financed by FDC.
Environmental Technical Assistance and Training
A training program on Project Environmental Management and
Administration Practices is proposed. This is to be
addressed to OTBs, municipal governments, Promoter Agencies,
Executing Agencies and FDC central and departmental
personnel. VMPPFM should include such training program in
the municival training modules.
FDC would make a formal commitment to include environmental
considerations into its daily project work (Norm ISO 14.000
(43)) and set up a special unit with an in-house
environmental training program.
Environmental Strengthening of the Municipalities
Environmental planning and management at the municipal level
is still very weak in Bolivia. A Municipal Environmental
Planning and Natural Resources Management Training Program
should be included within the training component of the
Project.  In order to make it concrete and to multiply its
positive effects it is suggested to develop as the basic
instrument of the program the Environmental Action Plan and
its link to Municipal Development Plans.



