                                Document of
                            The World Bank




                                                        Report No:ICR0000125




    IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
               (IDA-30650, IDA-3065A, SWTZ-23549)




                                 ON A

         CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 46.5 MILLION
                 (US$ 70.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                   TO

                         the Republic of Bolivia

                                 FOR A

                  Participatory Rural Investment Project




                            January 11, 2007




Sustainable Development Department
Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                          ( Exchange Rate Effective 12/22/2006 )
                               Currency Unit = BOB
                                   BOB 1.00 = US$ 0.13
                                   US$ 1.00 = BOB 8.00


                                        Fiscal Year
                                 January 1-December 31




                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CV      Vigilance Committee (Comité de Vigilancia)
DCA     Development Credit Agreement
EIRR    Economic Internal Rate of Return
FDC     Small Farmer Development Fund (Fondo de Desarrollo Campesino)
FIRR    Financial Internal Rate of Return
        National Fund for Productive and Social Investment (Fondo Nacional de Inversion
FPS
        Productiva y Social)
GOB     Government of Bolivia
HIPC    Highly Indebted Poor Country
LCR     Latin American and Caribbean Region
LDA     Administrative Decentralization Law (Ley de Descentralización Administrativa)
LDN     National Dialogue Law (Ley del Dialogo Nacional)
LPP     Law of Popular Participation (Ley de Participación Popular)
NGO     Non-Governmental Organization
NPV     Net Present Value
OTB     Territorially-based Grass-roots Organization (Organización Territorial de Base)
        Rural Communities Development Project (Proyecto de Desarrollo de Comunidades
PDCR
        Rurales)
PDCR II Participatory Rural Investment Project
PDM     Municipal Development Plan (Plan de Desarrollo Municipal)
PEDEL   Local Economic Development Plan (Plan de Desarrollo Económico Local)
PGTI    Indigenous Territorial Management Plan (Plan de Gestión Territorial Indígena)
PNC     National Compensation Policy (Política Nacional de Compensación)
POA     Annual Operational Plan (Plan Operativo Anual)
PRSP    Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SDC     Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation
        Integrated Municipal Accounting System (Sistema Integrado de Contabilidad
SINCOM
        Municipal)

TCO    Indigenous Territorial Land (Tierra Comunitaria de Origen)
VD     Viceministry of Decentralization
VIPFE  Vice Ministry of Public Investment and External Financing
VMPP   Vice Ministry of Popular Participation (Viceministerio de Participación Popular)
VMPPFM Vice Ministry of Popular Participation and Municipal Strengthening
VMRD   Vice Ministry of Rural Development




                            Vice President: Pamela Cox

                         Country Director: Marcelo Giugale

                          Sector Manager: Mark E. Cackler

                     Project Team Leader: David Tuchschneider

                                                      Bolivia
                             Participatory Rural Investment Project




                                                 CONTENTS




1. Basic Information........................................................................................................ 1
2. Key Dates.................................................................................................................... 1
3. Ratings Summary........................................................................................................ 1
4. Sector and Theme Codes ............................................................................................ 2
5. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... 2
6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 3
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
8. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 14
9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 23
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................... 24
11. Lessons Learned...................................................................................................... 27
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners......... 28
Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis......................................................................... 29
Annex 2. Restructuring (if any) .................................................................................... 31
Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 32
Annex 4. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 34
Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis).. 37
Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 43
Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance.................................. 46
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any) .............................................................. 47
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)...................................... 48
Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR................... 56
Annex 11. Comments of Co financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders.................... 76
Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... 77

1. Basic Information

Country:              Bolivia                 Project Name:          Participatory Rural
                                                                     Investment Project
                                                                     IDA-30650,IDA-
Project ID:           P040085                 L/C/TF Number(s):      3065A,OPEC-
                                                                     04380,SWTZ-23549
ICR Date:             01/31/2007              ICR Type:              Core ICR

Lending Instrument:   SIL                     Borrower:              REPUBLIC OF
                                                                     BOLIVIA
Original Total
Commitment:           XDR 46.5M               Disbursed Amount:      XDR 39.8M

Environmental Category:B
Implementing Agencies

Fondo de Inversión Productiva y Social (FPS)
Viceministerio de Descentralización (VD, VMPPFM, VDADM)
Fondo de Desarrollo Campesino (FDC)
Co financiers and Other External Partners

Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation


2. Key Dates

     Process             Date             Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review: 04/23/1997           Effectiveness:     12/04/1998        12/04/1998
Appraisal:        02/12/1998         Restructuring(s):                    08/05/2003
Approval:         05/12/1998         Mid-term Review: 09/30/2005          06/04/2001
                                     Closing:           06/30/2004        06/30/2006


3. Ratings Summary
3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Unsatisfactory




                                             1

3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
 Implementation Performance         Indicators   QAG Assessments (if any)         Rating:
Potential Problem Project at any
time (Yes/No):                    No            Quality at Entry (QEA):         None

Problem Project at any time
(Yes/No):                         Yes           Quality of Supervision (QSA):   Satisfactory

DO rating before                  Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:          Unsatisfactory


4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                              Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Irrigation and drainage                                                 20                18
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                                           8
Sub-national government administration                                  25                23
General public administration sector                                                       6
Other social services                                                   15
General transportation sector                                           20                45
Other industry                                                          20
                                                          Original Priority Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Participation and civic engagement                         Secondary         Secondary
Gender                                                     Secondary         Secondary
Indigenous peoples                                         Secondary         Primary
Rural non-farm income generation                           Primary           Primary


5. Bank Staff
                         Positions                             At ICR         At Approval

Vice President:                                          Pamela Cox        Shahid Javed
                                                                           Burki
Country Director:                                        Marcelo Giugale   Isabel M. Guerrero
Sector Manager:                                          Mark E. Cackler   Thomas B. Wiens

Project Team Leader:                                     David
                                                         Tuchschneider     Pierre Werbrouck

ICR Team Leader:                                         David
                                                         Tuchschneider
ICR Primary Author:                                      Mario Castejon




                                                2

6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)
6.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale
for Bank assistance)


   In 1998, when project preparation came to its end, "optimism was in the air" [Country
Assistance Evaluation, 2005]. Many Bolivians and many donors thought that the cumulative
effects of over ten years of reforms, and the new government's program to promote private sector
development, broaden the benefits of growth, and strengthen Bolivia's public sector institutions,
would finally yield strong growth and poverty reduction results. The cumulative impact of
political and economic developments in Bolivia from the mid-1980's to the late-1990's was
reflected in dramatic changes in external perceptions concerning Bolivia's policies and
institutions, and in some dimensions of its development performance. Perceptions of Bolivia's
economic and political risk and the country's social indicators reflected important improvements.
Poverty remained very high, however. Almost 70 percent of Bolivia's population was poor in
1997, and the poverty gap was 32 percent.
   In spite of concerns about Bolivia's previous growth and poverty reduction performance,
expectations were high entering FY99. The Bank's FY99-03 CAS was grounded in an assessment
of economic, social and political prospects that foresaw considerable scope for development
progress. Base Case projections envisaged low stable inflation, high (by LCR and Bolivian
historical standards) growth (5 percent plus per annum), declining fiscal deficits, declining debt,
increasing investment and declining income and non-income poverty. While the CAS noted a
series of risks, it appraised Bolivia's prospects as follows: "We believe that the original conditions
under which we will be operating in the coming years in Bolivia's are more conducive to achieve
results on the ground than in the past. The structural reforms are underway and have the full
commitment of the administration."
   Starting with the Popular Participation (LPP) and Administrative Decentralization (LDA)
laws, the Government began to remove the institutional constraints to limit investment in rural
areas by creating rural municipalities, devolving decision-making to municipalities (and to a
lesser extent to prefectures) and assigning to both an increasing share of public investment
resources. It also gave local communities and indigenous groups the legal right to identify and
formulate public investments and to participate in and control their implementation. It was
expected that the resulting institutionality would improve the provision of infrastructure and
services as well as ensure their sustainability. Response to the investment demands generated by
the implementation of the LPP and its model of participatory development planning, investment
and local administration required an expanded supply of investment resources, as central
Government transfers were insufficient to satisfy local needs and demands. In particular, the
government identified a shortfall in productive infrastructure and services, as municipalities
dedicated most of their resources to social investments. As a follow-on operation to the
successful Rural Communities Development Project (Cr. 2772), the project responded to these
needs, in line the Bank's CAS at the time, which aimed at fostering opportunity for all, equity and
institutional development. The emphasis in the project pointed towards increasing rural growth
and incomes by allocating the vast majority of its resources directly to productive investments, in
order to enhance the economic opportunities of rural families in selected municipalities, to
increase their incomes and improve their livelihoods. The project was expected to have a positive
impact on equity, as it aimed at small-scale investments in rural areas where the incidence of
poverty was largely concentrated. Project resources were also allocated to strengthen the
capacities of relevant local institutions (prefectures, municipalities, communities and their



                                                   3

organizations) to manage their own investment and development.


6.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

   The objective of the project was "to assist the Borrower to promote economic development of
rural communities and Eligible Municipalities through sustainable productive investments based
on local demand which is generated through participatory planning processes."

6.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority),
and reasons/justification

The PDO and its Key Indicators were not revised.

6.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised
(briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as captured in the
PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from the
project)

   The primary intended target group of the project was the population of 200 of the poorest rural
municipalities. Eligible Municipalities had between 3,000 and 50,000 inhabitants and the lowest
index of satisfied basic needs. Later, with Swiss funds, eligibility was expanded to municipalities
with less than 3,000 inhabitants if they became associated with other municipalities
(mancomunidades). Secondary beneficiaries expected to gain directly from project activities
included the municipal governments, rural communities, indigenous districts, and NGOs, as well
as the implementing agencies themselves: the Vice Ministry of Popular Participation and
Municipal Strengthening (VMPPFM, later re-named Vice Ministry of Decentralization -
VDADM, VD), the Small-farmer Development Fund (FDC, later replaced by FPS), and the Vice
Ministry for Rural Development.

6.5 Original Components (as approved)

   The project's components were: (a) Rural Investments (est. US$ 66 million, 76% of total
cost) to finance pre-investment studies and consulting services, works, goods and equipment for
rural investment sub-projects including: (i) improvement of access roads and construction and
rehabilitation of bridges; (ii) community small-scale irrigation; (iii) markets and produce storage
facilities; (iv) river embankment improvements; (v) natural resources management; (vi) technical
assistance to rural producers; and (vii) cultural heritage rehabilitation; and (b) Institutional
Strengthening (est. US$ 21.3 million, 24% of total cost) to finance: (i) technical assistance to
municipalities, indigenous districts, rural communities and NGOs in municipal management,
participatory planning and implementation; subproject planning, preparation, implementation and
maintenance; subproject financial management and administration; environmental management
and municipal revenue generation; (ii) formal training for staff of municipalities and indigenous
districts, in municipal management and non-formal training of municipal councils, vigilance
committees and community leaders; and (iii) consultants, office equipment, vehicles and
incremental operating costs for prefectures, the Vice-Ministry of Popular Participation and
Municipal Strengthening (later VDADM, and VD), FDC (later FPS), and the Vice Ministry for
Rural Development.


                                                  4

6.6 Revised Components

   The project components were not formally revised, but the project was restructured via
an "amendment and restatement" of the Credit Agreement that included, inter alia, changes in the
implementation arrangements, in the implementation targets and in the monitoring indicators by
component, as described in the next section.

6.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

   An important change in the policy environment in which the project functioned, and which
led to changes in design, scope, implementation arrangements, and funding allocation, was the
enactment of the National Dialogue Law (LDN) in 2001. As part of the LDN, HIPC II resources
started to be transferred to municipalities on the basis of population and poverty formulas. The
LDN specified that municipalities could be involved in the provision of productive infrastructure
and production support services for producers, and established the right of the producer
organizations to participate in the local planning processes. In addition, it set in motion the
National Compensation Policy (PNC), which regulated the transfer of additional resources, on
the basis of the same formula, to local governments through a new fund, called Fondo de
Inversion Productiva y Social (FPS), which subsumed FDC (the original implementing agency of
the Rural Investments component) and FIS (Bolivia's Social Investment Fund). The PNC also
established counterpart funding rates to be paid by municipal governments and differentiated by
municipal poverty level. Community counterparts (in cash, labor or kind) were neither demanded
nor accounted for.
   These policy changes, fully supported by the Bank and the donor community in the context of
the PRSP, forced important adjustments to the original project design. Project investment funds,
which in the past could be disbursed through individual subprojects executed by NGOs or a
group of beneficiaries (producer organizations, women's groups, etc.), or NGO Community
Programs, were henceforth to be solely channeled through the municipalities. The local groups
would have to present their demands and participate in municipal planning exercises in order to
be able to receive support from the project. Also FPS became the sole channel through which
funds from the project, and for that matter from all donor-funded projects aimed at municipal
competencies, could be delivered to municipalities. As a result, target outcomes, and outcome
indicators for the project had to be adjusted during the revision of the Credit Agreement.
   Another important change in relation to the scale of the project was the injection of additional
capital of approximately US$ 1.5 million (CHF 2,079,000) it received in 2000 in the form of a
parallel financing grant from the Swiss government. These funds were mostly allocated to the
Institutional Strengthening component, and were directed in particular to support the
"mancomunidades" (associations) of small municipalities (with less than 3,000 inhabitants),
which otherwise could not have participated in the project. As a result, the Institutional
Strengthening component was able to work in 246 municipalities (compared to the original target
of 200). Swiss funds also allowed interventions to support indigenous districts.
   The creation of FPS provided an institutional solution to the closure of FDC as a result
of corruption earlier on. During the second year of implementation of the project, the task team
detected evidence of fraud and corruption within the FDC. This was without a doubt the one
event that had the biggest impact on the project, as it had effects in terms of design, scale,
implementation arrangements, scheduling and funding allocations. The Rural Investments



                                                  5

component of the project was suspended for a period of approximately two years while the
allegations of corruption within the FDC were investigated (which ultimately resulted in a
number of successful prosecutions and convictions). As a result of the Bank's supervision and
investigations, the Government of Bolivia had to refund the Bank approximately US$ 2.77
million of ineligible expenses, and US$ 3.01 million (equivalent to SDR 2.35 million) was
cancelled from the credit for misprocurement arising from fraud and corruption and ineligible
expenditures.
    The project was restructured (without going to the Board) in August 2003. FPS became the
implementing agency for the Rural Investments component, substituting FDC, which was closed
down. Approximately US $3 million from the Rural Investment component were reallocated to
the Institutional Strengthening component, the scope of which was extended to cover the
development of support services for the transparent use and social control of public municipal
resources, as well as technical assistance for municipalities in procurement, and increased
monitoring by VD of FPS. Subcontracting of NGOs, financing of municipal programs and
direct financing of communities and indigenous districts were dropped because of PNC
provisions. The amended and restated Credit Agreement incorporated conditions for FPS to
subcontract the administration of productive investments (e.g. small-scale irrigation systems) to
improve FPS's technical capacity. Finally, the closing date of the credit was extended to June
2006.
   Later on, through Bank support, FPS adopted spot improvement as its overall model for
financing the improvements in rural roads, an innovation that had far-reaching effects for both
the efficiency and efficacy of rural road investments in Bolivia.

7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
7.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

   The project was designed as a follow-on operation to the Rural Communities Development
Project (PDCR I), which had been implemented in Bolivia between January 1996 and July 1998.
   Lessons learnt from this project and from other demand-driven rural development projects
elsewhere were incorporated into the project design. Among the key design options resulting
from experience in PDCR I, the Institutional Strengthening component was designed to operate
on a demand-driven and market-based modality, as compared to a more top-down approach used
in the past. Further, recognizing that local decision-making and capacity-building related to a
variety of other needs and functions, this component was designed to work semi-independently
from the Rural Investments component. The Rural Investments component was designed to scale
up productive investments to provide a better balance to municipalities, which had tended to
concentrate on social investments, in contrast to community demands which placed equal
emphasis on roads and productive investments.
   There were, however, some areas where quality at entry could have been improved. For
instance, contrary to the Bank's overly optimistic forecast assessment for the FY99-03 CAS-
period, the period from mid-1998 turned out to be one of the most difficult Bolivia faced since
the mid-1980s. By the end of 2002, Bolivia was in deep political and social crisis. Economic
growth rates had fallen (averaging 2.46 percent during the four-year period) as a result of crises
in Brazil and Argentina, natural disasters, the effects of eradication of illegal coca production,
social unrest and political paralysis. Several times since 2000 the country or large parts of it
were brought periodically to a standstill, sometimes weeks at a time, and sometimes violently and
resulting in loss of life. Though the extent of the crisis could hardly have been predicted at the
time of appraisal, the country's political history and vulnerability to economic shocks could have


                                                   6

informed better both the Bank's CAS and the project's risk assessment. With the benefit of
hindsight, the exceedingly optimistic economic, political and social outlook at the time of
appraisal led to the selection of a key PDO indicator (Sustained 5% annual increase in economic
growth in 200 municipalities beyond the life of the project) which had little or no chance of being
met.
    A more contentious issue regarding appraisal relates to corruption in FDC. It is noteworthy
that it was recognized by the Bank that FDC had shown a poor implementation record, had
experienced corruption in the past and had a history of political interference. However, FDC had
been restructured and had participated successfully in the Rural Communities Development
Project. In hindsight, the assessment of risks with respect the FDC should have taken more fully
into account the persistence of a political culture that facilitated corruption and the increased
risks arising from scaling-up and decentralizing its operations. While the Bank team recognized
some of these risks and increased its supervision capacity in the field (which ultimately permitted
the detection of fraud and corruption), risks could have been mitigated further by incorporating
more stringent control mechanisms.

7.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status,
and actions taken, as applicable)

    Project implementation was carried out in a period of high institutional, social and political
instability in Bolivia. Between 1999 and 2006, for instance, the Institutional Strengthening
component operated under the administration of six different presidents, ten counterpart
ministers, twelve counterpart vice-ministers and nine national project coordinators. In addition
there were similar changes at the operational level in the prefectures and municipalities. The
project also lived through several changes of key managerial and technical personnel within FPS,
at the central and departmental levels. Yet, there were several factors that allowed the project to
continue working effectively. One of the most important, was the high degree of ownership on
the part of both national government and municipalities, mainly due to the project's role in
helping to implement rural development and decentralization strategies, as well as the continuing
relevance of the project's objectives, as witnessed by the results of local (municipal) plans and
national (PRSP) processes of participatory policy making. In the end, despite its checkered
history, the project either met or surpassed most of its expected outputs (see Annex 4). Crucially,
it successfully scaled up the government's interventions, reaching close to 80% of all Bolivian
municipalities and providing direct benefits to almost 20% of the rural population. Its key
shortcoming arises from uncertainties surrounding the quality of municipalities' operation and
maintenance arrangements.

Rural Investments component
    Component implementation was strongly marked by the consequences of corruption in some
FDC subprojects, initially uncovered in December 2000. Subproject approvals were suspended
for a significant period of time while the corresponding investigations by INTIU took place. A
formal suspension of disbursements came into effect in December 2001 and was lifted in August
2003, causing component implementation to halt completely. During this time, the task team
worked with the government to clean up the subproject portfolio, clarifying the use of funds in
FDC, and working out an alternative institutional arrangement which was put in place through an
Amendment and Restatement of the Credit Agreement. Once the project was amended, the Rural
Investments component suffered further delays until FPS, as new implementing agency for Rural
Investments, met the conditions for lifting the suspension of disbursements and readied itself for
co financing rural development investments. Municipalities in turn took their time to start the


                                                  7

procurement processes once FPS approved their proposed infrastructure subprojects.
Furthermore, there were delays in outsourcing the management of the community productive
investment subprojects. Subcontracting the administration of these subprojects was a condition
introduced in the amendment in order to increase FPS's capacity, improve the quality of its
services and diversify risk. Other arrangements included special audit conditions and the
creation of an internal control unit in FPS, as well as TA for municipal procurement. As a result
of the delays, most investment subprojects were implemented in the last 2 years of the project, as
shown in the disbursement profile, and about US$ 2 million could not be disbursed for on-going
subprojects when the project reached its closing date.
    In spite of these limitations, key factors that contributed to successful implementation in the
end were: i) the introduction of innovations in rural road financing, and ii) the outsourcing of
management of productive subproject financing.
   The adoption of the spot improvement modality for rural roads by FPS allowed for a 57%
drop in unit costs with respect to FDC's interventions (from US$ 10,509 to US$ 4,526 per
kilometer). This innovation alone permitted FPS to co finance a total of 1744 kilometers of rural
roads, with savings of US$ 10.4 million. With the same amount of money, FDC would have
financed only 752 kilometers. Besides lowering unit costs, spot improvements permitted
environmentally-friendly interventions and actually proved to be more effective at ensuring year-
round access than the previous modality of intervention. From this experience, the project has
generated an important body of knowledge, including methodologies for local transportation
planning, model engineering prototypes and software for bridge designing (see Annex 12).
   Outsourcing the management of community irrigation and productive subprojects, through an
international competitive selection process allowed FPS to increase its capacity and improve its
interventions in these types of investments, without encumbering itself with additional
personnel. In spite of delays in the selection process, the selected firm reached its intended
targets, improved FPS's presence in the field, and managed to disburse about US$ 8.5 million,
which arguably FPS would not have managed to do so by itself.
    Due to these innovations, results on the ground were remarkable. The Rural Investments
component co financed a total of 858 subprojects (565 works subprojects and 293 preinvestment
studies) in 226 poor rural municipalities distributed throughout the territory of Bolivia. Works
subprojects reached a total of 838,707 direct beneficiaries (of whom 176,000 benefited from
more than one intervention). Direct beneficiaries represented 19.5% of the population of the
municipalities, 72% of which was identified as indigenous. (No attempt was made to calculate
the number of indirect beneficiaries.) Total IDA disbursements reached US$ 35.9 M, thus
exceeding both the original target (US$ 33M) as well as the amended target (US$ 35.3 M). Total
disbursements for the component (see table below) were slightly short of the PAD target because
new provisions enacted by the National Dialogue Law eliminated community counterpart
requirements and lowered the average municipal counterpart required from the poorest
municipalities.


                                                              (US$ ,000)

            COMPONENTS COSTS                                                     In-kind
           BY SUBPROJECT TYPE              IDA       SWISS     Municipalities  Beneficiaries
                                                                               (Mpalities. +
                                                                                Comms.)*
          1.1 Roads, bridges and other
          municipal infrastructure         22.677           0           4.318          4511

          1.2 Small-scale irrigation        8.268           0           1.294          1024
          1.3 Community productive
          investments                       3.507           0             679




                                                    8

          1.4 Other productive
          (financed from Swiss grant)           0        653            119           202

          1.5 Pre-investment                1.267          0            240
          1.6 Administrative costs          5.314          0               0
          SUB TOTAL                        41.033        653          6.650         5.737
          TOTAL                                                54.073
                   * Estimate



Institutional Strengthening component
   The Institutional Strengthening component played a key role in the implementation of the
government's decentralization reforms; in particular, it was the the main vehicle for strengthening
rural municipalities and social actors, and for promoting rural development investments on the
part of municipal governments. Following in the footsteps of its predecessor (PDCR I), the
project embodied a model of participatory management which set the standard for all operations
in the sector. Its continuing relevance became clear when it was put in charge of facilitating rural
community and small producer group participation in the National Dialogue process (PRSP),
which culminated with the enactment of the LDN. The Amendment and Restatement of the
Credit Agreement allowed the government the chance to adjust the component in order to
accommodate to the LDN. While consolidating and institutionalizing participatory planning, the
focus shifted to participatory implementation and, in keeping with the mandates of the LDN,
greater emphasis was placed on municipal government accountability and social control. The
project designed and validated methodologies which formed the basis for government
intervention in several areas. Key innovations designed by the project and introduced after the
amendment included support to:

    · individual technical assistants on long term municipal contracts (on a steeply declining
        basis) aimed at improving implementation capacity, 44% of whom have stayed on as
        municipal personnel after project closing;
    · the provision of formal (degree) training by universities to mayors, councilors and
        community leaders in municipal management and development;
    · processes of participatory evaluation and adjustment of municipal plans;
    · processes of participatory transportation planning, incorporating solid technical criteria
        for prioritizing activities, and including operation and maintenance arrangements;
    · social control activities at both the municipal level (focusing on the provision of adequate
        information, Vigilance Committees, budget monitoring) and the investment level
        (focusing on community involvement in controlling adequate execution of subprojects);
    · participatory planning in indigenous territories, including recently titled Tierras
        Comunitarias de Origen;
    · municipal associations (mancomunidades) of very small municipalities to formulate and
        implement local development plans for wider regions and with the participation of all
        economic actors; and
    · on-demand short-term technical assistance to municipal governments in administration,
        planning and implementation.

   Outputs were either met or surpassed in all activities (see Annex 4), and were held in high
regard by beneficiaries (see Annexes 8 and 9). The component reached a total of 246 poor, rural
municipalities (76% of all the municipalities in Bolivia). Tens of thousands of people
participated in participatory planning or social control activities. More than 28,000 benefited
directly from non-formal training in 483 workshops, of which 84 were on gender issues. Almost


                                                   9

3,400 individuals (mayors, councilors, municipal technicians and community leaders)
participated in 10-month long programs of formal training imparted by 10 universities. Given the
breadth and scope of this component, a thorough process of systematization, carried out towards
the end of the project with the participation of mayors, councilors and community leaders
generated a wealth of socially-agreed lessons. As a result, an important body of methodological
knowledge has been generated, which will serve to inform policy making and to improve the
quality of interventions in the future by all levels of government and the donor community (see
Annex 12).

Effect of cancellations

    Final disbursements were close to the PAD estimates. The apparent contradiction between
cancellations and disbursements is explained by the accumulation of project savings due to
exchange rate fluctuations. Thus, though cancellations added up to 11.18% of the signed amount
in SDR (12.26% in US$ equivalent at the exchange rate prevailing at the end of the grace period),
the project disbursed a total of approximately US$ 58.3 million of the IDA credit; that is, a
shortfall of only 7% of the original allocation. Further, total disbursements (including
counterparts and co financing) added up to 96% of the PAD estimate, mainly because
government counterpart contributions added to more than double the PAD estimate (see Annex 3
for a detailed breakdown). The effect of cancellations on outputs was also diminished by
improvements in cost-effectiveness, particularly the introduction of spot improvements for rural
roads. Absent this innovation, the project would have had to disburse a total of US$ 94.2 million,
equivalent to 108% of the total cost estimated in the PAD, just to obtain the same level of
outputs. Additional, though smaller, cost-savings accrued from improvements in the cost-
effectiveness of interventions in bridges and irrigation, particularly if compared to average costs
for Bolivia as a whole, as determined by government benchmarks (see Section 8.3 and Annex 5).

7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

   The monitoring of the project, as foreseen at the time of appraisal, was based on two different
and independent information systems. The first one was inherited by the project from PDCR I
and had been created by FDC and VMPPFM, and the second one was designed at the beginning
of the project to capture and process data from a selected representative sample of 30
municipalities served by the project, including a baseline with variables directly related to the
project's expected outcomes.
   It can be said that the first information system worked adequately to guarantee monitoring
physical and financial progress of investment subprojects and strengthening contracts, but it did
not provide relevant information to show the level of achievement of outcome indicators for both
components.
    The second one, designed to measure impacts, started to be implemented two years after the
beginning of the project, but stopped at the gathering of data for the elaboration of the base line
when the National Government (in the context of the PRSP, and with Bank advice) decided that
the county would have only one official municipal information system to monitor the evolution
of poverty. This system was thus shut down, though the alternative was never put in place.
Perhaps one of the reasons why the implementation of the information system contemplated in
the design started late was the fact that during the 1999-2004 period only 22% of the total
subprojects (excluding the pre-investment contracts) were implemented by the project. The
remaining 78% were finished during 2005 and 2006.
   Undoubtedly, the lack of the second information system and the limitations of the first one
explain the shortcomings in monitoring outcomes by the project, a fact that was always noted by


                                                  10

supervision missions.
    It is important to note that the chosen project indicators may have negatively influenced the
monitoring process. First, the key PDO indicator, besides being overly optimistic, should have
been placed rather at the level of the CAS objective, and was in any case impossible to measure.
Second, the PAD did not contemplate outcome indicators for the Institutional Strengthening at
the PDO level, even though this component aimed at outcomes that could not be reduced to the
investment-related objectives. Finally, there was an imbalance between the high level of detail
contained in the input and output indicators for the Institutional Strengthening component and the
low level required by those for the Rural Investments component. Many of the indicators were
too complicated and referred to 200 municipalities, and thus could not have been obtained from a
sample of 30 municipalities.
  In summary, the M&E system served to ensure good levels of physical execution and
disbursements, but it contributed little to measure or evaluate the outcomes or impact of the
project.
    The aforementioned shortcomings notably diminished the possibilities of efficient M&E, and
made it necessary to contract special consultancies to obtain some of the required information for
the closing of the project.

7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

Fiduciary issues
    Initially, although financial management arrangements within VMPPFM and the Vice-
Ministry of Rural Development were found acceptable, overall project fiduciary performance
was seriously affected by the deficiencies found in FDC. Some of those issues were related to a
weak internal control environment that among other things not only permitted the inadequate use
of credit funds, but was also marked by fraudulent practices in procurement and disbursement
processes. This situation was worsened by the deficiencies in accounting records and lack of
capacity to deliver acceptable audited financial statements, even for the first year. In view of this
situation, specific supervision and control measures, both within the entity and from the Bank,
were adopted. Extensive field supervision and specialized reviews (INTIU investigations) carried
out by the Bank, ended up showing fraud and corruption as well as other ineligible expenditures.
    FDC was not able to overcome the series of deficiencies described above and therefore, due to
the limitations in the scope, the auditors were not able to provide an opinion on the project's
financial information (CY 1999, 2000 and 2001). On an exceptional basis, for the final FDC
audit, the Bank agreed with the Bolivian Government to conduct an Agreed-Upon Procedures
review on 100% of project expenditures to ensure their compliance with minimum eligibility
criteria. This review did not report any other ineligible expenditure.
   For the Amendment and Restatement of the Credit Agreement, lessons learned from past
performance led the Bank to work and agree with the Bolivian government on specific fiduciary
arrangements for the implementation of the investments component under FPS. Some of the
actions taken included:
·           A financial management assessment of FPS that resulted in a time-bound action plan
to: i) strengthen its internal control environment; ii) establish specific processes and procedures;
iii) implement a Project Administration System (SAP) and the Government's integrated financial
management system (SIGMA); iv) the use of the Single Treasury Account; v) completion and
strengthening of the deconcentration process; and vi) the provision of training to its recently
institutionalized staff.




                                                 11

·          Specially tailored audit TORs were also defined and agreed with the government.
These included: quarterly reviews which, beyond a financial revision were expected to perform
an integrated review of investment subprojects on a sample basis, following the subproject cycle
defined in the Operational Manual adopted by FPS. This review was complemented by the
physical inspection of the civil works financed with project proceeds to ensure compliance with
technical specifications and consistency between financial and physical progress.
   The above mentioned mechanisms and supervision by the task team revealed that, during the
second year, FPS had weakened its control environment, especially at the departmental level, and
had eliminated some controls in the information system. As a result the Bank agreed on a time-
bound action plan, including the implementation of a specialized control team, and the financing
of specialized consultants to reinstate the controls in the system. At the same time the ineligible
expenditures identified by the Bank and audit reports were refunded by the entity.
   The results of the arrangements described above, strengthened as needed during the last year
of project implementation, allowed FPS to satisfactorily comply with the Bank's fiduciary
requirements, including the timely submission of unqualified audit reports.
   On its side the Institutional Strengthening Component also required additional supervision and
the implementation of corrective action plans in order to overcome some reporting deficiencies
identified, mainly, at the departmental level.

Safeguards compliance
    There were short-lived compliance problems with respect to Environmental Assessment (OP
4.01). Failures to apply environmental guidelines were detected between June and December of
2001. They were a reflection of FDC's institutional culture, and the general disregard for the
importance of environmental safeguards.
   However, upon identification swift corrective action was taken and the environmental
guidelines were effectively applied since then. The Environmental Management Guidelines
developed at preparation were incorporated into FPS's Operational Manual and applied
effectively to the investment program, as well as to investments financed by other Bank and non-
Bank projects. A Bank Environment Specialist supported supervision efforts and an FPS
Environment Specialist managed the monitoring program. Supervision missions conducted
reviews of the effectiveness of clearance procedures and undertook spot-checks of projects in the
field, including with respect to prohibitions concerning national parks and other sensitive
habitats. The introduction of spot improvement as the modality of intervention in rural roads
contributed significantly to reduce the likelihood of negative environmental impacts.

7.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed
by present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and
institutional capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

Rural investments

   The project did not develop a systematic approach to ensure the post-completion operation
and maintenance of the rural investments it financed. As a condition to approve co financing for
municipalities, both FDC and FPS signed agreements with local governments whereby they
committed themselves to adequately maintain the provided infrastructure; however, neither FPS
nor any other agency of the borrower monitored compliance and no enforcement mechanism
exists. During the last two years of project implementation, when the bulk of the investment
funds were disbursed, the project attempted to raise awareness and concern in the municipalities



                                                 12

and communities on the need to secure the post-project operation and maintenance of the
investments. For example, maintenance manuals for small-scale irrigation systems were prepared
and transferred to beneficiaries. Transportation planning exercises carried out in 132
municipalities ensured that all local actors visualize the scale of their road networks and the
corresponding maintenance burden. In close to 50 municipalities the project organized pilot
experiences in operation and maintenance through micro-enterprises, maintenance committees
and community maintenance activities. However, the project could not provide post-
investment technical assistance, follow-up training, or financial resources to help municipalities
to establish institutional and budgetary provisions for operation and maintenance.
   In spite of this absence of formal arrangements, the likelihood that the financed investments
will be maintained is raised by the fact that ownership of executed investments is high, as a result
of: (i) the level of involvement of communities in selecting them; (ii) the perceived importance of
the selected priorities; and (iii) the local cost incurred by municipalities and communities in
executing the investments. In addition, since 1996 municipalities are receiving extra funding,
derived from hydrocarbon taxes and royalties, increasing the availability of resources for
maintenance. Routine maintenance will most likely be provided by communities in the case of
community roads and irrigation infrastructure, as is the custom nowadays. However, without the
proper interventions for maintenance, both in financial and technical terms, and the participation
of the beneficiaries, these may deteriorate in the future. In the case of roads and bridges, both the
estimation of maintenance costs in the ex-ante evaluations and the budgetary allocations by
municipalities to face these tasks is evidently low. This situation has shifted part of the burden of
maintenance on to the beneficiaries, who have made bigger efforts, albeit insufficient, to cover
the needs.
    Operation and maintenance is not a project issue alone and will require broader policy
interventions in the future. The main concern comes from the overall level of municipal
infrastructure investments, the stock of which has been growing since the enactment of the LPP.
Since the lack of incentives for proper O&M is related to the system of financial transfers from
the national government, its involvement in establishing a more adequate framework should be a
key priority in the near future. For example, additional transfers to municipalities from
hydrocarbon revenues could either be conditioned or earmarked to attain this objective. The
follow on operation will work with line ministries (particularly in charge of roads and
irrigation) to improve the rules and incentives for proper operation and maintenance. The
performance indicators by which this will be evaluated in the future include: i) municipal
budgetary allocations for routine maintenance relative to the stock of infrastructure; and
ii) existence of appropriate institutional arrangements for operation and maintenance. An
evaluation of impact and sustainability of investments could be carried out for the mid-term
review of the follow on project.

Institutional strengthening

    At the level of municipal capacity, the Institutional Strengthening component introduced
some key innovations which point to enhanced sustainability; many of these have been replicated
by other donor-financed projects. The project allowed the Government to move from a supply-
driven, central-government managed system of municipal strengthening to a demand-driven,
market-based, locally-managed modality. Municipal governments learned to define their needs
and to obtain adequate assistance from the market. The effect of this shift can be witnessed in the
astounding growth in the available supply of firms, NGOs and individuals selling services to
rural municipalities. In addition, about half of the individual technical assistants which were
financed by the project have been incorporated as regular municipal staff, thus ensuring the
maintenance of technical capacity in-house. Finally, the project's decision to utilize public and



                                                    13

private universities to provide formal training to municipal authorities, technical staff and
community leaders permitted universities to learn about municipal problems and to acquire
capacities to impart training to variegated actors. This in turn permitted these institutions to both
incorporate municipal issues into their regular curricula and to expand their offer to local actors
beyond the life of the project. Capacity building at the municipal level (as at other levels of
government) is still restricted by the lack of a stable civil service which can be insulated from
political changes resulting from elections or changes in authorities.
   At the departmental level, the accumulated experience and actions of the project were
gradually transferred to the Prefectures, some of which have carried on providing some services
with departmental resources, such as technical assistance in the Departments of Santa Cruz,
Pando and Tarija; follow-up and monitoring of some services provided by the project in the
Department of La Paz to evaluate the project's impact level; and the identification the demand at
the municipal level to elaborate development strategies for the Department of Beni.
   The accumulated experience is being disseminated in the form of publications delivered to
municipal actors, international cooperation organizations, and ministries and vice- ministries. The
project's experience in Institutional Strengthening, covering a wide range of topics (from
financial administration to indigenous territorial planning) has been systematized. Methodologies
and lessons learned produced by the project are being made available at various internet sites
linked to municipal and rural development.
   On the basis of the project outcomes, a follow-on operation has been requested by the
government and is under preparation. This new project would be supported by two pillars, which
are Institutional Strengthening and Productive Investments, and would incorporate lessons learnt,
such as private sector service provision, high levels of local counterpart financing for
sustainability, incorporating O&M activities into the design of subprojects and co financing, and
enhancing participation through inclusive strategies for traditionally marginalized actors.

8. Assessment of Outcomes
8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

   The project's objectives, design and implementation are consistent with the current
government's priorities, as reflected by the request to finance a follow on operation. The project
is well-aligned with the government's National Development Plan (PND), which places great
emphasis on spreading the sources of growth to, and increasing the incomes of, the rural and
indigenous populations. The PND's Economic strategy aims to improve the opportunities of
small producers; its Socio-communitarian strategy relies on improving capacities and assets of
poor communities, and on strengthening social participation in the allocation of expenditures and
in community control over the proper use of public funds; its Decentralization strategy aims at
coordinating local investments by all levels of government. These strategies reflect quite closely
the objectives and design of the project. The project's model of simultaneous intervention in both
the demand and the supply sides of governance and investment have shown that investments and
services can be efficiently targeted at the poorest people in the rural areas, and can serve to
empower social organizations in order to improve their members' livelihoods.
   The follow-on operation has been included in the Bank's Interim Strategy for Bolivia (ISN), as
part of the Fostering Jobs Through Growth strategic area. It is also envisioned as an instrument
for improving local governance.




                                                  14

8.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details
on outputs in Annex 4)

    Given the broad nature of the PDO statement ("economic development of rural municipalities
and communities"), and due to the intrinsic difficulties and pertinence of measuring the project's
performance against its key indicator ("sustained 5% annual increase in economic growth..."),
the assessment of achievement of project objectives relies on breaking up the PDO statement into
its constituent parts, namely: i) the creation of productive investments; ii) the sustainability of
these investments; and iii) the participatory aspects of demand generation.

Productive investments
    An examination of productive investments in terms of their number and value, their economic
benefits, as well as the wider effects of the project on the overall municipal investment program,
shows that the project has achieved its intended outcomes:
    · The project financed a total of 858 subprojects with a total value of more than US$ 54
        million. All the funds were allocated to productive investments. Rural roads, vehicular
        bridges, pedestrian bridges and irrigation account for nearly 90% of total investments;
        the remainder covers a range of community subprojects in agriculture, fishing,
        handicrafts and natural resource management. The introduction of the spot improvement
        modality for rural roads in FPS permitted cost savings of US$ 10.4 M, while increasing
        the physical outputs by more than 60% (from 1480 km. to 2372 km.) in relation to the
        original FDC estimates. Unit cost savings in bridge construction and irrigation ranged
        from 29 % to 55%. Thus, in term of outputs and value, the project exceeded PAD
        expectations.
    · Another key target exceeded by the project was to raise the number of subprojects with
        positive economic and financial returns to 80%. In 1988, while the project was under
        preparation, only 50% of FDC's subprojects achieved positive returns. According to the
        impact evaluation of FPS's investments, carried out by an independent firm under the
        guidance of FAO-CP (FPS. Evaluación de Impacto del Componente de Inversiones
        Rurales del PDCR II), 91% of financed subprojects achieved positive rates of return
        (economic and financial). Results differed by type of project: 97 % of rural road
        improvements and bridge construction subprojects achieved positive rates, while 78% of
        the small-scale irrigation and productive support subprojects showed positive indicators
        (see Section 8.3 and Annex 5).
    · Finally, the project's impact on rural municipalities' overall investment program was also
        crucial. The target stated in the PAD was a "sustained 5% annual increase in standard
        quality productive investments (included in Municipal Development Plans) implemented
        and maintained in 200 poor municipalities starting in the year 2000." As the quality of
        productive investments could not be verified, this indicator was measured by the total
        amount of the municipal investment budget dedicated to productive investments. In the
        156 municipalities that provided data on the execution of their Annual Operative Plans
        between 2000 and 2005, annual average growth in productive investments was 7.68 % in
        real terms, well above target. The project played a key role in this outcome, as activities
        in the Institutional Strengthening component were geared at formulating and
        implementing participatory municipal plans (PDM). Specific lines of action which
        aimed directly at this outcome were: i) PDM formulation and adjustment; ii)
        participatory budgeting; iii) municipal road planning; iv) social control activities to
        ensure correspondence between planning and budgets; v) municipal technical assistants;


                                                  15

         and vi) elaboration of investment profiles and preinvestment studies.

Sustainable investments
   Stated in the PDO in general terms, sustainability was designed and operationalized in the
project solely along its social and environmental dimensions. The project did not aim to
institutionalize operation and maintenance systematically, assuming that municipalities would
take on the responsibility by themselves. As sustainability cannot be verified along all its
constituent dimensions, the ICR team concluded that this outcome was partially unsatisfactory.
Sustainability issues encompass the following:
     · Social sustainability is provided by the model of participatory demand generation and
         management (see below). Environmental sustainability was ensured through the
         application of effective procedures and instruments for subproject identification, ex ante
         evaluation, and construction. The effectiveness of these procedures has been verified in
         the field by both the Task team and by an independent consultant (see FPS. Evaluación
         de Impacto del Componente de Inversiones Rurales del PDCR II).
    · The main shortcomings in sustainability lie in the paucity of established formal
         mechanisms for ensuring appropriate operation and maintenance (O&M). Irrigation and
         production subprojects (about 33% of investment costs) provide direct benefits to
         communities and producers, and are more likely to be maintained over the long run by
         beneficiaries themselves. The project supplied maintenance manuals and technical
         assistance during the construction phase to help producers organize operation and
         maintenance. Roads and bridges (about 67% of investment costs) require clearer
         institutional mechanisms, including budgetary allocations on the part of municipalities,
         maintenance contracts and/or work-sharing agreements with communities. As a
         condition to approve subproject co financing, both FDC and FPS demanded that
         municipalities commit themselves in writing to properly maintain the infrastructure
         during the operation phase. However, neither FPS nor line agencies follow up
         compliance. The project supported the formulation of participatory road plans in 152
         municipalities, including pilot maintenance activities carried out through community
         labor or micro-enterprises. Of the 23 maintenance micro-enterprises organized by the
         project, only 8 were operating at project closing, as were 24 of the 47 maintenance
         committees, and 31 of the 61 community maintenance activities.
    · Experience in the field shows that municipalities and communities will provide some
         minimum level of routine maintenance, but will mostly intervene to fix problems when
         these occur, in particular if the infrastructure has been identified by communities
         themselves and if their benefits are readily appreciated by them. Thus, the absence of
         systematic routine maintenance may diminish the lifespan of some of the financed
         subprojects but it is not expected to do so to a disastrous extent. Since 2006, all
         municipalities receive additional transfers from the central government's hydrocarbon
         taxes as well as from royalties. This additional stream of resources can be readily
         directed in the future to fulfill, at least partly, the needs of municipal O&M.

Participatory demand generation
   All the investment subprojects financed by the project were based on local demand generated
through participatory processes. The project went well beyond participatory demand generation
and its effects were felt in the whole institutional structure dedicated to rural development. It was,
without doubt, the government's key instrument in developing and consolidating a model of
participatory management at the local level in rural municipalities:
     · Technical assistance to formulate, adjust and improve participatory planning, budgeting,
         implementation and social control reached the poorest 246 municipalities in Bolivia,



                                                     16

         close to 80% of all rural municipalities and 23% above the PAD target.
    · The project designed, validated and implemented a range of methodologies to improve
        participation in local development, including: participatory Municipal Development
        Plans (PDM), participatory evaluation and adjustment of PDMs, participatory municipal
        road planning, Indigenous Territorial Planning, social control of budget execution, and
        community oversight of investment projects. These interventions set the standards for
        other government and donor-funded projects in Bolivia, and provided instruments for
        local communities to identify, prioritize and even implement an estimated 60% of all
        municipal investments in rural areas.
    · The project also helped municipalities to increase their capacities to respond to
        participatory demand generation, by improving capacities to implement annual operating
        plans. The target established in the PAD for this indicator was an increase from 63% to
        80% in the 200 project municipalities. By 2005, the average reached 76%, a small
        shortfall vis-à-vis the PAD target, but still a significant improvement, especially
        considering the fact that total municipal incomes grew by 30.25% in real terms in the
        period under consideration. The ICR team considers that the project also played an
        important role in achieving this outcome. Key project interventions that increased
        municipal government capacities include: (i) implementation of municipal administrative
        systems; (ii) formal training of mayors, councilmen, and local technicians in municipal
        management; (iii) non-formal training in municipal administration, project management
        and financing; and (iv) co financing technical assistants in administration, planning and
        project management.
    · Finally, the project enshrined the requirement that all investments co financed under the
        National Compensation Policy be identified through participatory PDMs. This had an
        impact over all FPS investments, regardless of the source of financing, and adding to
        close to US$ 200 million.

8.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms,
least cost, and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

The financial and economic analysis of the project applied the cost-benefit and cost-efficiency
approaches.

Cost-Benefit approach
   Two different types of economic analysis were done with the cost-benefit approach: (a) for the
4 models or types of infrastructure subprojects implemented by the project (i.e. rural roads,
vehicular bridges, pedestrian bridges and small-scale irrigation), which represent nearly 90% of
total investment; and (b) for the whole project.

Economic and financial analysis by subproject type. The economic and financial results obtained
for each of the subprojects considered in the simulation are satisfactory. They have an EIRR and
a FIRR greater than 12.7 % y 10.1 %, which are the opportunity costs (economic and financial)
considered in the evaluation.

                                           ENPV              %           FNPV          %
             Type of Subproject             US$            EIRR          US$         FIRR

       Improvement of rural roads          65,026           26.0        55,775        25.1
       Vehicular bridges                   88,782           30.5        87,770        31.0



                                                 17

      Pedestrian bridges                       88,782            30.5          87,770             31.0
      Small-scale irrigation                   95,595            36.5          92,299             34.6


Economic analysis of the overall project. In order to do the economic analysis of the project the
results of the 565 works subprojects (improvement of rural roads, vehicular and pedestrian
bridges and small-scale irrigation systems) implemented between 1999 and 2006 were all
aggregated. By doing so, the economic internal rate of return (EIRR) of the overall project came
to 28.8 % and the net present value of the stream of economic revenues (ENPV) was US $21.98
million.

Cost Efficiency approach
   The results for all evaluated cases were positive. The project provided services of a quality
equivalent to that of the selected benchmarks, but at a substantially lower cost.

                                      Project VIPFE          %      Cost/Family Cost/Family            %
            Subproject type             Unit      Unit      Diff.     Project           VIPFE         Diff.
                                       Cost*    Cost**
     Improvement of roads              3,650     9,927      - 63         178             413           - 57

     Construction of bridges           2,208     2,470      - 11         154             217           - 29
     Small-scale irrigation            1,873     2,466      - 24        1.116            2,497         -55

*For roads the unit used is kilometer, for bridges it is meters and for small-scale irrigation it is hectares.
**The Vice-Ministry of Public Investment and External Financing (VIPFE) parameters are an average
between its established minimum and maximum costs.

Comparison to the PAD analysis
   The analysis in the PAD yielded an EIRR of 37 % and a ENPV of US$ 138.86 million, while
the economic evaluation made for the ICR yielded a EIRR of 28.8 % and a ENPV of US $21.98
million. The resulting differences are not due to a lower economic performance of the project
with respect to what was expected in the PAD, but to the use of different methodologies. For the
appraisal, the cost-benefit approach was used, but for all the types of subprojects the incremental
revenues and costs included the revenues and costs of the beneficiary farms. For the ICR the
same approach was used, but the incremental economic and financial benefits were estimated on
the basis of: (a) for roads and bridges, the reduction of time and the reduction of transportation
costs for families and transport-sector beneficiaries; (b) for small-scale irrigation, the increment
in production value that beneficiary families would have. The methodology used for the ICR is
widely used by the Bank to evaluate rural infrastructure projects around the world, and yields
more realistic results. Furthermore the basic data required is easier to obtain and normally is
more reliable. The PAD does not include any indicators using the cost-efficiency approach. It
only highlights, in the conclusions of Annex 4, some maximum values for the improvement of
roads and their operation and maintenance.

Sensitivity analysis
   The period of time considered in both the economic and financial analyses has been 20 years.
If we halve this period to 10 years, in order to account for possible maintenance failure, both the
EIRR and the FIRR would barely be affected. If we apply the extreme hypothesis that no
maintenance will be carried out and the operational life of all works is, as a consequence, reduced
to 5 years, the EIRR for the whole project would be reduced from 28.8% to 11.9% and the ENPV
from USD 22.0 M to USD -40.2 M. The latter scenario, though is highly unlikely and is only
included here for illustrative purposes.


                                                       18

8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Achievement of Objectives
   The analysis dispensed with the notion that the project, by itself, should have generated a 5%
annual increase in economic growth in 200 municipalities. A performance indicator of this
nature should not have been selected to measure the project's performance, as the project itself
could only have a minor influence in the economic performance of the municipalities. Also,
since municipal growth rates are not calculated by any agency in Bolivia, the indicator cannot be
measured. For these reasons this particular indicator was not considered appropriate by the ICR
team, and is not discussed any further. Assessment of achievement of objectives was done on the
basis of breaking up the PDO statement into its constituent parts, yielding the following
satisfactory results:

1) The project exceeded its expected investment outcomes in terms of number of subprojects and
physical outputs, and came short in the total amount invested. The project improved the results
of Bolivia's investment program by raising the proportion of subprojects with positive economic
returns well above the intended target. Finally, the project helped municipalities raise the
proportion of their investment programs dedicated to productive investments at a rate higher than
the PAD target. Overall, the project successfully scaled up productive investments, thus
improving the balance between participatory demand and municipal implementation.

2) The project experienced shortcomings in establishing institutional and budgetary arrangements
to ensure sustainability of the investments. Though social and environmental sustainability were
properly addressed, the project, with the exception of pilot experiences carried out in the
framework of road planning, did not generate a systematic approach for O&M. This is an issue
which, due to its systemic nature, will need to be addressed through sector policies in the near
future, some of which will be supported by the follow on project.

3) Not only did the project generate all its demand through local participatory processes, it
became the government's key vehicle for institutionalizing a model of participatory
implementation in rural municipalities. The breadth and scope of activities promoting
participation, from identification to evaluation, was matched by the project's work at the level of
supply, at both the national level (FPS and VD) and the local level (municipalities and
prefectures).

4) The project's institutional strengthening component worked in 246 municipalities, 23 % more
than the PAD target; its investment program generated direct benefits for more than 800,000
people (of whom 176,000 benefited from more than one intervention). Direct beneficiaries
constituted 19.5% of the population of these municipalities, 72% of which was identified as
indigenous.

Efficiency
    The project achieved high levels of efficiency. The aggregated result for 565 subprojects
yielded an economic rate of return of 28.8 % and a net present value of US$ 22 million. This
compares favorably to the PAD's analysis. The project also introduced innovations in road
improvements, bridge construction and irrigation which dramatically reduced unit costs with the



                                                  19

consequent gains in cost-efficiency. In particular, the introduction of spot improvements allowed
the project to increase its outputs by more than 60 % while at the same time improving year-
round accessibility and minimizing environmental impacts. Besides economic benefits,
beneficiaries stressed the significant improvements in accessibility to health and education
services, and the diminished risk to life from river crossings.

Relevance
    The project objectives have become even more relevant at present, as witnessed by their
similarity to key government objectives as stated in the National Development Plan. Government
has requested a follow on project, which has been included in the Bank Group's ISN and is under
preparation at present.

Overall Outcome Rating
    Based on the assessment, the ICR team concludes that, except for the important shortcomings
in proving the sustainability of investments, the project has achieved its objectives, its efficiency
and its relevance with only minor shortcomings. In conclusion, the Outcome is rated as
Moderately Satisfactory.

8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Poverty Impacts
    Although the initial target population at the onset of the project was the inhabitants of 200
municipalities, the project worked in 246 municipalities. The annual rate of poverty reduction of
rural areas has been estimated at 0.51% during the 1994-2004 periods.
    Based on the economic analysis, the positive impact on the direct beneficiaries was high.
Although the impact of the transport subprojects was accounted to accrue directly to the direct
beneficiaries in terms of time and cost saving, as the beneficiary assessment showed, they also
improved the access of marginalized communities to health and education services, and reduced
accessibility risks (river crossings, unusable roads during rainy periods).

Gender Aspects and Social Development
    During the last decade there have been advances and improvements regarding gender aspects
in the Bolivian legislation, mainly in terms of participation and representation of women in
public policies. Nevertheless, in practice, the political participation of women is still weak, as a
result of discrimination and political violence, mainly in the rural areas. Thus, significant efforts
are still needed to ensure equitable and free participation of women in public institutions.
     The project worked on this issue through the Institutional Strengthening component. It
promoted the participation of women in the formal and informal training activities, surpassing
initial targets. The VDADM had foreseen providing formal training for 2,500 people, of which
500 were women. At project closing this target had been surpassed. Of a total of 3,392 people
participating in formal training, 993 were women. With respect to informal training in
municipalities and communities, the VDADM had programmed 150 events, of which 15 were
specifically targeted for women. At project closing 483 informal training events had been carried
out, of which 184 were on gender issues.
     The main achievement of the project with respect to the indigenous population was the
support to indigenous districts. This service concluded with 16 indigenous territorial management
plans (PGTIs) for 16 TCOs (Tierras Comunitarias de Origen) located in the highlands and


                                                  20

lowlands, and 20 statutes formulated for their formal functioning. The territorial planning
approach was implemented taking into account the cultures of the communities involved. This
pioneering experience was discussed in two national workshops and a methodological guide was
elaborated in order to facilitate replication by other institutions and future Bank interventions.


(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional
development)

   The reality and context of the municipalities and of the Bolivian rural areas has radically
changed during the last decade. The institutional culture and capacity generated by the project in
Bolivia's rural context can be considered one if its main achievements.
    The project's main impacts and effects on institutional development were reached at the
municipal level. A key success factor for the institutional strengthening in the municipalities
and communities were the application of a demand-driven approach to collect and incorporate the
communities' needs through the implementation of participatory planning processes (PDMs,
PDM adjustments, rural road planning), as well as strengthening the capacities of civil society
actors to monitor public expenditures and the execution of investments. The project
was instrumental in consolidating a demand-driven, market-based and locally- managed model of
institutional strengthening for municipalities. This approach, emulated by many other donor-
funded projects, helped to replace the top-down assessment of municipal needs and nationally-
controlled provision of technical assistance and training which characterized previous efforts.
The effects can be seen in the thousands of individuals and small consulting firms which today
sell their services in the rural areas, a marked difference with respect to the situation before the
project.
    At the departmental level, the project worked through "operational units" embedded in the
prefectural structures. Learning from previous experiences the project only carried out prefectural
institutional strengthening activities in those prefectures where the prefects were willing to make
a formal commitment to the project's model of locally driven capacity building and where the
prefecture was willing to participate with counterpart funds. These operational units were the
backbone of field implementation and constituted the main vehicle for prefectural activities in
municipal strengthening.
    At the national level the project strongly supported i) the development of a municipal
planning policy focused on participation and results; ii) provided the government with the
opportunity to implement a rural investment program at national level; and iii) created capacity to
implement the current policies through participatory methods.
    The project facilitated the conceptualization of the National Dialogue Law and the Bolivian
Poverty Reduction Strategy, supporting a process that generated open and participative spaces for
the discussion of public policy, a process which introduced pro-poor distributive measures via the
distribution formula of HIPC resources and the national compensation policy (PNC).


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

   Another significant contribution of the project was in the area of municipal management
systems, particularly in accounting. Before the project there was no national system for municipal
accounting; thus each municipality had to develop its own accounting tools, and it was
impossible to consolidate the information at the national level.
    The implementation of the SINCOM (Integrated Municipal Accounting System) software
was an expected mid-term outcome of the project, which was achieved in the selected



                                                  21

municipalities. Project support for SINCOM was suspended after the Ministry of Finance decided
to implement a different (and also Bank-financed) system instead (SIGMA). SIGMA never
reached beyond the national government and a handful of urban municipalities. What was
unintended and unexpected was the fact that due to its functionality, user-friendliness and
adequacy with respect the needs and capacities of the rural municipalities, the vast majority of
these adopted SINCOM without any project intervention.
    The use of the spot improvement approach for rural roads was a truly timely contribution to
the Bolivian rural context, characterized by low volumes of traffic and difficult topography. The
use of this approach generated great cost savings, diminished environmental impacts and
established an efficient, needs-based response to individual cases, well beyond expectations.
    The formal training given by Bolivian universities within the context of the project reached
further results than those originally expected. The project was instrumental in creating a
previously non-existent link between the universities and the municipalities. The universities
found new areas to incorporate in their curricula, and new audience for their courses, degree
programs and public outreach. For the "new" students, mostly rural and indigenous, the fact of
having access to higher level education was not only highly relevant from the point of view of
knowledge acquisition, but it also had positive effects on their confidence and self-esteem.

8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

    The following is a summary of the main findings of various consultation workshops
undertaken at municipal, departmental and national level on the Institutional Strengthening
component and the Rural Investments component (see, in Annex 12, publications issued by the
Viceministry of Decentralization).
Institutional Strengthening Component
    Participatory planning turned out to be one of the best tools for the social inclusion of
marginalized groups that traditionally kept outside the public institutions and government
framework, increasing their participation capacity in the definition of local development
policies, and in identifying and including their priority needs in the municipal plans.

    · Technical Assistance. The achievements of the technical assistance services have been
         many and the impact on municipal management high. Local authorities perceive that the
         main results and impacts included: i) improvements in technical and financial capacity of
         the municipality, as well as in the efficacy and savings in municipal management; ii) in
         most cases the expectations stated in the respective terms of reference were surpassed;
         iii) improvements in the municipal capacity to attract more funding.
    · Rural Road Project Management. The usefulness and relevance of the assistance in
         subproject management was defined as satisfactory, being more successful in the smaller
         municipalities with a smaller road network, as the same budget was allocated to each
         municipality for the formulation of the road plans. The advantages of the road plans
         have been well appreciated by the beneficiaries. These include: i) their integration in the
         annual operational plans improves the transparency of priority-setting for transportation,
         contributing to consolidate good governance; ii) it provides a financial management
         instrument so the municipalities have better possibilities of securing additional funding;
         iii) the population considered that the methodology for the setting of priorities for road
         projects was adequate. It was seen as favorable that the methodology combines various
         criteria, assigning a relative weight to each in accordance to the municipality's reality.
    · Training. The biggest achievement of the training services was to have developed an
         integrated, formal training program for municipal management, responding to key


                                                   22

        municipal demands. The program generated academic knowledge, strengthened key
        local actors, improved performance of municipal competences, and thus improved
        governance. It has also improved the self-esteem and respect amongst beneficiaries.

Rural Investment component

    · Spot improvement. One of the main project contributions was the development and
        application of the spot improvement approach for rural roads. Many municipal
        governments valued this initiative due to the following: i) lower maintenance costs, as it
        becomes easier to react timely to the detected road problem, and solutions don't usually
        require heavy machinery. The accumulated experiences have allowed the verification of
        savings in road maintenance of about 50%; ii) employment generation, through the use
        of trained and organized local labor in activities that complement the peasant economies
        during post harvest and post planting, allowing for better family income; iii) energizing
        the local economy, given that the expenses by the municipal government on road
        conservation works circulates and is spent in the municipal territory; iv) environmental
        conservation: use of local labor and materials and timely and effective attention to
        drainage problems, allow for low environmental impact.
    · Operation and Maintenance. The following are the main results and reflections derived
        from pilot experiences on maintenance and conservation of rural roads with community
        labor on over 50 municipalities on various regions of the country and with different
        community organizational systems: i) it was detected that municipal governments lack
        municipal policies or programs with respect to community road maintenance. Although
        there are some resources available in the municipalities for road maintenance and
        improvement, these are not efficiently used; ii) experience has shown that rural roads
        maintenance has to be dealt using a systematic approach. For this task budget funds
        should be made available through the central government, the municipal governments
        and beneficiaries; iii) a first step has been given in the recuperation of the community's
        responsibilities with respect to the roads; iv) it became evident that community work
        practices in rural road networks had persisted in some municipalities; v) the process to
        legally form a micro-enterprise is still excessively complex, which hinders and weakens
        this approach to maintenance.
    · Social control in Rural Investment. The following results were found with respect to the
        social control of works subprojects: i) the main contribution and change relates to the
        strengthening of the social control exercise at the community level and its consolidation
        over a tangible good or service that is objectively valued by the beneficiaries; ii) it
        guarantees social participation in all the investment cycle of the projects, from the
        contracting processes, the beginning of the works, the actual works and the reception of
        the finished product.



9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

   The most important risks to the long-term flow of net benefits arise from weaknesses in the
established arrangements for infrastructure maintenance. The infrastructure built by the project
does not present technical challenges for maintenance; on the contrary, micro-irrigation and spot
improvement of rural roads rely on technical standards that are quite manageable with local labor
and materials. Irrigation and productive support subprojects are under the control of communities



                                                   23

and provide direct benefits to their members, thus presenting a very low risk. The risk increases
in the case of larger municipal works, such as vehicular bridges or multi-community roads.
    Municipalities may not be able to raise sufficient funds and/or in-kind contributions from the
beneficiaries to provide for adequate operation and maintenance. However, this risk is attenuated
because communities tend to preserve and protect infrastructure works that have been chosen by
themselves, reflect their main priorities and are highly regarded in their effects. Also, greater
funding is available for municipalities as central government transfers have increased
substantially since 2006 due to fresh hydrocarbon revenues.
    In the case of the Institutional Strengthening component, risks are low. By improving
capacities in large numbers of people, and by creating an active market in technical assistance at
the local level and in universities, the likelihood that gains in institutional capacity will be
maintained in the future and translate into development outcomes is solid.
    Nevertheless, the paucity in transparent budgeting and formal arrangements for maintenance
at the municipal level, coupled with weak sector policies, particularly in rural roads and
irrigation, increase the possibility that these risks may materialize in some municipalities or in
some investments. Thus, Risk to Development Outcome is rated Moderate, pointing to the need
to develop adequate arrangements in the near future to avoid or mitigate these risks. As pointed
out before, the follow on operation will support the government in designing and implementing
an operation and maintenance strategy in at least some key sub-sectors.

10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)
10.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

   As mentioned earlier, Quality at Entry was generally adequate, although in hindsight it could
be said that the Bank's economic outlook assessment in which the project was inserted was overly
optimistic, and thus it was set out to underachieve with respect to its objective. Also, the
institutional assessment of FDC and the mitigating actions taken with respect to the history of
corruption and political interference of the FDC were not sufficient. At the time of appraisal,
however, it would not have been easy to foresee these weaknesses, as the overly optimistic
economic outlook was generalized and, secondly, the most recent track record of the FDC,
participating in the implementation of the PDCR I, had allowed this institution to improve its
image and perhaps help reduce risk perceptions. The key shortcoming in preparation is
represented by the broad nature of the PDO statement and the resulting deficiencies in the
project's logical framework, which affected the quality of M&E during implementation.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory

    The close and effective supervision of the project by a task team with a strong field presence
was a key contributing factor to the successes of the project. Supervision focused on identifying
implementation issues on the ground, providing important information in uncovering
irregularities and, ultimately, getting the project back on track, by establishing the conditions
needed to lift the suspension, strengthen government commitment, improve quality and prospects
for long-term sustainability.


                                                   24

    A Quality of Supervision Assessment for the Project was undertaken for the FY03-04 period.
According to the assessing panel, given the Bank's forceful and effective response to the project
crisis during FY01-02, supervision during FY03-04 focused on carrying out the strategy, devised
at the time of the suspension of disbursements, and focused on cleaning up the fraud and
corruption issues with FDC. This was successfully accomplished by the end of FY03, after
which the task team tackled the negotiation of a revised DCA, hammering out a detailed plan
(with the Ministry of Finance and government officials in charge of the Dialogue process which
led to the LDN) for a new institutional framework for municipal co financing. The task team
included local and Washington-based personnel covering a range of specialists, including rural
development, rural engineering, financial management and auditing. These were sensitive and
lengthy negotiations, which appear to have been handled with skill and persistence. Most of the
tasks were completed by the end of FY04 or shortly afterwards.
     The QAG review concluded that the major shortcoming in supervision was in the area of
monitoring and evaluation, and the panel recommended to begin updating the M&E framework,
first to address progress under the ongoing institutional component which had not been
suspended, and also to devise a plan for tracking progress and impacts of investment subprojects.
Though tracking progress in both components was satisfactory, monitoring of outcomes never
became part of the day-to-day operation of the project in spite of repeated efforts by the task
team. Closing this information gap required a strong effort on the part of both implementing
agencies towards the end of the project, and was hampered by failings in the initial design of the
M&E framework.
    Project supervision following the Amendment and Restatement of the DCA was focused on
accelerating implementation while assuring quality on the ground. The project's history of
corruption led the team to place great emphasis on supervising ground implementation and
ensuring that institutional controls and fiduciary rules operated properly. Key innovations,
including the modality of spot improvements for rural roads, were introduced by the task team.
As the impact evaluation and the procurement and financial audits show, both quality and
fiduciary objectives were achieved.
    Had the team formally changed the PDO and outcome indicators during project restructuring,
the rating for supervision could have been raised to Highly Satisfactory. It could also have made
final evaluation of the PDO much easier.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

    The reasonable quality at entry of the Project, as described above, combined with the efforts
by the task team, which worked under the most difficult of circumstances, even under threat of
personal harm, to resolve the major problems encountered along the way, to steer the project in
the right direction and to ensure the achievement of project objectives serve as basis for a
Satisfactory rating.

10.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

    Throughout implementation the government maintained its commitment to the project.
Borrower's ownership was strong as demonstrated by the role of the project in several
administrations and the higher than expected level of counterpart contributions. The government
permanently recognized the magnitude and importance of the project for the Bolivian rural



                                                 25

context. Following restructuring, the project was key in the implementation of the National
Compensation Policy, which diminished discretion in fund-transfers and regulated the funding
allocation to the municipalities according to population and poverty levels. The level of
participation and beneficiary involvement, mainly in the Institutional Strengthening component
led by the Vice Ministry of Popular Participation was excellent, and key staff of the project was
largely untouched during the generally unstable institutional environment under which the project
operated.
   On the negative side, monitoring and evaluation arrangements were limited to physical and
financial outputs, ensuring adequate implementation but little feedback on outcomes.
   The government did not follow an adequate institutional policy, nor did it adopt proper
controls at the outset of the project, and did not act in a timely manner to correct the uncovered
corruption and fraud problems within the FDC. This led to an external, Bank-led investigation
that resulted in the suspension of disbursements under the Rural Investment component and the
closing of the FDC. Though the investigation resulted in some successful prosecutions, the less
than forceful support in the prosecution of the most egregious corruption cases and of FDC's
institutional responsibility in the cases of fraud and corruption are the main reasons to establish
the rating as Moderately Unsatisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory


Implementing Agency Performance
                          The performance of the FPS is rated Moderately Satisfactory. Following

Fondo de Inversión        a slow start, the pace of project implementation and the quality control of

Productiva y Social       subprojects were generally adequate; however, FPS lacked an adequate

(FPS)                     system for monitoring beneficiaries and outcomes, and required strong
                          supervision to ensure compliance with the Credit Agreement and the
                          Operational Manual.
                          The performance of the VMPPFM (later VDADM and VD) is rated as
Viceministerio de         Satisfactory. The team in charge of the Institutional Strengthening
Descentralización (VD, component carried out the required actions to support project activities.
VMPPFM, VDADM) The pace of project implementation was usually adequate and many of
                          the outcomes outstanding.

Fondo de Desarrollo       The performance of the FDC is rated Highly Unsatisfactory due to its

Campesino (FDC)           involvement in corruption and fraud during the implementation of the
                          project.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

   The lack of an adequate M&E framework in both implementing agencies, government's
response in the corruption and fraud case, and delays in implementation are the main reasons to
downgrade overall borrower performance to Moderately Unsatisfactory.




                                                   26

11. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

Institutional Strengthening component
 -        A demand-driven, market-based model of institutional strengthening generates wider
 social capacities, increases the number of suppliers and improves local actors' managerial
 capacities.
 -       Restricting the participatory planning process to the municipal territory may not
 necessarily be conducive to optimal decision-making. For rural infrastructure such as roads
 and bridges it may be necessary to take into account a supra-municipal territorial base, both to
 take advantage of scale and network effects and also to share costs.
 -       The coherence between the longer-term municipal development plans (PDMs) and the
 annual operational plans (POA) are not necessarily automatic. Concerted efforts are needed to
 guarantee coherence between planning and implementation.
 -       The complexity of the M&E indicators needs to be related to the institutional capacity of
 the user. Difficulties in monitoring during the life of the project could be explained by the fact
 that the chosen indicators might have been too complex for the users, and in some cases even
 impossible to obtain. A more flexible and simple mechanism could have produced better
 results. Another related lesson is that ample beneficiary participation in a project may help
 mitigate the lack of M&E during its implementation.
 -       Outsourcing training services to formal and established training institutions, such as
 universities, could result in a more sustainable institutionality for supplying these services in
 the future. Universities improve their regular curricula by incorporating municipal and rural-
 based contents, and also increase the supply of courses and degrees relevant for local
 development.

Rural Investments component
 -       Participatory demand identification needs to be complemented with solid technical inputs
 in order to ensure adequate ranking of development priorities for the communities.
 The project's support for municipal road plans showcases how communities can arrive at
 municipally-ranked priorities on the basis of technical, economic and financial considerations.
 -       The spot improvement approach for low-volume rural roads reduces unit costs, reduces
 environmental impacts and has a greater likelihood of ensuring year-round access than
 traditional approaches. Stronger linkages need to be made between rural road construction,
 rehabilitation and maintenance within municipal development and operating plans, and network
 consideration need to be built into decision-making processes at the local levels.
 - Reductions in transportation costs across all sectors and activities prove that rural roads can
 be justified on the basis of improving access to services (health, education, etc.) and not
 necessarily on the basis of production increases.
 -       It should not be assumed that municipalities will allocate sufficient resources for the cost
 of operation and maintenance of rural infrastructure built or rehabilitated with the project. The
 cost of operation and maintenance should be taken into account in the project costs at the pre-
 investment stage or should be included as a special account in the municipalities' expenditure
 plans. Otherwise the municipalities may not be able to afford this expenditure as part of their
 annual budgets.
 -       There is substantial room for improvement in FPS' efficiency. As the experience with
 "emergency" subprojects showed, the subproject cycle can be simplified, identification focused
 on technical aspects and implementation more clearly delegated to municipalities.




                                                 27

General
 -      The relative independence between both project components mitigated the risk of project
 collapse when one of the components experienced major implementation difficulties. If the
 Institutional Strengthening component had depended on the Rural Investments component the
 project would have come to a halt when the latter came to standstill. Both components
 complemented each other but did not depend on one another.
 -      Outsourcing could be more efficient to deal with the lack of capacity of a particular
 institution than institutional strengthening. This is supported by the successful contracting of a
 management entity to administer the irrigation and productive support portfolio in the absence
 of capacities to do so in FPS.
 -    Results dissemination is not automatic. Many of the methodologies used and created by the
 Project were not adequately disseminated. Higher visibility would have allowed further
 discussions on public policies, or broader involvement of other donors.

12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies




(b) Co financiers




(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                                28

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The objective of the project was "to assist the Borrower to promote economic development of
rural communities and Eligible Municipalities through sustainable productive investments based
on local demand which is generated through participatory planning processes."


Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

The PDO and its Key Indicators were not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)


                                   Original Target Values        Formally      Actual Value Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline
                     Value             (from approval         Revised Target      Completion or Target
                                         documents)               Values                  Years

Indicator 1 :    Sustained increase in standard quality productive investments implemented and maintained
                 in 200 poor municipalities starting in the year 2000
Value                            5% annual increase in 200                    On average, productive
(quantitative or Bob. 124.2                                                   investments rose at an annual
Qualitative)     million         poor municipalities                          rate of 7.68%
Date achieved 12/31/2000         06/30/2006                                   12/31/2005
Comments         Percentage achievements were, on average, more than 50% higher than expected. The
(incl. %         indicator was measured through the total amount, in constant prices, spent by 156
achievement)     municipalities on productive investments.

Indicator 2 :    Sustained annual increase in economic growth in 200 municipalities beyond the life of the
                 project
Value
(quantitative or Not available 5% annual increase                             Not available
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2004         06/30/2006                                   06/30/2006
Comments         This indicator is not measurable, as no GDP data is gathered at the municipal level.
(incl. %         Agricultural GDP, an imperfect proxy, growth in the 2000-2005 period averaged close to
achievement)     3.6% per year in real terms.

Indicator 3 :    Increase of the implementation rate of the municipal investment program in 200 project
                 municipalities
Value
(quantitative or 63%             80%                                          76%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1997         06/30/2004                                   12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %         Average in 156 municipalities, 2000-2005. Value achieved smaller by 4% from PAD

achievement)     target; however, real municipal incomes grew by more than 30% in the period.

Indicator 4 :    Number of subprojects with positive economic and financial impact.
Value
(quantitative or 50% of all      80% of all subprojects                       91%
Qualitative)     subprojects

Date achieved 12/31/1997         12/31/1999                                   06/30/2006
Comments         Achievement exceeded the target by 11%.



                                                      29

(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :    Increase in the implementation rate of the municipal investment programs
Value
(quantitative or 63%             80%                                         76%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1997         12/31/2003                                  12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %         There was a 4% shortfall in meeting this outcome indicator; however, it is important to

achievement)     note that municipal budgets grew on average by more than 30% in the period.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)


                   Baseline     Original Target Values                        Actual Value Achieved at
   Indicator                                               Formally Revised
                    Value           (from approval                               Completion or Target
                                      documents)            Target Values                 Years
Indicator 1 :     N-A
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     N-A
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                                     30

Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)

                            ISR Ratings at
Restructuring   Board                      Amount Disbursed at         Reason for
                            Restructuring
    Date(s)  Approved PDO                  Restructuring in USD   Restructuring & Key
               Change       IP      DO             M                 Changes Made
08/05/2003   N               U       U                     23.30 See Section 6.7




                                        31

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


          Components                  Appraisal Estimate    Actual/Latest Estimate     Percentage of
                                         (USD M)                  (USD M)               Appraisal
RURAL INVESTMENTS                                   59.39                     54.07             91.04
INSTITUTIONAL
STRENGTHENING                                       19.96                     29.73            148.95

            Total Baseline Cost                     79.35                     83.80
Physical Contingencies                               3.97
Price Contingencies                                  3.97
             Total Project Costs                    87.29
Front-end fee PPF                                    0.00                      0.00               0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                   0.00                      0.00               0.00
      Total Financing Required                      87.29                     83.80




(b) Financing


                                                          Appraisal
           Source of Funds               Type of Co                      Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                          financing     Estimate (USD
                                                             M)       Estimate (USD M)    Appraisal

 Borrower                                  Counterpart           0.86               1.84       213.95

 Local Communities                       Counterpart +
                                                 O&M             9.67              7.65         79.11

 International Development
Association (IDA)                                               62.83              58.20        92.63

 Local Govts. (Prov., District, City) of
Borrowing Country                          Counterpart          13.01              13.96       107.30

 OPEC FUND                                                       0.00              0.00
 SWITZERLAND: OFF. OF
FOR.ECON. AFF.& SWISS AGEN.OF                   Parallel         0.90               2.15       238.89
DEV. & CO


(c) Disbursement Profile




                                                  32

33

Annex 4. Outputs by Component

                                                          TABLE 1

                                                 OUTPUTS SUMMARY


                                                  Rural Investment Component
           No. of       No. of sub
      Municipalities     projects                 Type of subprojects                         No. of direct beneficiaries
        benefited       executed
                                              187 roads, 2372 km. in total                                   19.5% of the total
                                     198 vehicular bridges, 3580 lineal mt. in total        838,707          population of the
                                     43 pedestrian bridges, 2910 lineal mt. in total     including more     226 municipalities
                                                                                          than 176,000           covered
            226            858           177 Irrigation projects; 3993 additional          people who
                                                    hectares irrigated                   benefited from           72% of
                                       134 subprojects on agriculture, fisheries,        more than one       beneficiaries self
                                        handicrafts and management of natural              subproject          identified as
                                                        resources                                               indigenous


                                        Institutional Strengthening Component
  No. of         No. of TA &
Municipalities    Training          Type of                                         Beneficiaries
  covered        contracts        intervention

                                   Technical           173 municipalities, 75 of which incorporated consultants as staff at end
                                   Assistance                                         of project

                                 Formal Training                    3392 beneficiaries, of which 993 were women
                                                                              10 universities participated
                                                             169 Participatory Municipal Development Plans/Adjustments
                                                                     189 Participatory Annual Operating Plans
                                                                   39 Indigenous Development Plans (PDDI, PGTI)
                                                                              152 Municipal Road Plans
    246            1914                                  Social Control TA and training: 211 Surveillance Committees, 1055
                                                                       people representing >1500 communities
                                  Governance
                                                           1896 profiles and 159 final preinvestment subprojects designed


                                                      Non-formal Training: 483 workshops, of which 84 were on gender issues;
                                                                               with 28.090 participants




                                                      34

                                                   TABLE 2

                 SELECTED PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION MONITORING INDICATORS

                      FROM AGREED DCA (MAY 20, 1998; REVISED AUGUST 5, 2003)


         Activities          Impl.                                           Goal in  Revised in  Total
                            Agency        Monitoring Indicators                DCA    Amendment  Executed
Component I: Rural Investments
A.1 Works                     FDC    Amounts disbursed ($ 000)                33000     10800     10800
                                     Beneficiary contributions (FDC)          6600      1150       1150

                              FPS    Amounts disbursed ($ 000)                          15800     17084
                                     Amounts disbursed ($ 000) via
                              FPS    outsourcing                                        8200       7989
                                     Beneficiary contributions (FPS)                    4800       3248
A.3 Technical assistance      FDC    No. of contracts                          150               413 (FPS)
A.4 Pre-investment
studies                       FDC    No. of studies                           1000      163        159
                                     Amounts disbursed ($ 000) via
A.5 Swiss Fund                FPS    outsourcing                               500      500        653
Management Services
Entities Contracts            FPS    Amounts disbursed ($ 000)                          820        1384
                                                                                 Goal
         Activities           Impl.                                                    Revised in   Total
                            Agency            Monitoring Indicators                in
                                                                                 DCA   Amendment  Executed

Component II: Institutional strengthening
B.1. Municipal
strengthening               VDADM
B.1.1.PDM formulation       VDADM      No. of additional PDMs                      66      17         17
PDM Formulation for
¨mancomunidades¨            VDADM      No. of PDMs of ¨mancomunidades¨                     6          4
PDM Adjustment              VDADM      No. of PDMs adjusted                               104        148
B.1.2.Technical
assistance to PDM                      No. of municipalities with executing

implementation              VDADM      agencies                                   200      15         15
                                       No. of municipalities with Participative
                            VDADM      POAs formulated                                     17        153
                                       No. of municipalities in
                                       ¨mancomunidades¨ with Participative
                            VDADM      POAs formulated                                     6          36
                                       No. of municipalities with technical
                            VDADM      assistants                                  50     155        173
B.1.3.Implemantation of
municipal administrative    VDADM      No. of systems installed
systems                                                                            50      13         14
                            VDADM      Financial Information systems                       36         36
                            VDADM      Municipal revenues system (SIIM)                    91         93
B.1.5 Indigenous districts  VDADM      No. of PDDI formulated                      30      36         39
                            VDADM      No. of PDDI implemented                             1          21
B.1.6 Profile Elaboration
with indigenous people,                No. of profiles
gender or cultural heritage VDADM                                                1000,
focus                                                                             100   1404, 5    1404, 5




                                              35

B.1.7 Municipal council
strengthening               VDADM   No. of municipal councils                      85        89

B.1.8. Social control       VDADM   No. of CVs, OTBs executing social
                                    control                                        206      211
B.2 Community
Strengthening
B.2.1. Community
subprojects profiles with           No. of profiles
indigenous peoples,          VDR                                                  492,      492,
gender or cultural heritage                                               300,     38,       38,
focus                                                                      30      80        80
B.2.2. Community based
information and monitoring  VDADM   No. of community implemented
system                                                                     30      30        30
B.3. Training
B.3.1 Formal training, of                                                 2500 ,  2000 ,
whom women                  VDADM   No. of person trained                  500     500    3392, 993

                            VDADM   No. of environmental training
                                    programs                               10      10        5
B.3.2 Non formal training,                                                150 ,   117,      483,
of which on women issues    VDADM   No. of training sessions               15      10       184
B.3.3 Training of
community leaders, of               No. of training sessions
which for women and          VDR                                          102 ,
indigenous peoples                                                         10      18        18
B.3.3 Training of
community leaders,
women and indigenous         FDC    No. of training sessions

peoples                                                                    50       9        9
B.4 VPEPP Strengthening
B.4.1 Consultants           VDADM   No. of person-year                     60      70       115
B.5 FDC/FPS
Strengthening
B.5.1 Project Unit           FDC    No. of person-year of consultants      20      11        11
Number of projects
complying with FDC's         FDC    % of projects accepted by FDC
processing schedule                                                       70%      60        60
B.5.2 Training Unit          FDC    No. of person-year of consultants       5       2        2
B.5.3 Environmental Unit    FDC/FPS No. of person-months of consultants    72      72        88
                                    Guidelines for environmental analysis
                            FDC/FPS established by Manual                                    1
                            FDC/FPS No. of environmental audits             4       2        2
                             FPS    % Monitoring (audits if necessary)            10%       12%
B.5.4 Departmental offices  FDC/FPS No. of person-year of consultants      45      45        31
B.5.5 Indigenous people             % of subprojects implemented
and women's program                 included in indigenous district
                            FDC/FPS development plans                      8%      6%       6%
                                    % of subprojects implemented with
                            FDC/FPS gender focus                           5%      3%       1%
Employment of technical
investment officers          FDC    No. of technical investment officers   50      50        80
Technical Audits            FDC/FPS No. of audits                           4       3        10
In-depth evaluation of 20
subprojects                 FDC/FPS No. of subprojects studied             100     30        31
B.6 Strengthening of
prefectures                 VDADM   No. of person-year of consultants      130     200      231
B.6 Strengthening of VDR     VDR    No. of person-year of consultants       8       8        6




                                            36

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)


The economic and financial analysis of the project applied the cost-benefit and cost-efficiency
methodologies or ratios. The incremental economic and financial benefits assessed the following factors: a)
for the road and bridge subprojects, a reduction of time and a reduction of transportation costs for families
and transport-sector beneficiaries in the project situation as compared to the current situation; b) for the
subprojects in small-scale irrigation, an increase of the production value for the beneficiary families in the
project situation as compared to the current situation.
   The incremental costs were estimated on the basis of the costs of every type of project works related to
investment, operation and maintenance. Both the revenues and incremental economic costs are exempt
from the so-called transfer payments, and are therefore net of taxes and other charges applicable on
transactions. On the contrary, the financial analysis was performed applying market prices, i.e. including
taxes and social charges. The dollar-boliviano exchange rate used in the calculation is: USD 1 = Bs 8.
   The annual incremental cost and revenue flows have been discounted at a rate of 12.7 % per year for the
economic evaluation and 10.1 % for the financial evaluation. The period of time considered in both
analyses has been 20 years.
   Two different types of economic analyses were carried out: one for 4 models or types of subprojects
related to infrastructure works (rural roads, vehicular bridges, pedestrian bridges and small-scale irrigation)
and another one for the overall project. The financial analysis has been performed only for the 4 models or
types of subprojects related to infrastructure works.
   The cost-efficiency analysis was performed by comparing the unit costs and the costs per beneficiary
family of the works carried out by the project to the average national values specified by the Vice-Ministry
of Public Investment and External Funding (VIPFE).

Cost-Benefit ratio

Economic analysis of subproject types. The models or types of subprojects analyzed and their average size
were determined on the basis of the actually executed amounts in the project, in the entire country, in 1999-
2005. In this period the project executed the following 858 investment subprojects:

                  Type of Investment Subproject               Quantity Amount (millions US$) *

                  Rural Roads Improvement                        187                  21,1
                  Construction of Vehicular bridges              158                  10,2
                  Construction of Pedestrian bridges              43                  2,2
                  Construction of Micro Irrigation Systems       177                  10.6
                  Agricultural Development                       101                  4.2
                  Pre investment                                 159                  1.5
                  Other productive                                33                  0.9

                                    Total                        858                  50,7
* Includes: the investment cost and expenses related to operation and maintenance. The total amount includes: the
IDA credit, Swiss funds, official counterpart contributions and estimated in kind contributions of the municipalities
and beneficiaries.

   The table above shows that the project has made investments in 7 different types of works. The most
important in terms of costs (investments and costs for operation and maintenance) were: improvement of
rural roads, construction of vehicular bridges, construction of pedestrian bridges and the construction of
small-scale irrigation systems. These four types of works account for almost 90% of the total investments.



                                                     37

   The pre-investments do not cover works, but consultancies related to the preparation of studies or ex
ante evaluations for the financed subprojects.
   For performing the simulations of the analysis, the following 4 models of subprojects or types and sizes
of works to be evaluated were taken, as for the other types of investments there are no trustworthy data to
asses the situation with and without the project.

     · Improvement of Rural Roads, 18 kilometers with a cost of USD 71,781.
     · Construction of a Vehicular Bridge of 32 meters with a cost of USD 73,935.
     · Construction of a Pedestrian Bridge of 32 meters with a cost of USD 73,935.
     · Construction of a Small-scale Irrigation System of 31 hectares with a total cost of USS 54,857.

The key characteristics of these 4 models of subprojects adopted for simulation of the results, and the basic
data thereof, have been extracted from the tables of the report on the impact of the Rural Investment
component of the project prepared by a consulting firm (FPS. Evaluación de Impacto del Componente de
Inversiones Rurales del PDCR II).

Improvement of rural roads: The considered standard work was the improvement of 18 kilometers of
poorly maintained rural roads, the average economic value of the initial investment of which was USD
3,987 per kilometer. As from year 1, an annual maintenance cost of USD 9,630 (USD 535 per km) was also
included. No operating expenses were considered. The incremental income was calculated considering the
time saved by each of the 369 beneficiary families of the subproject and the reduction of transportation
costs.

Construction of Vehicular or Pedestrian Bridges: The considered standard work was construction of a
bridge of 32 meters long, the average economic value of the initial investment of which was USD 2,310 per
meter. As from year 1, an annual maintenance cost of USD 2,065 was also included. No operating expenses
were considered. The incremental income was calculated considering the time saved by each of the 458
beneficiary families of the subproject and the reduction of transportation costs.

Construction of the Small-Scale Irrigation System: The considered standard work was construction of a
water intake, piping and distribution system on an area of 31 hectares, the average economic value of the
initial investment of which was USD 1,770 per hectare (including the cost of the works and the
environmental impact mitigation measures). As from year 1, an annual operational and maintenance cost of
USD 2,441 (USD 79 per ha) was also included. No operating expenses were considered. The incremental
income was calculated considering the increase of the value of the total production (self-consumption plus
sales) of each of the 52 families benefited with the subproject.

Results
The economic results obtained for each subproject considered in the simulation are satisfactory, as they
show an EIRR considerably greater than 12.7%, which is the economic opportunity cost considered in the
evaluation.


                                    Type of Subproject                  ENPV         %
                                                                         US$       EIRR
                      Rural Roads Improvement                           65,026     26.0
                      Construction of Vehicular bridges                 88,782     30.5
                      Construction of Pedestrian bridges                88,782     30.5
                      Construction of Micro Irrigation Systems          95,595     36.5




                                                   38

                Detailed overview of the economic analysis of every subproject ­ in USD

                Subproject and Concept                    Year 0          Year 1 to 20           ENPV

               Rural Roads Improvement
  Incremental Income                                         0           27,063 to 31,215        192,449
  Incremental Costs                                       71.781              9,630              127,423
  Cash Flow                                               -71.781        17,433 to 21,585        65,026
                         EIRR                             26.0 %
                         ENPV                             65,026
           Construction of Vehicular bridges
  Incremental Income                                         0           23,474 a 27,496         168,376
  Incremental Costs                                       73,935              2,065              79,594
  Cash Flow                                               -73,935        21,409 to 25,431        88,782
                         EIRR                             30.5 %
                         ENPV                             88,782
           Construction of Pedestrian bridges
  Incremental Income                                         0           23,471 to 27,496        168,376
  Incremental Costs                                       73,935              2,065              79,594
  Cash Flow                                               -73,935        21,406 to 25,431        88,782
                         EIRR                             30.5 %
                         ENPV                             88,782
        Construction of Micro Irrigation Systems
  Incremental Income                                         0           13,000 to 26,000        160,628
  Incremental Costs                                       54,857              2,441              65,033
  Cash Flow                                               -54.857        10,559 a 23,559         95,595
                         EIRR                             36.5 %
                         ENPV                             95,595

Economic Analysis of the Project

    In order to make the economic analysis of the project, the economic results of the 565 subprojects
(improvement of rural roads, construction of vehicular and pedestrian bridges, construction of small-scale
irrigation systems) implemented between 1999 and 2006 were all aggregated, which was done based on the
following annual distribution of subprojects:

                 Type of Subproject                  1999    2000   2001  2002    2003   2004   2005   2006
 Rural Roads Improvement                               7      21      5                    2     52     100
 Construction of bridges                               1      31      2                    4     59     104
 Construction of Micro Irrigation Systems              3      29      6                           9     130


    The annual incremental investment costs resulting from the aggregation were compared to the annual
investment costs of the project in the Rural Investments component and any differences were adjusted to
equal both values.

    Following this procedure, the EIRR of the overall project is 28.8 % and the net present value of the
stream of economic revenues USD 21,978,670. Economic performance of the project is good, particularly
when taking into account that the project was implemented in communities where, on average more than
72% of the population is indigenous and lives in a highly marginal situation.




                                                39

                 Detailed overview of the economic analysis of the project in US$
        Concepts/Years               1              2           3           4            5            6


 Incremental Income                  0         1.294.921    2.626.489   2.733.230    2.762.490    2.940.300

 Incremental Costs              2.115.444      4.943.070     478.317    478.317       917.619     9.149.184

 Component Balance Cost          291.163        660.220         0           0          60.464     1.189.642

 Cash Flow                      -2.406.607     -3.678.369   2.148.172   2.254.913    1.784.407   -7.398.526


        Concepts/Years               7              8           9          10           11           12


 Incremental Income             5.882.368      12.917.188   14.775.010 14.945.864    15.119.810 15.267.159

 Incremental Costs              23.151.592     2.647.932    2.647.932   2.647.932    2.647.932    2.647.932
 Component Balance Cost         3.027.836           0           0           0            0            0
 Cash Flow                     -20.297.060     10.269.256   12.127.078 12.297.932    12.471.878 12.619.227


        Concepts/Years              13             14           15         16          17 a 20      ENPV


 Incremental Income             15.413.682     15.562.860   15.714.745 15.866.422    15.965.820 54.568.038
 Incremental Costs              2.647.932      2.647.932    2.647.932   2.647.932    2.647.932   29.796.419
 Component Balance Cost              0              0           0           0            0        2.792.949
 Cash Flow                      12.765.750     12.914.928   13.066.813 13.218.490    13.317.888 21.978.670


             EIRR                28.8 %

Financial analysis of subproject types.
The financial results obtained for each of the subproject types considered in the simulation are also
satisfactory with a FIRR greater than 10.1%, which is the financial opportunity cost considered in the
evaluation.
                             Financial results of each type of subproject


                                   Type of Subproject                  FNPV         %
                                                                        US$        FIRR
                     Rural Roads Improvement                           55,775       25.1
                     Construction of Vehicular bridges                 87,770       31.0
                     Construction of Pedestrian bridges                87,770       31.0
                     Construction of Micro Irrigation Systems          92,299       34.6

          Detailed overview of the financial overview of each subproject type ­ in US$
               Subproject and Concept                      Year 0          Year 1 to 20           FNPV

              Rural Roads Improvement
  Incremental Income                                          0           27063 to 31215          192449
  Incremental Costs                                         65717              11860              136674
  Cash Flow                                                -65717         15203 to 19.55           55775
                        FIRR                               25.1 %
                        FNPV                               55,775



                                                  40

           Construction of Vehicular bridges
  Incremental Income                                             0              23474 to 27496            168376
  Incremental Costs                                           70656                 2664                   80606
  Cash Flow                                                   -73935            20810 to 24832             87770
                          FIRR                                31.0 %
                         FNPV                                 87,770
           Construction of Pedestrian bridges
  Incremental Income                                             0              23474 to 27496            168376
  Incremental Costs                                           70656                 2664                   80606
  Cash Flow                                                   -73935            20810 a 24832              87770
                          FIRR                                31.0 %
                         FNPV                                 87,770
       Construction of Micro Irrigation Systems
  Incremental Income                                             0              13000 to 26000            160628
  Incremental Costs                                           58048                 2509                   68329
  Cash Flow                                                  -54.857           10.491 a 23.491            92.299
                          FIRR                                34.6 %
                         FNPV                                 92,299

Cost-Efficiency methodology.

   The project does not only show a good financial and economic performance applying the cost-benefit
ratio, but also when using the cost-efficiency ratio. The cost-efficiency analysis was based on a comparison
of the unit cost and the cost per beneficiary family of the works carried out by the project to the national
averages specified by the Vice-Ministry of Public Investment and External Financing (VIPFE). As shown
in the table below, in all cases the project results were positive. This means that the project has provided
services of a quality equivalent to that of other similar projects that are or have been executed in the
country, but at a sensibly lower cost.

           Type of Subprojects              Project Cost         VIPFE        %        Project        VIPFE      %
                                                Unit*              Cost       Dif.     Family         Family Dif.
                                                                  Unit*                  Cost          Cost
  Rural Roads Improvement                        3650              9927       - 63       178            413      - 57
  Construction of bridges                        2208              2470       - 11       154            217      - 29
  Construction of Micro Irrigation              1873               2466       - 24       1116          2497      -55
  Systems
    · For subprojects in roads, the used unit is kilometer, for bridges meter and for small-scale irrigation hectare.
         The VIPFE parameters are an average between the established minimum and maximum costs.


    Efficiency was highest in the project regarding the improvement of rural roads. This highly positive
result obtained by the project is related to application of the spot improvement approach (puntos y tramos).
This approach is cheaper than traditional approaches and uses technologies that are more adequate to the
volume of traffic and topographic conditions prevalent in rural areas in the country.

Sensitivity analysis
    The period of time considered in both the economic and financial analyses has been 20 years. If we
halve this period to 10 years, in order to account for possible maintenance failure, both the EIRR and the
FIRR would barely be affected. If we apply the extreme hypothesis that no maintenance will be carried out
and the operational life of all works will be reduced to 5 years, the EIRR for the whole project is reduced
from 28.8% to 11.9% and the ENPV from USD 22.0 M to USD -40.2 M. The latter scenario, though is
highly unlikely and is only included here for illustrative purposes.



                                                   41

Conclusions and recommendations
    It is clear that the project is economically and financially viable with a significant level of efficiency.
Besides, these results become more relevant when we take into account that the project was executed in
communities where more than 72% of the population is indigenous and lives in a highly marginal situation.
    It is important to consider that the accumulated expenses for operation and maintenance between 1999
and 2006 for the 565 subprojects in roads, bridges and small-scale irrigation, totaled USD 7.4 million and
that, from 2007, these expenses ­ an annual amount of USD 3.2 million ­ will have to be covered by the
municipalities and beneficiaries.
    Therefore, we recommend that this type of projects include a component focusing on social and
technical sustainability that gives advice, provides training, legalizes, supervises and gives support in
raising the funds required for operation and maintenance of the executed works.

Comparison to the PAD analysis
    The PAD foresaw an economic internal rate of return (EIRR) of 37% and an economic net present value
of the stream of economic revenues (ENPV) of USD 138,860,000, while the economic evaluation made for
the ICR yields an EIRR of 28.8% and an ENPV of USD 21,978,670.
    The resulting differences are not due to a lower performance of the project with respect to what was
expected in the appraisal. The fundamental reason for these differences is related to the use of different
methodologies in the ICR and the Appraisal. For the appraisal, the cost-benefit approach was used, but for
all the types of subprojects the incremental revenues and costs included the revenues and production costs
of the beneficiary farms.
    For the ICR the same approach was used, but the incremental economic and financial benefits were
estimated on the basis of: (a) for roads and bridges, the reduction of time and the reduction of transportation
costs for families and transport-sector beneficiaries in the project situation as compared to the current
situation; (b) for small-scale irrigation, the increment in production value that beneficiary families would
have in the project situation as compared to the current situation.
    The methodology used for the ICR is that used by the World Bank to evaluate rural infrastructure
projects around the world, and yields more realistic results. Furthermore, the basic data required are easier
to obtain and normally more reliable.
    The PAD did not include any indicators using the cost-efficiency approach. It only highlights ­ in the
conclusions of Annex 4 ­ some maximum values for the improvement of roads and their operation and
maintenance.




                                                   42

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members


         Names                     Title              Unit    Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Jose Baldivia            Consultant              LCCBO        NGO Assessment
Ana Cristina Betancourt  Consultant              WBISD        Beneficiaries Assessment
Maria E. Castro-Munoz    Sr Social Scientist     LCSSO        Social Assessment

Carlos G. Gregorio      Consultant               LCSPS        Econ. And Fin.
                                                              Evaluation
Howard A. Jones         Consultant               LCSEN        Financial Assessment
Hideki Kagohashi         Consultant              LCCBO        Project Costs
Roberto C. Laver        Consultant               LCSUW        Lawyer
Thao Le Nguyen           Senior Finance Officer  LOAG2        Disbursements
Maria Teresa Szauer
Umana                   Consultant               LCSSD        Environment Assessment

David Tuchschneider     Senior Rural
                        Development Spec         LCSAR        Task Manager in Bolivia

Jorge E. Uquillas Rodas  Sr Sociologist          AFTS1        Indig. Peoples
                                                              Assessment

Martien Van Nieuwkoop   Lead Rural Development
                        Special                  SASAR        Advisor

Pierre Werbrouck        Sr Agric. Economist      LCSAR        Task Team Leader in HQ

Supervision/ICR
Keisgner De Jesus Alfaro Sr Procurement Spec.    LCSPT        Procurement
Jose Baldivia            Consultant              LCCBO        Consultant
Ricardo Calla            Consultant              LCCBO        Consultant

Maria Donoso Clark      Lead Social Development
                        Spec                     ECSSD        Sector Leader

Alvaro Larrea           Procurement Spec.        LCSPT        Procurement
George Campos Ledec      Lead Ecologist          LCSEN        Environment

Lourdes Consuelo LinaresFinancial Management
                        Specialist               LCSFM        Financial Management

Ruth Llanos             Social Development and
                        Civil S                  LCSSO        Civil Society/Social Dev.

Patricia Mc Kenzie      Sr Financial Management
                        Spec                     OPCFM        Financial Management

Xiomara A. Morel         Senior Finance Officer  LOAG1        Disbursements
Jose Luis Oblitas        Consultant              LCCBO        Procurement
Vladimir Pary           E T Consultant           LCSAR        Supervision
Rocio Recalde           E T Temporary            LCSSD        Team Assistant
Andrea L. J. Silverman   Consultant              LCSAR        Task Manager

David Tuchschneider     Senior Rural
                        Development Spec         LCSAR        Task Manager

Pierre Werbrouck         Sr Agric. Economist     LCSAR        Task Manager




                                               43

(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

No.     Date ISR                                                       Actual Disbursements (USD
        Archived                DO                       IP                       M)
1   07/01/1998         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                                 0.00
2   12/17/1998         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                                 0.00
3   06/25/1999         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                                 5.75
4   12/22/1999         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                                10.35
5   04/27/2000         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                                14.16
6   12/11/2000         Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory                              17.46
7   06/25/2001         Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory                              19.86
8   12/13/2001         Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory                              22.13
9   05/29/2002         Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory                              21.72
10 10/08/2002          Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory                              22.92
11 03/01/2003          Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory                              22.75
12 11/11/2003          Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory                              24.00
13 12/19/2003          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                                24.05
14 03/17/2004          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                                26.49
15 06/10/2004          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                                26.79
16 06/15/2004          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                                26.79
17 12/03/2004          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                                29.02
18 04/15/2005          Moderately Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory                              31.49

19 06/29/2005          Moderately
                    Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory                              34.82

20 10/27/2005          Moderately Satisfactory  Moderately
                                              Satisfactory                                  40.00

21 05/20/2006          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                                52.21

22 06/29/2006          Moderately               Moderately
                    Unsatisfactory            Satisfactory                                  56.01


(c) Staff Time and Cost
                                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

             Stage of Project Cycle                                           USD Thousands
                                                     No. of staff weeks    (including travel and
                                                                              consultant costs)

Lending
                     FY97                                                                    3.42
                     FY98                                                                 267.81
                     FY99                                                                    0.00
                     FY00                                                                    0.00
                     FY01                                                                    0.00
                     FY02                                                                    0.00
                     FY03                                                                    0.00
                     FY04                                                                    0.00
                     FY05                                                                    0.00
                     FY06                                                                    0.00
                     FY07                                                                    0.00
                                           Total:                                         271.23



                                               44

Supervision/ICR
                 FY97                      0.00
                 FY98                      3.78
                 FY99                      66.51
                 FY00              20      54.23
                 FY01              34      73.71
                 FY02              19      47.16
                 FY03              30      72.53
                 FY04              28      95.63
                 FY05              34      62.52
                 FY06              66     113.36
                 FY07              19      52.93
                         Total:    250    642.36




                             45

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

          Bank                     Ratings                Borrower            Ratings

Ensuring Quality at Entry: Moderately Satisfactory Government:        Moderately
                                                                      Unsatisfactory

Quality of Supervision:   Satisfactory             Implementing       Moderately
                                                   Agency/Agencies:   Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank                                       Overall Borrower   Moderately
Performance:              Satisfactory             Performance:       Unsatisfactory




                                                  46

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)

A consulting firm performed a series of beneficiary surveys in a sample of 73 subprojects
covering the entire country, and different types of projects (FPS. Evaluación de Impacto del
Componente de Inversiones Rurales del PDCR II. August 2006. Prepared by SAXgr.). The
principal findings of the qualitative analysis are summarized below. The social valuation
performed through the surveys takes into account five factors:

1.      Degree of beneficiary participation and social consensus. In general, participation of the
beneficiaries is significant. The evaluation measured participation in the different phases of the
project cycle. Beneficiary participation was the highest in the project selection phase.

2. Access to collective consumption goods and services. Beneficiaries noted that access to goods
such as health and education increases in road and bridge projects. In nine out of every ten
projects, the implementation of bridges and/or the upgrade of roads improved the access to health
services. This conclusion is valid regardless of the location and size of the investment. The
implementation of bridges and/or the upgrade of roads have a positive impact on the access to
education in seven out of every ten projects. In addition, the project beneficiaries appreciate
changes in their daily life such as a deeper sense of security, the enhanced availability of vehicles
for transportation and increased inter-community communication.

3. Social Equity. The evaluation of the collected data does not show any signs that the projects
discriminate between social groups as regards the access to benefits. Execution of the projects
does not seem to emphasize or promote social inequity. The beneficiaries admit that the project
benefits (roads, small-scale irrigation and productive projects) have reached the population in
general, regardless of people's sex, age or ethnic origin. It is clear that in the investment phase,
projects provided good employment opportunities for young people.

4. Social capital and cultural identity. Conservation of Cultural Values: The statistics prepared
on the basis of the project show that in nine out of every ten subprojects, the project did not cause
any changes in the cultural values regardless of location, investment size, and type of project.
Nonetheless, in the case of road projects it is necessary to consider the indirect impacts such as
the increase of migration and growth of settlement areas, which in turn may give rise to cultural
changes. Solidarity and Reciprocity: In this case, it is also necessary to establish differences
according to the type of project. This is relevant for productive projects and mainly small-scale
irrigation projects, which are based on solidarity and reciprocity among the beneficiaries. The
survey has shown that in eight out of every ten cases the projects have strengthened the links of
solidarity and reciprocity. In the irrigation systems, 100% of the studied cases confirmed that the
project will contribute to strengthen solidarity and reciprocity links.

5. Social control in execution and operation of the projects. The lack of support in formal
organization for O&M was seen in 53 out of the 73 projects. The projects that were most
seriously affected by this deficiency were the road projects, followed by the small-scale irrigation
projects. Without any doubt, organizational strengthening is one of the most important and
sensitive aspects. Although some important initiatives were implemented (coaching / guidance
and training), the results are not evident yet as the organized participation of beneficiaries is
promoted in the last project phase and not throughout the project cycle.




                                                   47

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)

The following table summarizes the results of a two-day workshop held in La Paz on October 5-6, 2006, with
the participation of 127 persons, including mayors, municipal council members, municipal technicians,
representatives on the National Confederation of Municipalities, prefectural technicians, and national
government authorities.

                                   ÁREA DE GOBERNABILIDAD

Pregunta: ¿Cuáles sus percepciones sobre los servicios del PDCR II en el área de
gobernabilidad?

    1. Apoyo en planificación:

     Aspectos positivos           Aspectos negativos            Conclusiones         Recomendaciones a futuro

 - Se proporcionó asistencia  - Insuficiente capacitación - Se valora el trabajo del Para planificación:
 técnica para los PDM         y seguimiento a los         PDCR sobre todo en         - Los proyectos que se
 - Formulación de PDM         facilitadores               planificación y control    prioricen deben respetar el
 con                          - Metodología de            social                     POA que se realiza en cada
 participación de la          priorización con            - La presencia del PDCR    gestión
 sociedad civil               deficiencias                II ha sido positiva, sin   - Mejorar la metodología de
 - Apoyo en la formulación    - PDM orientados con        embargo, existieron        capacitación y asistencia téc-
 de PDM y POA                 mayor inversión a           falencias en: capacita     nica para planificación
 - Elaboración de planes      proyectos de in-            ción, seguimiento a la     participativa
 viales                       fraestructura física        asistencia técnica,        - Realizar ajuste de la guía de
 - Seguimiento a la           - En algunos municipios la  seguimiento a los eje-     PDM
 ejecución de PDM             participación fue más       cutores                    - Se debe tomar en cuenta a
 mediante sus técnicos        limitada y el trabajo más                              todos los actores y seguir
 - Se proporcionó             técnico en los PDM                                     apoyando con AT, para más
 capacitación a diferentes    - Se contrató servicios                                y mejores proyectos
 actores                      para elaborar PDM y no se
 - Se identificaron y         capacitó a los gobiernos                               En general:
 priorizaron las demandas     municipales en ello (a                                 - El PDCR III debe apoyar el
 de las comunidades           partir de 2001)                                        desarrollo productivo
 - Promoción del desarrollo   -Insuficiente seguimiento                              - Se debe ampliar el área de
 económico de las             a entidades ejecutoras                                 cobertura del proyecto
 comunidades y municipios     (PDM) de parte de                                      - Profundizar la capacitación
 rurales a través de          algunos municipios                                     a la sociedad civil para
 inversiones productivas      - Entonces, se tuvo PDM                                proyectos productivos que
 sostenibles                  de baja calidad en algunos                             generen ingresos
 - El Comité de Vigilancia,   casos                                                  - El PDCR III debe intervenir
 mediante el PDM tiene,       - Faltó socializar más los                             directamente, sin pasar por
 mayor oportunidad de         PDM                                                    las prefecturas
 efectuar seguimiento a la    - En algunos
 ejecución de sus             departamentos hubo
 proyectos priorizados        problemas en la relación
 - Fue positiva la            municipios-prefectura, por
 elaboración de proyectos y   motivos políticos
 perfiles de proyectos
 - Seguimiento desde el
 inicio hasta el fin, durante
 todo el proceso




                                                    48

2. Apoyo en control social:

    Aspectos positivos         Aspectos negativos             Conclusiones           Recomendaciones a futuro

- Encuentro entre GM y     - Insuficiente seguimiento  - Se valora el trabajo del   En control social:
sociedad civil             de los capacitados en la    PDCR sobre todo en           - Capacitar a la sociedad civil
- Hubo capacitación a      aplicación de sus           planificación y control      en el tema de control social
comités de vigilancia,     conocimientos al resto de   social                       - Capacitación permanente,
OTB y comités de obras     la población                - La presencia del PDCR      conforme se renueva el
- La sociedad civil conoce - En algunos municipios la  II                           comité de vigilancia
su papel a desempeñar      capacitación a la sociedad  ha sido positiva, sin        En general:
dentro de su municipio     civil fue insuficiente      embargo, existieron          - El PDCR II logró capacitar
- El comité de vigilancia                              falencias en: capacitación,  a
conoce su rol                                          seguimiento a la asistencia  la sociedad civil con algunas
- El control social ha                                 técnica, seguimiento a los   diferencias entre municipios.
mejorado el seguimiento                                ejecutores                   Sin embargo, se debe
de proyectos                                                                        continuar capacitando a la
                                                                                    sociedad civil
                                                                                    - El sistema educativo
                                                                                    debería
                                                                                    recoger temas de control
                                                                                    social

3. Apoyo en sistemas de gestión:

    Aspectos positivos        Aspectos negativos            Conclusiones            Recomendaciones a futuro

- La capacitación en el    Relativos al PDCR II:      - Faltó monitoreo con       Para el PDCR:
manejo del SINCOM en       - No existe control o      junto entre GM y PDCR a     - Disminuir las contrapartes
el                         seguimiento a los siste-   la implementación de los    para los GM del área rural,
curso de diplomado a los   mas financieros            sistemas de gestión         para contar con profesionales
técnicos y a concejos      implementados              - El proyecto orientó a     capaces de dar seguimiento a
municipales ha elevado la  - Constante cambio de      mejorar la gestión muni-    los sistemas
eficiencia en la gestión,  técnicos del PDCR II       cipal en algunos munici
transparentando sus        - Problemas en los         pios                        - Seguir manteniendo el apoyo
acciones y mejorando sus   sistemas por las caracte-  - El PDCR ha cumplido
recursos humanos           rísticas de cada municipio con sus objetivos en los    técnico en la perspectiva de
- Se han instalado         - En algunos departamen-   municipios                  institucionalizar la capacita-
sistemas de gestión        tos la capacitación a                                  ción
(software SINCOM)          algunos municipios no fue                              - Que se promocione a
- Ello permite el manejo   positiva (*)                                           profesionales locales y se
de                         - El SIM registra dos                                  capacite en gestión municipal
cuentas claras en el       veces o más el empadro-                                - Profundizar las capacidades
gobierno municipal         namiento de bienes                                     al interior de la sociedad civil
- El manejo del software   inmuebles                                              y
permite información        Relativos a los GM:                                    de los actores locales nuevos
rápida y confiable         - No tener permanencia                                 - Constante actualización y
- Se capacitó a la parte   del personal capacitado                                capacitación en gestión
contable en control de     - Poca información del                                 - El PDCR debe seleccionar de
recursos, ingresos y       comité de vigilancia en                                acuerdo a capacidades y
egresos                    manejo de recursos                                     competencias
- El Sistema de Impuestos  - Falta de capacitación                                - Asistencia técnica
Municipales (SIM)          periódica a los actores                                permanente y relación general
regulariza e incrementa    municipales en sistemas                                entre departamentos para una
los recursos propios       de gestión                                             mejor gestión en municipios
- Se capacitó a los        - Falta de adecuado                                    - La asistencia del PDCR debe
concejales para mejorar la seguimiento de los GM a                                ser constante para lograr una


                                                 49

 gestión                        la implementación del                                  buena gestión
 - Entonces, la gestión de      PDCR                                                   - Al final de cada gestión
 capacidades municipales        - Al concluir el proyecto                              anual el PDCR debería evaluar
 están fortalecidas en sus      los técnicos capacitados                               al GM
 relaciones sociales y          buscan otras oportunidad                               - Que las capacitaciones sean
 políticas                      de trabajo y el GM queda                               abiertas a todos los
                                como al inicio                                         interesados
                                - Falta de presupuesto del                             - Mayor supervisión a los
                                municipio ocasiona fuga                                capacitadores
                                de personal calificado                                 Para PDCR y GM:
                                - La capacidad de GM                                   - Evitar cambios del personal
                                dificulta la contratación                              facilitador, tanto en el PDCR
                                de profesionales capaces                               como de autoridades de
                                - Falta de capacitación a                              gestión
                                los comités de vigilancia                              Para el gobierno central:
                                sobre los sistemas de                                  - El gobierno central debe
                                gestión municipal                                      considerar presupuesto para la
                                                                                       capacitación a líderes locales
                                                                                       - Implementación de un
                                                                                       sistema nacional de
                                                                                       capacitación para la gestión
                                                                                       municipal y departamental
(*) No hubo acuerdo sobre este punto


                                         ÁREA DE CAPACITACIÓN

Pregunta: ¿Cuáles sus percepciones sobre los servicios del PDCR II en el área de capacitación?


       Aspectos positivos              Aspectos negativos          Conclusiones           Recomendaciones a futuro

 - Mejora de competencias de        - Revisión de tesis,     - El servicio de            Para el PDCR:
 los funcionarios y actores         proyectos de grado,      capacitación ha             - El proceso de formación
 municipales en: control            tesinas, etc. en un      contribuido al              modular semipresencial y
 social, planificación y            tiempo muy largo         mejoramiento de la          diferencia-do debe continuar
 gestión municipal                  - Poco apoyo de algunas  gestión municipal a través  - Generar procesos de
 - Contribuye en la aplicación      autoridades municipales  del desarrollo de           capacitación a profesional
 de los sistemas de                 a los técnicos           capacidades                 del medio en el ámbito
 contratación de bienes y           participantes en los     institucionales en          municipal para que trabajen
 servicios, contratación de         eventos de capacitación  gerencia municipal,         en su municipio
 personal a nivel de municipio      - La inasistencia de     participación, control      - El PDCR debe fomentar la
 - Participación de personas        algunos participantes    social, planificación y     institucionalización del
 con diferente grado de             por falta de tiempo y de finanzas municipales        personal en los municipios
 instrucción en un mismo            recursos económicos                                  - El próximo PDCR debe
 evento de capacitación                                                                  considerar diferentes niveles
 - Capacitación en sedes                                                                 de formación, capacitación,
 regionalizadas o                                                                        diplomados, etc.
 mancomunidades                                                                          Para los GM:
 - Mayor participación en los                                                            - Garantizar la permanencia
 eventos de capacitación por                                                             de los funcionarios
 el apoyo del PDCR II a                                                                  municipales capacitados
 través de becas                                                                         En general:
 - Buen desenvolvimiento del                                                             - La capacitación de los
 funcionario en su área de                                                               actores municipales y
 trabajo                                                                                 sociales debe ser una política



                                                       50

 - Introducción de la temática                                                       de Estado
 municipal en el sistema                                                             - Profundizar los procesos de
 universitario                                                                       apoyo a la inclusión de la
 - Fortalece la gestión                                                              problemática municipal en la
 municipal con recursos                                                              curricula de pregrado de las
 humanos capacitados                                                                 universidades


                                ÁREA DE GESTIÓN INDÍGENA

Pregunta: ¿Cuáles sus percepciones sobre los servicios del PDCR II en el área de gestión
indígena?

       Aspectos positivos          Aspectos negativos            Conclusiones         Recomendaciones a futuro

 - Participación directa de las - No existió permanencia  - El servicio brindado      -   Apoyo a las TCO con
 organizaciones indígenas       de los técnicos en los    fortaleció a la             los mismos equipos del
 - Participación de autoridades municipios                organización indígena       PDCR II
 originarias, cabildo y comuni  - Los PGTI no son         - Se tiene el PGTI como     -   Brindar financiamiento
 dades                          reconocidos por           instrumento de gestión      para la implementación de
 - Experiencia piloto que       autoridades               - Los PGTI son concretos    planes y proyectos
 permitió activar la            departamentales y         en sus demandas             -   Mayor presupuesto a
 participación y fortalecer la  nacionales                - A pesar de sus            inversión en PGTI
 unidad                         - Este nivel de           falencias, tiene más cosas  (discriminación positiva)
 - Buen nivel de relaciona-     planificación no está     positivas que negativas     -   Que se tenga en cuenta
 miento y coordinación entre    contemplado en el         - El PDCR II ha iniciado    el carácter técnico del
 la TCO y el GM                 SISPLAN                   un proceso de               PDCR II para la ejecución
 - El apoyo técnico             - Ha creado expectativas  fortalecimiento de las      de otra fase
 metodológico fortalece a la    que no siempre tienen     TCO                         -   Involucrar a los actores
 organización indígena          apoyo en la ejecución     - El PDCRII ha logrado      locales como consultores
 - Permite conocer la realidad  - Incertidumbre sobre los impacto técnico de          -   Realizar una fase de
 de nuestro territorio          procesos de autonomía     fortalecimiento muni-       concientización previa al
 - A partir del PGTI se         indígena                  cipal,                      iniciar otros PGTI
 empiezan a preocupar por el    - El retraso de los       que debería continuar       -   En los distritos
 medio ambiente (áreas          financiamiento del        - Como experiencia piloto   indígenas y TCO concluir
 degradadas)                    proceso de la             se tiene como resultado el  los PGTI
 - Los gobiernos municipales    elaboración de los        PGTI, el cual se            -   Capacitar a técnicos de
 que cuentan con PGTI están     diferentes planes         constituye en una           la zona para evitar
 mejorando los servicios        - Que el PGTI no sea      herramienta e instrumento   vulnerabilidad en temas
 priorizados por las            válido para prefecturas y de gestión del desarrollo   sociales, culturales, etc. al
 comunidades                    entidades nacionales      - Apoya en el proceso a la  elaborar los PGTI
                                - No está tomada en       integración de los actores  -   Que se ejecuten los
                                cuenta la parte de los    como tales                  planes y proyectos incluidos
                                financiamientos           - Fortalece el ámbito de la en los PGTI
                                - Se realizaron en una    participación ante las      -   Promover la
                                fase muy tardía del       instancias estatales y      participación de las
                                PDCR II                   ONG                         comunidades indígenas
                                                          - El programa es bueno      -   El PDCR II debería
                                                          pero no logró llegar a      continuar para fortalecer a
                                                          todo el sector indígena.    los municipios
                                                          Debería ser más amplio




                                                   51

                               ÁREA DE MANCOMUNIDADES

Pregunta: ¿Cuáles sus percepciones sobre los servicios del PDCR II en el área de
mancomunidades?


      Aspectos positivos          Aspectos negativos            Conclusiones           Recomendaciones a
                                                                                               futuro
En general:                     -   Seguimiento          - Se valora positivamente  -   Que se dé mayor
-   A través del PDCR II se     insuficiente a los       el apoyo del PDCR en las   importancia a aquellos
logró mancomunar a muchos       diferentes servicios fi- mancomunidades de          municipios pequeños en el
municipios del país             nanciados por el PDCR    intervención, sin embargo, tema de mancomunidad
En planificación:               -   Faltó seguimiento a  el área de cobertura y el  -   El deseo de
-   Apoyo en la formulación     la capacitación          tiempo de intervención     mancomunarse debe partir
de PEDEL                        -   En algunos casos     fueron muy reducidos       de la propia voluntad de
-   El PEDEL nos permite        hubo cambio de los                                  los municipios
trabajar en coordinación con    técnicos del PDCR por                               -   Ajustar la metodología
otras instituciones             ingerencia política                                 de la formulación de los
-   Con la planificación se     -   Algunos técnicos no                             PDM mancomunados
permite identificar la vocación tienen capacidad para                               -   El PDCR III deberá
productiva de la                orientar sobre                                      llegar a todos los
mancomunidad (por ej. el        mancomunidad                                        municipios manco-
turismo)                        -   Faltó socializar la                             munados
-   El incentivo al ecoturismo  política de                                         -   Mayor seguimiento e
ha dado a las comunidades       fortalecimiento a nivel                             inversión a las
fuentes de ingreso, ha          de mancomunidades                                   mancomunidades
motivado el sentimiento de      -   Reducido tiempo de
integración                     intervención en tema de
-   Apoyo en la elaboración de  mancomunidad
planes viales                   -   No se llegó a todas
-   El PDCR ha apoyado a        las mancomunidades
elaborar PDM de todos los
municipios de la
mancomunidad
En sistemas de gestión:
-   Ha contribuido con la
implementación del SIM
(Llica-Tahua)
-   El PDCR capacitó en
manejo del SINCOM
-   El PDCR II nos ha
apoyado en la implementación
de los sistemas, principalmente
el SIM, con el cual se
incrementaron los ingresos
propios
En asistencia técnica:
-   Apoyó con AT
mancomunada (gerentes)
-   Se fortaleció técnicamente
a algunas mancomunidades
En capacitación:
-   Se brindó capacitación
formal a los alcaldes de la
mancomunidad



                                                 52

 -   Brindó capacitaciones a
 autoridades originarias, sin
 distinción de grado profesional
 -   Apoyó en gestión
 municipal con cursos,
 diplomado a los técnicos y
 autoridades del gobierno
 municipal
 En inversiones:
 -   PDCR II financió con BID
 la construcción del centro de
 atención al turista (CAT),
 mancomunidad de Incahuasi
 -   El PDCR II ha apoyado a
 realizar estudios de proyectos
 mancomunados para facilitar
 la búsqueda de financiamiento




                                 ÁREA DE ASISTENCIA TÉCNICA

Pregunta: ¿Cuáles sus percepciones sobre los servicios del PDCR II en el área de asistencia
técnica?

     Aspectos positivos            Aspectos negativos              Conclusiones             Recomendaciones a
                                                                                                   futuro
 -   Mejoró grandemente la     - No existieron AT en todas  - Los servicios prestados    - Que en el próximo
 capacidad de gestión          las áreas que los municipios por el AT a través del       PDCR mediante el servicio
 municipal                     requerían                    PDCR demostraron que         de AT se puedan contratar
 -   El municipio contó con    - Algunos AT fueron          los municipios tienen        personas calificadas de la
 asistencia técnica, lo que    puntuales para cobrar y no   falencias en gestión         región cercana al muni-
 mejoró su capacidad           para estar en su trabajo     municipal                    cipio
 institucional                 - Algunos AT no tuvieron     - Se tuvo asistencia técnica - El PDCR debe
 -   El asistente técnico      presencia continua en el     confiable con una buena      continuar porque son más
 cumplió trabajos más allá     trabajo del área asignada    participación por los        las cosas positivas que
 de los términos de            - A veces los AT no          actores locales y autori-    negativas
 referencia de su contrato     cumplieron a cabalidad los   dades municipales            - Generar bolsas de
 -   Brindó recursos           términos de referencia       - Con el servicio de AT se   trabajo para profesionales
 humanos calificados para      establecidos en su contrato  han obtenido resultados      que asistan a los
 la gestión municipal          - Los AT tuvieron contratos  positivos en cuanto a la     municipios de menores
 -   El AT es un actor que     por muy poco tiempo          gestión municipal            recursos económicos
 ha intervenido y mejorado                                  - Con el servicio de AT se   - Que los AT no ganen
 los procesos de                                            ha desarrollado una          más que el alcalde
 planificación participativa                                planificación según las      - Que en el siguiente
 -   El AT cubrió                                           necesidades                  PDCR continúe el servicio
 deficiencias del municipio                                 - Se concluye que la AT ha   de AT y que las
 en determinada área                                        contribuido a mejorar la     contrapartes municipales
 -   Con el servicio el                                     capacidad institucional del  sean de acuerdo al nivel de



                                                    53

municipio contó con                                          municipio                      la población, para que
profesionales capacitados                                    - Se ha fortalecido a los      estos municipios paguen
y los obtuvo con menos                                       municipios con                 menos
recursos                                                     profesionales calificados
-   Permitió al municipio                                    - El PDCR II demostró que
contar con profesionales                                     los municipios no siempre
más calificados                                              cuentan con el personal
-   El AT fue contratado                                     calificado para asumir una
en función a la necesidad                                    gestión municipal
del municipio                                                - Con el PDCR II en los
-   El AT fue responsable                                    municipios hay más
como fiscal de obra                                          relación con otras insti-
-   El municipio tuvo un                                     tuciones para la ejecución
rol protagónico en el                                        de otros proyectos
proceso de contratación de                                   - La asistencia técnica es
AT                                                           importante para lograr una
-   El AT trabajó como un                                    eficiente gestión municipal
actor conciliador con todos                                  - Actualmente los
los actores municipios                                       municipios no cuentan con
-   Los municipios que                                       asistente técnico
contaron con AT                                              profesional por falta de
generalmente tuvieron una                                    recursos económicos
buena gestión municipal


                                         ÁREA DE INVERSIÓN
Pregunta: ¿Cuáles sus percepciones sobre los servicios del PDCR II en el área de inversión?

  Aspectos positivos        Aspectos negativos             Conclusiones            Recomendaciones a
                                                                                          futuro
-   Los proyectos de      -   Demora en la           - El PDCR II ha             - Que los recursos del
mejoramiento de           ejecución de las obras     mejorado las                PDCR III sean adminis-
caminos por puntos y      -   Poca coordinación      condiciones de vida y       trados por los
tramos generan pocos      entre supervisor, fiscal y facilitado el progreso      municipios, previa
impactos ambientales      empresas demora y          - El recurso                capacitación, de
-   El costo de la        perjudica la ejecución     económico que invirtió      acuerdo a los montos a
inversión para            de la obra                 el PDCR II en los           administrar, sujetos a
proyectos por puntos y    -   En la etapa de la      municipios tuvo un          evaluación
tramos tiende a ser       licitación, aspectos o     efecto multiplicador en     - Considerar un
bajo con relación a un    puntos no claros demo-     las comunidades             sistema de evaluación
diseño integral           ran la adjudicación        - Siendo que la             institucional a los GM
-   La construcción       -   El supervisor de       capacitación en O&M,        para las transferencias
delegada fue un éxito     infraestructura no         planes viales y medio       directas de recursos
-   La construcción       siempre tiene las mejo-    ambiente, componentes       - Tener en cuenta la
delegada incrementa la    res condiciones para       importantes para la         simplificación de
contraparte comunal       supervisar los             sostenibilidad del          procedimientos para
-   Se trabajó con        componentes de capa-       proyecto, se requiere un    otra fase
proyectos identificados   citación en O&M y el       tratamiento particular      - La capacitación en
en los PDM                componente ambiental o     - El apoyo técnico ha       O&M a los comunarios
-   Se dio ayuda a la     el plan vial               fortalecido a los           es buena, pero debería
ejecución de obras        -   Existe favoritismo     municipios                  desarrollarse
priorizadas por el        frente a empresas                                      instrumentos más
municipio                 contratistas                                           precisos (TdR,
-   Apoyo ágil en la                                                             manuales, etc.)
contratación de las                                                              - Procurar que las
obras hacia los                                                                  inversiones de distri-



                                                   54

municipios                       buyan de manera
-  En algunos                    equitativa a nivel na-
proyectos el proceso de          cional, considerando
contratación fue ágil,           diferentes criterios:
con normas del Banco             NBI, eficiencia,
Mundial                          disponibilidad, etc. y a
                                 la población fronteriza
                                 (entre municipios)
                                 - En la construcción
                                 delegada se debe dar un
                                 adelanto con garantía
                                 del municipio u otra
                                 institución
                                 - Mayor
                                 asesoramiento en los
                                 trámites de licitación
                                 - Asistencia técnica a
                                 los técnicos del munici-
                                 pio en procesos de
                                 contratación
                                 - Definir la
                                 responsabilidad de la
                                 ejecución de la
                                 infraestructura en una
                                 sola persona (fiscal,
                                 supervisor o seguidor)
                                 - Buscar mecanismo
                                 para evitar favoritismo a
                                 empresas
                                 - Que el nuevo PDCR
                                 III funcione a largo
                                 plazo para concluir los
                                 programas y proyectos
                                 de beneficio a los
                                 municipios
                                 - Mayor inversión por
                                 el PDCR III para ejecu-
                                 tar proyectos
                                 priorizados.




                           55

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

                            SUMMARY OF BORROWER'S ICR

                               Evaluation of program objectives

The evaluation of the Project performance indicators related to the CAS Objectives and the
Project Objectives and Outcomes was based on the Logical Framework included in the PAD. The
achieved results are detailed in the following:

CAS Objective:        Economic growth for poverty reduction and institution building.
Indicators:
     · 5% reduction of population below the poverty line.
     · Annual GDP growth of 7% per year starting in the year 2000.
     · Sustained 5% annual increase in economic growth in 200 municipalities throughout the
        project lifecycle.
Analysis of achievement of the objective:
    · As regards the first indicator, according to the poverty line method, the incidence of
         "moderate poverty" in 1999 - 2004 has increased at an average annual rate of 1.45%; an
        increase of 3.28% in the urban area and a decrease of 0.51% in the rural area.
    · As regards the second indicator, average annual GDP growth was 3% in 2000 ­ 2005.
    · As regards the third indicator, because of the inexistence of official data on the municipal
        GDP or an annualized series on the per capita income for the 200 target municipalities,
        the decision was made to use the average annual growth rate of the agricultural GDP at
        constant prices, which was 3.59% in 2000 ­ 2005.

Project Development Objective: Sustained economic development of rural municipalities and
rural communities through sustainable productive investments based on the local demand
generated through participatory planning processes.

Indicators:
    · Sustained 5% annual increase in standard quality productive investments (included in
        Municipal Development Plans) implemented and maintained in 200 municipalities
        starting in the year 2000.
    · Execution of the municipal investment program in 5 years will increase from 63% to 80%
        in the 200 project municipalities.

Analysis of achievement of the objective:

    · For the first indicator, based on the information of all municipalities that have PDMs, we
        have seen that 156 municipalities register data on POA execution in the last five years.
        These data show an annual growth rate of public investments in productive rural
        development equivalent to 7.68%. The base year for calculating this rate was the year
        2000 with USD 124.2 million and the final year 2005 with USD 179.8 million, both at
        constant prices of 2000. This analysis was made for 5 years.
    · For the second indicator execution of the municipal POA investment program as at 2005
        was on average 76%. The POA/PDM relation reaches an average of 43% as at 2005.
        Execution of the PDM projects averaged 56% as at the year 2005.




                                               56

Project Outputs:
1.        Productive investments responding to local demands are planned, implemented and
maintained.
Indicator
  · Productive investments complying with engineering, environmental and social standards for
    an amount of USD 60 million implemented and maintained over a period of 5 years in
    municipalities and communities which have followed participatory planning processes.

Analysis of achievement of the objective:
Locally planned, executed and maintained productive investments totaled USD 55.8 million, as
per the following detailed overview:

                                                      LAST ESTIMATE (in thousand USD)
        Project Costs by Component
                                                IDA         SDC        Local     In kind     In kind
                                                                      Munic.     Munic.      Benef.
 1.1 Basic Infrastructure                       22,677            0     4,318        3,838      2,585
 1.2 Irrigation                                  8,268            0     1,294                   1,024
 1.3 Other productive components                 3,507            0       679
 1.4 Pre-investment                              1,267            0       240
 1.5 Municipal programs                              0            0         0
 1.6 Administrative costs                        5,166            0         0
 1.7 Guarantee funds / other productive
 items                                               0          653       119                     202

 SUB TOTAL                                      40,885          653     6,650        3,838      3,811


  · The Project was executed by the FDC between May 1998 and March 2001 (3 years) and by
    the FPS between January 2004 and June 2006 (2.5 years), totaling an effective executing
    period of 5.5 years.
  · The evaluation of all projects covered the i) technical, ii) environmental, iii) socio-economic,
    iv) social and v) institutional aspects, as defined in the FPS' Comprehensive Ex Ante
    Evaluation Manual. Besides, all projects are the result of the participatory planning processes
    through insertion in the respective PDMs.

2.        The Vice-Ministry of Popular Participation and Municipal Strengthening, the Small
Farmer Development Fund, Prefectures, Municipalities, Vigilance Committees, Non-
Governmental Organizations, Rural Organizations are strengthened to efficiently provide their
institutional services.

Indicators

VMPPFM Strengthening
·          The VMPPFM implements the participatory rural investment project (PDCR-II) on
schedule and within the agreed technical parameters.

FDC Strengthening
·         FDC's annual disbursements for subprojects which have a positive economic return, are
environmentally sustainable and benefit the poor, increase from at least USD 15 million in 1999
to at least USD 30 million in 2004.
·         Environmental Unit established and operating, capable of screening and assessing



                                                  57

environmental category A subprojects by December 31, 1999.
·        The number of subprojects finishing on time increase from at least 25% in 1999 to at
least 50% in 2004.
·        The number of projects with positive economic and financial impact increased from 50%
in 1998 to at least 80% in 1999.

Prefectural Strengthening
·         The project operational units in the prefectures implement at least 80% of their annual
operational plans within established quality parameters.

Municipality Strengthening
·         Annual increase of 5% in the own revenues of participating municipalities.

Vigilance Committees
·         Within three years, 70% of the vigilance committees in participating municipalities
approve the municipal annual operation plans (POAs).

Analysis of achievement of the objective:

VMPPFM Strengthening
·         The implementation schedule was complied with within the agreed technical
parameters for the period 1999      2006, with a total execution of 95% of the allocated resources.

FDC Strengthening
·         In 1999     2001, FDC disbursements totaled USD 10.8 million. Due to delays in the
Project, the accumulated FPS disbursement rate is as follows: 17% in 2004, 42% in 2005 and
41% in 2006. The disbursed amounts are USD 5.13; 12.4 and 12.1 million, totaling USD 29.6
million.
·         The FPS Environmental Unit has a preventive environmental policy, which
recommended that seven projects not meeting the IDA safeguard policies, be refused for funding.
·         Due to delays in the project for taking up again the investment component, the rate of
projects finished by the FPS, shows the following progress level: 2% in 2004, 24% in 2005 and
74% in 2006, totaling 100% of the portfolio.

FDC Evaluation:
·         The Economic - Financial Section of the FDC Results Report of the Ex Post Evaluation
of Rural Investment Projects (Informe de Resultados de la Evaluación ex post de Proyectos de
Inversión Rural (FDC/PDCR-II): Parte Económica Financiera (December 2000), points out
that: "80% of the evaluated projects show positive indicators in the economic - financial
evaluation".

Comprehensive Ex Post Evaluation (FPS):
·         The FPS Results Report of the Comprehensive Ex Post Evaluation of PDCR-II Projects
(Informe de Resultados de la Evaluación Integral Ex Post a Proyectos del PDCR-II) (March
2006) concludes that 81% of the sampled projects are catalogued as good projects from a socio-
economic point of view.

External Socio-Economic Evaluation (SAXgr)
·         In relation to the socio-economic impact assessment, based on the attained results, the
consultancy firm points out that "97% of the road infrastructure subprojects show a positive


                                                 58

SNPV; in the micro irrigation and productive support projects this percentage is 78%".
Considering the IRR "it is higher than the discount rate in 97% of the cases, while for micro
irrigation and productive support this value is 78%".

Prefecture Strengthening
·         The 9 Departmental Operational Units and the 2 Regional Operational Units of the
Institutional Strengthening component have executed their Annual Operation Plan on average in
82% between 1999 and 2005.
Municipality Strengthening
·         The municipalities in the area covered by the Institutional Strengthening component
have increased their own revenue level at an annual growth rate of 23% in the studied period
(1999 - 2004).
·      Fifty-seven percent (57%) of the municipalities have improved their leveraging level at an
average annual rate of 13% in the studied period (1999     2004).
Vigilance Committees
·         By the year 2005, 86% of the Vigilance Committees in participating municipalities have
issued opinions on the annual operation plans, in conformity with existing norms.
·         In 2005, 75% of the Vigilance Committees account for the Social Control fund, which
they receive from the municipalities to cover their operating expenses.

                                    Outcomes by component
The analysis of outputs by component was based on the Monitoring Indicator Matrix, which was
adjusted in the Amendment of Credit Agreement IDA 3065-BO (August 2003). The outcomes are
detailed below. (See Table 2 in Annex A) Logical Framework and Indicator Matrix).

INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING COMPONENT:
The Institutional Strengthening Component was implemented on an ongoing basis between
January 1999 and June 2006. Hence, this component was implemented during 7.5 years in the
project.

Municipal and Community Strengthening Services
Between 1999 and 2006, the Institutional Strengthening Component of the Project intervened in
246 municipalities from the entire country, providing 34 different municipal and communal
services, grouped as follows: i) Technical Assistance, with 9 services, ii) Training, with 2
services, iii) Project Management, with 3 services, and iv) Good Governance, with 20 services.
(See a more detailed overview in Tables 3 and 4 and Annex A Logical Framework and Indicator
Matrix)
For implementing the 34 municipal and communal services in the mentioned areas, 1,914
agreements were signed and an approximate investment of USD 14.2 million was made, 76% of
which provided by the project and 24% by the local project partners.
The principal results achieved through the different implemented services were:

Technical Assistance:
·         Application of the Technical Assistance Service has created a group of professionals
specialized in municipal management topics, who are now available on the municipal
management services market.
·         The services have simultaneously satisfied the demand for technical assistance of the
municipalities and the mancomunidades prioritized by the Project. The highest level of coverage
was achieved in the year 2005, when the services were implemented in 173 municipalities (81%
coverage of the PDCR-II) from the entire country. In this sense, this area was one of the most



                                                 59

important project areas, considering the achieved sustainability, demand and results.
·        The position of Technical Assistant was institutionalized in the municipalities, which
helped to enhance sustainability of the decentralization process. This person connects the
municipal executive and legislative branches with civil society. Seventy-five (75) professional
Technical Assistants have been assimilated by their municipalities, i.e. 44% of the participating
municipalities.
·        The total cost of the Technical Assistance service is covered in 51% by the project and
49% by the municipalities (progressive increase). This service enjoyed the highest counterpart
contribution from the municipalities, ensuring sustainability.

Training
·       A semi-presential training modality was developed, which enhanced the participation of
municipal stakeholders without the training hampering their executive functions. Besides, the
training content reflected the prioritized municipal demands.
·       A total number of 3,392 municipal stakeholders were trained, 2,399 men and 993 women:
23% were Mayors and Councilors, 39% Municipal Technicians and 38% representatives from
Vigilance Committees and OTBs. They were trained in 103 Formal Training courses held in the
nine departments of the country, covering 246 municipalities and therefore 100% of the project
target area.
·       The training of human resources was institutionalized (Mayors, Councilors, Municipal
Technicians and members of Vigilance Committees) through the 10 Universities participating in
the service provision.
·       A pilot Virtual Training course was developed to generate a constant updating process,
training 160 municipal and social stakeholders in Municipal Public Management.
·       Through the non-formal training service, 483 courses-workshops (184 with the gender
approach) were developed, training 28,090 municipal stakeholders.

Project Management Area
·       A total number of 1,896 project profiles was developed in 151 municipalities, 1,404
(74%) of which correspond to municipal projects and 492 (26%) to community projects. These
profiles helped the municipalities for pre-investments and investments in road infrastructure and
productive projects.
·       Approximately 1,000 community leaders were trained in productive project management,
which enhanced community participation in the project cycle.
·       In the entire country, 550 technicians were trained in works supervision and control.
·       Thirty-four (34) Vigilance Committees were benefited with assistance for social control
of the works. This process led to the creation of 135 works committees in the communities, which
effectively controlled execution of the infrastructure projects.

Good Governance Area
Planning:
·       Support was given for the formulation of 17 Municipal Development Plans and 4
Development Plans of Mancomunidades.
·       148 plans were adjusted (104 Municipal Development Plans, 5 Strategic Local Economic
Development Plans and 39 Road Plans).
·       Support was given for the formulation of 39 Indigenous Development Plans (24
Indigenous District Development Plans and 15 Indigenous Land Management Plans).
·       Support was given for the implementation of 21 Indigenous Development Plans (1 PDDI
and 20 Normative Frameworks for TCOs).



                                                 60

·        153 Municipalities and 36 Mancomunidades received assistance for preparing their
Annual Operation Plans.

Social Control:
·        Management Capacity-building activities for the Municipal Council were supported in 89
Municipal Governments. In this sense, 460 (men and women) Councilors were trained and
received assistance. Besides, the project supported the development of 89 Internal Regulations
and Process Manuals for the Municipal Councils.
·        With further support for social control, 211 Vigilance Committees and 1,500
communities were trained in management of the Social Control Fund and in the Roles of the
social watchmen in municipal governance and investment control.

Municipal Management Systems:
·        The Municipal Financial Information service was implemented in 36 Municipal
Governments, generating 109 Management Reports, an average of 2 reports per year. Positive
opinions were issued on the public rendering of accounts.
·        The Integrated Municipal Income System (SIIM) was implemented in 93 municipalities.
In the first year, this gave rise to an average increase of revenues by 47%, followed by an annual
increase of 23% in 1999       2004.
·        Fourteen (14) Municipal Governments received support through Municipal
Administrative Management Systems (SIIM/SINCOM/SAP/SABS), thus increasing their
management capacity and own revenues.
·        It is important to underline that the Project supported annual updates of the Integrated
Municipal Accounting System (SINCOM), and the distribution of and training in this system in
rural municipalities, in coordination with the Vice-Ministries involved in the project. This way,
this system became the only system in effect for managing municipal resources in the entire
country.

Services for Strengthening Prefectures and Vice-Ministries
The Institutional Strengthening activities for the Prefectures focused on providing a team of
technical consultants and the necessary logistical support in the nine Prefectures of the Country to
ensure implementation of the project at the departmental and municipal levels.
In relation to Strengthening of the Vice-Ministries, the provided assistance focused on: i)
Consultancy services in technical and administrative fields, and provision of the necessary
logistics to ensure execution of the Project in the country, and ii) Specific consultancy services
for institutional strengthening of the Vice-Ministries involved in the project. It is important to
underline that on the basis of the strategic lines defined by the Vice-Ministries, the Project
provided technical and financial support in the execution and implementation of many national
processes, particularly the following ones: i) Municipal Democratic Transition Program ­ 1999,
ii) National Dialogue ­ 2000, iii) National Dialogue Productive Bolivia ­ 2001, iv) National
Dialogue Law ­ 2001, v) Bolivian Poverty Reduction Strategy ­ 2001, vi) National Agriculture,
Livestock and Rural Development Strategy ­ 2003, vii) Transparent Transition Program ­ 2004,
viii) Formulation of Departmental Development Plans 2003 ­ 2005, and ix) Support for the Plan
for Collective Construction of the Future of our Country ­ 2006.

INVESTMENT COMPONENT:
Execution of the investment component was discontinuous. Two phases can be identified; the
first one was developed between January 1999 and 2001 and the second one in 2003 ­ 2006. This
component was therefore implemented during 5.5 years in the project.




                                                   61

Portfolio of Agreements
Initially, the investment component of the Participatory Rural Investment Project (PDCR-II) was
executed through the Small Farmer Development Fund (FDC). Later, this component was
executed through the National Productive and Social Investment Fund (FPS). This component
funded 858 subprojects with a total amount of USD 43.2 million: USD 36.4 million from the
project, USD 6.6 million from the local partners and USD 0.2 million in kind contributions.
For analysis purposes, the portfolio was divided into the following lines: i) The portfolio executed
through the FDC, which is equivalent to 31% (including FDC-UNDP, projects started by the
FDC and concluded by the FPS), ii) FPS, i.e. the regular projects executed until June 30, 2006,
equivalent to 38% of the portfolio, iii) FPS (unfinished projects), i.e. projects which - with
funding from IDA 3065-BO - for different reasons had not been concluded by June 30, 2006, and
which could be finished with OPEC resources or resources from other available sources identified
by the FPS. These projects account for 2% of the portfolio, iv) FPS ­ Emergency, which refers to
the Program for the Reconstruction and Rehabilitation of Areas Affected by Natural Disasters
that was implemented to mitigate the adverse effects of the rainy season in 2005 ­ 2006;
equivalent to 5% of the portfolio, v) FPS-FUPAD, 22%, which corresponds to projects executed
through the Managing Entity (FUPAD), and vi) FPS-FUPAD-COSUDE: projects executed
through the Managing Entity (FUPAD) with total or partial funding from COSUDE, and which
account for 2% of the portfolio.
In percentage, the distribution per type of project is as follows: a) pre-investment projects
accounted for only 4% of the total portfolio and were mostly executed by the FDC, b) in the
projects in support of production (handicrafts, natural resources management and conservation,
agriculture development, animal husbandry development, fishery development and others), there were
no significant components related to infrastructure; rather, the central pillars of these projects were
technical assistance, training, coaching / guidance and market insertion. Therefore, the concepts of
local economic development, competitiveness, productivity, efficiency and quality in the different
phases of the productive cycle account for 10 % of the portfolio c) Micro-irrigation accounts for 24%
of the portfolio, and d) road infrastructure for 62% of the portfolio, with roads accounting for 30%,
vehicle bridges 25% and footbridges 7%.

Ethnic Groups and Beneficiaries

The 858 subprojects executed under the investment component of the PDCR-II have benefited
1,034,900 persons, many of whom were benefited with more than one subproject. The following
beneficiary ethnic groups were identified: Quechuas, with 399,272 men and women, particularly in
Cochabamba, Potosí and Chuquisaca; Aymaras, as the second majority ethnic group in La Paz and
Oruro; Chiquitanos, with 43,159 beneficiaries in the entire country, especially in Santa Cruz; Mojenos,
in Beni and Santa Cruz; and finally, other ­equally important - indigenous groups in Santa Cruz and
Beni, such as the Tacanas and Chimanes. Considering that the Project interventions were centered in the
rural area and in the poorest municipalities (which at the same time have the highest indigenous
population), we should underline the significance of the PDCR-II in helping to reduce rural poverty.

Indicators by Component
As regards the projects co funded by the FPS, data were collected per type of project by means of
quantifying the outcome indicators, which gave rise to the following numbers [1]:
·           Upgrade of 2,372 Km of rural roads under the program. With the FDC and within the
framework of a comprehensive intervention approach in rural roads, the average cost per
kilometer was USD 9,615. The investment cost per kilometer of upgraded roads has improved
under the 'points and segments' approach of the FPS with an average cost of USD 4,409.
·          Of this total length of upgraded rural roads, the FPS intervened in the upgrading of



                                                    62

1,744 Km of rural roads, with the construction of 1,790 drains equivalent to 9.8 lineal Km, the
construction of 816 Km of longitudinal drainage ditches and 21,825 m3 of walls for the benefit of
222,000 persons, i.e. equivalent to around 316 households per project.
·          Construction of 198 vehicle bridges with a total length of 3,584 m, benefiting 66,935
rural households. The average cost of the FDC was 3,847 USD/m. This cost was optimized by
the FPS to 2,546 USD/m.
·         Construction of 43 footbridges with a total length of 2,910 lineal meters, benefiting
11,250 households. The average cost per lineal meter was 980 USD/m under FDC management
and 700 USD/m under FPS management.
·         Construction and/or upgrade of 177 irrigation projects, covering an additional 3,993
hectares. The activities consisted of the construction of 233 intake works, 226 storage works,
210,552 lineal m of open canals and 253,645 lineal m of pipes.
·         Execution of 134 projects in support of the production, in which the annual household
income increased by USD 403.

Assessment of the Effects and Impacts of the PDCR-II Investment Component
·         Ex Post Program Evaluation by the FDC: The Economic - Financial Section of the
FDC Results Report of the Ex Post Evaluation of Rural Investment Projects (Informe de
Resultados de la Evaluación ex post de Proyectos de Inversión Rural (FDC/PDCR-II): Parte
Económica ­ Financiera) (December 2000) states that "80% of the evaluated projects show
positive indicators in the economic - financial evaluation".
·         Comprehensive Ex Post Program Evaluation by the FPS: The FPS Results Report of
the Comprehensive Ex Post Evaluation (Evaluación Integral Ex Post) of a sample of 21 projects
points out that 76% show good results and 24% regular results. Not one was rated as insufficient.
In general terms, the Program result is GOOD.
·         External Socio-Economic Evaluation of the Program by SAXgr: In relation to the
socio-economic impact assessment, this consultancy firm points out that "97% of the road
infrastructure subprojects show a positive SNPV; in the micro irrigation and productive support
projects this number is 78%". Considering the IRR "it is higher than the discount rate in 97% of
the cases, while for micro irrigation and productive support this value is 78%".

Budget execution:
·        According to the stipulations contained in the Agreement and the Amendment of the
Credit Agreement IDA 3065-BO, execution of the Participatory Rural Investment Project
(PDCR-II) was funded with resource allocations from: i) Loans (IDA and COSUDE), ii) Central
Government Counterpart Contributions (Treasury), iii) Local Counterpart Resources (Prefectures
and Municipalities) and iv) Counterpart Contributions from Beneficiaries.
·        Considering all sources of funding, budget execution of the Project totaled USD 83.8
million, equivalent to 96% of the estimate defined in the Project preparation document which was
USD 87.3 million. As regards budget execution by Component, 67% (USD 56.0 million)
corresponds to the Rural Investment Component implemented through the different parts
assigned to the FDC and FPS, and 33% (USD 27.3 million) to the Institutional Strengthening
Component implemented through the different parts assigned to the VD, VDR and a small part to
the FPS, including the resources used for preparing the project. As regards execution by source,
the funds were distributed as follows: i) Credit 72% (USD 60.2 million), ii) Central Government
2% (USD 1.8 million), Prefectures 5% (USD 3.9 million), Municipalities 17% (USD 13.8
million), and Contributions from Beneficiaries 5% (USD 3.8 million). It is important to underline
that 37% of the municipal contribution and 100% of the contribution from beneficiaries were in
kind.
·        On the other hand, total execution of the resources allocated by the IDA Credit [3] was


                                                 63

USD 58.2 million, equivalent to 93% and by COSUDE USD 2.1 million, equivalent to 103% of
the originally assigned budget. A detailed overview of budget execution in the Project, by
component, funding source and expense category is included in Tables 1 to 6 of Annex B Budget
Execution Tables.

PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT OF THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES (VD, VDR,
FDC, FPS, VIPFE, PREFECTURES AND MUNICIPALITIES)

IDENTIFICATION PHASE

·         In this phase, participation of the VMPPFM (today the VD) was fundamental, as this
vice-ministry was the implementing agency responsible for managing the project based on the
experience and results of the PDCR, which was executed between 1996 and 1998, within the
framework of an approach favoring continuity and deepening of the activities related to municipal
strengthening and productive investments.
·      Participation of the VDR in the Project identification phase was limited as the project was
based on the results and experience gained in the PDCR, the final phase of which was executed
exclusively by the VD.
·         The VIPFE participated in the identification phase within the framework of its legal
attributions, enabling satisfactory compliance of the prior conditions to start preparing the project.
·         In this phase, the FDC participated very actively and contributed important experiences
of the pre-investment and investment processes in the PDCR and in other projects managed by
this entity.
·         Participation of the Prefectures and Municipalities in the identification phase was
limited to the provision of information on some experiences gained in execution of the PDCR.

PREPARATION PHASE

·     The Project preparation phase was led by the VMPPFM and the FDC that, on the basis of
the experiences and results of the PDCR and with a vision of continuity, were able to structure a
conceptual and methodological proposal for the PDCR-II based on: i) Interaction and
participation, ii) The institutional context, iii) The generation of instruments, and iv)
Management of the territory as the physical basis for implementing the actions focusing the
different stakeholders. It is important to point out that in the preparation phase the decision was
made that the Institutional Strengthening Component should be executed almost entirely by the
VMPPFM and the Rural Investment Component by the FDC, which reflects the importance of
these implementing agencies in the preparatory phase.
     · Participation of the VDR in this phase centered on the development of proposals for the
provision of technical assistance and training to the communities and associations of small-scale
producers for them to access resources from the project and other funding entities, which was
consolidated with final assignation of the responsibility for the execution of these services.
     · Participation of the VIPFE in this phase was set within the framework of its attributions
aimed at facilitating the steps required for signing and putting into operation the Credit
Agreement. It is important to underline that the entire process was followed satisfactorily, and so
the project started on schedule.
     · In this phase, participation of the Prefectures and Municipalities was limited to the
provision of information and support to the different project preparatory and assessment missions
organized by the VD and the World Bank.




                                                    64

IMPLEMENTATION PHASE

·         Participation of the VD in the implementing phase was satisfactory, having complied
with the goals defined in the different Project parts assigned to it, as can be seen in the indicator
tracking table included in the annexes.
In general, the actions executed by this Vice-Ministry supported i) Consolidation of the Popular
Participation and Decentralization laws, ii) Institutional Strengthening for Execution, iii) Support
for policies of the National Compensation Policy (PNC) and the Bolivian Poverty Reduction
Strategy, iv) the generated institutional capacity, v) induction to the development of other
municipal strengthening projects, and vi) the articulation of activities at the central level with the
departmental and municipal levels.
·         The participation of the VDR in the implementing phase was set within the framework
of the project parts assigned to it, the conceptual and methodological framework of which was
developed with support from the National Coordination and executed through the UODs
(Departmental Operational Units) and UORs (Regional Operational Units). The goals were
attained satisfactorily.
On the other hand, the VDR participated in defining the type of rural development projects
funded by the FPS within the framework of the Project, as well as in the formulation of public
policy lines and strategies for the agriculture, animal husbandry and rural sector, whereby support
for formulation of the ENDAR stood out (2003).
·        The FDC as the entity responsible for execution of the first phase of the investment
component partially complied with the defined pre-investment and investment goals. However,
due to institutional problems, this component was suspended temporarily in 2001. In this phase,
the most outstanding work was in pre-investment, as designed in the Project.
The second phase of this component was executed by the FPS, the work of which permitted
compliance with the investment goals defined by the Project. Only a small portfolio of projects
could not be concluded, the outstanding balance of which will be covered with money from other
sources managed by this entity.
·         The participation of the VIPFE in this phase was satisfactory and centered on follow-up
of the physical and financial Project execution, participation in regular evaluation missions and
the mid-term evaluation mission that was coordinated with the World Bank, as well as in the
process for negotiation and signing of the Amendment of the Credit Agreement (August 2003).
·         In general, the performance of all Departmental Prefectures was adequate; nonetheless,
there were some difficulties causing delays in implementation of the Project through the UODs
and UORs, and which were related to: i) Delays in the deposit of financial counterpart resources,
ii) Frequent counterpart staff turnover, iii) Insufficient and untimely logistical support (offices,
payment of services, others), and iv) Institutional changes in the Prefectures (Prefects and
Directions).
·         In general, participation of the Municipalities was adequate, though there were some
difficulties related to: i) application of the Project procedure for identifying the demand, ii)
application of the Project norms and procedures for the procurement of municipal services, iii)
delays in the deposit of counterpart contributions, and iv) the weak institutional capacity for
follow-up and monitoring of municipal services.
·          As regards the Mancomunidades, their participation was good even though there were
some difficulties related to: i) the application of Project norms and procedures for the
procurement of services for the Mancomunidades, ii) Delays in decision­making by the Board of
the Mancomunidad, iii) Delays in the deposit of counterpart contributions, and iv) the regular
institutional capacity for follow-up and monitoring of the services of the mancomunidades.



                                                   65

PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT OF THE FUNDING AGENCIES (WORLD BANK AND
COSUDE)

IDENTIFICATION PHASE

·         The World Bank used the PDCR results as the basis, as well as the lessons learned in the
pilot municipal planning phase as an instrument to deal with local demands for productive
investments, and also supported further deepening of the popular participation process. In this
sense, the identification mission performed in September and October 1997 with World Bank
staff enabled preparation of the second Project phase in conjunction with national authorities
from the VMPPFM, the FDC and the VDR, with which a consensus was reached on the priorities
for the CAS.
·         The participation of COSUDE was limited to its contributing some general ideas and
experiences.

PREPARATION PHASE

·         Through different missions, the World Bank supported the identification of elements to
be included in the Project purpose, the approaches to support consolidation of the popular
participation and decentralization laws, public policymaking based on the services generated by
the Project, the mass orientation towards productive investments to improve farmers'
opportunities, improvement of the positive impact on equity and contributions to institutional
development, the improvement and increase of the capacity of prefectures, municipalities and
rural communities to manage their own development investments.
·      The World Bank supported the national strategic options, increasing the national and
prefectural resources, co financing municipal priorities and reverting the growing trend of
unbalance between social and productive investments. Besides, the municipalities and
communities were provided with incentives and resources to co finance demands aimed at
generating growth conditions for possible private investments.
·         COSUDE was involved on specific moments for developing the conceptual frameworks
of the services related to the mancomunidades and indigenous peoples.

IMPLEMENTATION PHASE

·         For implementing the project, the World Bank supported consolidation of the Rural
Investment component administered by the FDC (later replaced by the FPS) and the Institutional
Strengthening component administered by the Vice-Ministries (VD and VDR), within the clear
perspective of transferring responsibilities for managing the subprojects to the municipalities,
improving the sense of ownership, enhancing the flexibility of operational guides,
decentralization of the processes for approving subprojects, procurement and disbursements at the
regional level.
·         As regards the Institutional Strengthening component, initially support was given to
develop the Project as part of the different Vice-Ministry units aimed at generating ownership and
internal strengthening in the Vice-Ministries. However, because of the high turnover due to
political factors, the Bank strongly supported creation of the Implementing Unit with specific
responsibilities as regards the project objectives.
·         During implementation of the Investment Component, in 2001 the Bank detected
ineligible projects and suspended the resource flow, which resulted in temporary suspension of
this component and the start of an investigation, which concluded with the national government



                                                 66

returning the resources. This situation caused delays for the project and a reorientation of the
actions to the Institutional Strengthening component, focusing more attention on enhanced
transparency in the use of municipal public resources and training social controllers.
·      Towards the end of the Project (June 2003), the duration of the Project was extended and
the Investment component was restored, this time leaving the responsibility in the hands of the
FPS. Through an amendment of the agreement, the goals and project tracking indicators were
adjusted, besides an adjustment of the amounts destined to the two components.
·         When the Institutional Strengthening component was restored, the services in support of
investments were also restored and pilot services were designed in the fields of Indigenous
Peoples, Road Planning and Local Economic Development.
·         The Bank's participation in this second phase was decisive to consolidate municipal
investments, works procurement processes, social control of the works and mass formal training
of the different municipal stakeholders and to allocate resources to specialized technical
assistance. In the final phase, resources not assigned by the Bank were obtained for disaster relief
programs.
·         During implementation of the Project, there were several critical phases related to the
change of government authorities. In this sense, the Ministry responsible for this Project changed
on five occasions, the Vice-Ministry on twelve occasions. This situation caused delays, staff
changes, changes in the policies and priorities. Still, the Bank's position helped to maintain the
Project institutionality and to again invigorate the actions and fund flow.
·      In this project phase, COSUDE particularly supported development of an operational
    framework for the services and investments related to the mancomunidades and indigenous
    peoples.         On the other hand, COSUDE participated in all supervisory missions and the
    mid-term evaluation mission, providing important input to general development of the
    Project.

OVERALL ASSESSMENT:

Institutional Strengthening
·        The World Bank was present in the project design and the supervisory missions at the
    national, municipal and communal levels, which helped to adjust and provide feedback on the
    project actions.
·        The meetings to explain the scope and progress of the Project to new ministry authorities
    each time the government changed helped to ensure a certain institutional continuity of the
    Project, and to enhance ownership among the new ministerial executive teams.
·        The support for the financial project administration was vital for the different
    adjustments in the expenditure categories, generating an adequate fund flow to cover
    payments in the different services.
·        The support provided for generating new municipal and communal services was
    important to adequately respond to the demands of municipalities and communities.
·        The separate administration of the components with a limited information flow has
    caused imbalances in processing of the consolidated information, in achievement of the
    objectives and in a limited operational articulation.
·        In the first five years of the project, management follow-up and supervision of the
    project were performed from the World Bank's headquarters with some concrete missions. As
    from 2004, the Project Manager worked from Bolivia, a positive aspect that helped to
    accelerate project execution.
·        Monitoring of the Project was gradually extended, until it even covered routine actions
    of the municipal services, which sometimes caused confusion as regards the financial agency's role.




                                                  67

Rural Investment Component
·        The World Bank's participation and support in implementation increased in the phase
    executed by the National Productive and Social Investment Fund (FPS).
·        The formulation and approval of the FPS Operations Manual, and the subsequent
    negotiation of the amendment of the Credit Agreement in 2002 and 2003, took a long time
    and were characterized by the Bank's slowness in obtaining the "go-ahead" and approval of
    manuals, guides and other operational instruments.
·        The negotiation of the Amendment of the Credit Agreement was conditioned to
    incorporation of the project management modality for the micro irrigation and production
    support portfolio, without considering the institutional and technical justification with a
    stagnant project portfolio while the management hiring process was concluded.
·        The prior Bank revision of projects exceeding USD 150,000 limited approval of the
    projects contained in the different procurement plans and caused delays in the procurement
    processes.
·        As from approval of the second procurement plan, operational dynamics of the Bank
became more proactive, with the quicker approval and go-ahead of FUPAD projects. Besides,
support was given for funding of the Monitoring and Control Unit (UMC), reestablishment of the
controls in the Project Administration System (SAP) and for specific equipment for monitoring
and control of the departmental offices and the national office.
·        A second part of the Bank support was translated in the creation of the Institutional
Strengthening Unit.
·        In general, the Bank's support for the Rural Investment component (FPS) was positive,
however, in the FPS' opinion, two aspects could be improved in future interventions: i) the
operational relations between the FPS and the Bank should be based on consensuses and not be
restricted to unilateral initiatives, and ii) a better understanding of the rural reality as regards the
terms for executing infrastructure works, especially in the final project periods.
·        Finally, participation of the Swiss Cooperation (COSUDE) was minimal and was indeed
limited to COSUDE's attendance to some meetings of the supervisory missions organized by the
IDA.

                                        LESSONS LEARNED

INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING COMPONENT:
·        Identification and Preparation based on Previous Experiences: The process to identify
and prepare a project is greatly facilitated when it is conceived as the continuation of a previous
phase, as is the case of the PDCR-II, which was identified and prepared on the basis of the
achievements, outcomes and technical-logistical support of the PDCR. This situation helped to
reduce the time for project identification and preparation.
·        Decentralization and deconcentration of the project actions: The creation of a Project
implementing Unit with a National Coordination instance and the decentralization of the services
to the UODs and UORs were adequate and helped to maintain a regionalized implementing
rhythm.
·        Project flexibility and versatility: which makes it possible to: i) adjust the operational
design according to changes in the project environment, ii) enhance autonomic technical,
operational and administrative management by the Implementing Agencies, iii) define the follow-
up and control channels of the Implementing Agencies based on Performance Agreements, and
iv) define follow-up and control channels of the beneficiaries through accountability mechanisms.
·        Innovation: The Project acquired sensitivity on the perception of processes and changes
    in municipal dynamics, which were helpful for the project to innovate forms and modalities



                                                     68

    of technical assistance and training to adequately consider the complexity of municipal
    issues, such as the Social Control of Works, Planning in TCOs, etc.
·        Service outsourcing: This was decisive for the simultaneous and parallel implementation
    of the different services and to achieve the Project results and indicators. Besides, outsourcing
    helped to create a specialized municipal service market at the local level.
·       Services on demand: The identification of the demand for assistance at the municipal
    level helped to efficiently allocate the resources, directly related to community needs and
    priorities, and hence to ensure timely and adequate interventions.
·        Validation of the demands for investments: The incorporation of a process for
    validating the project ideas and profiles helped to more precisely identify the characteristics
    and scope of the demand for investments of the municipal and communal projects resulting
    from participatory processes, based on which continuity or suspension of the projects was
    decided on, thus avoiding that the municipalities and communities would incur in higher
    expenses.
·        Pedagogic effect in the municipal administration and collective learning: As this
    project focuses exclusively on the municipal sphere, the implementation of the 34 services
    covering all municipal management areas, enabled collective "learning by doing" of the
    municipal actors in different actions, such as the project cycle, technical assistance, training,
    financial systems and participatory planning.
·       National coverage: In view of the fact that the project was aimed at consolidating and
    further supporting the popular participation process, and the application of Government
    policies and strategies, the project coverage was very ample and implementation of the
    project was fomented through the constant presence of TAs in the municipalities.
·       Local contributions: According to the agreements signed at the national and
    departmental levels, the allocation of counterpart resources for operation of the technical and
    administrative project structure was good, with an adequate resource flow. The municipal
    counterpart contributions for execution of the services varied, e.g. sometimes only part of the
    counterpart contribution was made available and/or periodic deposits. In the case of the
    Technical Assistants (TAs), the municipal counterpart contribution gradually increased until
    completely funding this service as part of the municipal payroll.
·        Absence of periodic systematization and dissemination processes: For a project of the
    size and with the coverage of the PDCR-II, where new experiences are constantly generated
    because of the varied nature of the interventions in all geographical and ethnical areas of the
    country, the fact that there were no permanent systematization and dissemination processes
    from the beginning, has had a negative impact in terms of invisibility of the project, as in
    many cases other institutional actors unduly appropriated the achievements, modalities and
    developed instruments.
·        Stability of the technical team at the national and departmental levels: The changes at
    the level of the ministries and departments (prefectures) caused often traumatic changes in the
    staff structure (2002) with changes of up to 80% of the personnel. Also in the prefectures, the
    change of prefects had an impact on changes in key employees. In this sense, conditions
    should be generated to maintain an administrative technical team that ensures project
    implementation.

RURAL INVESTMENT COMPONENT
·       Overall Assessment: One of the most important contributions of the FPS through the
PDCR-II is the integrality approach applied in the preparation and evaluation, which among other
things aimed at ensuring the good quality of the investments and creating the best possible
conditions to ensure sustainability of the projects. The said evaluation must be carried out by
multidisciplinary teams and must consider technical, socio-economic and financial,



                                                 69

environmental, social and institutional aspects. In addition, the environmental procedure applied
by the FPS ensured that once the environmental impacts were defined and the corresponding
mitigation measures proposed, the cost of the latter would be automatically incorporated into
the overall works budget, thus guaranteeing availability of the economic resources required for
implementation.
·        Execution through Managing Entities: The experience of executing projects through a
Managing Entity specialized in managing projects in support of production and micro irrigation,
was positive and helped to improve the FPS' installed capacity to administer a larger portfolio of
productive projects.
·        Direct Transfers to Communities: With the objective of promoting organizational and
management capacity-building of small projects administered by the rural communities, the
modality of direct non-reimbursable transfers for projects with an investment range of USD 3,000
to 20,000 with a communal counterpart contribution of 20% was validated. The results were
satisfactory. A set of instruments for executing and supervising the projects was developed and
validated.
·        Coaching / guidance for micro irrigation projects: Another important experience with
good results was the introduction in all micro irrigation projects of a coaching component to
support administration of the project by the irrigation organizations in accordance with adequate
technical and sustainability parameters.
This way, the FPS did not only focus on execution of the project infrastructure, but it also
incorporated elements to foment organizational strengthening and irrigation management
capacity-building in the beneficiary population.
·        Upgrades of Rural Roads using the 'points and segments' approach: Another important
innovation was the design and execution of rural road improvement projects under the 'points and
segments' approach.
This environment-friendly modality ensures accessibility between two points with an average
investment cost of USD 4,500/Km, approximately one third of the cost of an integral intervention
in rural roads.
·        Road Planning: Another innovation developed by the two Project components in answer
to the absence of public policies for the upgrade, operation and maintenance of rural roads and
the lack of information, inventories and the need to determine the composition of the rural roads
network in the Municipality or Mancomunidad, was the introduction of the service in support of
Road Planning, which helped to generate a participatory methodology for the Road Plans of
Municipalities and Mancomunidades.
In this context, the investment component (FPS) incorporated the design of Municipal Road plans
as a component in the road project budget, the results of which were satisfactory.
·        Beneficiary Satisfaction System: The introduction of the Beneficiary Satisfaction
System (SSAB), a process that seeks the relation of direct satisfaction between the service
provider (contractor) and the client (benefited community), helped to significantly improve
community participation and social control throughout execution of the projects with
responsibility and commitment.
·        Works Supervision: With the purpose of ensuring an effective project supervision, the
entity executing the program must be the one hiring the technicians for supervising the works,
sharing the control responsibility with the Municipal Governments through an alliance focused on
strengthening them.
·        Monitoring and Evaluation System: In order to be able to adequately evaluate the
program results and impacts, the monitoring and evaluation indicators must be adequately
designed so that it would be possible to obtain information for measuring the indicators and
making the respective adjustments.
At the same time, it is important to mention that all monitoring work is incomplete unless it



                                                 70

enjoys decisive support from the maximum executive authority to ensure the timely
implementation of corrective actions.

INSTITUTIONAL AND OPERATIONAL FRAMEWORK FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF
                                       A NEW OPERATION
With inauguration of the new government, at the national level the new Project phase will be part
of the strategic plans of the VD, which responds to the Ministry of the Presidency, and will
therefore be the operational instrument of this Vice-Ministry. At the local level, the Project must
be related to the new regions established in the new decentralization policy, with links to the
communities so as to lay a direct link between the state and the social grassroots levels.

INSTITUTIONAL AND OPERATIONAL FRAMEWORK FOR IMPLEMENTING A
NEW OPERATION
Institutional Strengthening Component
·        The experience developed by the PDCR-II and the Project actions was gradually
transferred to the Prefectures, which have continued to provide some of the services with
departmental resources, e.g. Technical assistance in the Departments of Santa Cruz, Pando and
Tarija, follow-up and monitoring of some services implemented by the project in the department
of La Paz to asses the project impact, the generation of municipal demands to define development
strategies in the department of Beni. At the municipal level, many services have been
appropriated, e.g. planning, the technical assistants who continue to provide their services with
municipal resources.
·        The Formal Training service is being assimilated by public and private Universities, with
short courses and diploma courses for different municipal stakeholders.
·        Based on the results achieved by the PDCR-II, and taking advantage of the lessons
learned in the new national context, the next intervention phase would be based on two pillars,
namely institutional strengthening and productive investments, with an emphasis on service
outsourcing, local counterpart contributions to ensure sustainability, and an improved citizen
participation with strategies that include traditionally excluded actors.
·        The experience generated by the project will be the basis to design new projects focusing
on local development in communities, municipalities and mancomunidades; the results obtained
so far are being disseminated in publications that are shared with municipal stakeholders,
international donor agencies, ministries and vice-ministries. All documents and information
produced by the project is available on different web pages linked to municipal issues and rural
development.
·        At the level of the prefectures, the institutional strengthening services and other
prefectural units in conjunction with the associations of municipalities, mancomunidades and
universities have started to implement actions to ensure continuity of the different services
implemented by the project, besides follow-up and monitoring of the results obtained by the
project to ensure continuity of the municipal and communal support.

Rural Investment Component
·        An integrated Rural Development intervention with 2 or 3 types of projects (roads +
productive) is recommended in the poorest sectors of the municipalities, taking advantage of
economies of scale and the chaining of benefits. Thus, if the ex ante evaluation of a road project
considers that it is necessary to complement the project with a productive development project;
this recommendation should become a condition for approving the project.
·        When managing rural development projects, it is important to distinguish between
interventions enhancing competitive economies and interventions enhancing food security, as the
treatment and operations of these interventions must be differentiated. Likewise, the second group



                                                  71

must consider the interventions that facilitate the access to other public services, particularly
social services.
·        The awareness-raising and training in government control has generated satisfactory
results, and should therefore be continued in every year.
·        For designing a new program, the components "Environment", "Road planning", Training
in O&M", "Beneficiary Satisfaction", "Technical Assistance" and "Coaching" should be
separated, aimed at optimizing these actions and ensuring project sustainability.
·        The efficiency and effectiveness of the execution of road projects under the 'points and
segments' approach in some lowland areas and flood-prone areas of the highlands must be analyzed,
as in these areas it is recommended to carry out integral interventions or interventions of another
type, which are also recommendable in zones with intense vehicle flows related to high production
and commercialization levels of agricultural and livestock products. In this regard, it is important to
remember that the World Bank has offered the FPS the possibility to apply alternative techniques in
exceptional cases.
·        Social control and monitoring of the technical quality must be implemented with
responsibility and commitment to the project objectives so as not to hamper normal execution of the
project. Consequently, the SSAB, training in O&M and coaching of the micro irrigation projects
must develop methodologies and instruments that enable an enlargement and/or adjustment of the
project objectives that are being executed.

INPUT AS FEEDBACK FOR PUBLIC POLICIES
·        The actions implemented by the PDCR-II will be the basis for public policymaking,
taking into account various services implemented by the project:
       In Training municipal actors, the institutions such as Universities that have supported this
process, have appropriated this training modality, incorporating the used methodologies and
topics into their study plans and courses. They should coordinate with the Ministry of Education
for generating a sustainable training strategy.
Also on the basis of the services in support of social control, focused on the creation of communal
works committees, the parties implementing public infrastructure works could be obliged to
coordinate and concert all implementing phases with the beneficiary communities, which should
be a requirement in the bid specifications.
·        On the other hand, as regards technical assistance, policies could be designed to support
the provision of gradually increasing counterpart contributions to ensure sustainability of the
process.
·        In the intervention in TCOs, as regards the experience with participatory planning,
policies could be designed for land management, supporting the development of political
management instruments for the benefit of indigenous peoples in their interrelation with
municipalities, prefectures, companies, NGOs and other institutions.
·        For improving rural roads within the framework of sustainability of the investment, the
'points and segments' modality could be adopted as the national policy, as the most adequate
alternative for maintaining the rural road infrastructure.




                                                  72

                     BORROWER'S COMMENTS ON DRAFT ICR




                                                                    La Paz, 18 DIC 2006
                                                         VIPFE/DGFE/NEG-04795/2006




Señora
Connie Luff
Representante Residente
BANCO MUNDIAL
Presente




                       Ref.: CONVENIO DE CRÉDITO 3065-BO
              PROYECTO DE INVERSIÓN RURAL PARTICIPATIVA


Señora Representante:

Adjunto a la presente, copia de las notas MP-VD No. 683106 y FPS/D.E./No.292/06,
mediante las cuales el Viceministerio de Descentralización y el Fondo Nacional de
Inversión Productiva y Social (FPS), entidades ejecutoras del convenio de crédito de
referencia hacen conocer sus comentarios al borrador del Informe de Cierre del mismo.

Al respecto, agradeceré incluir los comentarios citados antes de emitir la versión final del
documento.

Con este motivo, saludo a usted con la mayor atención.



Luis F. Baudoin
Viceministro de Inversión Pública y Financiamiento Externo
Ministerio de Planificación del Desarrollo




                                           73

                                                          La Paz 13 de diciembre de 2006



Señor
Lic. Hernando Larrázabal
Ministro de Planificación del Desarrollo
Presente.-

               REF.: Informe de cierre del Provecto de Inversión Rural Participativa

Distinguido Ministro:

El Banco Mundial nos hizo llegar copia de la nota BO/RRD/702/2006 dirigida a su
autoridad, en la que remite el informe de referencia.

Hemos revisado este documento y solicitamos que incluya el siguiente comentario en la
sección correspondiente:

"Los problemas de corrupción detectados en el Fondo de Desarrollo Campesino (FDC),
así como la insuficiente energía puesta por el gobierno en su investigación y prosecución
de las demandas penales y civiles que correspondían, son la principal razón por la cual el
ICR califica el desempeño del Estado boliviano lamentablemente como "Moderadamente
Insatisfactorio" (sección 10.2 del informe).

Es importante remarcar que estos hechos corresponden al periodo 1999-2001, durante la
administración gubernamental de Hugo Banzer, a quien sucedió entre 2001 y 2002 Jorge
Quiroga Ramírez, su Vicepresidente. El año 2002 asumió la conducción del gobierno
Gonzalo Sánchez de Lozada, y tras la insurrección popular de octubre de 2003 se
sucedieron aun dos gestiones de gobierno, antes de las elecciones nacionales de
diciembre de 2005.

El gobierno del Presidente de la Republica, Evo Morales, surgido de la victoria electoral
en este último proceso democrático, lamenta profundamente el daño que aquellas
administraciones gubernamentales han significado para el país en general y para el
desarrollo del proyecto en particular. Han sido protagonistas de hechos de corrupción,
pero además con las características de involucrar recursos públicos, segundo que éstos
recursos provienen de un crédito que deberá ser pagado por todos los bolivianos, tercero
que los destinatarios de los fondos y proyectos debían ser las comunidades rurales e
indígenas de los municipios mas pobres del país, y finalmente aquellos gobiernos
encubrieron a los autores.

Es decisión del Gobierno Nacional luchar contra la corrupción y la impunidad, para que
no se vuelvan a dar hechos como los mencionados en el informe."




                                            74

Por otro lado, no tenemos ninguna objeción a que el documento sea publicado y puesto a
disposición de cualquier interesado.

Con este motivo, aprovecho para enviarle un saludo cordial.
Atentamente,

Fabián II Yaksic Feraudy
Viceministro de Descentralización
Ministerio de la Presidencia
                                         -----o-----
                                                           La Paz. 5 de diciembre de 2006
                                                                       FPS/D.F./No.292/06


Señor
Lic. Luís F. Baudoin O.
Viceministro de Inversión Pública y Financiamiento Externo
Presente

  Ref.: CONVENIO DE CRÉDITO 3065-80 PROYECTO DE INVERSIÓN RURAL
                                    PARTICIPATIVA

Señor Viceministro:

En respuesta a la carta VIPFE/DGFE/NEG-04526/2006, expreso mi conformidad con el
tenor del informe de cierre del convenio de crédito de referencia, elaborado por el Banco
Mundial. Asimismo solicito considerar la inclusión del siguiente comentario.

"El FPS en el marco de la PNC y respetando el Convenio de Crédito IDA 3065-BO ha
ejecutado los proyectos financiados par el PDCRII dentro del ciclo de proyecto aprobado.
En ese sentido el FPS a través de las transferencias condicionadas ha coadyuvado en la
implementación de las políticas nacionales y sectoriales a nivel municipal. Para ello, ha
empleado los criterios de elegibilidad establecidos por los diferentes sectores, lo que
muchas veces no ha sido adecuadamente entendido por los Gobiernos Municipales,
motivo por el cual injustamente se ha señalado al Fondo de exigir muchos requisitos
burocráticos. Como contraste de lo expresado, con el "Programa de Emergencia" se ha
demostrado -con requerimientos menos burocráticos aunque exigentes- el alcance de un
resultado adecuado y de que el FPS puede mostrar altos niveles de eficiencia en la
implementación de los programas a su cargo".

Con este motivo saludo a usted, muy atentamente,

Msc. Lic. Vladimir Sánchez E.
Director Ejecutivo
Fondo Nal. De Inversión Productiva y Social




                                             75

Annex 11. Comments of Co financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
         Comments from the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC)
                           on the Participatory Rural Investment Project
   SDC co financed both the Rural communities Development Project (PDCR) and the
Participatory Rural Investment Project (PDCR II). Its main reason to do so was to align to the
Popular Participation Reform which SDC considered not only as a decentralization instrument
but as a strategy to confront poverty problems and most importantly rural poverty (it organized
the social demand, it redistributed resources and decisions, it involved social actors and widen
their participation, it re defined the municipality as a territorially manageable frame of reference).
   The PDCR was an instrument of this public policy (Popular Participation), since its starting
phase (94-97), and then the project overcame its contraction phase (97-99), and continued in its
phase of recovery since the "Dialogue 2000", to its present phase of uncertainty. This global
objective of being a pertinent, useful, and opportune policy instrument was achieved by the
PDCR generally in an efficient and effective way. This was the balance made by SDC after the
PDCR I, so we decided to be associated with PDCR II, and it is the balance we make now in
thinking about the possibility of continuing this relation in a third phase.
    SDC's relationship with the Bank can be qualified as supplemental. The relatively modest
Swiss support was destined to specific areas within the main objective (instruments for the
administrative management of the municipalities, support indigenous districts, municipal
associations) and fit within the Bank's broader financing. Also resources for financing a
Guarantee Fund were reserved, which within the Bank's scheme was not allowed. Finally the
Swiss resources were not provided as grants, not loans.
   SDC accompanied the process of follow-up and monitoring made by the Bank. Even though
this was more focused on the areas previously mentioned, it was an excellent opportunity for
SDC to be able to coordinate, get acquainted with and give suggestions within the global
package. It was also an opportunity to relate, in the field, to other SDC projects in related fields
such as ATICA and AGRUCO. This aspect was taken as an advantage for the possible synergies
between SDC and the Bank.
    The positioning and strategic perspective implemented by the project was very suitable for the
situation, despite the institutional climate and political instability the country went through,
especially during the last decade. To merge in the heart of a major reform, to have national
departmental and local presence, and to focus specially on capacity building, have been wise
policies supported by the project. In fact, this project has been one of the very few programs --if
not the only one-- that has thrived through this macro-meso-micro approach.
   I was involved during the year 2000, with the National Dialogue and also with the experience
of the Statistical Municipal Atlas supported by SDC. This effort was very important, especially at
a central level. It was practically because of the project that the Vice ministry of Popular
Participation had the organic capacity to reach all the municipalities in the country.
   The overall balance of the project's actions is favorable. There is no doubt that there is an
evaluation exercise pending on what is left to do, specially with two major issues: the public and
private institutionalization which is needed to ensure the consolidation of the Popular
Participation reform and the sustainability in terms of not only covering expenses, but social
appropriation of the whole process, strong organizations and institutional autonomies.
    Finally, an element that contributed to a correct and effective operation was the fact that the
World Bank team was located in Bolivia. I have played a part in other co financing efforts
between SDC and the World Bank (FIS-FSE-EMSO) and clearly the Bank's decision to
decentralize its operations to the field office and have a close involvement was very fortunate.
That was one of the reasons why SDC gave resources to that local team.

Comment prepared by Carlos Carafa (SDC, La Paz)



                                                  76

Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents

1. FAO. Evaluación Económica y Financiera deL Proyecto de Inversión Rural del Fondo de
Desarrollo Campesino ­ Reporte 98/0 02 CP-BOL. Enero de 1998.
2. FONDO NACIONAL DE INVERSION PRODUCTIVA Y SOCIAL-FPS. Evaluación de
Impacto del Componente de Inversiones Rurales del PD CR II. Agosto de 2006. Prepared by
SAXgr.
3. FONDO NACIONAL DE INVERSION PRODUCTIVA Y SOCIAL-FPS. Evaluación Integral
Ex-Post a Proyectos del PDCR II. Marzo 2006.
4. FONDO NACIONAL DE INVERSION PRODUCTIVA Y SOCIAL-FPS. Informe de Cierre
del Componente de Inversiones Rurales (PDCR-II). Septiembre 2006.
5. THE WORLD BANK. Aide Memoir, Pre-evaluation Mission. Nov 13-Dec 3, 1997.
6. THE WORLD BANK. Aide Memoir, Evaluation Mission. Jan 27-Feb 11, 1998.
7. THE WORLD BANK. Aide Memoir, Supervision Mission. June 1999.
8. THE WORLD BANK. Aide Memoir, Mid-Term Review. Jun 4-22, 2001.
9. THE WORLD BANK. Aide Memoir, Supervision Mission. May 15-24, 2002.
10. THE WORLD BANK. Aide Memoir, Supervision Mission. Sep 09-13, 2002.
11. THE WORLD BANK. Aide Memoir, Supervision Mission. Jan 15-17, 2003.
12. THE WORLD BANK. Aide Memoir, Supervision Mission. Mar 8-21, 2003.
13. THE WORLD BANK. Aide Memoir, Supervision Mission. Jul 15-23, 2003.
14. THE WORLD BANK. Aide Memoir, Supervision Mission. May 12-20, 2004.
15. THE WORLD BANK. Aide Memoir, Supervision Mission. Nov 15-22, 2004.
16. THE WORLD BANK. Aide Memoir, Supervision Mission. Sep 12-23, 2005.
17. THE WORLD BANK. Aide Memoir, Supervision Mission. May 2-10, 2006.
18. THE WORLD BANK. Country Assistance Strategy, Bolivia 1998. Report No. 17890-BO.
May 21, 1998.
19. THE WORLD BANK. Country Assistance Strategy, Bolivia 2004/2005. Report No. 26838-
BO. January 8, 2004.
20. THE WORLD BANK. Country Assistance Evaluation, Bolivia ­ Report No 33493,
September 2005.
21. THE WORLD BANK. Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA6). Participatory Rural
Investment Project. September 2004.
22. THE WORLD BANK. Project Appraisal Document, Report # 17610-BO. April 1998.
23. VICEMINISTERIO DE DESCENTRALIZACION, PROYECTO DE INVERSION RURAL
PARTICIPATIVA. Guía metodológica para la formulación de planes de gestión territorial
indígena en TCOs. 2006.
24. VICEMINISTERIO DE DESCENTRALIZACION, PROYECTO DE INVERSION RURAL
PARTICIPATIVA. Hacia un nuevo enfoque de gestión de c aminos rurales. 2006.
25. VICEMINISTERIO DE DESCENTRALIZACION, PROYECTO DE INVERSION RURAL
PARTICIPATIVA. Informe de Cierre (1999-2006), Componente de Fortalecimiento
Institucional. Septiembre 2006.


                                            77

26. VICEMINISTERIO DE DESCENTRALIZACION, PROYECTO DE INVERSION RURAL
PARTICIPATIVA. Manual del Vigilante. 2006.
27. VICEMINISTERIO DE DESCENTRALIZACION, PROYECTO DE INVERSION RURAL
PARTICIPATIVA. Memoria Institucional. 2006.
28. VICEMINISTERIO DE DESCENTRALIZACION, PROYECTO DE INVERSION RURAL
PARTICIPATIVA. Servicio de Capacitacion formal. 2006.
29. VICEMINISTERIO DE DESCENTRALIZACION, PROYECTO DE INVERSION RURAL
PARTICIPATIVA. Obras de arte tipo para caminos rurales. 2006.
30. VICEMINISTERIO DE DESCENTRALIZACION, PROYECTO DE INVERSION RURAL
PARTICIPATIVA. Asistencia técnica. 2006.
31. VICEMINISTERIO DE DESCENTRALIZACION, PROYECTO DE INVERSION RURAL
PARTICIPATIVA. Gobernabilidad municipal. 2006.




                                         78

79

