Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17610-BO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$62.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
FOR A
PAIRTICIPATORY RURAL INVESTMENT PROJECT
April 17, 1998
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development, Sector Management Unit
Bolivia, Paraguay and Peru Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



Project Appraisal Document                                                   Page 2
Country: Bolivia                                     Project Title: Participatory Rural Investment Project
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 29, 1997)
Currency Unit = Bolivianos
1 Boliviano = US$0.19
US$1 = 5.40 Bolivianos
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - Decemrber 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EP                 Promoting Agency (Entidad Promotora)
EE                 Implementing Agency (Entidad Ejecutora)
F.IRR              Economic Internal Rate of Return
FAO/CP             Food and Agriculture Organization Pre-Investment Center
FDC                Small Farmer Development Fund (Fonoo de Desarrollo Campesino)
FIRR               Financial Internal Rate of Return
FIS                Social Investment Fund (Fondo de Inversion Social)
GOB                Government of Bolivia
GEF                Global Environmental Fund
IDB                Inter-American Development Bank
IFAD               International Fund for Agricultural Development
KfW                Kredit anstallt fur Wiederaufbau
NGO                Non-Governmental Organization
NPV                Net Present Value
RCDP               Rural Communities Development Project
OTB                Rural Community with Legal Status (Organizaci6n Territorial de Base)
VMPPFM             Vice-Ministry of Popular Participation and Municipal Strengthening
VMRD               Vice-Ministry of Rural Development
Vice President:                  Shahid Javed Burki
Director, Country Management Unit:  Isabel Guerrero
DIirector, Sector Management Unit:  Maritta Koch-Weser
Task Managers:                   David Tuchschneider,
Martien van Nieuwkoop
and Pierre Werbrouck



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 3
Country: Bolivia                                        Project Title: Partcipatory Rural Investment Project
Bolivia
Participatory Rural Investment Project
TABLE OF CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project Development Objective
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-Related CAS Goal Supported by the Project
2. Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy
3. Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project Components
2. Key Policy and Institutional Reforms Supported by the Project
3. Benefits and Target Population
4. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
D. Project Rationale
1. Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection
2. Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or other Development Agencies
3. Lessons Learned and Reflected in Proposed Project Design
4. Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership
5. Value addled of Bank Support
E. Summary Project Assessments
1. Economic
2. Technical
3. Institutional
4. Social
5. Environmental Assessment
6. Financial Management Assessment
7. Participatory Approach
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
2. Critical Risks
3. Possible Controversial Aspects
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiverness Conditions
2. Other
H. Compliance with Bank Policies



Project Appraisal Document                                                Page 4
Country: Bolivia                                   Project Title: Participatory Rural Investment Project
ANNEXES
Annex 1:    Project Design Summary
Annex 2:    Detailed Project Description
Annex 3:    Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4:    Financial and Economic Analysis Summary
Annex 5:    Financial Summary
Annex 6:.   Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.    Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B.    Consultant Selection Procedures
Table C.    Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table D.    Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7:    Institutional Analysis and Implementation Arrangements
Annex 8:    Social Assessment Summary
Annex 9:    Indigenous Peoples Assessment
Annex 10:   Environmental Assessment Summary and Mitigation Plan
Annex 11:   Technical Assessment Summary
Annex 12:   Eligible NGOs and Municipalities
Annex 13:   Financial Management Assessment Summary
Annex 14:   Implementation Plan
Annex 15.   Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 16:   Documents in Project File
Annex 17:   Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 18:   Country at a Glance
Map IBRD No. 29422



Project Appraisal Document                                               Page 5
Country: Bolivia                                  Project Title: Partidpatory Rural Investment Project
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Bolivia, Paraguay and Peru Country Management Unit
Project Appraisal Document
BOLIVIA
PARTICIPATORY RURAL INVESTMENT PROJECT
Date: April 17,1998                                        a   Draft   [xl Final
Task Managers: D. Tuchschneider; M. van Nieuwkoop;  Country Manager: Isabel Guerrero
P. 'Werbrouck
Project ID: BO-PE-40085         Sector: Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
Lending Instrument: IDA-Credit   PTI:        [X]    Yes                [ ] No
Project Financing Data    []  Loan    [x]   Credit
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 62.8 million
Proposed Terms:               []   Multicurrency          []    Single currency
Grace period (years): 10  [x]  Standard Variable       [     Fixed
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Service Charge 0.5%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                        Local          Foreign        Total
Government Central                              0.9          0.0             0.9
Local (municipalities and prefecturas)         13.0          0.0             13.0
Beneficiaries                                   9.7          0.0             9.7
Cofinanciers (COSLUDE)                          0.9                          0.9
IDA                                            51.5         11.3            62.8
TOTAL                              76.0         11.3            87.3
Borrower: The Republic of Bolivia
Responsible agencies: Small Farmer Development Fund (Fondo de Desarrollo Campesino), the Vice-
Ministry of Popular Participation and Municipal Strengthening under the Ministry of Sustainable
Development and Planning, and the Vice-Ministry of Rural Development under the Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock.



Project Appraisal Document                                                 Page 6
Country: Bolivia                                   Project Title: Participatory Rural Investment Project
Estimated disbursements    FY99       FY00       FY01      FY02      FY03      FY04
(Bank FY/US$m):
Annual     3.6        9.7       14.4      15.9      13.9        5.3
Cumulative     3.6       13.3      27.7       43.6      57.5      62.8
Expected effectiveness date: December 1, 1998  Closing date: June 30, 2004
A. Project Development Objective
The project aims to promote economic development of rural municipalities and communities
through sustainable productive investments based on local demand which is generated through
participatory planning processes.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) Goal Supported by the Project
(Annex 1):
The previous CAS goals included: poverty alleviation, strengthening of essential public
institutions and natural resource management. The document P-6095-BO was discussed at the
Board on February 8, 1994.
The new CAS to be discussed at the Board in May 1998, contains the following main goals:
opportunity for all, equity, and institutional development. The project objectives fit within these
three goals. Productive rural investments are likely to enhance the economic opportunities of
rural people to increase their income and improve their livelihood. The project will have a
positive impact on equity as it supports small-scale investments in rural areas where most of the
poor live. It will also contribute to institutional development by increasing the capacity of local
institutions (prefecturas, municipalities and communities) to manage their own investments and
development.
2. Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy
The smallholder rural sector has not responded well to the reforms instituted by the Government.
Apart from export-led agriculture, agricultural productivity growth has remained low.
Emigration and off-farm activities are the preferred investment option for most smallholders.
The benefits of macroeconomic stability have not reached the traditional rural sector because of
low levels of public investment in rural infrastructure and agricultural technology generation.
Though access to social services has improved, it had little impact on incomes (OED Report
16185-BO) and poor rural families are still faced with major constraints in their access to
physical and monetary resources. The provision of productive services is minimal. Hence, more
than 90 percent of the rural population is still chronically impoverished.
The Government's response has been threefold:



ProJect Appraisal Document                                                   Page 7
Country: Bolivia                                     Project Title: Partidpatory Rural Investment Project
(i)    Based on the principles of the Popular Participation and Decentralization
Laws, it has removed institutional constraints that limit investment in rural
areas by delegating decision-making to prefecturas and municipalities and
assigning to them 75 percent of the public investment resources. It has
also given local communities and indigenous groups the legal right to
identify and formulate public investments and to participate in and control
their implementation.
(ii)   At the 1996 Consultative Group donor meeting, Bolivia presented the
Estrategia de Transformaci6n Productiva del Agro. The strategy was
aimed at addressing the roots rather than the effects of poverty. The pillars
of this strategy were: introduction of new technology in the agricultural
sector; rural education and health; sustainable management of natural
resources; and investments in irrigation and transport infrastructure.
(iii)  The national dialogue organized by the present Government and the
Country Assistance Strategy discussions between the Government and the
Bank in November 1997 have put the improvement of physical and rural
productive infrastructure as the number one priority to reach both growth
and income distribution objectives.
3. Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices
It is essential to capitalize on the success of the implementation of the Popular Participation Law
and its model of local development planning, investment and administration. Response to the
participatory demand generated through this process requires an expanded supply of investment
resources, as central Govemment transfers are insufficient to satisfy local demand. Otherwise,
there is a risk that disillusion sets in and the participation of local stakeholders comes to a dead
end. This would endanger the people's support for the reforms implemented in the last years.
Efforts need to be made to increase the proportion of national and prefectural resources dedicated
to cofinancing municipal priorities and to redress the imbalance between social and productive
investments. In the municipalities involved the Rural Communities Development Project
(RCDP) investments have been prioritized by the stakeholders through participatory planning
processes. About 54 percent of project proposals (75 percent of the funds) concern basic
infrastructure and production support services. However, municipalities have invested
75 percent of their fimds in social projects. This anomaly is partly related to the weak
performance of FDC (Fondo de Desarrollo Campesino). There is growing concern that this
trend is unsustainable and that more productive investment are needed to comply with the
principles of popular participation..
This project will help to correct these imbalances, providing incentives and resources to
municipalities and communities for cofinancing demand-driven investments aimed at creating
conditions for private investmnent and growth.



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page 8
Country: Bolivia                                       Project Title: Participatory Rural Investment Project
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project Components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component                    Categoy     Cost   % of   Bank-    % of
(US$m)  Total  financing   Bank-
(US$m)  financing
Rural Investments                             Works,        66.0   76%      47.9    76%
This component would finance consulting services   goods,
for pre-investment studies, and works, goods,  equipment,
equipment for rural investment subprojects    and
including: (i) improvement of access roads and  consulting
construction and rehabilitation of bridges;   services.
(ii) community small-scale irrigation systems;
(iii) markets and produce storage facilities; (iv) river
embankment improvements; (v) natural resources
management; (vi) technical assistance to rural
producers; and (vii) cultural heritage rehabilitation
and other minor works identified by municipalities
and communities. Financing of subprojects would
be on a matching grant basis.
Institutional Strengthening                   Consulting    21.3   24%      14.9  24%
This component would finance: (i) technical   services,
assistance to municipalities, indigenous districts,    training,
rural communities and NGOs in municipal       offtce
management, participatory planning and        equipment,
implementation; subproject planning, preparation,   vehicles,
implementation and maintenance; subproject   incremental
financial management and administration,      operating
environmental management and municipal revenue   costs
generation; (ii) formal training for staff of
municipalities and indigenous districts in municipal
management and non-formal training of municipal
councils, vigilance committees and community
leaders; and (iii) consultants, office equipment,
vehicles and incremental operating costs for
prefecturas, the Vice-Ministry of Popular
Participation and Municipal Strengthening, FDC and
the Vice-Ministry for Rural Development.
Total   87.3  100%      62.8  100%
2. Key Policy and Institutional Reforms Supported by the Project
The project is one of the main instruments to consolidate implementation of the popular
participation and decentralization laws, part of the basic objectives of the institutional
development pillar of the Government's development strategy. The on-going Rural
Communities Development Project has been instrumental in establishing the popular
participation and participatory planning methodology. This follow-up project adopts the lessons



Project Appraisal Document                                               Page 9
Country: Bolivia                                  Project Title: Participatory Rural Investment Project
learned form the ongoing project and shifts the emphasis towards increasing rural growth and
incomes, thus contributing to the opportunity and equity pillars of the Government's strategy.
3. Benefits and Target Population
The project benefits would include: (i) improved access of rural communities to services and
markets; (ii) a more diversified and/or intensified rural production systems; (iii) improved natural
resource management and environmental protection; (iv) generation of off-farm revenues in
ethno- and eco-tourism; (v) employment creation in subproject implementation; and (vi) social
capital development at the prefectural, municipal and community level.
The target population are the inhabitants of 200 of the poorest municipalities between 3,000 and
50,000 inhabitants amd with the lowest index of satisfied basic needs and indigenous districts.
The definitive list of municipalities is in Annex 12.
4. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
Implementation period: 5 years
Executing Agencies: The Vice Ministry of Popular Participation and Municipal Strengthening,
the Small Farmer Development Fund (FDC) and the Vice-Ministry of Rural Development.
Project Coordination: The Vice-Ministry of Popular Participation and Municipal Strengthening.
Project Oversight (policy guidance, etc.): National Co-ordination Committee of the
Participatory Rural Investment Project. This committee would be composed of the Vice-
Minister of Popular Participation and Municipal Strengthening (Ministry of Sustainable
Development and Planning), the Vice-Minister of Rural Development (Ministry of Agriculture,
Livestock and Rural Development), the Vice-Minister of Government Co-ordination (Ministry of
the Presidency), the Vice-Minister for Public Investment and External Finance (Ministry of
Economy and Finance), the President of the FDC, the VMPPFM-Coordinator, the Vice-Ministry
for Indigenous Affairs, the Vice-Ministry of Environment, a representative of the NGOs and a
representative of the municipalities.
Implementing/Sponsoring Agencies: Prefecturas, Municipalities, NGOs, private sector,
communities (OTBs).
Accounting, Financial Reporting and auditing Arrangements: Annual audits of financial
statements, special accounts and SOEs to be presented to IDA before June 30 of each calendar
year. Semi-annual audits of SOEs in FDC.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements: VMPPFM, FDC and VMRD have in-house
monitoring systems which have been developed under the on-going Rural Communities
Development Project. A specific monitoring database will be set up to monitor project impact in
30 municipalities.



Project Appraisal Document                                                     Page 10
Country: BolMa                                        Project Title: Participatory Rural Investment Project
D. Project Rationale
1. Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection
A broader project designed to respond to the whole range of investments prioritized in Municipal
Development Plans was considered initially. However, given that many of these demands will
be attended to by other projects or institutions (such as FIS), the additional institutional
complexity of including them in this project does not justify the additional benefits. Hence, the
project will focus on the investments described above.
Another option was to channel funds for productive investments also through FIS. This has been
rejected because OED has concluded that one of the reasons why FIS has been successful is
because of its focus on social subprojects which do not need complex cost recovery mechanisms
and do not need economic analysis at appraisal.
One alternative was to set up a Project Implementation Unit outside FDC to avoid the project
being kept hostage to possible malfunctioning of FDC (a regular phenomenon in the past) and to
channel funds directly from the Vice-Ministry of Popular Participation and Municipal
Strengthening (VMPPFM) or from the Ministry of Economy and Finance to the beneficiaries
(municipalities and communities). This was rejected because of the lack of decentralized
implementation capacity of those Ministries and the bad experiences with projects which have
channeled funds through the Ministry of Economy and Finance in particular.
Another alternative was to channel the funds to Municipalities through prefecturas and to
communities through non-govenmental organizations. This was partially rejected because the
on-gomg Rural Communities Development Project (Cr. 2772-BO) has bureaucratic
implementation difficulties with the prefecturas. The idea of channeling all finds through some
selected NGOs was rejected because of lack of implementation capacity for large operations in
NGOs. However, part of that idea was retained and FDC will subcontract with NGOs the
implementation of small community projects.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned)
Sector Issue                   Project    Latest Form 590
Ratings
(Bank-financed
projects only)
IP          DO
Bank-financed
Agricultural Technology Development           BO-PE-6188          U            S
Eastern Lowlands Natural Resources Management Project   BO-PE-6152  S          S
Rural Communities Development Project         BO-PE-6202          S            S
Land Administration Project                   BO-PE-6197          S            S
Biodiversity Project (GEF)                    BO-PE-6194          S            S
Road Rehabilitation Project                   BO-PE-6180          U            S
Rural Water and Sanitation Project            BO-PE- 6206         S            S



Project Appraisal Document                                                     Page 11
Country: Bolivia                                      Project Tite: Participatory Rural Investment Project
Other Development Agencies
IDB: Irrigation                      Programa Nacional de Riego
European Union Food Security Project  Proyecto de Apoyo a la Seguridad Alimentaria
IFAD: Technology Transfer Project    Proyecto de Servicios de Asistencia Tdcnica a
Pequeflos Productores
.3. Lessons Learned and Reflected in Proposed Project Design
The lessons learned fiom the Social Investment Fund project and the Rural Communities
Development Project are:
(a) Focus on investments in education and health alone has only a limited effect on poverty
reduction. The project includes provision of water, roads (communication) and as well
as income generating investments in irrigation and marketing.
(b) Community participation and training increase subproject ownership and
sustainability. The project includes: (i) a well developed training and capacity
development component for municipalities, rural communities and vigilance
committees; and (ii) strong communuity involvement in subproject implementation.
(c) Flexible operational guidelines reduce the needfor detailed supervision by IDA. FDC
has a flexible operations manual. Nevertheless, IDA would appoint a resident project
supervisor to enhance flexible project implementation.
(d) The Borrower's sense of ownership will be stronger if IDA and FDC do not micro-
manage sub projects. The project includes an important component of municipal and
NGO managed program financing which avoids too much interference from
bureaucratic institutions and municipalities will co-finance subprojects.
(e) It is necessary to use multiple disbursement mechanisms to avoid that the project bogs
down because of malfunctioning of the disbursement institution. Although the principal
implementation organization is FDC, project funds will be handled by a special FDC
unit less susceptible to political interference.
(f) To get the subprojects implemented on time, it is necessary: (i) to decentralize the
subproject approval process, contracting and disbursement; (ii) involve the executing
agencies in the approval procedures; (iii) provide financial advances to the regions to
enable fast disbursement and procurement; and (iv) reduce time and efforts in
planning: use it instead on supervision to createflexibility in implementation.
Subproject approval, contracting and disbursements will be approved at the FDC
regional level. Transfer of FDC funds to implementing entities for disbursements to
subprojects will trigger disbursements of the Special Account to limit turnaround time.
A permanernt staff will be placed at the Resident Mission to oversee the operation so as
to create the necessary flexibility and oversight.



Project Appraisal Document                                                    Page 12
Country: Bolivia                                     Project Title: Participatory Rural Investment Project
(g) Cumbersome Government and IDA procedures make it difficultfor NGOs to
participate in the project (necessity of Bank Guarantees under SAFCO Law). Based
on the experience of the ongoing RCDP, the project will use simplified procedures for
hiring NGOs and consulting firms. Also, the Swiss Government would finance a grant
creating a guarantee fund to allow NGOs to take on guarantees for advances from the
project.
(h) The inclusion of subprojects in participatory municipal development plans ensures
ownership and eliminates the needfor formal beneficiary targeting mechanisms.
Nevertheless, training will be giving to Vigilance Committees to ensure that all layers
of the community can contribute to the planning process, and the annual municipal
operation plans retain the community's proposals, and to improve social control of
public investment at the local level.
The lessons learned in Bolivia and from demand-driven rural development projects elsewhere
have been incorporated into the project design.
(i) Past development efforts in Bolivia were highly centralized, top-down and rarely met
the real needs of the rural population. The experience of the past twenty years in
Bolivia clearly indicates that effective rural projects have: (i) been relatively small and
built upon existing traditional social structures; (ii) been designed, formulated and
executed with considerable beneficiary participation; and (iii) have sufficiently taken
into account the role of women in the household and the community and have
integrated women in the project development and implementation.
(j) The 1993 Bolivian Agriculture Sector Review concluded that: (i) local participation
needed to be promoted to achieve greater relevance and efficiency in the design and
implementation of public expenditure in rural areas; (ii) Governments should
decentralize many of their functions to more local levels, and seek greater involvement
of local communities, particularly in the design and management of public
infrastructure projects in rural areas; and (iii) involvement of local communities should
be sought through social and administrative arrangements that encourage and reward
people's participation in public expenditure decisions.
(k) A 1994 Bank Review of demand-driven development funds in Latin America' revealed
that, first, by encouraging the active involvement of community groups, the projects
were much more likely to meet the community's needs than if they were chosen to
reflect the priorities of a government agency. Second, once the communities
developed a sense of ownership of a project, they were more willing and interested in
sharing in its costs and ensuring its maintenance. Third, when a community group was
given responsibility for implementing a project that it had helped to choose and
prepare, it had greater interest in ensuring that private contractors executed the project
well and honestly.
Glaessner, Philip, Lee, Kye Woo, Sant'Anna, Anna Maria, and de St. Antoine, Jean-Jacques, Poverty
Alleviation and Social Development Funds: The Latin American Experience, World Bank Discussion Paper 261,
Washington, D.C., 1994.



Project Appraisal Document                                                 Page 13
Country: Bolivia                                   Project Title: Participatory Rural Investment Project
(1) Demand driven projects have potentially conflicting objectives2. These are: (i) poverty
targeting versus economic imperatives; (ii) demand driven subprojects versus
feasibility and sustainability; and (iii) efficiency and accountability versus poverty
targeting. The project would resolve these conflicts as follows:
(a) Poverty Targeting and Economic Imperatives. The project would only finance
investmenits which are potentially productive and have a minimum economic return of
12 percent in poor municipalities and communities.
(b) Demand-driven and Feasibility. All investments to be financed under the project
would be included into the Municipal Development Plan. The sustainability of the
subprojects would be assured by community commitment to operation and
maintenance of the subprojects in which they have invested significant time and effort
during the investment period.
(c) Accountability and Poverty Targeting. The low skills of communities and
municipalities in handling procurement and disbursement would be resolved by
technical assistance and management contracts with NGOs. The training of vigilance
committees would increase the accountability of municipal Governments.
4. Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership
- The Vice-Ministry of Popular Participation and Municipal Strengthening and the Vice-
Ministry of External Financing and Public Investments requested IDA to finance a follow-up
operation to the Rural Communities Development Project.
- The project has been included as a top-priority in the CAS discussions with IDA and its
timetable has been advanced by the Government. It figures as number one priority for the
achievement of the Government's opportunity and equity objectives.
- GOB has defined rural infrastructure as one of the four "pillars" of its Rural Development
Strategy.
- An important indication of borrower commitment lies in the number of basic infrastructure
projects demanded by the population and the municipalities (e.g., 54 percent of project ideas
identified in the on-going Rural Communities Development Project).
5. Value Added of Bank Support
The Bank adds value through its experience and involvement both inside and outside Bolivia in
the following areas: (a) demand-driven investments projects; (b) decentralization and municipal
strengthening; (c) micro-irrigation and rural roads project design, financing, execution and
evaluation; (d) beneficiary participation in project design and implementation. The Bank has
2     Tom Wiens and Maurizio Guadagni, The Design of Rulesfor Demand-Driven Rural Investment Funds: the
Latin American Experience, May 10, 1996.



Project Appraisal Document                                                    Page 14
Country: BolMAa                                     Project Title: Participatory Rural Investment Project
been instrumental in bringing FDC closer to its clients through decentralization 'under the Rural
Communities Development Project. The Bank's further involvement in FDC will certainly
increase the efficiency of this organization. In addition, involvement of the Bank creates
opportunities to leverage cofmancing.
E. Summary Project Assessments (Detailed assessments are in the project file. See Annex 13)
1. Economic Assessment (supported by Annex 4)
Economic Appraisal:
NPV at 12% discount rate = US$138.9 million;
IERR= 37%
Sensitivity switching values are: costs +95% and benefits -48%
Estimates assume a failure rate of not more than 33% of the subprojects.
Fiscal Impact:
The direct fiscal impact of the project is a deficit of US$2.8 million. The cost to the central
Government is US$0.9 million and US$12.9 million to the local Governments. The taxes to be
collected by the Government on goods, works and services financed under the project is
US$11 million.
Investments in roads, bridges, irrigation and other productive investments have no positive fiscal
impact on municipalities as most rural dwellers do not pay municipal taxes. The recurrent cost
of an estimated US$30 million in additional municipal infrastructure is about US$2 million per
year which will have to be financed entirely by the municipalities from own resources. This
represents seven percent of the yearly budget of these municipalities.
Financial Appraisal:
NPV at 16% discount rate = US$86 million;
FIRR=36%
Sensitivity switching values are: costs +65%, benefits -40%
The financial returns on rural investments are significant on condition that the ex-ante social,
technical and economic appraisals of important subprojects are properly carried out and that the
failure rate is not more than 33 percent of the subprojects.
Economic and financial analysis shows need for FDC to employ qualified project analysts. One
will be recruited at the outset of the project, two more by the end of the first project year.
2. Technical Assessment: (supported by Annex 11)
A team of technical experts has evaluated the technical quality of the subprojects financed by
FDC and the operation of its present quality assurance mechanism. It also analyzed in a sample
of municipalities the cost and quality (durability) of rural investments carried out with local



Project Appraisal Document                                                      Page 15
Country: Bolivia                                       Project Title: Participatory Rural Investment Project
Govermnent financing. It was asked to design or propose improvements of the technical quality
control mechanisms to be applied for subprojects financed under the project. And it had to
evaluate the needs for assistance to communities and municipalities at the technical level and
propose ways to del.iver such assistance.
The results of the study and recommendations are included in the project design.
Subproject Technical Quality Assurance Program. The final technical quality of subprojects
financed under FDC appears to be good, but the impact of the subprojects remains sometimes
questionable. The quality of subproject preparation is weak. Participation by the beneficiaries in
design and implementation is generally too low. When this is the case, the design can be
inappropriate with low impact. The FDC subproject portfolio is quite diverse and it is difficult to
find staff with technical experience in such a diverse field.
To improve the technical quality of subprojects, FDC will: (i) introduce continuous technical
training of FDC staff; (ii) promote more extensive field work of FDC technical supervisors;
(iii) modify some subproject technical eligibility criteria and improve the evaluation tools
(including environmental, social evaluations); (iv) involve the beneficiaries in subproject design
and implementation; and (v) improve FDC's relationship with technical institutions and NGOs
capable of providingr technical advice and subproject supervision.
Technical Aspects at Municipal and Community Level. The poor rural municipalities do not
carry out important subprojects with their own funds and generally lack the human resources
sufficiently qualified to carry out civil works as proposed under the project. Moreover, modem
management techniques are too slowly reaching the rural municipalities. The project will
finance the municipalities' investment program of subprojects under the condition that: (i) the
municipalities are carefully selected on the basis of management capacity criteria; (ii) the
investment programs are part of municipal development plans; (iii) a special FDC monitoring
team would follow-uap on the implementation of this program; (iv) the administrative and
accounting procedures are clearly defined; and (v) SAFCO-law systems are implemented.
Technical Assistance to Municipalities. To achieve the investment objectives of their
development plans, most rural municipalities need additional technical assistance. This can be
provided by specialiized institutions and NGOs on a long-term basis or by the co-financing of
local professionals. The training component of the project will provide "open" training
possibilities at specialized institutions for FDC and municipal staff and special courses to
respond to the specific needs of the project. However, to serve its clients better, FDC will further
decentralize, put better qualified staff in the field and train them more often. FDC will employ a
training specialist to organize technical staff training.
3. Institutional Assessment
The institutions which are to implement this project are weak. Concrete measures will be taken
to prepare these institutions for project implementation.



Project Appraisal Document                                                 Page 16
Country: Bolivia                                   Project Tifle: Participatory Rural Investment Project
a. Executing Agencies
Fondo de Desarrollo Campesino (FDC). The investment component would be carried
out by FDC. FDC has been the main implementing agency for rural investments fimanced by
several external donors (IDB, KfW, GTZ, Belgium, Switzerland and Japan) and for the
investment component of the Rural Communities Development Project (RCDP).
FDC's present strengths are a well qualified and dynamic management team and well-
established technical and managerial procedures. Under the RCDP, it has successfully
decentralized its operations. All FDC donor funds are now committed to subprojects, which
should increase FDC's future performance.
It has however many weaknesses. Its implementation record is poor (compared to FIS for
instance). It has been prone to alleged corruption in the past and has a history of political
interference. Its operating procedures are cumbersome and not always very effective. For a long
time it has been over-centralized and slow disbursing. Its operational costs (in % of
disbursements) are also very high (more than 15 percent). Disbursements have never exceeded
US$10 million per year. There are concrete Government proposals to let FDC and other Fondos
depend from a common Board of Directors (which could create yet another slow down of
disbursements).
The perspectives for improvement of FDC's performance, however, are promising. Since
1998, FDC has delegated authority for all subproject approval, contract signature and
disbursements to the field offices. A Management Information System (monitoring technical and
financial performances) has been introduced. It has simplified its operational manual through
consultation with field offices, clients and contractors and is moving to computerized subproject
evaluation formats. RCDP has established a special project unit within FDC to monitor the IDA-
financed subprojects. This unit has worked well and RCDP disbursements are on schedule.
Disbursements could also increase substantially now that FDC is willing to subcontract a part of
its financing to local NGOs or institutions which would help communities to implement such
subprojects. FDC is also willing to finance full municipal investment programs on a pilot scale.
FDC will implement an institutional development plan to strengthen management and
operations. The plan will include, among others, the following measures: (i) FDC will continue
to pursue decentralization (subproject approval and disbursement authority will remain delegated
to the departmental offices); (ii) it will select all central and departmental directors on the basis
of technical criteria and through competitive processes; (iii) FDC departmental offices will be
staffed within three months after project effectiveness with at least one office director, acceptable
to IDA, a civil engineer, an agronomist/agricultural economist, and an accountant, one of whom
is to be appointed and trained as departmental environmental analyst; (iv) the Participatory Rural
Investment Project Unit in FDC will be strengthened to four persons to monitor the operations
under the IDA credit; (v) FDC will employ a project analyst within three months after credit
effectiveness and two additional analysts by the end of the first project year; (vi) FDC will carry
out yearly an in-depth economic, financial and technical evaluation of at least twenty
subprojects; (vii) FDC will employ within three months after credit effectiveness one technical
training officer and employ at least 50 technical investment officers by the second year of the
project; (viii) FDC will employ within three months after credit effectiveness two additional



Project Appraisal Document                                                 Page 17
Country: Bolivia                                   Project Title: Participatory Rural Investment Project
qualified accountants acceptable to IDA to operate the new accounting, budgeting and treasury
operations in the departmental offices; (ix) FDC's Statements of Expenditures will be audited
every six months by external auditors; and (x) FDC will, together with IDA, review the
operational manual on a regular basis to identify and resolve implementation bottlenecks.
Vice Ministhy of Popular Participation and Municipal Strengthening (VMPPFM).
The municipal institutional strengthening component of the project would be implemented by
VMPPFM under the Ministry of Sustainable Development and Planning. VMPPFM is
represented at the departmental level by departmental units operating within the prefecturas.
These departmental units will be responsible for overseeing departmental project activities. The
predecessor of VMPPFM, the Secretariat for Popular Participation, has performed well under
RCDP. Almost all management staff of VMPPFM is relatively new, but have experience in
project management. Therefore the credit will finance an experienced consultant (project
manager) to manage, with the assistance of an administrator and accountant, the project's
institutional strengthening component until the new VMPPFM staff has gained sufficient
experience.
Prefecturas. The strengthening of the project's departmental units in the prefecturas is
crucial for the success of the project. These departmnental units are de facto also part of the
prefectura, which contributes staff, equipment and part of the operating costs to the units. This
hybrid situation has caused multiple problems in the past, as prefecturas consider the project
resources (vehicles) also as their own. All procurement, contracting and payment has to pass
through the very cunibersome prefectural administrative procedures. Under RCDP, prefecturas
and VMPPFM have signed agreements on how to deal with these procedures, limiting the role of
the prefectura to approving yearly workplans and budgets. These agreements are however not
always complied with.
To avoid this cumbersome contracting process through the prefecturas and to increase
community involvement, the project would only finance those contracts for institutional
strengthening of communities and municipalities which are selected, signed and administered by
the beneficiaries. In this sense the project would do away with the principle that prefecturas
contract NGOs to provide technical assistance to municipalities and communities. Such
contracting system will increase beneficiary involvement. VMPPFM would sign agreements
with the prefecturas which would give the project-related operational units the authority to sign
contracts and subsidize the contracts subscribed by the municipalities. The signing of such
agreement between VMPPFM and the prefectura would be a condition of disbursement for the
institutional strengthening component within the prefectura concerned.
Vice-Ministiy of Rural Development (VMDR). This Vice-ministry is the weakest link
in the chain. All staff is new and has no experience with donor funding. Therefore, the small
project component is in fact a pilot operation to learn how to work with the Vice-Ministry and to
slowly increase its implementation capacity. The resident project supervisor will take an active
role in helping VMDR to implement the project.
Non-Government Organizations and other Executing Agencies. NGOs and other
executing agencies (such as private consulting firms) would participate in the implementation of
small community projects. FDC has identified 19 NGOs which have the technical,



Project Appraisal Document                                                Page 18
Country: Bolivia                                  Project Trle: Participatory Rural Investment Project
administrative and financial capacity to subcontract with FDC to help communities in the
implementation of subprojects. NGOs and private consulting firms have performed an excellent
role in the Rural Communities Development project3. They have assisted the local governments
in PDM preparation and adjustment, budget preparation and follow-up in municipalities,
promoted small subprojects in communities, etc. A recent OED study on the contribution of
NGOs to World Bank - supported projects in Bolivia 4 underlines the significant positive role
NGOs have played in the Rural Communities Development Project. The report emphasizes the
NGOs long-term presence and commitment to communities, their social orientation and their
local knowledge of the area. These assets combined with speedy and un-bureaucratic operations,
their flexibility, innovations, stability and continuity make them ideal partners to implement the
project. NGOs have weaknesses too. Some NGOs are mistrusted by the communities for
making promises which have not materialized and for bypassing the OTBs in decision-making,
by which they were perceived to use the funds for their own benefit. The latter will be avoided
under the project by ensuring that the communities or municipalities (and not the central
Government) sign the technical assistance agreements with NGOs.
b. Project Management
The overall project and the institutional development component will be managed by the Vice-
Ministry of Popular Participation and Municipal Strengthening. The investment component will
be managed by FDC. The community strengthening component will be managed by the Vice-
Ministry of Rural Development. A technical coordination committee will meet regularly to iron
out differences and improve cohesion.
The project would have a National Co-ordination Committee of the Participatory Rural
Investment Project. This committee would be composed of the Vice-Minister of Popular
Participation and Municipal Strengthening (Ministry of Sustainable Development and Planning),
the Vice-Minister of Rural Development (Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Rural
Development), the Vice-Minister of Government Co-ordination (Ministry of the Presidency), the
Vice-Minister for Public Investment and External Finance (Ministry of Economy and Finance),
the President of the FDC, the VMPPFM coordinator, the Vice-Ministry for Indigenous Affairs,
the Vice-Ministry of Environment, a representative of the NGOs and a representative of the
municipalities. The Committee would meet twice a year upon invitation from the Ministry of the
Presidency to review project progress and advise on implementation of national sectoral policy
matters.
c. Project Implementation
Implementation Plan. The overall project implementation plan including a training and
procurement plan and monitoring indicators have been agreed upon during negotiations. The
plan provides for a gradual increase of FDC's implementation capacity and a gradual decrease of
project involvement in the financing of technical assistance to municipalities. By November 15
of each year, VMPPFM, VMDR and FDC would present a project implementation plan for the
following year, for review with IDA. VMPPFM would coordinate the preparation of such plans
3     Andlisis de Organizaciones no Gubernamentales Operando en Desarrollo Rural, CEP, enero de 1998.
4     OED, The Contribution of NGOs to World Bank-Supported Projects in Bolivia, December 2, 1997.



Project Appraisal Document                                               Page 19
Country: Bolivia                                  Project rtle: Participatory Rural Investment Project
with FDC and VMDR. The full implementation plan, including project milestones and
monitoring indicators is in Annex 14.
Operational Manuasl. VMPPFM and FDC would prepare a common detailed Project
Operational Manual. This manual would contain: (i) eligibility criteria for subprojects,
beneficiaries, Executing Agencies and a format of a sub-grant agreement; (ii) project
implementation plan and monitoring indicators; (iii) project management, co-ordination and
reporting aspects; (iv) procedures for procurement of civil works, goods, consultants and
management services and sample bidding documents; (v) disbursement procedures; (vi) terms of
reference of key consultants and sample consulting and management service contracts; (vii) the
training program; (viii) accounting systems and audit aspects; (ix) the environmental criteria to
be used by FDC in carrying out environmental assessments of subprojects ; and (x) a list of
eligible NGOs and consultants. The manual would be reviewed by IDA. VMPPFM's and
FDC's adoption of tlhe Project Operational Manual, acceptable to IDA, would be a condition of
credit effectiveness.
d. Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation
Reporting. FDC, VMPPFM and VMRD will prepare 6-monthly progress reports. The reports
will cover the periods of January-June and July-December of each year and will be delivered to
IDA by March 15 and October 15 of each year. The reports will cover progress in the physical
and financial implementation of the annual work plan. They will also flag important issues
which require the attention of the Government or IDA.
IDA Supervision. IDA will appoint a resident project supervisor at the Bolivia Resident
Mission. The residenat supervisor-task manager will support the executing agencies in project
implementation and will help to solve implementation bottlenecks. IDA headquarters will
support the resident supervisor with ad-hoc missions on technical, environmental and financial
management issues.
Project Launching Workshop. At the onset of the Project, a workshop will be held involving
all stakeholders to explain the project and its procedures.
Mid-Term Review. Between 24-30 months after project effectiveness, Govemrnment and IDA
will carry out a mid-term review which will focus on the following: (i) implementation progress
in general (outputs, disbursements); (ii) technical quality of the subprojects and program
financing; (iii) implementation of environmental mitigation measures; (iv) implementation of the
recommendations of the social and financial management assessments; (v) project management
problems; and (vi) quality of project monitoring. IDA and the Government will review which
components will be continued or canceled and which finds will be re-allocated accordingly.
Implementation Completion Report. Not later than six months after closing the credit, an
Implementation Completion Report will be drawn up and provided to IDA, including a plan for
the future operation of the project.
Monitoring. FDC and VMPPFM have developed internal management information systems
under the Rural Comrmunities Development Project. Both monitoring systems will be firther



Project Appraisal Document                                                    Page 20
Country: Bolivia                                     Project Title: Participatory Rural Investment Project
applied and improved. These monitoring systems will provide accurate information on project
inputs, outputs and include cost-related information. VMDR will adopt VMPPFM's monitoring
system.
Impact Monitoring
FDC's monitoring system will also include a technical and financial evaluation of the
impact of the realized investments. Such evaluation is lacking at present and has been carried
out for the first time during the preparation of this project. On the basis of the economic and
financial evaluation carried out during project preparation, FDC will yearly evaluate 20
subprojects in depth with technical assistance of FAO/CP.
To monitor project impact of participatory planning and to measure the capacity of the
municipalities and communities to implement what has been planned, VMPPFM will establish a
monitoring system in 30 municipalities on the basis of community data. The system will
include: (i) a baseline study including a database on the communities themselves and their
institutions--the study would incorporate data from the national health and education information
systems; data on the production systems, yields; and economic data (prices, incomes); (ii) annual
surveys on changes in the above indicators; (iii) a yearly publication of the results in each
municipality with seminars to discuss the survey results; and (iv) participatory evaluation of
municipal development plans through focus group discussions.
4. Social Assessment
The social assessment (see Annex 8) consists of: (i) a socio-economic analysis of the target
population; (ii) a socio-cultural analysis; (iii) an assessment of the implementation of
participatory planning and the institutional framework; (iv) a beneficiary assessment in
10 municipalities; and (v) the design of a social strategy to incorporate the results of the social
assessment into the project design. The full assessment is a working paper composed of several
studies.
The main results of the assessment are as follows:
(i) the socio-economic assessment confirms the widespread poverty in Bolivia's rural
areas;
(ii) the socio-cultural assessment confirms the important role of the communities (ayullas
and sindicatos, OTBs) and gender in the project;
(iii) the analysis of the participatory planning and institutional frameworks point to the
important role of municipalities, vigilance committees and NGOs in rural development; it also
shows: (a) several weaknesses in the participatory planning process and participation flaws; (b) a
disconnect between the municipal investment programs and the rural community demands; (c) a
slow response to the demands of the municipalities by FDC; (d) weak implementation capacity
of the municipalities; and (e) low effectiveness and bad coordination of the existing training and
technical assistance; and
(iv) the consultation process with stakeholders revealed the same weaknesses in
participatory planning, creating big expectations and little investment follow-up as well as the
fact that communities do not much benefit directly from the municipal investments programs.



Project Appraisal Document                                                   Page 21
Country: Bolivia                                     Project Title: Partidpatory Rural Investment Project
The social assessment proposes a strategy included in the project design.
The strategy embodies:
(i) to improve and complete the municipal development plans (learning from the
experience) and incl[uding a gender-oriented approach; to prepare indigenous district plans; to
distribute meaningfil information on participatory planning as well as to train beneficiaries in
local languages;
(ii) an information and training program to enhance participation and social control by
OTBs and Vigilance Committees;
(iii) to channel resources directly to municipalities so as to increase their learning
capacity;
(iv) to channel resources directly to capable communities;
(v) to introduace socially focussed technical assistance and training;
(vi) to include gender aspects into the participatory planning methodology; and
(vii) to carry out an indigenous people and gender focussed program to increase
participation by indigenous communities (indigenous district plans, specific training,
strengthening of their organizations) and women. This program would include the preparation of
specific pre-investment profiles and subprojects.
To implement the strategy, institutional arrangements have been agreed upon with VMPPFM and
FDC. VMPPFM will improve the participatory planning methods, finance the preparation of
indigenous district plans, ensure that training programs reach women and indigenous people and
consolidate the gender commission in VMPPFM by retaining a gender specialist who will pilot
the gender strategy of the project. FDC will involve more NGOs to reach the communities and
indigenous people, :finance communities directly and incorporate a social scientist to support the
gender and indigenous peoples approach.
Indigenous Peoples Assessment and Implications on Project Design. An indigenous peoples
assessment has been carried out (Annex 9). As most beneficiaries of the project are indigenous
peoples, the project is considered an indigenous peoples development plan. VMPPFM will assist
with the elaboration and implementation of 30 Indigenous District Plans. FDC will appoint a
social scientists to facilitate processing of investments proposed in those plans. FDC will also
subcontract with specialized NGOs and indigenous peoples organizations specific investment
programs benefiting indigenous peoples groups.



Project Appraisal Document                                                     Page 22
Country: Bolivia                                      Project Title: Participatory Rural Investment Project
5. Environmental Assessment:  Environmental Category        B
The environmental assessment was carried out to ensure that subprojects are environmentally
sound and sustainable. The bulk of the environmental impacts of subprojects financed under
the project is expected to come from: (i) the rehabilitation of access roads to communities;
(ii) small-scale irrigation; and (iii) micro hydro-electric power units (if financed). Natural
resources management, forestry and technical assistance to producers would be beneficial for
the environment.
Conclusions of the Environmental Assessment
Bolivia has developed a consistent framework for environmentally sustainable development,
based on regulations, which define the basis for environmental criteria and screening
procedures recommended for FDC and project environmental management. FDC has not yet
developed a consistent environmental screening and management system, as under the present
Rural Communities Development Project environmental analysis and assessment was the
responsibility of the Ministry of Sustainable Development and Environment.
Environmental impacts of FDC subprojects are mainly related to lack of technical and
environmental considerations in secondary works such as material extraction areas, secondary
access roads, and remaining material from road excavation. The root of negative
environmental impact and poor environmental management is the lack of specific
environmental designs and/or environmental criteria in engineering designs.
Implications of the Environmental Assessment on Project Design
Negative Subproject Eligibility
The following subprojects will not be eligible for financing by FDC: (i) any new or upgraded
access roads through natural forests and natural and protected habitats; (ii) new road
construction5, road upgrading in or near forested areas, new irrigation plots exceeding 200 ha;
water reservoirs with surface areas exceeding 100 ha and flood protection or agricultural
drainage works which would affect natural wetlands; and (iii) works causing resettlement.
The project will not finance pesticides.
Environmental Screening
FDC will set up an own environmental screening mechanism which would reject non-eligible
projects and will develop Guidelines for Environmental Analysis.
Subproject Environmental Management Guidelines
FDC staff have little knowledge of how engineering techniques could reduce negative local
environmental impact. FDC will study the environmental impact of past basic infrastructure
investments and elaborate guidelines for environmental subproject management. These
guidelines will be included in the technical specifications of works contracts.
5     New rural road construction outside forested areas could be considered only when FDC would have
developed sufficient environmental screening and management capacity and after review of each individual
subproject by IDA.



Project Appraisal Document                                                   Page 23
Country: Bolivia                                     Project Title: Participatory Rural Investment Project
Mitigation and Monitoring Plans
All infrastructure subprojects will have an environmental data sheet containing environmental
mitigation and monitoring measures (plan) in accordance with the Environmental Law 1333 of
1992. In particular f,or the subprojects under consideration, the following mitigation measures
will be included: (i), identification of alternative localization if important ecosystems are
involved; (ii) localization and topography of earth removal and borrow areas; (iii) solid waste
and rubbish disposalL safeguards; (iv) erosion control measures; (v) construction of drainage
canals and water evacuation infrastructure; (vi) waste management in work camps, including
disposal of oils and grease; and (vii) encouragement of good environmental behavior by
workers (refrain from hunting and bush firing).
Environmental Management in the Subproject Cycle
Environmental assessment will be integrated into all aspects of the subproject cycle: in pre-
investment studies, during subproject implementation and ex-post evaluation.
Implementation Monitoring
Implementation of environmental measures will be monitored by FDC staff under an
environmental monitoring plan. An annual environmental audit of projects financed by FDC
will be carried out. The resident project supervisor will supervise compliance on a daily basis
while specialized IDA staff will do it on an annual basis.
FDC Environmental Unit Technical assistance and Training
FDC will set up an environmental unit in charge of complying with the above requirements.
The unit will be composed of a high-level environmental specialist at FDC-headquarters
(assisted by international consultants) and nine departmental staff to be trained by the high-
level specialist. The terms of reference of the central unit would be to: (i) establish FDC
internal environmental screening procedures; (ii) elaborate guidelines for environmental
analysis; (iii) study the environmental impact of past basic infrastructure subprojects;
(iv) elaborate subproject environmental management guidelines; (v) elaborate standard
environmental mitigation measures to be attached to environmental data sheets; (vi) establish
an environmental monitoring system and audits; (vii) include environmental management
measures in the subproject cycle; (viii) train and supervise the departmental environmental
specialists; (ix) elaborate a municipal environmental training and strengthening program to be
financed under the project. The departmental officers would carry out the screening and
monitoring. The cost of this unit and its operation over the project period would be
US$1.2 million or about three percent of the value of the rural infrastructure component (see
project cost tables). A training program on subproject environmental management would be
implemented for municipal governments, executing agencies and FDC central and
departmental staff. Such training module will be included in VMPPFM's training program.
6. Financial Management Assessment
A financial management assessment has been carried out covering the following aspects for
each entity VMPPF.M, FDC, VMDR and the regional agencies and municipalities: (a) the
systems of budgeting and accounting, including accounting standards used; (b) internal control
systems and procedures; (c) flow of funds to support the project including Bank and



Project Appraisal Document                                                    Page 24
Country: Bolivia                                     Project Title: Participatory Rural Investment Project
cofinancing sources; (d) financial reporting arrangements, including data required for key
project performance indicators; (e) auditing arrangements including the availability and
quality of auditors; and (f) quality of staff to carry out the budgeting, accounting, control and
reporting functions, including the capacity for training and strengthening staff capabilities.
The review also covered the regulatory environment of budgeting, accounting and financial
management.
Conclusions of the Assessment
For VMPPFM
Other than internal audit, existing systems appear to be working reasonably well and, with the
proposed strengthening could be deemed adequate. However, the proposal to centralize
financial and internal auditing functions argues strongly in favor of the proposed project unit
to manage the financial control aspects. The project unit will have an administrative manager
to whom an accounting unit and a financial administration unit (responsible for budgeting and
operational reporting) will report. Planning and monitoring data on subprojects will be
supplied by the planning and monitoring unit of the General Coordinator's office.
Disbursements (i.e., special account disbursements) will be handled by the central office based
on data supplied by the project unit. At each departmental level there will be a project
operator (already in existence) supported by one or two technical assistance staff financed by
external funds and some local administrative support (national counterpart).
The above arrangement will avoid the principle problems raised by the planned centralization
of financial functions at the ministerial level, provided treasury functions continued to work
effectively. However, the internal audit problem caused by the centralization of all internal
audits into the Ministry will be solved by VMPPFM agreeing upon a work program for
internal audit staff of the Ministry to cover the projects and operations of the project unit. The
external auditors will review the functioning of the new planning and monitoring systems and
agree upon the data required to satisfy the project's reporting requirements. The terms of
reference of the auditors will be included in the Project Operational Manual.
For FDC
FDC apparently underwent substantial changes in its management last year. The new
management is undertaking to strengthen management systems and to improve the general
operational culture of the institution. It appears to have made considerable progress and, if the
ambitious program of new systems functions well, it should have important and useful
subproject data for its own management purposes and to share with its suppliers of external
finance. At the same time it is preparing, apparently at the request of the external financial
agencies including the Bank, to decentralize its operations and is transferring the responsibility
for accounting, budgeting and treasury functions to its nine departmental offices. The FDC
understands that it must complete this decentralization during 1998 and accordingly FDC's
top management is studying the need for strengthening the departments in terms of human
resources, computer equipment, training and technical assistance. The program, partly
financed under the project, to fill these needs will speed up the decentralization process and
make it more effective. FDC will recruit trained accountants to operate the new accounting,



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 25
Country: Bolivia                                         Project Title: Participatory Rural Investment Project
budgeting and treasury operations in the departmental offices and they will need to be
adequately trained in the new accounting and internal control norms. The Bank will review
this program when it has been completed and follow-up on its implementation.
FDC management also agreed to strengthen the internal audit department with additional staff
and budget funds. The Bank will see that this is accomplished and that the strengthened unit
has a suitable work program probably reviewed by FDC's external auditors. It will be
important that new internal control systems be designed for the new procedures to be
followed in the new decentralized system and that they be carefully reviewed by FDC's
internal audit unit and its external auditors.
7. Participatory Aplproach:           Identification/      Implementation    Operation
Preparation
Beneficiaries/community groups  Consultation              Collaboration  Collaboration
InterTnediary NGOs               Consultation             Collaboration  Collaboration
Local government                 Consultation             Collaboration  Collaboration
Other donors                     Consultation             Collaboration  Collaboration
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sutainability:
Subproject Sustainability
Beneficiary ownership and demand prioritization as well as provision of matching funds by
communities and municipalities would ensure that investments take place where they are most
needed. This also indicates a commitment for subsequent operation and maintenance by the
beneficiaries. Moreover, municipal investment program financing is a tool by which
municipalities learn to plan for maintenance.
Project Sustainability
Investments in FDC strengthening can be considered sustainable. The institution receives
considerable donor support and has until now survived several institutional upheavals.
Municipal strengthening and training will by itself increase the need for further training and
willingness of municipalities to pay for technical assistance and training. Therefore, the projects
foresees declining percentages of project contributions to technical assistance and training.
Prefecturas are strongly politicized and may not have that much interest in supporting participatory
planning and investments. Institutional strengthening to perfecturas may be less sustainable than
municipal strengthening. Nevertheless, well-functioning prefecturas are necessary for municipal
development. The project will promote the interest of prefecturas through special agreements with
VMPPFM.



Project Appraisal Document                                                 Page 26
Country: Bolivia                                   Project rile: Participatory Rural Investment Project
The sustainability of institutional strengthening of the Vice-Ministry of Popular Participation
and Municipal Strengthening and the Vice-Ministry of Rural Development is low. Staff in
these institutions change frequently. Few of the staff trained under the ongoing Rural
Communities Development Project have kept their post after the change in Government of
1997. The National Treasury does not provide much counterpart funds to Ministries which
benefit from donor funding. As popular participation and rural development are well received
with donors, VMPPFM and VMDR have to fend for themselves to obtain financing. The -
annual budgetary support to the Vice-Ministries depends to some extent on their influence in
the Ministry of Finance. Nevertheless, project implementation is impossible without
strengthening the Vice-Ministries with consultants.
2. Critical Risks (see fourth column of Annex 1):
Project Outputs to Development Objectives
Risk              Risk            Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
FDC, municipalities and        L   The project's institutional strengthening component
communities do not increase         will train municipalities and communities on how
their financing sources.           to increase their financing sources.
Turnover of staff in VMPPFM is   M    Line consultants financed under the project will be
high.                               recruited on the basis of quality criteria which will
include interest for popular participation and
community development.
Party-political involvement in  S   Credit Agreement requires that the appointment of
FDC and replacement of key          key central and departnental staff will be done on
central and departmental            the basis of technical criteria and competition.
managers on the basis of non-
technical criteria.
Prefects do not support, do not  S   VMPPFM will sign agreements with prefecturas to
co-finance the departmental         ensure their co-operation. Where prefects do not
operational units and/or do not     agree, the project will stop its institutional
give them sufficient autonomous     strengthening activities.
project implementation.
Political support for vigilance  M    Technical assistance to municipalities could
committees dwindles.                somewhat substitute for Vigilance Committees.
Performance of NGOs            L   Training of NGOs and project monitoring will
decreases.                         increase NGO performance.
Project Components to Outputs
Risk              Risk            Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
Low stakeholders compliance    L   Strengthening of the communities and
with commitment to                  municipalities and implementation of the
participatory planning.             investment program will empower stakeholders and
provide incentives for more participation.



Project Appraisal Document                                                 Page 27
Country: Bolivia                                   Project Tdle: Participatory Rural Investment Project
Implementing Agencies may not   L   Funds could be reallocated when not needed.
be interested in using guarantee
funds.
Cadastre Supreme ]Decree not   L   Supreme Decree needed for financing of
approved.                           Municipalities and has been fully prepared and
agreed with INRA.
Municipalities unwilling to    S   Success with pilot indigenous district operations
delegate power to indigenous        would ensure replication in other municipalities.
districts.
Vice-Ministry of Rural         H   VMRD performance will be reviewed and
Development has insufficient        component can be shifted to VMPPFM when
capacity to reach the               necessary.
beneficiaries in the field.
FDC and other agencies have    L   An efficient FDC will attract more donor funds;
insufficient funds.                inefficient organizations will not need the funds.
High turnover of staff in      S   Technical assistance contracts to municipalities will
municipalities.                     emphasize the need for staff continuity.
Overall Project Risk Rating
Risk              Risk            Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
Institutional performance.     H   Institutional Strengthening component is an
important project component.
Rural investment quiantity,    S   FDC strengthening, training, involvement of
quality and impact.                 communities and FDC supervision should diminish
this risk.
Participation, community       L   Project will not finance investments in
involvement.                        municipalities which have not carried out
participatory planning.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects
Limited role of prefecturas in operational aspects of the project is based on experiences within
the Rural Communities Development Project. This lack of involvement of prefecturas in
project operations may create some problems during implementation.
Block 4: G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
1. Adoption by FDC and VMPPFM of the Project Operational Manual which would include:
(i) the FDC operating manual; (ii) eligibility criteria for subprojects, beneficiaries, executing
agencies and a format of a sub-grant agreement; (iii) the project implementation plan;
(iv) project management, co-ordination and reporting aspects; (v) procedures for procurement



Project Appraisal Document                                                    Page 28
Country: Bolivia                                     Project Title: Participatory Rural Investment Project
of civil works, goods, consultants and management services and sample bidding documents;
(vi) disbursement procedures; (vii) terms of reference of key consultants and sample
consulting and management service contracts; (viii) the training program; (ix) accounting
systems and audit aspects; (x) the environmental criteria to be used by FDC in carrying out
environmental assessments of subprojects; and (xi) a list of NGOs and consultants selected in
accordance with the above eligibility criteria.
2. Signing of a Subsidiary Agreement by the Borrower and FDC under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Association, which includes that FDC will carry out its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial, technical, ecological,
environmental and engineering practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Disbursement Conditions
3. Appointment of a project team composed of a project manager, accountant and
administrator within VMPPFM, all acceptable to IDA, and their remaining in post will be a
condition for disbursement for expenditures related to VMPPFM strengthening.
4. The signing of an inter-institutional agreement between VMPPFM and a prefectura by
which: (i) the respective prefectura agrees to provide a financial contribution to the operations
of the departmental project unit and to enter into participation agreements with municipalities
and other beneficiaries of the project's institutional development component; and (ii) the
prefecto, with approval of the Consejo Departamental delegates to the departmental project
unit the authority to implement and enforce the above participation agreements, will be a
condition of disbursement of the project's institutional strengthening component in the
respective prefectura.
5. The signing of an inter-institutional agreement between VMDR and a prefectura by which:
(i) the respective prefectura agrees to provide a financial contribution to the operations of the
departmental project units and to enter into participation agreements with communities; and
(ii) the perfecto, with approval of the Consejo Departamental delegates to the departmental
project unit the authority to implement and enforce the above participation agreements will be
a condition of disbursement for the financing of community subproject profiles and
community training in the respective prefectura.
6. The signing of a grant agreement between FDC and the beneficiaries would be a condition
of disbursement for the corresponding subproject.
2. Other Assurances
Accounts/Audit/Procurement
7. Annual audits of financial statements, special accounts and SOEs to be presented to IDA
before June 30 of each calendar year. Semi-annual audits of SOEs in FDC.



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Page 29
Country: Bolivia                                        Project Title: Participatory Rural Investment Project
8. For National Competitive Bidding, VMPPFM and FDC would use IDA standard bidding
documents for works and goods, agreed upon between the Government of Bolivia and the
World Bank in 19966.
Management Aspects of the Project
9. FDC will carry out an institutional development plan which includes the following
measures:
(a) FDC will continue to pursue firtffier decentralization: subproject approval and
disbursement authority will remain delegated to the departnental offices;
(b) FDC will select all central managers, departnental heads and professional staff on
the basis of technical criteria and through competitive processes;
(c) FDC departmental offices will be staffed within three months after project
effectiveness with at least one departmental head, acceptable to IDA, a civil engineer, an
agronomist/agricultural economist, and an accountant, one of whom is to be appointed and
trained as departmental environmental analyst;
(d) the Participatory Rural Investment Project unit in FDC will be strengthened within
three months of project effectiveness to four persons to monitor the operations under the IDA
credit;
(e) FDC will employ a project economist within three months after Credit effectiveness
and two additional project economists by the end of the first project year;
(f) FDC will carry out yearly an in-depth economic, financial and technical evaluation of
at least twenty subprojects under a methodology acceptable to IDA;
(g) FDC will employ within three months after Credit effectiveness one technical
training officer and e mploy at least 50 technical investment officers by the second year of the
project;
(h) FDC will employ within three months after credit effectiveness two additional
qualified accountants acceptable to IDA to supervise the new accounting, budgeting and
treasury operations in the departmental offices;
(i) improve its capacity to deal with social issues by employing within three months
after credit effectiveness a social scientist;
(j) improve its, capacity to deal with gender issues by employing one female
professional per Department by the end of 1999 and two female professionals per Department
by the end of 2001 in such a way that 10 percent of the professionals at the central level will
be female by the encl of 1999 and 20 percent by the end of 2001;
(k) FDC will provide the internal audit unit with sufficient human and financial
resources to carry out adequately the auditing function in the departmental offices; and
(1) FDC will, together with IDA, review the operational manual on a regular basis to
identify and resolve implementation bottlenecks.
The above measures will be included in a supplemental letter to the credit agreement.
6     Procedimientos Estandar de Invitaci6n para Servicios de Consultoria en Proyectos Financiados por el
Banco Mundial, Procedimientos Estandar de Licitaci6n para Contrataci6n de Obras en Proyectos Financiados por
el Banco Mundial, Procedimientos Estandar de Licitaci6n para Adquisici6n de Bienes en Proyectos Financiados
por el Banco Mundial, diciembre de 1996.



Project Appraisal Document                                                      Page 30
Country: BolMia                                       Project Title: Participatory Rural Investment Project
Environmental Covenants
10. FDC will not finance subprojects which involve: (i) the construction of new roads;
(ii) the upgrading of roads within or in the proximity of any protected natural areas or any
other forested areas; (iii) new irrigation plots exceeding two hundred hectares; (iv) water
reservoirs with incremental surface areas exceeding one hundred hectares; (v) flood protection
or agricultural drainage works which would adversely affect natural wetlands; and
(vi) involuntary settlement of population.
11. FDC will set up an environmental unit by December 31, 1998 composed of at least one
high-level environmental specialist at FDC-headquarters and nine departmental staff. The
unit will: (i) establish FDC internal environmental screening procedures; (ii) elaborate
guidelines for environmental analysis; (iii) elaborate subproject environmental management
guidelines; (v) elaborate standard environmental mitigation measures; (vi) establish an
environmental monitoring system and audits; (vii) include environmental management
measures in the subproject cycle; (viii) train and supervise the departmental environmental
specialists; and (ix) elaborate a municipal environmental training and strengthening program
to be financed under the project.
Monitoring Review and Reporting
12. Implementation Plan. By November 15 of each year, VMPPFM, FDC and VMRD would
present a project implementation plan for the following year, satisfactory to IDA.
13. Reporting. FDC, VMPPFM and VMRD will prepare six-monthly progress reports. The
reports will cover the periods of January-June and July-December of each year and will be
delivered to IDA by February 15 and August 15 of each year. The reports will cover progress
in the physical and financial implementation of the annual work plan. They will also flag
important issues which require the attention of the Government or IDA.
14. Mid-Term Review. Between 24-30 months after project effectiveness, Government and
IDA will carry out a mid-term review which will focus on the following: (i) implementation
progress in general (outputs, disbursements); (ii) technical quality of the subprojects and
program financing; (iii) implementation of enviromnental mitigation measures;
(iv) implementation of the recommendations of the social and financial management
assessments; (v) project management problems; and (vi) quality of project monitoring.
15. Implementation Completion Report. Not later than six months after closing the credit, an
Implementation Completion Report will be drawn up and provided to IDA, including a plan
for the future operation of the project.
7     New rural road construction outside forested areas could be considered only when FDC would have
developed sufficient environmental screening and management capacity and after review of each individual
subproject by IDA.



Projet Appraisal Document                                                                            Page 31
Country: BolMa                                                       Project Title: Participatory Rural Investment Project
Block 5: H. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
er: Pierre Werbrouck                             Acting Cou                 er: Noriko Iwase



Annex 1
Participatory Rural Investment Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summalry     Key Performance         Monitoring and      Critical Assumptions
Indicators            Supervision            and Risks
CAS Objectives
Economic growth       5% reduction of rural    Poverty assessments/    Macro-economic and
poverty reduction and    population below    household surveys.    sector policies are
institution building.  poverty line.                               favorable for growth
and not biased against
Annual GDP growth of  National accounts.     the rural poor.
7% per year in the year
2000.
Project Development                                                (Development
Objective                                                          Objectives to CAS
Objective)
Sustained economic    Sustained 5% annual    - Municipal reports and  - Popular participation
development of rural    increase in standard  statistics.          continues as a poverty
municipalities and rural  quality productive                       alleviation strategy.
communities through    investments (included in  - Monitoring data in 30
sustainable productive   Municipal Development selected municipalities.  - Adequate funding of
investments based on    Plans) implemented and                     municipalities by central
local demand generated  maintained in 200 poor                     Government.
through participatory  municipalities starting
planning processes.   in the year 2000.                            - Ownership and
maintenance of
Sustained 5% annual                         investments by
increase in economic                         beneficiaries.
growth in 200
municipalities beyond
the life of the project.



Annex 1                                                                             Page       2
Narrative Summary        Key Performance Indicators     Monitoring and    Critical Assumptions
Supervision          and Risks
Project Outputs
1. Productive investments,  Productive investments complying    - FDC monitoring  - FDC, municipalities
responding to local     with engineering, environmental and  and evaluation  and communities
demand, are planned,    social standards for an amount of  reports        increase their financing
implemented and         US$60 million implemented and                      sources.
maintained.             maintained over a period of 5 years   - Reports on
in municipalities and communities    municipal public
which have followed participatory    investment
planning processes.              implementation.
VMPPFM Strengthening
2. The Vice-Ministry of    - VMPPFM implements the       Bi-annual reports  Low staff turn-over in
Popular Participation and   participatory rural investment project  VMPPFM and  VMPPFM and
Municipal Strengthening,   on schedule and within the agreed  Bank supervision   prefecturas.
the Small Farmer        technical parameters.            missions.
Development Fund,
prefecturas, municipalities, FDC Strengthening
vigilance committees,   - FDC's annual disbursements for  - FDC reports,
non-government          subprojects which have a positive  FDC ex-post     No party-political
organizations, rural    economic return, are environmentally  evaluations,  involvement in FDC and
organizations strengthened  sustainable and benefit the poor,  environmental  eventual replacements of
to provide efficiently their  increase from at least US$15 million   audits and  key central and
institutional services.  in 1999 to at least US$30 million in   beneficiary  departmental managers
2004.                            assessments.     on the basis of merits.
- Environmental Unit established and
operating, capable of screening and
assessing environmental category A
subprojects by December 31, 1999.
- The number of subprojects
finishing on time increase from at
least 25% in 1999 to at least 50% in
2004.
- The number of projects with
positive economic and financial
impact increase from 50% in 1998 to
at least 80% in 1999.
Prefectural strengthening
- The project operational units in the
prefecturas implement at least 80%
of their annual operational plans
within established quality       VMPPFM reports  Prefects support and co-
parameters.                      and Bank         finance the project
supervision      operational units and
missions.        delegate project
implementation to them.



Annex 1                                                                            Page       3
Narrative Summary          Key Performance Indicators      Monitoring and       Critical
Supervision      Assumptions
and Risks
Municipality strengthening
- annual increase of 5         FDC reports.         Low staff
municipalities complying with                      turnover in
FDC's eligibility criteria for  Implementation of    municipalities
program financing              municipal budgets.   and stability in
- over 5 years the annual                           management of
implementation rate of the     Implementation of    the
municipal investment program   municipal budgets    municipalities.
increases from 63% to 80% in the    Municipal reports
200 project municipalities      and independent
- annual increase of 5% in the own   assessments.
revenues of participating
municipalities
Vigilance committees                                Political
- within three years 70% of the                     support for
vigilance committees in        VMPPFM and FDC    vigilance
participating municipalities approve  registers.    committees
the municipal annual operation                      remains high.
plans
NGO Strengthening
Performance of
- Over 5 years an increase of 30%    FDC reports.   NGOs and their
of NGOs complying with the                          political support
eligibility criteria for participation             remains high.
in the project (for institutional
strengthening and FDC).
Community Strengthening
- the annual number of micro-  Social assessments.
subprojects directly implemented
by rural communities increases
from 10 to 100 in 5 years.
Project Components                                                                (Components to
Outputs)
A. Rural investments
A.1. Works
A.1.1. Rural roads            An amount of US$55 million                          Ownership by
A. 1.2. Bridges              invested in rural roads (improved    - Bi-annual project    beneficiaries
A. 1.3. Irrigation            and maintained), bridges        progress reports.   through
A. 1.4. Marketing centers     constructed/improved, irrigation                    participatory
A. 1.5. River embankmant      constructed/improved and        - Budget            planning
improvements/boat ramps       maintained, market centers     implementation       process.
A. 1.6. Other small works     constructed, agro forestry and  reports of
A. 1.7. Natural resources     terraces planted/constructed and  municipalities.
management                    maintained, sets of equipment
provided
A.2. Provision of agro-processing  An amount of US$1.5 million  - FDC reports.
equipment to women groups     invested in 5 years.



Annex 1                                                                            Page       4
Narrative Summary          Key Performance Indicators     Monitoring and        Critical
Supervision      Assumptions
and Risks
A.3. Technical assistance for  - 500 technical assistance contracts  - FDC reports.
productive purposes           satisfactorily implemented.
A.4. Pre-investment studies   - Annually 200 pre-investment  - FDC reports.
studies satisfactorily completed.
A.5 Guarantee Fund           - Guarantee fund of US$500,000    - FDC-reports.    Agencies
established an operational by                      interested in
December 31, 1999.                                 using guarantee
funds.
B. Institutional Strengthening
B. 1. Municipal strengthening
B. 1.1. Participatory Municipal    - 66 additional participatory PDMs   - Municipalities
Development Plan Formulation.   satisfactorily completed.    approving the PDMs.
B. 1.2. Technical Assistance to  - 220 TA contracts by NGOs to  - 220 municipal
the implementations PDMs.    municipalities and OTBs         budgets approved in
satisfactorily completed.      200 municipalities
-100 person-years in TA to     and 200 PDM with
municipalities satisfactorily  minor adjustments.
completed.
B. 1.3. Implementation of    - 50 x 4 municipal management   - Municipal reports in  - Cadastre
municipal administrative     modules introduced and operating.   Ministry of     Supreme
management systems.                                          Economy.            Decree
B. 1.4. Municipal cadastre.  - 20 municipal cadastre systems                     approved.
introduced and operating.      - Cadastre included    - Municipalities
in municipal tax   are willing to
system.             delegate power
B.1.5. Indigenous district   - 30 indigenous districts                           to indigenous
formation.                   development plans formulated and                    district leaders.
successfully implemented.      - Indigenous district   - FDC or other
development plans    financing
approved by         agencies have
B. 1.6. Elaboration of sub-project  - 1,000 high quality subproject  municipality and  sufficient funds.
profiles.                    profiles prepared and proposed to   integrated in budget.
FDC.                           - FDC reports.
B.2. Rural Community
Strengthening
B.2.1. Community sub-project    - 1,400 high quality sub-project  - FDC reports.  - FDC or other
profiles prepared.           profiles successfully prepared and                  financing
proposed to FDC.                                   agencies have
B.2.2. Community based       - Community-based information                       sufficient funds.
information system.          system established and providing
annual reports.



Annex 1                                                                             Page        5
Narrative Summary          Key Performance Indicators      Monitoring and        Critical
Supervision      Assumptions
and Risks
B.3. Training
B.3. 1. Formal training in    - 2,500 person-months of training    - Reports of training   Low staff
municipal management          provided to municipal technicians.  centers.         turnover in
operational.                                                                       municipalities.
B.3.2. Non-fonnal training to  - 150 training sessions        - Workshop reports.
municipalities, vigilance     implemented.
committees and OTBs           - 46,000 copies of training material
iimplemented.                 distributed to municipalities and
OTBs.
- 3 training guides published.
B.3.3. Community leaders                                      - Workshop reports.   Vice-Ministry
trained.                      - 102 special training sessions for                  of Rural
leaders of rural communities                        Development
implemented.                                        has sufficient
capacity to
reach the field.
B.3.4. Training of NGOs and                                   - Training workshop
private sector in subproject  - 100 training sessions implemented  reports.
management operational.       by FDC.
B.4. Strengthening of Vice-
Ministry of Popular Partcipation
and Municipal Strengtheng
B.4. 1. Provision of consultants    - 60 person-years of consultants in   - Consultant
and provision of office       participatory planning, community  contracts.
equipment and incremental     development, planning, training,
operation expenses.           administration, monitoring,
accounting and legal aspects.
B.5. FDC Strengthening
B.5. 1. Project Unit          - Provision of 20 person years of    - Consultant
consulting services (coordinator,    contracts.
financial manager, 2 technical
specialists).
- Subproject processing time
reduced by 30% by December. 31,   - FDC reports.
2000.
B.5.2. Training Unit.         - Provision of 5 person years of
consulting services             - Consultant
B.5.3. Environmental Unit.    - Provision of 72 person-months of  contracts.
consulting services.
- At least 40 environmental     - Consultant
assessments A carried out       contracts.
B.5.4. Departnental Offices.  - Provision of 45 person-years of                    Indigenous
consulting services             - FDC reports.      peoples and
- 8% of subprojects benefit                         women have
indigenous people and 5% of     - Consultant        sufficient
subprojects benefit exclusively  contracts.         absorption
women from year 2000 onwards.    - Audit reports.   capacity.



Annex I                                                                      Page      6
Narrative Summary        Key Performance Indicators    Monitoring and      Critical
Supervision     Assumptions
and Risks
B.6. Strengthening ofthe   - 130 person-years of         - Consultant       Prefecturas
Prefecturas                consultants, nine vehicles and    contracts in  finance at
US$ 660,000 in incremental   prefecturas.      least
operating costs.                                US$715,000.
B.7. Strengthening of Vice-    - 8 person years of consultants   - Consultant
Ministry of Rural          in training and investment    contracts.
Development                profile preparation.



Annex 2
Participatory Rural Investment Project
Detailed Project Description
Component 1: Rural Investments - US$65.5 million (total cost of component)
Eligible Investments
I1.    This component would include the financing of pre-investment studies, works, goods
and operational costs for rural investments (subprojects) of the following types:
Basic Infrastructure
(i)   rehabilitation of access roads;
(ii)   construction and rehabilitation of one lane vehicular and pedestrian bridges;
(iii)  construction and rehabilitation of communal small-scale irrigation, including
multiple use water reservoirs, sprinkler irrigation and other forms of water supply
for productive or multiple use;
(iv)   construction of municipal and community markets;
(v)   construction of produce storage facilities in the rural areas;
(vi)  river embankment improvements including boat ramps;
(vii)  micro-hydro-electric schemes';
(viii) rehabilitation and maintenance of municipal infrastructure;
(ix)  rehaTbilitation of cultural heritage works;
Natural Resources Management
(x)   communal soil conservation works;
(xi)  agro-forestry and forestry works;
Technical Support to Producer and Women Groups
(xii) technical assistance to communities in production, processing and marketing;
(xiii) provision of communal agro-processing infrastructure and equipment;
Pre-investment Studies
(xiv) feasibility and detailed engineering studies of basic infrastructure works; and
Municipal Investment Programs and Specific Pilot Operations
(xv)  aggregate municipal rural investment programs tranched over several years and
specific pilot operations which would be agreed upon with IDA on a case by case basis.
Eligibility CriteriaL for Beneficiaries
2.    Above investments would be financed under the following conditions and eligibility
criteria:
s     From Mid-Telm Review onwards, after positive evaluation of five pilot operations.



Annex 2                                                                  Page     2
(i)   subprojects are included in a Municipal Development Plan which has to have been
formulated in a participatory manner;
(ii)   beneficiaries, i.e., municipalities, communities (OTBs) and producer groups',
contribute in money, labor or kind in various percentages (as indicated in FDC's
operational manual) but at least 15 percent of the cost of the subproject according
to the following table:
Components                Maximum Cost          Minimum Beneficiary
(in US$)          Contribution (in %)
Basic Infrastructure
Roads and Bridges                         350,000                15
Irrigation                                350,000               20
Markets and Produce Storage                100,000               15
Micro hydro-electric Schemes              350,000                15
Small Works                                30,000               20
Others                                    100,000                15
Natural Resources Management                 60,000               20
Technical Support to Producers               30,000               15
Pre-investment Studies                       30,000               20
Municipal Investment Programs             2,000,000               20
and Specific Pilot Operations            (max. US$1
million per year)
(iii) design and cost of the individual subprojects are subject to economic, financial,
technical, environmental and sustainability criteria which are included in FDC's
Operational Manual;
(iv)  beneficiary municipalities and communities belong to the Category II, III, IV and
V poverty rating in accordance with the 1993 Poverty Map and are ranked the
lowest on the human development index; and
(v)   technical specifications for subprojects would follow FDC's technical
requirements.
Disbursement Mechanisms
3.    The funds would be made available to the beneficiaries in the following manners:
(a)   Individual Subprojects:
(i)    Beneficiaries would contract a executing agency from a yearly FDC-
approved list of executing agencies"0 (NGOs, engineering firms) to prepare
9     Producer groups with legal status.
10    FDC would advertise every year to pre-qualify eligible executing agencies per Department to adjust the
long-list. FDC's operational manual will specify minimum qualification criteria for executing agencies. The
manual would also specify procedures for removing non-performing promotor agencies from the long-list.



Annex 2                                                              Page      3
the subproject profile and to provide assistance with the implementation of
the subproject. Upon review and approval of the beneficiary's project
profile, FDC would pay 80 percent of the detailed engineering studies with
project funds. The contracts for works or the direct implementation of the
works by the beneficiaries would be financed by FDC in accordance with
agreed percentages in the Operational Manual.
(ii)   FDC would finance small community works, not exceeding US$30,000,
through contracts for works or services with eligible beneficiaries (OTBs
and municipalities) which have demonstrated capacity to implement
subprojects. The beneficiaries would open a bank account and FDC would
pay the cost of works and services in several tranches. To access the
second and following tranches, an FDC supervisor would have to certify
the execution of the works and services corresponding to the respective
tranche. Communities would be exempt from providing a bank guarantee
and invoices (notasfiscales).
(b)   Municipal Investment Programs: Eligible municipalities would obtain project
funds to finance studies, works, goods and operating costs of yearly rural
investment programs containing eligible subprojects up to a maximum of
US$1 million per year and US$2 million over the project period. Instead of
financing each particular subproject on an individual basis, FDC would provide
funds to municipalities to co-finance an aggregate of subprojects in annual
municipal development programs. The aggregated subprojects would be
complementary and integrated activities. Upon justification of the use of the
fimds and technical and financial reviews, the municipalities would receive further
financing. The project would finance five municipal development plans in the
first year on a pilot basis. Learning from this experience it would expand the
coverage to other eligible municipalities in accordance with eligibility criteria
defined in FDC's Operational Manual. The eligibility criteria for such
municipalities would include: (i) clean financial audits; (ii) presence in the
municipality of a technical capable team; (iii) percentage of past annual
operational plans implemented; and (iv) percentage of municipal investments in
rural areas.
(c)   NGO Community Programs: Eligible NGOs and strategic partner institutions of
FDC would be contracted by FDC to finance studies, works, goods and operating
costs assisting OTBs in the design; implementation and operation of small
demand-driven subprojects. This would be done on the basis of: (i) written
agreements between the OTBs and NGOs; and (ii) technical and financial
operating plans of NGOs. The communities would contribute the required
amount (at least 10 percent). The NGOs would finance the pre-investment studies
or contribute 10 percent towards the costs of the subprojects. FDC would finance
NGCOs which, together with the beneficiary communities, would account for their
use on the basis of quarterly operational plans and reports. FDC would finance
five pilot NGO community programs in the first year. Learning from this
experience it would expand the coverage to other eligible NGOs in accordance



Annex 2                                                               Page     4
with eligibility criteria defined in FDC's Operational Manual. The eligibility
criteria for such NGOs would include: (i) clean financial audits; (ii) technical
capacity; (iii) operating experience in the types of projects; (iv) presence in the
field; and (v) financial strength.
Estimates indicate that by the third project year FDC would disburse 15 percent of the funds
through municipal programs, 15 percent would be subcontracted through NGOs and 5 percent
would be financed directly to rural communities.
Guarantee Fund
4.    The project would establish with funds from the Swiss Government a guarantee fund of
about US$0.5 million. This fund would be used to guarantee advances to NGOs which can not
obtain bank guarantees for advances needed under the SAFCO Law. The guarantee fund would
be established before the end of the first project year under the same terms and conditions as the
already existing guarantee fund at FIS.
Indigenous Peoples Special Program
5.    The project would finance the formulation of 30 Indigenous District Development Plans.
FDC would employ a social scientist to develop and manage a special program to assist
indigenous peoples' OTBs and municipal districts to obtain FDC financing for their subprojects
and proposals. His/her terms of reference would include training of NGOs involved with
indigenous groups in procedures to obtain FDC financing. The cost of this program would
amount to US$600,000 and is included in the project's institutional development component.
6.    The indigenous special program could finance very special subprojects not included in
the'list of para. 1, such as cultural projects, cultural heritage works and other development
subprojects, based on their indigenous development programs. No specific amounts are
earmarked for this programs, but they will be financed under the rural investment component of
the project. FDC will involve specialized NGOs and indigenous organizations to carry out this
program.
Gender Issues
7.    Two recent studies carried out under the Rural Communities Development Project and
the Social Assessment indicate that the proposed investments under the Participatory Rural
Investment Project are in line with the desiderata of women. The ongoing rural productivity
study indicates that the subprojects women benefits most are the technical assistance activities
for women in the rural sector. The project finances such technical assistance under the category:
"technical support to producer and women groups". Moreover, the FDC would also finance
small artisanal equipment for women groups in need of agro-processing equipment.
8.    FDC employs currently only two female professionals. To make FDC more aware of
women issues and needs, FDC has agreed to employ: (i) nine female professionals in
Departments by the end of 1999 and 18 female professionals in Departnents by the end of 2001;



Annex 2                                                                 Page     5
(ii) 10 percent of the professionals at the central level will be female by the end of 1999 and
20 percent by the end of 2001.
Institutional StrengtJhening Component - US$21.9 million
9.    This component includes training and institutional strengthening of: (i) 200 local
Governments; (ii) 2,000 OTBs in 200 municipalities; (iii) 200 vigilance committees; (iv) nine
prefecturas; (v) the Vice-Ministry of Popular Participation and Municipal Strengthening;
(vi) FDC; and (vii) the Vice-Ministry of Rural Development.
10.   The training and strengthening to municipalities and communities would include a menu
of possibilities for technical assistance and support amongst which the municipalities could
choose up to a certain annual ceiling. The ceiling would depend on the number of municipal
inhabitants and their poverty level. The menu would contain the following items.
(a)   Technical Assistance to Local Governments and Communities (US$1 1.1 million).
The project would finance:
(i) 220 contracts of technical assistance and training by specialized
implementation agencies (NGOs) to 200 municipalities and 2,000 OTBs in the
implementation of their participatory municipal development plans, annual
implementation plans (PAO) and subprojects;
(ii) tec]hnical assistance to 66 municipalities in the elaboration of their municipal
development plan;
(iii) technical assistance to 30 indigenous peoples districts in the formulation and
implementation of their indigenous district development plans;
(iv) 100 person-years of technical staff in planning, administration, accounting,
infrastructure engineering and environmental management to help the
municipalities on a more permanent basis;
(v) the introduction in 50 municipalities to the administrative, accounting,
planninig and other modules foreseen in the SAFCO Law;
(vi) the introduction of municipal cadastre in 20 municipalities;
(vii) the preparation of 1,000 subproject profiles for municipalities and 1,400
projecit profiles for OTBs 11; and
(viii) the installation of departmental service telephone lines to answer questions
to small municipalities and communities.
The contribution of the municipalities towards the cost of these strengthening activities
would be between 15 and 50 percent.
(b)   Training (US$1.5 million). The project would finance:
(i) 2,500 person-months of training for technical staff of municipalities in
municipal management skills (administration, development of annual
implementation plans, subproject management, relations with rural communities,
environmental analysis, etc.). VMPPFM would contract 4-6 eligible training
Profile studies will be carried out by consultants approved by FDC.



Annex 2                                                                 Page      6
centers to design a curriculum and provide the training. Municipalities and/or
OTBs would contribute 25 percent towards this training;
(ii) 150 field training events for representatives of municipalities and vigilance
committees in municipal management, community social control and other
relevant issues;
(iii) the production of 46,000 copies of publications which local municipal staff
could use as reference material in understanding of laws and regulations;
(iv) 100 training sessions for NGOs and municipalities in the application of
FDC's technical, economical, environmental and procedural requirements; and
(v) 102 subproject preparation awareness training programs for leaders of OTBs
and distribution of information and training materials to the OTBs.
(c)   Community Monitoring (US$180,000): The project would finance the
implementation of a community monitoring system in 30 municipalities to
measure the impact of the project over the project period. The system would
include a baseline study and 6-monthly surveys.
(d)   Strengthening of the Prefecturas (US$2.6 million): The project would finance 140
person-years of consultants, nine vehicles and US$660,000 in incremental
operating costs to assist nine prefecturas with the implementation of the municipal
strengthening component. The prefecturas would contribute 40 percent towards
the cost of these operational units.
(e)   Vice-Ministry of Popular Participation and Municipal Strengthening
(US$3.3 million): The project would finance: (i) 60 person-years of consultants
in the fields of participatory planning, community development, administration,
training, monitoring, planning, accounting, etc. to manage the project and to
provide technical assistance to the overall Government program of Popular
Participation and Municipal Strengthening; (ii) office equipment and vehicles;
(iii) travel costs; and (iv) incremental operational costs.
(f)   FDC-Strengthening (US$2.7 million): The project would finance: (i) four staff in
the central office (a project coordinator, two technicians and an administrator) to
help FDC implementing the project; a training specialist; an environmental
specialist and environmental consultants; a social scientist; a project economist;
and nine departmental managers; and (ii) ten vehicles, survey equipment, and
office equipment.
(g)   VMDR Strengthening (US$266,000): The project would finance eight person-
years of consultants in training and pre-investment studies, the preparation of
information and training material as well as a rural development policy study to
be implemented in the Vice-Ministry of Rural Development.
(h)   Project Financial Audits (US$200,00).



Annex 2                                                             Page     7
Implementation Arrangements
11.   The Vice-Ministry of Popular Participation and Municipal Strengthening will co-ordinate
the project. It will also carry out the institutional strengthening of the municipalities. Additional
institutional strengthening of communities and producer groups in rural development aspects will
be carried out by the Vice-Ministry of Rural Development. The investment component of the
project would be carried out by FDC. Technical co-ordination will done through technical
meetings organized by the project coordinator. The project will be guided by an inter-ministerial
National Co-ordination Committee.
12.   The contractors and suppliers of works, goods and services for both components (except
the training centers) would be recruited by the municipalities and OTBs from a list of eligible
NGOs and private companies. The beneficiaries would pay their contribution for the services
upfront. FDC and the prefectural operational units of VMPPFM would pay the rest of the
contracts upon approval of payments by the beneficiaries. In this way, municipalities and
communities would exercise a form of quality control of the services rendered by the contractors
and suppliers. The establishment of eligibility criteria for NGOs and private companies to enter
into contracts with municipalities and communities to be financed under the project as well as the
design of standardized contracts all acceptable to IDA would be included in the project
operational manual.



Annex 3
Participatory Rural Investment Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                         Local        Foreign       Total
-------------US $ million ------
Investment Component
Basic Infrastructure
Roads and Bridges                                             12.6           2.7       15.3
Irrigation                                                     7.9           1.1        9.0
Produce Storage                                                1.6           0.2        1.8
Micro Hydro-electric Schemes                                   1.4           1.4        2.7
Others                                                         1.8           0.0        1.8
Municipal Investnent Programs                                 11.5           2.0       13.5
Natural Resources Manag-ement                                   1.8           0.0        1.8
Technical Assistance                                            1.8           0.0        1.8
Preinvestment Studies                                           3.6           0.0        3.6
Guarantee Fund                                                  0.5           0.0       0.5
Administrative Costs FDC                                        6.6            1.1       7.7
Subtotal                                       51.0            8.5      59.5
Institutional Strengthening Component
Technical Assistance to Municipalities and Communities          9.2           0.5       9.6
Training                                                        1.3           0.1        1.3
Community Monitoring                                            0.2           0.0        0.2
Indigenous Districts                                            0.4           0.0        0.4
Strengthening of PrefectuLras                                   2.1           0.4       2.4
Strengthening of Vice-Ministry of Popular Participation and     2.4           0.4       2.8
Municipal Strengthening
FDC Strengthening                                               2.2           0.4        2.6
VMDR Strengthening                                              0.2           0.0        0.3
Financial Audits                                                0.2           0.0       0.2
Subtoital                                      18.1            1.8      19.9
Total                                                          69.1          10.3      79.4
Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies                                       3.5            0.5       4.0
Price Contingencies                                                         0.5       4.0
Total Project Cost                                             76.0          11.3      87.3



(US $ thousand)                                                 BOLIVIA                                          COSTS PER FINANCIER
PARTICIPATORY RURAL INVESTMENT PROJECT
Co__mgponens               _____Pr t_Co                  Financn Surces (% of total poect csts)        ____
_____________________-total Cost  Investmt C RAecurt C   IBRDIIDA -.Co-fins  Government   -User FIBen
nve-stfme nt Copnent                                                                 Central    Local
Basic Infrastructure                30,550    30,550         0    23,070           0          02 2,743          4,738
Roads and bridges                 15,260    15,250         0     12,810          0          0        763      1,678
Irrigation               ~~~~~~    ~~~~9,000  9,000  0   -6,300         0          0        450      2,250
Produce storage                    1,800     1,800         0      1,260          0          0        90        450
_Micro hydro-electric schemes       2,700     2,700         0      1,350          0  ____ 0         1,350          0
Others                             1,8006   -1,800                1,350          0-0                 90        360
Watershed management                 1,80-0    1,800         0      1,080 ___      0          0          0       720
P'ro1d uc-t-i on --su-p-port -       1,800     1,800        06  1-,080             0  _    -             0       720
Pre-in!vstMent studies.3,600  _3,600    _   0                      2,844          0          0        360        396
Municipal investmet pormanS__13,500 _13,500 _                0 _ 9,450   -         0          0     4,050           0
Adm-inistrative Cost FDC             7,688         0     7,688      6,150          0          0          0      1,538
Guarantee funds                       450       450          0          0O   -  450           0          0          0
Subtotal               59,388    51,700      7,688    43,674        450          0      7,153      8,111
________________________    _______  ~~~~87%  13%       74%         1 %        0%        12%        14%
Institutional Strengthening Componen _____                      __________
TA to municipalities & communities   9,643 _   9,643         0      5,836          0          0     3,808           0
TA for Formulation PDMs             14 59     1,459-       0       1,061         0          0        398 ___ 0
Stegthening of Muinicipal Govern  .8, 785  8, 1850              4,700- 3410
Tr#ijrinq .    .      _____          1,349     1,349 ___0           1,122 ___0 ____0                  227           0
Formal/non-forma training by VMP   1,050     1,050         0         5        _             0       200           0
Nlon-formal  t'ra ining, In VMDRprojec t 164   164         0        164          0          0          0         0
_Traini~nofivt setor by FDC          135       135 ____0            10-8        0o          0         27          0
qommunity yo itoring                  162       162          0       1200                               0           0
Indigenous Districts                  45_    405             0       405_          6         0          0           0
Strengthening of Prefecturas     -- _ 2,377    1,78  _ _5 9_4' __  1,-7-33 __    _0          0        644           0
Strengthening of VMPPFM~             3,003    2,252       75,1    1,915         370        717          0           0
Strengthening of VMDR                 307       230        77        210                    65          0           0
Strengthning ofFDC               2,532     1,899       633      1',849 I0                 0          0        683
Auditoria                              180         0      180         1801        0           6          00
Subtotal               19,957    17,723      2,235    13,443        370        783      4,678        683
____            ~~~~       ~~~~89%  11%  67%      2%4%                 23%         3%
Total Project Component             79,345    69,423  --9,922  -.57,117         820        783      11,831      8,794
871%      13%       72%          1 %        I1%      15%         1 1%IO
T ota   a e i e C s                                              _ _ _ _
Physical Contingencies             3,967     3,471       496     2,56          4 1        39        592        440
Price Contingencies                3,967    3,471        496      2,856         41         39        592       440
Total Proiect Cost                  87,279    76,365-  10,914    62,829         902        861      13,0141    9673                           t
1   _ _  _ _ _  _ _  __ _  _ _    _ _  _ _      87% 1     13%        72% 11              115%1% I



US$ thousands                          BOLIVIA PARTICIPATORY RURAL INVESTMENT PROJECT               INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
Total _ _  IDA    Co-fins  Centi Goy Local Gov  User/Ben                                                w
APOYO A FORMU PDMs         -       1.459     1,061        0         0      398         _
Formulacion PDMs                 1,459     1,061         0        0       398         0
FORTAL A MUNICIPIOS                8,185    4,775         0         0    3,4101        0
Sistemas de Gestion Municia'     1 250     1,111         0        0       139         0
Apoyo a Ejecu PDMs (SSEM/POAs)   2,511     1,640    .             0       871         0
Catastro                           428       203         O        0       225         0
Equipamiento                     405       180         0         0      225         0
Capacitacion                      23        23         0        0         0         0
Prerfiles                        1,296     1,221         0        0       135         0
Municipales                      540       480         0         0       60         0
Aaropecuarios                    756       681         0         0       75         0
T6cnicos Municipales             2,700       600         0        0    2,100          0
CAPACITACION                       1,349     1,122        0         0       227         0
Capacitaci6n por VMPPFM           1,050       850         0        0       200         0
Capacitacion Formal                720       520         0        0       200         0
Capacitacion No Formal             330       330         0        0         0         0
Eventos                          203       203         0         0        0         0
Guias                    _        24        24         0 __    0          0         0
Publicaciones                    104       104         0         0        0         0
Capacitaci6n no formalten proy de V  164      164         0        0           _       0
_Even t o        s       __   ____  _ 164 ___ i    4         ._ 0          0 . .. 0.   ...  ___
-Capacitaci6n del sector privado por F  135   i18         0.___.___ 0       2  _ ___  0
SIS INFO MUN BASE COMUNI             162      162         0         0_        0      _
Imp!eme tacionenMunic'pios _       108       108         0        0         0         0
Seciuimiento                        54 _____             0    __0           0         0
APOYO A DIST. INDIGENAS              405      405         0         0         0         0
Apovo a Formu de Planes Distritale  270      270         0        0         0         0
Apoyo a aEjecucion de PDDis        135       135         0        0         0         0
SUB-TOTALMUNICIPIOS               11,559    7,525         0         0    4,0350
1        0  _ _   _0            _
FORTAL A LAS PREFECTURAS           2,377     1,733        0         0       644         0
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _  ~~~~~~~ ~ ~~1  0             0  _   _
Fortal a VMPPFM (incl. linea 0800)  3,003    1,915      370       717  .                0
.__ _   _ _ _ _ ___  _ _ _ _         1         0        0
Fortalecimiento al VMDR              307      241         0        65         0         0
- -  -   17,245        1 --~   ~     ~ ~ 0  0    5.6
_ 17,245   11,414     370      783    05461 _
Fortalecimiento al FDC             2, 532    1,849  0__   _ _0                0      683
______                              1         0                            0
TOTAL                             19,777   13,263-    370         783    4,678        683
J |   |    67%[  2%1       4%1    24%[         3%



Annex 3                                                                       Page      4
(US $ thousand)                             BOLIVIA                    GENERAL PROJECT COSTS
PARTICIPATORY RURAL INVESTMENT PROJECT
Components           Total Cost    Local  I Foreign      Tax
Investment Component                                 I
Basic Infrastructure               30,550    25,181 j   5,369        3,325
Roads and bridges                15,250    12,581 1    2,669       1,525
Irrigation                        9,000      7,875 1   1,125        900
Produce storage                    1,800     1,575 1     225         180
Micro hydro-electric schemes      2,700      1,350 r    1,350       432
Others                            1,800      1,800         0 o      288
Watershed management                1,800      1,800 1       0        180
Production support                  1,800      1,800 j       0        144
Pre-investment studies              3,600      3,600         0        576
Municipal investment programs and S  13,500    11,475 1   2,025      1,485
Administrative Cost FDC             7,688      6,578 1   1,109       1,230
Guarantee funds                       450.      450 i        0         72
Subtotal          j   59,388    50,885 1   8,503        7,012
l           ~~~~~86% I  14%        12%
Institutional Strengthening Component4
TA to municipalities & communities  9,643      9,161       482       1,543
TA for Formulation POMs           1,459      1,386        73        233
Strengthening of Municipal Govern  8,185     7,775       409       1,310
Training                            1,349      1,281        67         22
Formal/non-formal training by VMPP  1,0501    997         52          0
Non-formal training in VMDR projec  1641       156 1       8          0
Training of private sector by FDC   1351      128 !        7         22
Communitv Monitoring                  162        154 i       8         26
Indigenous Districts                  405       405 1        0         65
Strengthening of Prefecturas        2,377      2,020 i     357        380
Strengthening of VMPPFM             3,003]    2,552 .      450        480
Strengthening of VMDR                 3071      261 1       46         49
Strengthening of FDC                2,532      2,152 1     380        405
Auditoria                             1801       180         0         29
Subtotal               19,957    18,167 1   1,790       2,999
91 %       9%        15%
Total Proiect Component            79,345    69,051 !  10,293      10,011
______ ___ _   _87%1  13%     13%
Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies        _   3,967      3,453 1     515        501
Price Contingencies           _ _3,967_     3,453 i      515        501
Total Proiect Cost                 8 7,2791   75,957 1  11,323     11,012
__ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ __ _       I          j      87%1       13% 1      13%



Annex 4
Participatory Rural Investment Project
Financial and Economic Analysis Summary of the Rural Investment Component
Present Value of Flows         Fiscal Impact
Economic    Financial
Analysis     Analysis      Taxes        Subsidies
Benefits:
US$265,593,000         211,092,000    151,250,000  11,012,000    13,875,000
Costs
US$75,150,000          72,232,000      64,784,000
Net Benefits:          138,860,000     86,466,000
IRR:                   37%                  36%
Difference between financial and economic evaluation can be explained by: (i) differences in the
economic and financial discount rate (12 and 16 percent); and (ii) the inclusion of in-kind labor
contribution by communities in the economic evaluation.
Switching Values of Critical Items
The switching values in the economic evaluation are: costs + 95%, benefits -48%.
The switching values in the financial evaluation are: costs +65%, benefits - 40%.
Main Assumption
Because of FDC's strengthening under the project and the demand-drive approach, FDC's
project failure rate will remain below 33 percent. Not more than one subproject in three can be a
complete failure. The present failure rate is 40 percent.
Overall Methodology and Conclusions of the Analysis
Objectives. To obtain a clear view of the actual economic and financial returns on investments
by FDC, an ex-post financial and economic analysis was made of 20 FDC investments carried
out in recent years. This sample is similar to the rural investments which will be financed under
the project. The analysis was not only to provide an indicator of economic and financial
feasibility but also to make methodological recommendations for future analysis and to
determine economic and financial eligibility criteria for subprojects.
Methodology. The sample took into consideration Bolivia's agro-ecological zones and FDC's
subcategories of subprojects (roads, bridges, irrigation, natural resources management and
storage). For each subproject a questionnaire was drawn up, field visits took place and field data
collection through interviews with key informants was done. Data were cross checked with
overall data. For every subproject the Net Present Value over ten years and the Economic and
Financial Internal Rates of Return were calculated. A 16 percent financial and a 12 percent



Annex 4                                                                          Page      2
economic discount rate were used to calculate NPV. Shadow exchange and wage rates were used
for the economic analysis. An NPV and IRR sensitivity analysis was done based on two
parameters: cost per beneficiary and unit cost for works.
Economic and Financial Assumptions
Discount Rate. The financial discount rate (opportunity cost of capital) is estimated at
16 percent, which is lower than the going interest rate to reflect inflation and a lower risk
factor. The economic discount rate is 12 percent.
Wage Rate. The wage rates used in the financial analysis are the actual wage rates during
land preparation, planting and harvesting. The economic wage rates reflect the
opportunity cost of labor, including the foregone opportunity for temporary wage
earnings in Argentina or Brazil.
Time Horizon. The study assumes a duration of ten years for works with proper
maintenance and 20 years for natural resource management projects.
Land Prices. Where the subprojects are estimated to have a significant impact on land
prices, increased land prices are reflected as a constant financial income stream to reach
the price difference over the time horizon in (c).
Yields. Yields in Bolivia are very variable and for this reason long-term average yields
have been used.
Prices. Economic prices for produce which is not imported are the same as the financial
producer prices. For cereals and some vegetables CIF border prices have been used.
Input prices are based on interviews.
Results
The results of the analysis of 16 subprojects are in the table below.'2 It was impossible to
analyze the impact on four subprojects"3.
(i) Ten subprojects (only 50 percent of the sample) have positive economic and financial
returns. In each subcategory of subprojects there are successful projects as well as
failures.
(ii) Roads and bridges show the best returns--this may explain why rural communities
are asking for more rural infrastructure of this type.
(iii) Small-scale irrigation has mostly positive returns but the outcome depends on many
factors.
12     Working Document: Andlisis Econ6micay Financiera de los Proyectos FDC, FAO/CP, December 1997.
13    The failure to obtain data reflects in this case that the subprojects had no visible impact. Two bridges had
no access road, vendors refuse to sit under the roof of a reconstructed market because of the cold; and a primary
canal of an irrigation project has not been used because of conflicts.



Annex 4                                                                             Page        3
Fiscal Impact. The fiscal impact of these subprojects is negative. Most beneficiaries do not pay
any form of income taxes. Apart from some revenue from road taxes, the subprojects do cost a
lot to municipalities in the form of infrastructure maintenance.
Sensitivity Analysis. Two parameters were analyzed: (i) cost per beneficiary family; and (ii) the
cost per works physical indicator (km, ha m3). Both parameters show very variable results which
makes it impossible ito draw conclusion.
TABLE 1: RESULTS OF THE ECONOMIC Y FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Subproject Category  FDC    Subproject Name                 FNPV (*)  FIRR  ENPV (*)  EIRR
Code                                    (USS)            (US$)
Rural Roads          383      Colonia Mercedes              343,759   249%  428,337   243%
418     Riberalta-San Crist6bal        96,746    70%  158,890    82%
419     Las Paimeras-San Francisco     (14,276)    11%  (35,499)    1%
347     Santa Rosa de Sara (t)        284,077   174%  892,329   399%
358     Crevaux-La Purisima           (155,845)     -  (202,414)     -
Total:                                554,462    49% 1,092,497   66%
Road Bridges         416      San Antonio                   710,783   279%  878,794   282%
362     Manzanal                       (55,901)     -   (47,019)     -
Total:                                654,882   141%  831,775   143%
Pedestrian Bridges   288      El Torno                      271,798    62%  490,152    78%
Small-Scale Irrigation   245  Canales Queranani              92,117    53%  126,489    50%
88      Bofedales Cosapa               (55,305)     -   (92,208)     -
100    Iguembe                         54,939    47%   22,985    24%
95      Churquis                      (18,748)      -   (12,136)    3%
23      Tolomosa                      168,363    54%   60,497    25%
Total:                                247,506    35%  110,744    20%
Natural Resources    312    ] Erosion Control Zudaffes      136,532    45%   62,663    22%
Management           179      Soil Recuperation Chullpa     (17,286)     -   (21,912)     -
Total:                                119,245    35%  (40,752)   17%
Rural Storage        233     Cereal Seed Storage- -Zudaes    44,739    61%  (158,853)     -
(t) S6lo se realizaron drenajes y puentes para caminos existentes.



Annex 4                                                                 Page    4
Conclusions
There are no precise variables which can predict whether the economic and financial results will
be positive. A subproject may be well designed, built very simply and cost-effective and still not
be feasible. The reason is that socioeconomic or marketing factors play a very important role and
those factors may be hard to calculate or to incorporate into an analysis. Hence no single-factor
analysis is useful for the purpose of evaluating the feasibility of a subproject.
Nevertheless, there are some indicators which could be used to base an ex-ante evaluation on.
These indicators include: (i) demographic stability and capacity of the beneficiaries to contribute
towards the cost of the works; (ii) ceilings to the cost per beneficiary, costs per physical unit of
works (km, ha, m3); (iii) intensity of transit; and (iv) potential rural production and marketing in
the area. All indicators have to be looked at simultaneously.
For rural roads, a ceiling of US$15,000 per km could be proposed (the ceiling is at present
US$10,000). Nevertheless this should be considered in relation with the number of beneficiary
families, the area and crops cultivated in those communities, a present transit of at least one truck
per day, the permanency of the male labor force in the areas to construct and maintain the roads
and the willingness of the municipalities to contribute US$250-400 per km per year to the
maintenance of the roads.
For small-scale irrigation, the situation is even more complex as it requires involvement of
several disciplines (engineering, agronomic, socioeconomic). Moreover, before constructing
irrigation schemes, it is necessary to have a user group willing to collect user fees for
maintenance.
Moreover, considering the complexities and costs involved in evaluating subprojects, it would be
recommendable to put a minimum amount of US$20,000 per subproject. Smaller subprojects of
similar nature could be delegated to specialized NGOs.



Annex 5
Participatory Rural Investment Project
Financial Summary
Years Ending December 31
(In million US$ 1998)
Implementation Period
Government Fiscal Year     1999     2000    2001    2002   2003        Total
Project Costs
Investment Costs               7.6    15.3      19.1   19.1    15.3        76.4
Recurrent Costs                1.1     2.2       2.7    2.7      2.2       10.9
Total                       8.7    17.4      21.8   21.8    17.4        87.3
Financing Sources (% of total
project costs)
IBRD/IDA                       6.3    12.6      15.7   15.7    12.6        62.8
Co-financiers                  0.9                                          0.9
Government
Central                     0.1     0.1       0.2    0.2      0.1        0.7
Local                       2.0      2.8      3.4    3.4      1.0       12.6
User Fees/Beneficiaries        1.0     2.1      2.6    2.6       2.1       10.3
Total                      10.3    17.5      21.9   21.9    15.7        87.3



Annex 6
Participatory Rural Investment Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement Methods (Table A)
1.   IDA would finance civil works, vehicles, equipment, training, service contracts,
consulting services and incremental operating costs. Because the number of contracts is large
and the works and tasks are scattered and small, there will be International Competitive Bidding.
During negotiations it would be agreed that for National Competitive Bidding, VMPPFM,
VMDR and FDC would use IDA standard bidding documents for works and goods, agreed upon
between the Government of Bolivia and the World Bank in 1996 '4
2.    Civil Works, Goods and Equipment for Municipalities and OTBs. Procurement for
community-based civil works, goods and equipment, totaling US$ 53 million would follow
procurement practices in accordance with FDC operational guidelines acceptable to IDA.
Procurement for community-based projects would be done by the beneficiaries (the municipality
or OTB), depending on the size of the contract.
(i)   For works exceeding US$250,000 National Competitive Bidding would apply.
(ii)   Works of US$250,000 or less per contract up to an aggregate amount of
US$25 million would be procured under lump-sum fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of
quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.
(iii)  Works of US$150,000 or less, up to an aggregate amount of US$10 million could
be carried out directly by the Municipalities; works of US$30,000 or less up to an aggregate
anount of US$2 million directly by OTBs.
(iv)   Goods and equipment of US$50,000 or more would be procured under National
Competitive Bidding.
(v)   Goods and equipment costing less than US$50,000 per contract and up to an
aggregate amount of US$3 million would be procured through local shopping.
14    Procedimientos Estandar de Invitaci6n para Servicios de Consultoria en Proyectos Financiados por el
Banco Mundial, Procedimientos Estandar de Licitaci6n para Contrataci6n de Obras en Proyectos Financiados por
el Banco Mundial, Procedimientos Estandar de Licitaci6n para Adquisicidn de Bienes en Proyectos Financiados
por el Banco Mundial, diciembre de 1996.



Annex 6                                                                    Page      2
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category      Procurement Method                        Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB       NCB         Other      N.B.F
1. Community Works
Community Works         -          16.0       37.0a               53.0
(9.2)      (27.7)             (36.9)
2. Goods
Equipment and Materials for           0.5        2.5                3.0
Community Works                      (0.4)      (2.0)               (2.4)
Vehicles and Equipment for            0.3        0.4                 0.7
VMPPFM, FDC and                      (0.3)      (0.3)               (0.6)
Departmental Oper. lJnits
3. Services
Consulting Services                             21.3                21.3
(15.6)             (15.6)
Training                                         2.0                 2.0
(1.4)              (1.4)
4. Miscellaneous
Incremental Operating Costs                      7.3                7.3
(5.9)              (5.9)
Total                              16.8       70.5               87.3
(9.9)      (52.9)             (62.8)
Note: N.B.F. = Not Blank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit.
a Lump sum contracts.
b Contracts implemented by beneficiaries themselves.



Annex 6                                                               Page     3
Goods and Equipment for FDC and VMPPFM
3.    The total costs of goods and equipment for FDC, VMPPFM and the prefecturas is
estimated at US$700,000. This amount includes vehicles, office equipment, furniture and office
supplies. As offices do not need to renew their equipment at the same time, most goods and
equipment would be procured on an when-needed basis through local shopping. Goods and
equipment exceeding US$50,000 per contract would be procured through NCB.
Consulting Services
4.    Consulting services under the project would amount to US$21.3 million (of which IDA
would finance US$15.6 million). The services consists of: (i) consulting assignments for
individuals and firms providing direct technical assistance and consulting services to VMPPFM
and Departmental Operating Units; and (ii) technical assistance services by individuals, NGOs or
firms to rural communities and municipalities. Consulting and technical assistance services
would be procured in accordance with the January 1997 Guidelines for the Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (modified in September 1997).
5.    To facilitate the work of communities and municipalities, FDC and VMPPFM would
prepare a list of eligible pre-qualified consultants, engineering firms and NGOs from which they
would be able to contract. The list would be updated yearly through advertising and a special
registration procedure. There would also be a procedure to eliminate NGOs or firms from the
approved list in case they do not comply with quality or financial standards. No consulting
service or management contract would exceed US$200,000. The initial list and contracting
procedures would be included in the Project Operational Manual.
(i)   Individual Consultants. VMPPFM, FDC and prefecturas would recruit individual
consultants from a shortlist of at least three candidates for each post after advertising. The
selection would be based on the consultant's qualifications. A sample letter of invitation, award
criteria and a sample contract, all acceptable to IDA, would be included in the Project
Operational Manual.
(ii)   Selection Based on Consultant's Qualifications. Consulting and technical
assistance services for communities and municipalities, estimated not to exceed US$20,000 per
contract would be selected on the basis of consultants or NGOs qualifications. Under this
method, terms of reference will be prepared, and the clients would select an NGO or consultant
from the eligible list. The one selected would be asked to submit a combined technical-financial
proposal and then be invited to negotiate the contract.
(iii) Least Cost Selection. Consulting and management services for communities and
municipalities, FDC, VMPPFM and VMDR estimated not to exceed US$100,000 per contract
would be selected on the basis of least cost selection. Under this method, a "minimum"
qualifying mark for quality would be established. Proposals to be submitted in two envelopes
are invited from a short list. Technical proposals are opened first and evaluated. Those securing
less than the minimum mark are rejected and the financial proposals of the rest are opened in
public. The firm with the lowest price shall then be selected. Under this method, the qualifying
minimum mark shall be established, keeping in view that all proposals above the minimum
compete only on cost. The minimum mark shall be stated in the request for proposals.



Annex 6                                                                Page     4
(iv)   Quality and Cost-Based Selection. Consulting and management services
exceeding US$100,000 per contract would be selected on the basis of quality and cost in
accordance with the guidelines.
(v)   Single Source Selection. For contracts less than US$20,000 which are urgent or a
natural continuation of previous work carried out or when no other service provider is available
in the area, FDC and VMPPFM may recruit consultants and NGOs on a single -source basis up
to an aggregate amount of US$1 million.
Table B: Consultant Selection Procedures
(in US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method                        Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
Consultant       QCBS        LCS        CQ        SS
Category
A. Firms         4.0         4.0                           8.0
B. Individuals                          3.5       0.5     4.0
C. NGOs                      3.3        5.5       0.5     9.3
Total            4.0         7.3         9.0      1.0    21.3
Note:  QCBS        Quality and Cost-Based Selection.
LCS =       Least-Cost Selection.
CQ =        Selection Based on Consultant Qualifications.
SS =        Single Source.
FDC Delegating Aggregates of Subprojects to NGOs
6.    When FDC delegates the responsibility for implementing aggregates of subprojects to
NGOs, it will do this on the basis of NGOs qualifications (CQ) from a pre-selected list of
qualified NGOs. All subcontracts of this type exceeding US$250,000 are subject to IDA review.
Prior Review Thresholds
7.    The following prior review thresholds have been established:
(i)    Works: All contracts for works exceeding US$250,000.
(ii)   Goods: All contracts for goods exceeding US$100,000.
(iii)  Consulting and Management Services: all contracts for individuals exceeding
US$20,000 and US$ 100,000 for firms.
(iv)  All single-source contracts.
(v)   FDC agreements with NGOs exceeding US$250,000.



Annex 6                                                                    Page      5
An estimated 22 percent of all contracts will be subject to prior review.
Table C: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure              Contract Value     Procurement         Contracts Subject
Category                (Threshold)        Method               to Prior Review
1. Works
Municipal and Community       250,000       NCB                 20
Works
2. Goods
Office Equipment and          100,000       NCB                 2
Vehicles
3. Services
Pre-Investment Studies        100,000       Least Cost           10
Individual consultants         20,000       Selection based on   125
Consultants
Qualifications
Services by Executing         100,000       Least cost          10
Agencies
Single Source selection       20,000        Selection based on  60
Consultants
qualifications
Agreements with NGOs          250,000       Sole source from list   10
of pre-qualified NGOs
Disbursement
Allocation of Loan Proceeds (Table D)
8.    The IDA Credit of US$62.8 million is expected to be disbursed over a period of
5.5 years, beginning the second quarter of IDA FY99 through the end of IDA FY04. The project
completion date would be December 31, 2003 and the closing date would be June 30, 2004. The
disbursement schedule is presented in Table C. The disbursement schedule is conform to the
disbursement profile of Bolivian projects.
9.    Rural investments include civil works, goods, equipment, and technical assistance for
eligible beneficiaries. Training includes the cost of trainers' and trainees' fees, rental of
conference rooms, per diem and transport of trainees and materials required for the training
activities. Consulting and management services include contracts to carry out: (i) technical
assistance and training; (ii) follow up on the preparation and implementation of participatory
rural development plans; and (iii) engineering studies. Incremental operating expenditures
include expenditures for transport, office rental, materials and office supplies, utilities, building
and equipment maintenance, field materials and field allowances. FDC's administrative costs are



Annex 6                                                               Page      6
maximum 15 percen1t of disbursements under category 1, rural investments, for services rendered
by FDC in providing sub-grants.
Use of Statemnents of Expenses (SOEs):
10.   Disbursemenits would be made on the basis of full documentation for all expenditures
under contracts requiring prior review by IDA and amendments to contracts raising the values of
such contracts above the prior review limits. These contracts are: (i) all contracts for works
exceeding US$250,000; (ii) all contracts for goods exceeding US$100,000; (iii) consultant and
service contracts directly procured by VMPPFM and FDC with an estimated contract amount of
US$100,000 or more for firms and US$20,000 or more for individuals; and (vi) all single source
contracts or contracts of sensitive nature.
11.   For all other expenditures, disbursements would be made against Statement of
Expenditures (SOEs) for which supporting documents are be held in the FDC Departmental
Agencies and the Departmental Operational Units. IDA would accept as proof of expenditures,
inter alia: first payments to OTBs and municipalities for works to be carried out under a
subgrant agreement and payments on the basis of work certificates issued by FDC Departmental
supervisors indicating physical progress of the works covered by a subgrant agreement.
Special Accot,nt:
12.         Three Special Accounts in US dollars would be opened at the Central Bank of
Bolivia. IDA would replenish the Special Accounts for the Amount of withdrawals on account
of eligible expenditures at the request of the Borrower.
Special Account "A" would be for FDC and municipality and community based
expenditures made through FDC. This account would have an authorized allocation of
US$4 miillion and would cover four months of expenditures.
Special Account "B" would be for VMPPFM and municipality and community-based
expenditures through VMPPFM. This account would have an authorized allocation of
US$2 million and would cover four months of expenditures.
Special Account "C" would be for expenditures through Vice-Ministry of Rural
development. This ac count would have an authorized allocation of US$150,000 and would
cover four months of expenditures.
Retroactive Financing:
The credit will provide for retroactive financing of pre-investment studies and subprojects up to a
maximum of SDR 1.5 million and for expenditures after February 28, 1998.



Annex 6                                                                       Page       7
Table D: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category             Amount in        Financing Percentage
US$ million
Rural Investments
(a) Pre-investment Consulting Services        3.0       100 %
(b) Works                                   30.0       ibid.
Goods                                      2.0       ibid.
Technical Assistance                       1.5       ibid.
Institutional Strengthening
Goods and Equipment                                     100% of foreign and 85% of
- for municipalities                         0.4       local expenditures
- for VMPPFM                                  0.1      ibid.
- for prefecturas                             0.2      ibid.
- for FDC                                     0.4      ibid.
Consulting Services
- for municipalities and communities         5.6       100 %
under VMPPFM
- for communities under VMDR                 0.7       ibid.
- for VMPPFM strengthening                   1.3       80% until December 31, 2000
and 60% thereafter
- for prefectura strengthening               1.0       ibid.
- for FDC strengthening                      0.9       ibid.
- for VMDR strengthening                     0.2       ibid.
Training
- for municipalities under VMPPFM             1.2       100%
- for private sector under FDC                0.1      ibid.
- for communities under VMDR                  0.2      ibid.
Incremental Operating Costs
- for VMPPFM                                  0.4       80% until December 31, 2000
and 60% thereafter
- for prefecturas                             0.5      ibid.
Administrative Costs FDC                      5.5       100% of 15% of disbursements
under category 1 (b)
Audits                                        0.2       100%
PPF                                           1.5       100%
Unallocated                                   5.9
Total      62.8



Annex 7
Participatory Rural Investment Project
Institutional Analysis and Implementation Arrangements
National Coordination Committee of the Participatory Rural Investment Project
1.    This project co-ordination committee would be composed of the Vice-Minister of Popular
Participation and M[unicipal Strengthening (Ministry of Sustainable Development and Planning),
the Vice-Minister of Rural Development (Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Rural
Development), the Vice-Minister of Government Co-ordination (Ministry of the Presidency), the
Vice-Minister for Public Investment and External Finance (Ministry of Economy and Finance),
the President of the FDC, the VMPPFM coordinator, the Vice-Ministry for Indigenous Affairs,
the Vice-Ministry of Environment, a representative of the NGOs and a representative of the
municipalities. This committee would meet at regular intervals to co-ordinate activities of their
respective ministries with the activities of the project and define some norms and policies.
National Project Coordinator
2.    The national. project co-coordinator would be placed in the Vice-Ministry of Popular
Participation. He/she would be responsible for project implementation, including administrative
and financial management of VMPPFM's institutional strengthening component, and would
oversee VMPPFM's project activities in the prefecturas. The national project coordinator would
be assisted by an operations manager, procurement specialist and accountant. The national
project coordinator would liaise with FDC and VMDR on project matters trough a co-ordination
committee. FDC and VMDR, however, would handle their own special account and project
funds.
Departmental Project Co-ordination Committees
3.    Where feasible, the Departmental Project Committees would be established. They would
be composed of representatives of VMPPFM, FDC, Prefectura, Ministry of Agriculture, FIS,
NGOs, and municipalities; This committee would co-ordinate project activities with activities of
other institutions an(d would ensure that project activities (including investments) are in line with
the principles of participative planning.
Vice-Ministry of Popular Participation and Municipal Strengthening (VMPPFM)
4.    VMPPFM is part of the Ministry of Sustainable Development and Planning. It was
created out of the Secretariat of Popular Participation after the reorganization of the Executive
Branch in September 1997. VMPPFM has about 87 staff with activities in: general
coordination, administration and accounting, planning and monitoring, participatory municipal
planning, community strengthening, municipal management, projects, prefectural strengthening,
cadastre, and municipal training. Its overall budget is US$9.7 million per year. Almost all staff
is financed by donor funds (IDA, the Netherlands, Denmark in particular). The National
Treasury contributes only the equivalent of US$1.8 million towards the operation of the Vice-
Ministry. Many of the staff are new and took office after the change of Government in



Annex 7                                                                Page     2
September 1997. However, the management and accounting systems put into place by the
ongoing Rural Communities Project continue to be implemented.
Project Organigram
Project Coordination
Committee
Vice Ministry of            Vice Ministry of Popular       Small-Farmer
Rural Development            Participation & Municipal     Development Fund
Uni  ngt Pefeinrg 
0  eratioOgaiztinsSeto
p              Prefecturas
Unit
||Depar tmental ]
!l,,Of,fice,s,
NGOs   -Mwunicipalities            OTBs   ||Producer              Privt
l   l  l            l lC~~~~~~ommunitiesl   Organizations llSectorl
Prefecturas
5.    At the Departmental level, VMPPFM operates through prefectural operational units
which are partly financed by the prefectura and partly by the vice-ministry. The activities of
these operational units depend very much on the prefectura. They depend from the prefectura for
counterpart funds, contracts with NGOs and other implementing agencies have to pass through
the cumbersome prefectural administrative mill to be approved and paid. The operational units,
which are supposed to be spearheading participative planning and implementation, are bogged
down by the decentralization process itself. The on-going Rural Communities Development
project has suffered considerable delays from this prefectural integration process.
6.    Learning from this experience, the Participatory Rural Investment Project will only carry
out prefectural institutional strengthening activities in those prefecturas where the prefects are
willing to make a formal commitment to allow the operational unit to select, sign contracts and
pay invoices of implementing agencies and where the prefectura is willing to pay counter part



Annex 7                                                                        Page      3
funds. Where the prefectura is not willing to make such commitment, no institutional
strengthening will be financed.
7.    The project would further strengthen the prefectural operational units with qualified
professional consultants. These operational units are the backbone of field implementation. The
bureaucratic problems with the prefectura will be avoided as all technical assistance contracts
and payments for municipalities will be approved by the municipalities, instead of the
prefecturas.
FDC
8.    The Fondo die Desarrollo Campesino (FDC)'5 was created on March 15, 1989 by
Supreme Decree No 22154 as a non-profit public financing agency with technical, administrative
and financial autonomy, under the umbrella of the Ministry of the Presidency.
9.    FDC's main objective is to promote development of the rural population in production-
related areas and agricultural and livestock development in particular. FDC has three programs:
(i)   the rural investment program which provides: matching grants to rural
communities in basic infrastructure works (mainly irrigation, rural roads
and bridges); production support (such as technical assistance, seeds, tools,
agro-forestry); and institutional strengthening and training for
communities and implementing agencies;
(ii)   the rural credit program which provides fimds to financial intermediaries
(such as NGOs); and
(iii)   the special initiatives program which supports integrated development operations
(such as quinoa production in Potosi).
10.   FDC is financed by the national treasury and external donors. The main donors are: the Inter-
American Development Bank (US$20 million); the Japanese Government (fertilizer grants - US$7.9
million); IFAD (US$7.5 million); KfW (US$6 million); Belgium (US$6 million); IDA (US$4.5 million);
and Switzerland (US$2.5 million).
11.   FDC is managed by an Executive President and a Board of Directors appointed by the Minister of
the Presidency. Its organization structure is as follows:
is    Informaci6n General del FDC, Ministerio de la Presidencia, julio 1997 (document in Project Files).



Annex 7                                                                  Page     4
FDC Organigram
Board of
Directors
Credit  Technical1Admin.li
|President|            
D rmGeneral Manager                 A     n
..           u                      3~~~~~~~~~~ubi
Environmentvn
C=~~~~~~~~~he
Project      Project       Amn
IEvaluato    iSupervisorl     Ofie
12.   Since the beginning of its operations, FDC has been plagued by management problems,
from alleged corruption to excessive party political involvement. At several occasions donors
have threatened to move out and blocked their financing. Moreover, to keep out fraud, it has
been overly centralized and introduced complex subproject processing procedures which,
compiled with the bureaucratic requirements of Bolivia's public finance (SAFCO) law and the
weakness of the local implementing agencies, has created a slow moving and inefficient
institution. The result has been slow disbursements since its creation.



Annex 7                                                                  Page     5
13.   FDC Activities
Component                No of Projects  Amount of   Disbursements Implemen-
Approved      Investment                 tation
Approved
Basic Infrastructure           395         29.7           17.7         59%
Production Support             150          3.6            2.0         57%
Institutional Strengtlbening   500          3.4            2.4         72%
Others                           -         20.0            5.6         29%
Total                         1.045        57.0           28.0         50%
Situation since the beginning of FDC's activities in 1989 until 9/30/1997; figures in million
US$
14.   FDC disbursements over the last years (in US$'000)
Rural        Credit     TOTAL    Overhead   Overhead/
Investments                                    Disbursements
1993         1,520       450       1,970       1,131      57%
1994         4,142      2,500      6,642       1,145       17%
1995         5,270      1,870      7,140       1,445      20%
1996         6,789       562       7,351       1,376       19%
1997         7,783       472       8,255      3,176a      38%
1998        10,000            a increase as result of decentralization
(est.)
15.   Under impu]se of the Rural Communities Development Project, FDC has slowly
decentralized its operations in nine Departments. The management team in place since the
middle of 1997 seems deternined to turn the institution into a service for the rural areas. A
simplified operational manual has been introduced. Further desconcentration has taken place.
Since January 1, 1998 the departmental offices are autonomous in approving subprojects,
signing of contracts with executing and implementing agencies and disbursing of funds. FDC
has also introduced an integrated computerized accounting system.
16.   Nevertheless, the following measures will have to be taken to ensure timely disbursement
of IDA funds:
(i)   the unit in charge of implementing the ongoing Rural Communities
Development Project within FDC is to be increased from three to four
professionals; and
(ii)    FDC's departmental offices will be staffed by at least one office director
(approved by IDA), a civil engineer, an agro-economist, and an
accountant.
NGOs
17.   In 1997 there were 550 Non-Government Organizations and Private Institutions for
Social Development registered in Bolivia. About 190 are active in the sector covered by the
project. An analysis of their potential involvement in the project, carried out during project



Annex 7                                                                Page      6
* 16
preparation , concluded as follows. In many regions NGOs are an important instrument to
implement development activities. The well established NGOs have the confidence of the people
and are well integrated in the cultural social environment of the communities. Some of them
lack experience in the sector, their staff is insufficiently trained, they have difficulties
establishing formal contracts with the state institutions and are not yet sufficiently used to the
formaiities required in tenders, work supervision and contracting. Nevertheless, in recent years
many NGOs have gained experience with FIS, FDC and RCDP and are getting better at dealing
with the requirements of public financing.
18.   On the basis of selection criteria including legal aspects, logistical requirements,
experience, financial strength and relationship with the rural communities, 19 NGOs qualify to
function as intermediaries for the implementation of subprojects. These NGOs have worked with
FDC, are reliable and could manage considerable amounts of funds for the financing of
subprojects to be carried out by communities or municipalities. Another 26 NGOs have the
technical capacity to supervise subprojects for FDC without actually handling large sums.
19.   The 19 NGOs which fulfill the eligibility requirements would be able to carry out series
of subprojects. Other NGOs would have to go through a learning process with FDC to become
eligible. Every year FDC would review the performance of the NGOs and decide whether to add
NGOs or remove some from the eligible list. FDC would seek agreement from IDA on the
NGOs to be added to the eligible list.
20.   VMPPFM has also established an initial eligible list of 50 NGOs and executing agencies
to carry out municipal strengthening activities on the basis of a study carried out during project
preparation. This list will be completed through a pre-qualification registration process. Every
year VMPPFM would review the performance of the NGOs and decide whether to add NGOs or
remove some from the eligible list. VMPPFM would seek agreement from IDA on the NGOs to
be added to the eligible list.
16    Entidades Ejecutoras Privadas (ONGs) para el FDC, Jose Balidivia U., noviembre de 1997; document in
project file.



Annex 8
Participatory Rural Investment Project
Social Assessment Summary
1.    The social assessment involved the socioeconomic and cultural analysis of main
stakeholders: (i) communities, (ii) municipalities; and (iii) non governmental organizations that
participate in the participatory planning process. A consultation process with stakeholders was
carried out in ten municipalities representing the three main sociocultural and ecological regions
in Bolivia, the Altiplano, the Valleys and the East Lowlands; three municipalities from La Paz,
four from Chuquisaca and three from Santa Cruz were included in this study. In depth
interviews with municipal authorities, grassroots organizations, OTB members, vigilance
committees and community leaders were carried out. Additionally, ten workshops, one per
municipality, were organized involving communities. In total 416 persons, 342 men and
74 women, participated in this exercise. The results of these studies are included in a working
paper that summarizes the main findings and recommendations
Social Dimension of the Project
2.    The target population of PRIP are the inhabitants of 200 of the poorest municipalities in
Bolivia, between 3,000 and 50,000 inhabitants with the lowest index of satisfied basic needs.
They comprise, rural population scattered in very small communities (average density is 1-
5 inhabitants per kin2) and extremely poor households, 77 percent of which are living under the
level to cover basic needs. Agriculture is the most important activity in most municipalities. On
the Altiplano traditional techniques are predominant; productivity is low due to difficult natural
conditions. Livestoclk activities are affected by overgrazing and soil erosion. In the Valleys,
agriculture has developed better thanks to the availability of water; here about 50 percent of the
families have access to some kind of irrigation. Production is mostly for self-consumption; only
in 10 percent of the municipalities more than 70 percent of the production reach the market. As a
result, in 81 percent of the municipalities annual income is less than US$500 per capita.
3.    The PRIP will incorporate the three clearly differentiated cultural groups in Bolivia:
(i) the Aymara culture established at the Altiplano; (ii) the Quechua culture that splits from the
Altiplano to the Valleys (around 2,000 meters high); and (iii) the Guarani and Amazon tribes
occupying the East Lowlands or Yungas. According to the social analysis carried out, the
participatory planning process will have a positive impact on these traditional communities.
These communities are being empowered through participation in decision-making and by
projects that effectively address their needs. However, it is possible that the institutional
mechanisms of cooperation at the family and community levels will lose their mandatory
character and the significance of ritual kinship will vanish gradually. Although this might
promote social integration grounded on national institutions, it may also cause conflicts of
identity. To avoid negative impacts, the PRIP will strengthen community organizations and will
provide special mechanisms for their participation.
4.    The PRIP will build on the principles of participatory planning as established by the
Popular Participation Law of 1994. During 1994-95 more than 38,500 community meetings
were carried out involving 56,000 community leaders, representing more than 200,000 families,
nearly one million inhabitants. Presently, participatory planning has been institutionalized, the



Annex 8                                                                Page      2
challenge remains to maintain the process decentralized and highly participatory. The social
strategy provides recommendations to support this objective.
MAIN SOCIAL ISSUES
5.    Based on the social assessment results and information collected during preparation
missions and field trips, the main social issues have been identified. These issues are being
addressed in the social strategy for the project.
a. Participatory Planning Weaknesses
6.    Though highly participatory, the process has shown some weaknesses: (i) the first
generation of plans was influenced by participating NGOs; (ii) the methodology was evaluated
simultaneously to the planning process thus affecting quality; (iii) the supervision of plan
preparation was insufficient; (iv) there was not a budget ceiling thus the demands identified
cannot be satisfied within the execution framework of five years (the cost of 1994-95 demands
was US$652 million); and (v) the process created high expectations that have not been matched
by actual financing.
b. Participation Flaws
7.    Participation has been affected by the low capacity of some actors such as indigenous
communities and women. As proved by a sample of nine municipalities'7 women's participation
is very low, in average 28 percent. The complementary gender diagnosis carried out in these
municipalities increased women's participation to 63 percent in the diagnosis phase and to
49 percent when defining priorities. In the case of indigenous communities, participation has
been hindered by several factors: (i) the complexity to define institutionalized "indigenous
districts"; (ii) the influence of urban neighborhoods and mayors defining priorities; and (iii) the
difficulty to reach an agreement on priorities among different indigenous groups. To address
these issues, VMPPFM has taken the initiative to prepare participatory indigenous districts plans
to fully address indigenous people needs and demands. Presently 13 such plans are under
preparation; a program to incorporate 40 additional indigenous districts identified within the
project's area is included in the project.
8.    Another issue is that participation has concentrated in planning and definition of
priorities. However, there are no clear mechanisms for participation in contracting, executing
and implementing subprojects. The mechanism established by law for Vigilance Committees
(CVs) to exert social control is somehow-weak. It gives CVs the right "to pronounce against" if
they are in disagreement. Moreover, most CVs and OTBs are not aware of this right or lack the
capacity to do so. Training for effective social control and participation is incorporated in the
project's design.
c. Demand Driven Bias in Municipal Development Plans and Annual Operation Programs
9.    The participatory planning process operates under a demand-driven mechanism thus
community based demands are incorporated in Municipal Development Plans (PDM). However,
the investments included in the Annual Operation Plan (PAO) do not always respond to the
17    Viceministerio de Participaci6n Popuary Fortalecimiento Municipal: Experiencias de Planificacion
Participattva Municipal con Enfoque de Genero. La Paz, Bolivia. enero 1998.



Annex 8                                                                  Page      3
agreed priorities. During 1996 and 1997, for instance, only 42 percent of the priorities identified
in PDMs were included in PAOs. For the period 1995-2,000 the demand is concentrated in
productive activities (68 percent) and social sectors (25 percent) while urban projects receive the
last priority (5 percent). However, the actual investments have followed the traditional pattern of
urban works closer to the political interest of the mayor and to a more influencing urban
population. As a result, urban projects receive the highest level of investment; while the
agriculture sector, representing 33 percent of the demand, received less than six percent of the
actual investments.
d. Difficulties to Access Rural Services
10.   Under the Popular Participation Law, rural development has received a higher priority
thus the services available have increased. However, as demonstrated during the consultation
process, neither the communities nor the municipalities themselves are aware of the various
programs available or the procedures to obtain financing. As a result, the demand has
concentrated in rural infrastructure such as small roads, micro-irrigation, and storage-buildings
while agribusiness and other valued-added activities have been neglected. The low capacity of
FDC to handle this type of sub-projects has also influenced these results. Moreover, activities
such as ecotourism and cultural heritage, for which Bolivia has a great potential, have not been
developed so far. The existing demand in these sectors does not have presently an adequate
source of financing. The PRIP will finance some subprojects in these type of activities using
NGOs as intermediaries.
e. Pre-Investment Limitations to Enhance Institutional Capacity
11.   To address the lack of technical capacity of municipalities to prepare projects a technical
assistance program was implemented to transform ideas emerging from participatory planning
into feasible projects. Under this program, executing entities prepared 556 pre-investments
ptojects worth US$43 million. However, the municipalities did not play a direct role in this
process thus the program has not had a real impact in improving their capacity. This low
capacity has resulted in resources not being used. According to the Municipal Budget Execution
Report'8 about 150 municipalities (around 50 percent of the total) kept in banks 30 percent of
their annual budget in 1996. This has a negative impact on the population that might be affected
for this lack of action to fulfill their needs.
f. Reduced Effectiveness of the Training, Technical Assistance and Institutional
Strengthening Component
12.   According to available information, the effectiveness of this component is not very good;
neither the institutional capacity of municipalities nor the capacity of CVs and OTBs has
significantly improved. Moreover, women and indigenous people have been participating
marginally from this component. The quality of the offer has not been very good and the low
coordination of the different training activities has resulted in overlapping and waste of
resources. Furthermore, the minimum number of technical personnel in the municipalities
reduce their opportunity to fully benefit from training activities; moreover the offer does not
Is    Contaduria General del Estado: Ejecucion Presupuestaria Municipal 1996. Quoted by D.J. Coach,
Diagn6stico Municipal, p. 22. La Paz, Bolivia, Febrero 1998.



Annex 8                                                               Page     4
always correspond to actual needs. Presently, some departments, Santa Cruz, for instance, are
overwhelmed by training; some programs are even competing for the same audience. A more
practical way to provide technical assistance with the direct involvement of beneficiaries is
urgent.
g. Main Limitations Identified by Stakeholders
13.   According to main stakeholders, limitations of the Rural Communities Development
project are: (i) the lack of institutional capacity of municipalities, OTBs and CVs to go beyond
the planning process; (ii) the scarce flow of information from municipalities to OTBs hindering
the possibility of the latter to play a stronger role; (iii) big expectations and low financing to
implement projects; (iv) reduced social control by CVs due to lack of resources to do it; (v) the
low participation of critical actors such as women, indigenous people and communities; as well
as lack of interest from urban neighborhoods; and (vi) a discrepancy between the demand,
expressed in project profiles and actual investment in projects reaching the final design phase.
14.  In relation to the low implementation of productive projects, other than infrastructure, the
reasons expressed during the consultation are: (i) communities and in many cases, municipal
authorities, are not aware of the productive offer or the channels to access it; (ii) the role of the
municipalities promoting productive investments is not clear, particularly when the works might
be operated by the private sector; (iii) there are no clear rules in FDC to select and finance
productive projects. For instance from the profiles presented to FDC worth US$4.99 million
only 9.1 percent (US$ 457, 052) are under implementation; and (iv) reduced participation of
municipalities and communities in decision-making about of investment resources allocation.
CONSULTATION PROCESS
a. Main Recommendations
15.   According to their experiences in the participatory planning process and the ongoing
Rural Community Development project the main recommendations emerging from the
consultation process are the following: (i) to strengthen capacity of municipalities and
communities to promote their own development including participatory planing, public
administration and projects management; (ii) to speed up and increase financing; (iii) to reduce
the amount of municipalities contribution to cofinancing investments according to their real
financial capacity; (iv) to improve quality of technical personnel involved in participatory
planning and in executing agency preparing profiles and final design of projects; (v) to
strengthen OTBs and CVs capacity to improve social control functions; training should be
provided to this purpose; and (vi) to increase participation of women, indigenous people and
producers in the participatory planning process through training and organization strengthening.
Specific programs for ethnic groups, women and youth have been recommended.
b. Stakeholder's Recommendations About the PRIP
16.  In relation to the proposals to be incorporated in the Participatory Rural Investment
Project, the opinions raised during consultation are presented below.



Annex 8                                                                Page     5
(a) Municipal Investment Packages. This proposal was very welcome and received the highest
priority, because this would ameliorate credibility in the process, avoid bias between planning
and investment programming and would speed up allocation of resources.
(b) Pre-investment Resources. There was a general agreement that more resources for pre-
investment are critical to overcome the low capacity of municipalities, under the following
conditions: (i) to keep an adequate proportion between pre-investment and investment; (ii) to
ensure that pre-investment projects are eligible to receive financing; (iii) to decentralize resources
through the municipalities; and (iv) to create capacity for pre-investment in the municipalities.
(c) Focused Strategy on Women. The agreement reached was to promote women's
organizations and provide special training to increase and improve their participation. However,
there was not a total agreement on the advantages of designing programs exclusively for women.
(d) Focused Strategy on Indigenous Peoples. Though this strategy did not receive a high priority
in all communities consulted, in general, it was recognized the advantages of a strategy focused
on major ethnic groups. The need of better infonnation and communication channels and the use
of local languages to do so was emphasized.
(e) Resources for the Community. Though OTBs consider that this proposal has a great
potential, municipal authorities and technical teams expressed their reticence; however, all
agreed that communities lacks the capacity to directly manage resources, thus it was
recommended to: (i) strengthen community through training; (ii) involve municipalities in the
process; and (iii) select only OTBs that prove their capacity. The option of using NGOs as
intermediaries was welcome under the condition that NGOs were experienced and have
knowledge of local conditions.
(f) Direct Technical Assistance and Pre-investment. There was total agreement about the
advantages of this proposal, though among technical personnel some doubts were expressed.
Recommendations for implementations are: (i) to train municipalities to select, contract and
supervise technical assistance; (ii) technical assistance should focus on final design of projects
and financial management; (iii) technical assistance should be qualified and specialized
according to PDM demands and; (iv) incentives should be established to avoid constant changes
of technical personnel in the municipalities.
(g) Innovative Proje cts. Main stakeholders stated that non-traditional rural investments such as
agribusiness, tourisrn, and cultural heritage -have been already incorporated in the PDMs but no
financing has been provided. Therefore, the recommendation in this case is to establish adequate
channels for financing this type of investments.
SOCIAL STRATEGY
17.   The social strategy for the project takes into account the lessons of the Rural
Communities Development Project and the main results of the social assessment and the
recommendations from the consultation process. The main recommendations are incorporated
into the project's design and operational manual. The main lines of action to implement the
social strategy are presented below.



Annex 8                                                                   Page     6
a. To Improve and Complete Municipal Development Plans
18.   The PRIP will capitalize on the success of the Popular Participation Law, and its model
of local development planning, investment and administration in which high quality municipal
development plans are essential for its success. Presently, from the 200 municipalities involved
in the project, 134 have already their plan; the other 66 municipalities will be preparing theirs
between 1998-99 under an improved methodology"9. The main improvements incorporated are:
(i) a strategic planning vision to better define objectives, strategies and priorities; (ii) a gender
oriented approach according to Bank's policy; (iii) a specific method, agreed with the Ministry of
Indigenous Affairs to prepare indigenous districts plans; and (iv) meaningful information on
participatory planning as well as training, will be provided in local languages.
b. To Enhance Participation and Social Control by OTBs and CVs
19.   To improve participation and social control, OTBs and CVs should be capable to
supervise sub-project's design, their execution, and implementation. To this purpose: (i) a
promotion program to ensure participation will be implemented through the Departmental
Project Units; (ii) a clear mechanism to inform and support participation of CVs in decision-
making and follow-up process will be established; (iii) OTBs and CVs will be informed and
trained about social control; and (iv) a mechanism to provide resources for CVs to carry out
social control will be evaluated and implemented.
c. To Consolidate Decentralization and Strengthen Municipalities
20.   Channeling resources directly to municipalities has been incorporated into the project.
This will be a useful mechanism to consolidate decentralization and empower municipalities by
giving them a more direct control of resources intended for their benefit. The results of the social
assessment proved that this mechanism is welcome and feasible; 15 municipalities have been
identified as having the capacity to implement these programs and they are the first to receive
resources for annual investment programs.
d. To Ensure that Investments Reach and Respond to Communities Needs
21.   In addition to better participation mechanisms, the project has incorporated three
instruments to achieve these purposes: (i) more pre-investment resources in which the
communities can define priorities; (ii) technical assistance and training to increase the capacity of
OTBs and CVs in managing resource; and (iii) channeling investment directly to the
communities, using NGOs as intermediaries to provide technical support and training. These
actions should reduce the bias between priorities identified in participatory planning and
investment programs.
e. Socially Focused Technical Assistance and Training
22.   The Technical Assistance and Training component should be socially oriented in order to
overcome the weaknesses of municipalities, OTBs and CVs; to this purpose it is necessary to:
(i) design training programs according to beneficiaries needs; (ii) identify the most suitable
19    Viceministerio de Participacion Populary Fortalecimiento Muncipal; Unidad de Planeaci6n: Estudio de
Sistematizaci6n de las Experiencias Metodologicas en Plan ificaci6n Participativa Municipal.



Annex 8                                                               Page     7
mechanism to reach municipalities, OTBs, CVs; (iii) design training programs with a gender
approach and ensure wvomen's participation; (iv) take into account conditions of indigenous
people, mainly language and accessibility; and (v) establish follow-up processes to measure
quality and impact. The proposed cofinancing mechanism for municipalities to pay for technical
assistance should be periodically evaluated and adjusted to actual conditions. It is necessary also
to provide alternatives to support the poorest municipalities that might require a slower pace to
reach full payment.
 Gender
23.   Based on the reality that women are among the poorest in Bolivia, the Vice-Ministry of
Popular Participation and Municipal Strengthening (VMPPFM) has designed a participatory
planning methodology. This revised methodology recognizes men and women positions in
society in terms of access and control of resources and access to decision-making. This approach
corresponds to the Bank's approach on gender therefore it has been recommended to incorporate
it in participatory planning and as guidelines in FDC and other entities involved in the project.
24.   Gender focused projects will be implemented under the following selection criteria:
(i) those emerging from women's initiatives; (ii) in which main beneficiaries are women; and
(iii) empower women in their communities. Additionally: (i) training activities will benefit
women; (ii) the monitoring and evaluation system will include gender desegregated data; and
(iii) gender workshops will be carried out in each department involving municipal and prefecture
authorities, officials from FDC and the Departmental Project Units. Institutional arrangements
will incorporate specialized personnel to implement the gender approach in all aspects of the
project.
g. Indigenous Peoplle
25.   To reinforce participation of indigenous people in the project while taking into account
their specific needs and cultural background the project will incorporate a specific strategy
towards this purpose. This strategy includes the following actions: (i) support the efforts to
define indigenous districts; (ii) prepare at least 30 indigenous districts plans; (iii) allocate
resources to demands emerging from the participatory planning process in these districts;
(iv) provide training specially designed to reach the needs of indigenous people; and
(v) strengthen indigenous people organizations. This strategy will give indigenous people an
opportunity to move at their own pace, thus reducing a possible negative social impact.
h. Indigenous People, Gender Focused and Innovative Program
26.   Though under demand-drive principles, the need to enhance indigenous people
participation and wojmen has been agreed. Moreover, taking into account Bolivia's potential in
ecotourism, cultural heritage and handicrafts, and the need to add value to agriculture production,
the Indigenous People, Gender Focused and Innovative Program has been incorporated into the
project to respond to these objectives. During the first year, a minimum of 25 profiles, based on
existing demand, will be prepared and implemented as pilots to provide lessons to expand and
improve its execution. NGOs will provide institutional support and technical capacity.



Annex 8                                                               Page     8
i. Institutional Arrangements to Implement the Social Strategy
27.  Institutional arrangements to support this social initiative have been agreed with the two
main institutions involved in the project the Vice-Ministry of Popular Participation and
Municipal Strengthening (VMPPFM), general coordinator of the PRIP, and the Small-Farmers
Development Fund (FDC). The NGOs will play also an important role in the implementation of
the project.
28.   To support the social strategy VMPPFM will: (i) disseminate and implement improved
participatory planning methods; (ii) promote preparation of Indigenous Districts Plans according
to agreed methodology; (iii) ensure that the training programs will reach women and indigenous
people; and (iv) consolidate Gender Commission hiring an experienced gender specialist to lead
VMPPFM's gender strategy. This specialist will coordinate efforts with the gender specialist at
the Vice-Ministry of Rural Development and the social specialists to be incorporated at FDC.
Moreover, the Department Units of the project will be reorganized to play a more active role
supervising EEs to improve quality and will incorporate a promotion function to ensure
participation and disseminate information about the participatory planning process.
29.   FDC will involve NGOs to complement its capacity to: (i) manage channeling resources
to communities, including indigenous districts; (ii) provide technical assistance to strengthen
municipalities; and (iii) prepare and manage sub-projects under the Indigenous People, Gender
Focused and Innovative Projects program. At the central level, FDC, will incorporate a social
scientist, experienced in community development, as Social Actions Coordinator, to support
gender approach, attention to indigenous people demands and promotion and follow up of the
indigenous people, gender focused and innovative projects program. The activities of this
coordinator will be complemented by an assessment on social activities progress to be carried out
every six months by a consultant or a NGO to provide recommendations to improve results.
30.   The FDC Department offices will be trained in gender perspectives, social impact, and
participation to improve their relationships with the communities; female technical personnel
will be incorporated to facilitate relationship with women and communities in general. A special
window to receive indigenous people demands will be established. Finally, mechanisms to
enhance participation in all phases of the project cycle will be incorporated in FDC Operations
Handbook.
j. NGOs Involvement
31.   The involvement of NGOs has been very important in the past, particularly in the
planning process. In the Participatory Rural Investment Project the role of NGOs will be even
more important in training, pre-investment, intermediary to channel resources to communities
and municipalities and to implement the Indigenous, People, Gender Oriented and Innovative
Program. Criteria to select NGOs has been defined during the social assessment.
MONITORING AND EVALUATION
32.   The monitoring and evaluation system of the project comprise: (i) the systems to monitor
project's implementation; (ii) the system to monitor the project's execution at the municipalities
(SISEM); and (iii) the system to control the social impact of the project. In all three systems,



Annex 8                                                                 Page     9
data will be gender desegregated. The monitoring of the project has incorporated indicators to
follow up the proposad of the social strategy such as municipal plans prepared, pre-investment
and investments resources allocated to the indigenous people, gender focused and innovative
programs, women trained, and increase in NGOs participation, among others.
33.   The "social control system" under preparation, will incorporate information data of thirty
municipalities and ten indigenous districts to constitute the base-line to measure the social impact
of the project. This system will contain indicators about poverty levels (education, health,
housing), productive conditions (land under cultivation, productive ratios) and organizations
(type and capacity of grassroots organizations, municipal capacity, local leaders, etc.).



Annex 9
Participatory Rural Investment Project
Indigenous Peoples Assessment
1.    Bolivia's Participatory Rural Investments Project, like its predecessor the Communities
Development Project, is considered an Indigenous Peoples Development Project since the bulk
of beneficiaries (an estimated 80 percent of the rural population) are indigenous people.
2.    The project is designed to ensure the full respect of the dignity, human rights, and cultural
uniqueness of indigenous peoples of Bolivia and that they receive culturally compatible social
and economic benefits. A participatory approach has been an intrinsic part of the preparation and
implementation of all activities since the project puts into practice Bolivia's Law of Popular
Participation, which iin essence sets the framework for the transfer of decision-making and fiscal
revenues to municipalities and is helping municipalities, districts and grassroots organizations
carry out participatory diagnostics and participatory planning for development activities. The
project team has evaluated and concluded that there is sufficient information or diagnostic of the
indigenous peoples' situation.
3.    Legal Framework. In the first place, regarding the need for a legal assessment, it has
found that the constitutional and legal framework of Bolivia already recognizes the basic rights
of indigenous peoples. The National Constitution establishes that the country is multi-ethnic and
pluricultural. In addition, there are basic legal provisions regarding the social, economic and
cultural rights of indigenous peoples; territorial rights; identity, language, customs and
institutions; juridical personality of indigenous communities; customary rights of indigenous
communities and peoples; rights of illiterate people; and popular participation.22
4.    Baseline Data. The basic requirements of the World Bank Policy on Indigenous Peoples
already exists in Bolivia. First, there are several up-to-date studies of the socioeconomic and
cultural conditions o f indigenous peoples, including several volumes produced by CIPCA
(Centro de Investigaci6n y Promoci6n del Campesinado), the book Bolivia Plurilingue (Xavier
Alb6) and a study and maps entitled Comunidades, Territorios Indigenas y Biodiversidad en
Bolivia, which preparation was supported by the World Bank. In sum, there is an abundance of
publications dealing with specific issues such as indigenous lands, bilingual education and social
organizations. The Vice-Ministry of Indigenous Affairs and Native Peoples has collected
considerable information about indigenous peoples. Also, the Vice-Ministry of Gender has
produced a System of Indicators about indigenous peoples in CD-ROM.
5.    Land tenure and access to natural resources, Bolivia has a complex body of laws
recognizing the right of indigenous peoples to ancestral community lands ("tierras comunitarias
de origen") and that they have recently gained legal access to forest resources in those lands but
not to subsoil resources. The Government of Bolivia has adopted the necessary measures to
demarcate and legalize the territories occupied by indigenous peoples and to formulate
regulations in the area of influence of the project. In this regard, the finding is that: (i) in the
n     Two important documents dealing with the above are: Legislaci6n Indigena (Compilaci6n 1991-1997),
produced by the Vice-presidency and the report Reforma de la Constituci6n Politica de Bolivia en Relaci6n con los
Pueblos Indigenas, prepared by the International Consultant Rafil Arango for the ex-Secretary of Indigenous Affairs
and the International Labor Organization.



Annex 9                                                               Page     2
Altiplano and valley regions, the process of agrarian reform started after 1954 produced a
massive land redistribution benefiting largely the indigenous peasant population that had worked
in the haciendas under semi-feudal conditions; and (ii) in the Oriente, a process of regularization
of indigenous lands has been put in motion after the promulgation of the 1996 Land Law. It will
take several years to be fully implemented, because of the complex nature of the problem.
Several indigenous lands are partly occupied by outsiders and, in some cases, there is more than
one title to the same piece of land. The ongoing IDA-financed Land Administration project has
financed the issuance of land titles to these indigenous communities. Under a Danish grant,
INRA (Instituto Nacional de Reforma Agraria) will regularize (sanear) the indigenous lands.
6.    Parficipative Approach. The project is facilitating the implementation of the Law of
Popular Participation. It starts with a recognition of indigenous peoples and their different forms
of organization and representation and has created mechanisms to achieve the participation of
indigenous peoples in different instances of public administration through the Indigenous
Municipal District. By delegation from the Municipal Governments, Indigenous Districts carry
out participatory planning processes and administer fiscal resources, in fact becoming managers
of development activities in their ethnic domain.
7.    Ongoing Activities. In order to ensure that municipal participatory planning has an
ethnic dimension, the ongoing Rural Communities Development Project (RCDP) has:
(i) supported the creation of Indigenous Districts; (ii) strengthened higher-level inter-community
indigenous organizations ("organizaciones matrices"); (iii) improved the relationship between
Municipalities and Indigenous Districts; (iv) provided the Subalcaldes and inter-community
indigenous organizations with legal advice; and (v) built capacity on project planning and
implementation of indigenous organizations, executing agencies, subalcaldias and
municipalities.
8.    The ongoing RCDP project has strengthened the institutional capacity of VMPPFM and
FDC, especially their ability to deal with indigenous development issues, to interact with
specialized government agencies and to mobilize other agencies involved in project
implementation, particularly municipalities. Regarding FDC, a special line of funding has been
created specifically oriented to finance activities arnong indigenous peoples. Finally, a proposal
for the creation of a separate Indigenous Peoples Fund is also being considered by the
Government of Bolivia.
9.    New Activities. The experience of the Rural Communities Development Project has
shown the need of a concerted effort to improve performance of the above activities, particularly
those aimed at the strengthening of indigenous organizations. Therefore, this project will
continue to focus on the formulation and, above all, implementation of 30 indigenous district
plans. These plans will be financed through FDC, which will hire a liaison officer to facilitate
access of indigenous peoples and other vulnerable groups to its funds and contract specialized
NGOs to reach the indigenous peoples. These plans can also include activities designed to
strengthen social and cultural aspects of community life, besides purely economic activities.



Annex 10
Participatory Rural Investment Project
Environmental Assessment and Mitigation Plan
1.    The objective of the environmental assessment carried out during project preparation has
been to ensure that the subprojects (financed as separate investments or as aggregate subprojects
under municipal program financing) are environmentally sound and sustainable.
2.    The bulk of the environmental impacts of subprojects financed under the project is
expected to come from: (i) the rehabilitation of access roads to communities; (ii) small-scale
irrigation; and (iii) micro hydro-electric power units (if they would be financed under the
project). Watershed management, forestry and technical assistance would be beneficial for the
environment. The environmental assessment has been carried out under the responsibility of the
Borrower23. We have received the Borrower's permission to release the environmental
assessment and a copy has been placed in the Bank's Public Information Center. A summary has
been distributed to the Board. The public in general can obtain copies from the FDC upon
simple request and an announcement has been made in newspapers that the document is available
to the public.
3.    The Environmental Assessment covers the following aspects.
(i) the natural enviromnental conditions;
(ii) evaluation of environmental management in Bolivia and the legal and
regulatory framework;
(iii) the project and FDC's project cycle;
(iv) recommendations for environmental management of the subprojects; and
(v) environmental institutional strengthening in the municipalities and FDC.
Conclusions of the Environmental Assessment
4.    The EA describes and stresses the main natural characteristics of Bolivia and the
regulations on key aspects, relevant to this work, such as planning schemes and tools, popular
participation development, land reform, forestry and environmental definitions and enforcement
mechanisms. In the last years Bolivia has developed a consistent framework for environmentally
sustainable development, based on regulations, which define the basis for environmental criteria
and screening procedures recommended for FDC and project environmental management.
5.    FDC does not have an environmental consistent management neither in subprojects nor in
administrative procedures at central and department levels. At this moment the sole
environmental consideration in projects is the Ficha Ambiental, requested by the environmental
legislation. The Ficha Ambiental is completed, not by project owners but by the departmental
FDC offices. This indicates the lack of knowledge and interest of subproject owners in
environmental considerations and management. Until now FDC has not considered
environmental impact an important aspect, as the projects are very small (US$40,000 on average,
maximum US$250,000). Further, the environmental categorization of Fichas Ambientales is
23    Aspectos Ambientales del Proyecto de Inversi6n para el Desarrollo Rural Participativo, FDC, diciembre
de 1997.



Annex 10                                                                   Page      2
being carried out by the central offices of the Vice-Ministry of Sustainable Development, due to
lack of institutional capability of prefecturas, creating "positive silence" or ad hoc environmental
approval of projects, after a ten days delay answering period. Therefore the Ficha Ambiental has
turned into a "less than legal" requisite.
6.    Environmental impacts are mainly related with lack of technical and environmental
considerations of secondary works in projects such as material extraction areas and procedures,
secondary access roads, remaining material from road excavation. The last one is specially
worrisome in mountainous areas where materials are thrown away onto slopes, creating erosion
and instability problems. The root of all this environmental impacts and lack of management is
also the lack of environmental specific designs and/or environmental criteria in technical designs.
Implications of the Environmental Assessment on Project Design
Negative Subproject Eligibility
7.    The following subprojects will not be eligible for financing under the project:
(i) any new or upgraded roads through natural forests (primary, selectively logged and tall
secondary), natural and protected habitat areas as defined under OD 4.04, including 21 protected
areas under management, 13 with a legal base, five which are being proposed and 4 with bio-
diversity potential.
(ii) new road construction (anywhere)24, road upgrading in or near forested areas,
irrigation subprojects with command areas exceeding 200 ha, reservoirs with surface areas
exceeding 100 ha, and flood protection or agricultural drainage works which would affect natural
wetlands; and
(iii) subprojects involving voluntary or involuntary resettlement.
Positive Subproject Eligibility Criteria
8.    The following subproject will be included under category Natural Resources
Management: (i) development of municipal forest reserves; and (ii) protection and rehabilitation
of water capture networks.
Environmental Screening
9.    FDC's environmental screening procedures are deficient. They comply with the
requirements of the Bolivian legislation, but there is little or no field compliance. FDC will set
up, with the help of international consultants or specialized institution and financed under the
project, an own environmental screening mechanism which would reject non-eligible projects.
This screening process will be based on Guidelines for Environmental Analysis.
24    New road construction in non-forest areas could be included if and when FDC would have established
sufficient capacity for environmental screening and management and after review of each subproject by IDA.



Annex 10                                                              Page     3
Subproject Environmental Management Guidelines
10.   FDC staff have little or no knowledge of how certain engineering or management
techniques could reduce negative local environmental impacts. To increase environmental
awareness and to ensure compliance, FDC will study the environmental impact of past basic
infrastructure investments and, on the basis of the study results, elaborate guidelines for
environmental subproject management. These guidelines will be discussed with FDC staff and
contractors and adopted in the technical design element of works contracts.
Mitigation and Monitoring Plans
11.   All infrastructure subprojects will have an environmental data sheet 25 containing
environmental mitigalion and monitoring measures in accordance with the Environmental Law
1333 of 1992. This standard sheet will be based on the guidelines for environmental project
management to be drawn up under the project.
12.  In particular for the subprojects under consideration such as rural roads improvement,
bridges and small-scale irrigation, the following mitigation measures will be included:
(i) identification of alternative sites if important ecosystems are involved; (ii) localization and
topography of earth removal and borrow areas; (iii) solid waste and rubbish disposal safeguards;
(iv) erosion control measures; (v) construction on drainage canals and water evacuation
infrastructure; and (vi) waste management of work camps, including disposal of oils and grease.
13.  Implementation of these measures will be monitored by FDC staff under an FDC
environmental monitoring plan. Specialized IDA staff or consultants will also monitor progress
in compliance with environmental measures on an annual basis.
Environmental Management in the Subproject Cycle
14.   The Environmental Assessment document proposes to integrate negative environmental
irnpact mitigation measures in all aspects of the subproject cycle. Such integration is obviously a
long-term objective which can only be reached by the end of the project life.
15.   Subproject pre-investment studies will include environmental criteria for technical design
and environmental mitigation measures. This will become and FDC subproject approval
requisite. During subproject implementation, environmental clauses will be included in contracts
of supervisors, executing agencies and contractors. Ex-post evaluation of subprojects will
include an evaluation of compliance with environmental mitigation measures and a subproject
environmental monitoring data base will be set up.
Annual Environmental Audit
16.   FDC will cariy out an annual environmental audit of subprojects.
25    Also called enviromnental mitigation plan



Annex 10                                                              Page     4
FDC Environmental Unit, Technical Assistance and Training
17.   FDC will set up an environmental unit in charge of complying with the above
requirements. The unit will be composed of a high-level environmental specialist at FDC-
headquarters (assisted by international consultants) and nine departmental staff to be trained by
the high-level specialist. The terms of reference of the central unit would be to: (i) establish
FDC internal environmental screening procedures; (ii) elaborate guidelines for environmental
analysis; (iii) study of the environmental impact of past basic infrastructure subprojects;
(iv) elaborate subproject environmental management guidelines; (v) elaborate standard
environmental mitigation measures to be attached to environmental data sheets; (vi) establish an
environmental monitoring system and audits; (vii) include environmental management measures
in the subproject cycle; (viii) train and supervise the departmental environmental specialists; and
(ix) elaborate a municipal environmental training and strengthening program to be financed
under the project. The departmental officers would carry out the screening and monitoring. The
total cost of this unit and its operation over the project period would be US$1.3 million or about
three3 percent of the value of rural infrastructure investment costs. Cost details are in the cost
tables of the Project File.
18.   A training program on subproject environmental management would be implemented for
municipal governments, executing agencies and FDC central and departmental staff. Such
module will be included in VMPPFM's training program.



Annex 11
Participatory Rural Investment Project
Technical Assessment Summary26
Subproject Quality and Subproject Evaluation by FDC
1.    The review of the evaluation mechanisms and tools used by FDC have allowed to
understand the currenit weak points and to present some proposals for improvement.
2.    The technical quality of the subprojects is generally good but the difficulty resides
principally in the preparation of the projects in a way that they ensure the impact of the
investments, respecting community and municipal priorities. The subprojects' results are good if
they are beneficial and needed at the level of the communities, bringing some improvement into
their socio-economic situation. They are not necessarily convenient when they have been
generated by intermediate organizations such as municipalities or NGOs. This means that the
community participative planning approach maintains its full importance.
3.    There should be a complementary support effort to the community planning in order to
ensure the cohesion of the plans with development attainable objectives. This effort includes the
definition, starting from the support teams of the PDCR (Rural Communities Development
Project), of goals in each Department and the concentration of efforts. For example, we could
consider during some years to support road infrastructure or water resources civil works (which
generally correspond to the main demand) limiting efforts and resources to these themes or to
actions which are directly complementary (according to defined productive priorities),
perfonning specialized training of the FDC officers and of the technical personnel of the
municipalities. Actually, difficulties in the selection and evaluation of subprojects are being
encountered, because the efforts are dispersed and do not fit into well-defined development
strategies, which results in the obligation to work on-a punctual or on a case-by-case basis.
4.    Another relevant aspect is the population participation policy in the implementation of
projects (including projects implemented by third parties). Experience shows that a high
participation level is a guarantee for a positive result. In our cases, the participation percentage is
correct, but it concerns mainly municipal support. Would these be sufficient to ensure the
sustainability of the activities and to make communities responsible, these being the direct
beneficiaries of the projects? We have also observed that the people of the communities are
often not aware of the targets of the projects (the irrelevant timing of the execution of some civil
works and the study carried out by a team of consultants of the PDCR confirm this), which
means that they have not been associated to the preparation of the work.
5.    The assessment should probably be considered in various ways according to the type of
subproject. Our criteria recognize that certain subprojects such as bridges, road rehabilitation
works and others, are much needed investments, for which the potential impact should not be
demonstrated. These should better be considered as basic infrastructures needed to implement
26    Seguimiento del Programa de Desarrollo de Comunidades Rurales (PDCR) en su Componente de
Inversiones Rurales, Informe de Consultoria, P. Rossignol, octubre de 1997.



Annex 11                                                                  Page     2
complementary production support activities, which have been largely debated with the local
people in function of their survival strategy.
6.    To improve this, it is needed to reinforce the field activities of the departmental officers
of the FDC and their relationships with the institutions in general. One should better take
advantage of the context, and use it. For example, we have seen that there were opportunities to
share civil works in road infrastructure with the Road Service Department. There are probably
other similar situations in each Department.
7.    We recommend to review some of the qualification parameters of the investments, to
improve the evaluation tools (gender, environment, socio-economic evaluation) and to adjust
some processes. More profound work at Central and Departmental Office level would allow to
prepare a "model" documentation according to the proposed recommendations.
8.    We propose to more support the departmental officers through permanent training
mechanisms. For example: more regular visits of the technical-administrative officers, exchange
of experience between the departmental and central technical officers, implementation of specific
practical training using specialized organizations (e.g., PRONAR has a training team with
sufficient field experience in irrigation - from the PRIV (Inter-valley Irrigation Project) in
Cochabamba - and its experience could be used for the identification of irrigation programs in the
country; there are also good environmental technicians who could assess for the departmental
officers the determination of environmental monitoring and evaluation parameters, etc.).
9.    The facilitation of contacts with municipalities could also be improved through a better
information and permanent exchange from the Central and the Departmental Officers.
10.   Finally, there exists the relevant expertise within the PDCR and the FDC that is able to
select the institutions which could implement adequate activities in subproject preparation,
respecting the regulations and criteria of the donors or of the FDC. We propose to reinforce the
collaboration links with these institutions through their pre-qualification and through the
elaboration of a subsequent flexible approach to the contracting mechanisms. This activity could
be complementary to the selection of solvent enterprises in the private sector which possibly
have the confidence of the FDC.
11.   The definition of framework subprojects should be another mechanism to improve the
intervention capacity of the FDC and facilitate the processing of the submitted proposals.
At Municipal and Community Level
12.   The visit to municipalities brought interesting elements for the evaluation of the
possibility to consider activities without intermediaries.
13.   First, all municipalities use co-financing for large civil works, reserving direct
investments to civil works of little importance (up to US$4,000 for repair or maintenance of
small infrastructures), or to subprojects which do not match the usual criteria of the international
donor organizations. There are thus no important subprojects which are completely financed
through co-participation resources.



Annex 11                                                                       Page      3
14.   Second, municipalities generally lack qualified human resources to respond to the needs
in monitoring and supervision. In some cases, we have observed that some municipalities were
unaware of subprojects financed by the FIS (Social Investment Fund).
15.   Third, the support to the administrative structures in the municipalities has not yet
reached all of them in its entirety. Many of them continue to manage their administrations in the
traditional way.
16.   Finally, the municipalities have variably participated in the planning activities which does
not give them the necessary tools to define priorities for development strategies.
17.   However, all of them have been or are counterparts of some subprojects financed by
organizations such as FIS, FDC, etc. and they succeeded to manage these subprojects without
major problems, although under more or less important outside supervision. Moreover, there are,
in the private sector, institutions (enterprises and NGOs) which are able to implement civil works
and subprojects. These institutions should be selected in order to realize joint activities.
18.   It is possible to finance directly the municipalities taking into account the following steps
and conditions:
STEPS:
(i) To select a specific team to monitor this subproject element.
(ii) To define strategic themes (sector plans, not subprojects) which correspond to the
priorities of the Departments or Provinces, and with reasonable execution deadlines (on the basis
of municipal plans and departmental strategies wherever these exist).
(iii) To define specific objectives and clear goals for the experience.
(iv) To select "pilot" municipalities as trial phase.
(v) To define adequate and standard administrative mechanisms (amounts and type of
actions to be considered, periodicity conditions for the disbursements, monitoring and evaluation
mechanisms,...).
CONDITIONS:
Initially, perform activities together with municipalities which can demonstrate at least that:
(i) there exists a correct understanding between the Mayor and the municipal council;
(ii) they have adopted the administrative system promoted at national level;
(iii) they dispose of permanent and stable human resources in this sector;
(iv) they have experience in managing and monitoring of subprojects in the municipality;
(v) they could finance the contracting (under acceptable conditions 27) of technicians in
the selected fields for technically preparing and supervising subprojects; to this respect, a co-
financing (50 percent) of the subproject or a percentage of the administrative costs could be good
alternatives; and
27     The contracting of Human Resources presents sometimes culture-type problems in rural municipalities: for
instance, they do not agree to pay normal salaries to qualified technicians because these are not in line with those of
the official hierarchy.



Annex 11                                                                  Page     4
(vi) they dispose of a coherent municipal participation plan, which is revised by the
program, and that the investments correspond to the priorities in the region.
19.   In the other municipalities, in particular those which have limited resources (up to two
million Bolivianos, as an indication), there will be a need to continue the support of planning and
co-management of actions allowing for an improvement of their implementation capacity. It is
worthwhile to offer also to all municipalities an assessment for the appointment of additional
resources through tributary systems and others.
20.   In parallel, direct actions with communities andlor its representative associations could be
foreseen for small subprojects orientated towards production. Initially, we suggest to keep this
modality for use in production support framework subprojects, in the case this intervention is
considered (see report).
Technical Assistance and Training
21.   As mentioned in the report, the themes of planning and training of personnel at municipal
and Departamental level should be principally reinforced. There are various experiences on this
themes in Bolivia and the suggestion would be to realize an inventory of this experience using
NGO networks and international co-operation structures in order to be able to use the services of
specialized institutions.
22.   There are also institutions which have demonstrated their efficiency in accompanying
municipalities and rural communities in various sectors. Their qualification could be useful to
facilitate further relations and the contracting of their services.
23.   Training could be managed in two ways: through open services according to needs and
which should adapt to the modalities of the institutions and to the requests of the beneficiaries; or
through the preparation of specific training plans which are determined by the subproject to
respond to what is considered as vital for its implementation.
24.   We would recommend that in the current situation both modalities should be studied
complementary. The first one as permanent training resource and the second one to ensure that,
at least, the selected municipalities have to participate in compulsory training courses in order to
receive a direct support from the subproject.
25.   However, the training programs need to be seen as complementary to the on-the-job and
in-the-field training.
26.   It is not the aim to replace the lack of vocational training, which is typical in rural zones.
We suggest to reinforce the intervention capacity of the FDC ensuring an effective presence in
the field and ensuring an in situ collaboration with the beneficiaries. At this level, we
recommend to continue the decentralization of the FDC to reinforce its departmental offices, and
the installation of liaison offices in major intervention zones. We also recommend to ensure a
labor stability for the technical teams in each zone as for the subproject personnel in general, this
being an important element for the general improvement of the system.



Annex 11                                                            Page     5
27.   We finally recommend to ensure the autonomous functioning of the departmental teams
of the project in order to improve the intervention capacity and the continuity of the
interventions.
28.  In conclusion, we consider that many sensible changes could be introduced within the
project which would contribute to the improvement of the general demand and offer support
system. Three or four years are not sufficient enough for important structural changes which
actually take place in Bolivia obtain the desired impact. The favorable evolution, which is being
observed at municipal and FDC levels, is encouraging, but the work is not yet finished.



Annex 12
Participatory Rural Investment Project
Eligible NGOs and Municipalities
Eligibility Criteria for Intermediaries and Implementing Agencies:
NGOs participating in the Rural Investment Program
The following NGOs have been pre-qualified on the basis of legal requirements, logistical
aspects (availability of regional offices, availability of transport means and technical staff in the
regions), experience (number of years, technical experience, experience with FDC and FIS),
financial capacity, quality of the relations with the communities. The NGOs are: CIPCA (La
Paz), OSCAR, CIPCA (Santa Cruz), CIPCA (Camiri),CARITAS (Camiri), CEDEAGRO,
PROSANA, ACLO, CARE (Chuquisaca), CRS-CH, PROAGRO, FEDEAGRO, ASCLO, ISAP,
PROMETA, CARI1TAS, CARE, Fundaci6n Vaca Diez, ACRA
NGOs participating in the Institutional Strengthening
The social assessment has identified 72 NGOs with experience in participatory planning and
municipal strengthening. At least 40 of them have experience in the elaboration of PDMs and
PAOs and in the implementation of them. Thirty-six have experience in the elaboration of
subproject profiles, 16 in the creation of municipal districts and 9 in municipal administration.
Further data are in the Working Paper "Andlisis de Organizaciones no Gubernamentales
Operando en el Desarrollo Rural ", Centro de Estudios y Proyectos, enero de 1998.
Eligibility Criteria for Municipalities and Communities
The list of 200 municipalities included in the project and which can benefit from the municipal
strengthening component is based on the following: (i) inhabitants between 3,000 and 50,000 -
the project excludes hereby 15 municipalities with more than 50,000 inhabitants and
56 municipalities with less than 3,000 inhabitants and considered unviable; and (ii) the human
development index of less than 65 percent and an unsatisfied basic needs index of 80 percent or
more. The following is a list of the municipalities.



Annex 12                                                                                                             Page           2
MUNICIPIOS  CON POBLACION  ENTRE  (3.000 Y  50.000  HAB.)  MUE TIENEN  PDM
o_ chabamba              MIZOQUE           Alawr                        3.613     29          100           825.070
Potosi             CHARCAS            San Pedro                  22.006      25          99          S.806.994
_ Potosf            CHARCAS            Toro Toro                   9228       25          99          1.596498
4otosf              CHAYANTA           RaYelo                     18.130     26           99          3.136.597
i. Potosi           GRAL. BILBAO       Aranrra                     4228      27           99           731.468
6Chuousa_a_AZURDUY  TaMb    __a                12574     25          99          2.192.677
7Pando            NICtOLAS SUAREZ  ielia For                     3.824     33          99            490299
8 L Paz             ITURRALDE          S.Buenaventura              4.608     41           99           797211
9 Potosi            TOMAS FRIAS        Tin"a         Ya 14.569                21)         98          2.520.523
10 Chuquisaca        ZUDA EZ            Presto                      7.874     27           98          1 .S2249
I Iochabamba         ARQUE              Tacooaya                   9t271       28          98          1.603.937
12 Potosf            GRAL. BILBAO       Acasio                      58.17      29          98          1.006.37
13 Cochabamba        SOLrVAR            BolNar        _             7.081      30          9B          1.2265066
14 Coodabamba        AYOPAYA            Morodata                  26.049     32           98          4.66630
15 Codabamba         MIZQUE             VWaVla                      4.170     82          98            721 4A3
16 Potosi            A.DE 1AWEZ         Carbw                       8.227     32           98          1.423.320
17 Cochabamba        TAPACARI           T    i                     19202      33           98          S.S22.069
1_   La Paz          C4MACHO            Mocomoco                   13.694     36           98          2.369.143
1 9 La Paz           rCAMACHO           Puerto Acosta              26.988      36          95          4.6S8.104
20 La Paz            PACAJES            S.d Callaa                  7.184      36          9B          1242.874
21 i'ar4a            AVILES             Yunchara                    5.036      36          go            871.257
22 Santa Cruz        GUARAYOS           El Puente                    5.034     43         s9             870.912
23 Santa Cruz        GUARAYOS           Urubicha                     4.781     50          98           818.491
24 Potosi            CHAYANTA           Ocuri                       14.356     24          97          2483.499
2ii Potosf           CHAYANTA           Pocoata                     18.993     25          97          2.939.889
_2t Cochiabamnba     AROUE              Aroe                        8.978      27          97          1.6553.247
27  hucusaca         AZURDUY            Vi4a Azurdw                 10.818     25          97          1.871.678
28 Chuai iisaca      ZDAg EZ            Moioaya                     7.890      30          97           1.3S6.017
29 ChLwwsaca    :   ZUDANEZ _  Id         a                          8.068     31          97          1.395.812
30 La Paz      INGAVI             Tiahuana______u  _         13.151     34           97          2275.201
S1 Oruro            'S.P. DE TOTORA    Totora                       4.040     36           97           698.944
S. Oruro             SURCARANGAS   Andamarca                        3.005     36           97           519.882
7  SC La Paz         CAMACHO            Pto. Carabuco              12.828      37          97          2.219.819
34 Cochabamba        CAMPERO            Omereque                    4.91       38          97           85t5.552
35 Cochabamba        CARRASCO           Pojo                       17.828      40          97          3.084.349
a6 La Paz            AROMA              Colquendha                  6.850      43          97          1.012.086
37 Santa Couz        ICHILO             Buena Vista                 10784      46          97          1.818.639
S8 BOniL             MARi3AN            San Andres                  8.271      53          97          1.480.932
S9 Potosl            CHAYANTA           ColqueChca                 23.650      25          96          4.091.690
40 Potosl            C. SAAVEDRA        Toobamba                   11.727     26          96          2.028.840
41 Chuquisaca        ZUDANEZ            Vila Zud&ez                  71150     28          96          1.236.992
42 Potosi            A. DE     _ 1AREZ  Sacaca                      15285      20          96          2.644.395
43 Potosi            C. SAAVEDRA        Chaqui                       9.070     28          96          1.669 164
44 Potosi            NOR CHICHAS        Vfitc                       13.766     30          96          2.379.869
=  45 La Paz         B;.SAAVEDRA        Gra. PFrez                  8.406      32          96          1.454288
46 Cochabamba        ARANI              Vacas                       10.172     34          96          1.759.816
4  La Paz            F.TAMAYO           ADdO                        12.877     34          96          2.227 797
48 Chu(xuisaca       TOMI NA            El Vilar                    6.026      35          96           869.3SS
49 Cochabanba        TIRAQUE            Tiraue                     31.315      37          96          5.417680
60 o__ o             NOR CARANGAS    S. de HuaWlamara               4.900      38          96           847.729
51 Cochabamba        CAMPERO            Pasor aa                    4.612      39          96           797.903
0 S2 La Paz          PACAJES            Calacoto                    7.330      42          96          1268.133
53 Santa Cuz           UFLOOECHAVEZ SanJuban                       36297       43          96          6279.594
___ 54 Codiabarnba   CHAPARE            Vla Tunari                 48.111      45          96          8.323.486
6_   La_Paz          NORYUNGAS          Coroico                     10.167     47          96          1.767.220
_ 6 Pando        =   MANURIPI           Pto. Rico                   3.640     60           96           629.742
57 Potosl            J.M.UNARES         Puna                       42.660      30          95          7.380.431
68 Chuquisaca        HERNANDOSILES  S.P.de Huacareta               10.015      34          95          1.732.654
69 Chucu.saca        TOMINA             Tomina                      7.E61      34          95          1.306.367
60  huquisaca        TOMINA             Akala                       3.660     35           96           633.201
el Tanila            MENDEZ             El Puente                   11.300     38          95           .6.6
62                   L. CABRERA         S.de Garci Mendoza           5.761     39          95            996.687
6_                    _     _Paz  PACAIES  CaguiaM                  10.207     41          95          1.766.871
64 L Paz             SURYUNGAS          P.Blancos                   12.643     4s          95          2.187.313
68 Santa Cruz        CORDILLERA         Cabezas                     16.808     47          95          2.907.883
66 Beni              ITENEZ   _         Huacaiai69                   3.SR      53          96            680.43E
6  2oc2xabamba    MIZQUE             Mizq_           L           20.176     35          94          SA90.b67
68 Sta Cruz          CORDILLERA         GubArrez                     9.83      37          94          1.701.167
89Cod abamba      CAPI NOTA          Cadnota                    15S.721    33          94           2.71 9.82E



Annex 12                                                                                                             Page           3
71 La Paz        = PACAIJES             Cornandie                   4.19      8 8          94           75.988
__ 72  .uro             AMA              C.                         4 .                   94            707.94
73 La Paz            PACAJES            CoroCeoro                   10.490     42          94          1.814.832
74 Beni              J. 8ALLIVIAN       Roews                       8.892     49           94          1.192.899
76 Cochabamba        C4RRASCO        _Pto. ia o1 24.68                         49          94          4.2A2.24
76 LaPazba          PCARRASCO           Chiinora                     8.65      6           94          12.480.06
77  tosl             C. SAVEDRA         Betanzos                    31.892     27          93          1.12.31'
78 Potosi            R. BUSTiLLO        Chavdrta                    12.922     27          93          2.25.582
79 Oiuro             CARANGAS           Coroue                      6.184      37          93          1.059.808
80 Potosi            R. BUSTILLO        Ualiaoua                   89.890      40          93          6.901.204
81 S- Cr              UFLO DE CHAVEZ Concosd6r                     14.277      40          93          2A470.006
82 La Paz            INGAVI             Desaquadero                 48387      41          99            760.828
88 Ccabanba          CHAPARE            COorri                      15.489     42          93          2.679.688
84 Oro               SAJAMA             Tur:co                       899.4                 93           667 2
86 Santa Cuz     _    BA  EZ            Ayacucho                    8272       44          93          1.431.105
86 La Paz            CARANAVI           C___inan _                 48.098      45          93          7A55.S42
87 Santa Cruz        VALLEGRANDE        Moromoro                    3.868     45           93            668822
88 Santa Cruz        GUARAYOS           Ascncin de G.               131.87     50          93          1. 26.767
89 Potosi            TOMAS FRIAS        Via de Yocalia               7.640     29          92          1.321.765
90 Potost            NOR CHICHAS        Cotqaita                   24.494      30          92          4.237.600
91 Coambarra         AYOPAYA            Avo2a                      28.548      31          92          4.938.971
92 Chuauisac         TOMINA             Sopachw                     6.121      32          92          1.Ob8969
93 Orturo            ABAROA             Chalapata                   20.82      33          92          9.812.708
94 Cochabarnba       PUNATA             WaRWero                      5.949     38          92          1.029.212
95 Taria             ARCE               Padcaya                     17.S41     43          92          8.000.096
98 Ta                GRANCiAO                                        7.8       43          92          1.3b2.214
_97 Beni             MOXOs              San aio                     17.62      46          92          3.045.249
98 Chuwisaca         BELISARIO BOETO  Via Serrano                   12.617     30          91          2.182.81E
99 Potosi            A.QUIJARRO         Tonmae                      11.999     32          91          2.076.898
100 Potosl            J.M.LINARES        Caiza "D                    9.875      34          91          1.708.48
101 La Paz            MANCO KAPAC        S.P.deTlauina               5.490      38          91           949.802
102 Potosi            NOR LIPEZ          Colcha"K"                   7.788     39           91          1.87.854
108 Tadb              O'CONNOR           Entre Rios                  17.763    41           91          8.073.103
104 Santa Cru z       VELAZO             San M  ui                   8.429      46          91          1.458.267
106 Benr              J.BALLMAN          SantaRosa                   7212       51          91          1247.718
106 owi               iTENEZ             Ba__ es                     6.18      5 s2         91           888.089
107 Chwisaca      =    UISCALVO          V.Vaca Guzn*n               9.611     38           90          1.e62.700
108 La Paz            INGAVIN _          Guacq                       5.810     38           90          1.006.164
109 Chusaca       =TOMINA                Padilla                    is 13.088  39           90          2.263.955
110 Chua              LU\SGALVO          Machwaslit                  5.65       45          90           978.175
111 Santa Cruz       RUFLO DE CHAVEZ SanJaier                      10G.434    45           90          1.806.148
112 Santa ruz         IGHILO             Yapacan                    20.35      47           90          3.621.189
118 Chuwsaca   A_ rAMPARAEZ              Yarnvaaez                   11.65 28    i          89          2.016.558
11 4 Tariia       _  AVILES              Uriondo                    11.174     42           89          1.988.168
11lb La Paz       _ ITURRALDE           lbaamas              -       3.618     44           89           62b.93
118 Santa Cruz       'CORDILLERA         LaaXlas                     4260      89           88           785275
117 Sana Cruz    A_ RHA                  Santa Rosa _9248                       63          as8         1 .69M9
118 Santa Cruz    __  CORDILLERA          haraQua                   18.769     44           87          8.247.148
119 Santa Cruz        ANGELSANDOVAL  San Matias                     10.895     52           87          1.860.298
120 Pando         =   MADRE DE OIOS   San Lorenzo                    s.oe7     88          86             8O,609
121 Tar i'a           MENDEZ             San Lorenz                 18.6588    43           86          8.212.878
122SartaGCru2z __   FLORIDA              PGran_    =                                        _ 6.660  48  86  979.218
123 Chu=isaca     _  HERNANDOSILES  Monbaat                         26.240     39           aS          4.858.668
__124 La Paz      _  MURiLLO             AolRa                   :13.10        39           85          2267.242
125 Codabamba   _  ARANI                Ar_N                       13.159     40           85          2.275.584
128 Sarta Cruz    _    M. CABALLERO      Saipina                     4.228     48           8b           731.488
127 SantaCruz     __ VELAZGO             San= _a                    31.594     50           85          6.466.948
128 Bern          _  J. BALLVIAN         Pto.Rwrenabague             9.065     51          as           1.668.298
129 Codcabamba   _   ESTEBAN ARCE    Tarata                          8A05      40           84          1 A64.288
130Son _O  MAMORE                        San JoairM                  4 .                    84           782.SSU
131 Berg              MAMORE             San Ran                     4           3          es            W 948
182 Santa Cruz    =  CHIQUITOS                    .         . .63                                       2.241.291
133 Santa Cuz    A_ A.l   FZ             El Tomo                    2          44           82          4.07 .824
134 Beni              J. BALLIVIAN       SanBoria                   24.251     51           82          4.196.



Annex 12                                                                                                             Page           4
MUNICIPIOS CON POBLACION ENTRE (3.000 Y 50.000 HAB.) Q U  NO TI8NBN PDM
_._.               _ ._ :   . . . . . .                                                     . . . . . . ..i   .   -  . . . . . . . .
, ~~~~~~~~~~..  -... ....          .                             .. -. ..  .    ::....  :.    :   :m..
1 Cuitjisaca       OROPEZA            Pororna                           1S886      28       99          2.63.088
2 La paz           LOSANOES           Laia                               14.668    37        99         2.535.066
8 La ba             LOSANDES          Pto. Perez                         7.68f    37         99         1.812.428
4 LaPg             GVILLARROEL    .P.d.r           a                    5.447    '9         99           9428S68
6 La Paz           LOS ANDES          Batalas                            17.147    40        99         2.96.631
6 BeN              MARBAN             Loreto                             8.679    46         99           630.488
7 chkxisaca        NOR CINTI          incahu_          __20.80 31                           9           3.613.57
8 Chu2umac         NOR CINT_ San Lucas _                                 81.808    31        98         56502.971
9 La Paz           MURECAS            AucaData                           4.075    91        98            704.999
10 La Paz           MUNECAS            AYata                              5.140   -V2        s8           889.251
11 Cochabanba       ESTEBAN ARCE    Anzaldo                               9.807    33        98          1.696.6689
12 Cochabwnba       ESTEBAN ARCE    Sacabanba                             8.688    34        e8s88.046
18 La Paz           OMASUYOS           Anooraimes                        13.%68    34        98          2.962.04S
14 taPaz            INQUISM            Co.kui         .                  17.062    37        98          2.960.096
16 La Paz           AROMA              AAyo-A_                            6.407    39        98          1.108.449
is La Paz           AROMA              Urnala                             6.06    41         98          1.142.704
17 La Paz           LoAYzA             YaD0 8.42                                    43       98          1.110.697
I$ La Paz           MURECAS            Qum                                8.601    31        97          1.488.715
1 9 La Paz          F.TAMAYO           PeXchuco                           4.742    86        97           S20.39
20 Coabmba          CARRASCO           Powna                              12.799    3s        97         2.214.302
. R  21 La Paz      LOAYZA             Lu_ibay        - _ __   -          9.144    40         97         1.581.905
22La Paz            AROMA              C_alamarca _9.710    41                                97         1.680.925
23 La Paz           INQUISIVI          Ichoca                             6.885    41        97          1.166.64e
24a Paz             INQUISM            InusM            I- 16.1 96    42                      97         2628.824
26 La Paz           LOAYZA             04_ C                              9.f58    42         97         1.670.026
26 La Paz           SUR YUNGAS         LaAsunla                           12.198    46        97         2.110.826
27 Beni             YACUMA             Exa_taci6n                          .9687     2        97          f88.814
28 Chuisaca         SUD CINTI          Cufoina                           18.798    35         96          .261.380
29 La Paz           LOSANDES           Pocaran                           22.799    38         96         3.944.361
80 La Paz           INQUISIVI          Caiata                             8.681     40        96         1.501.864
81 La Paz           LOAYZA             Sapiga                             8.318    40         96         1.439.068
82 La Paz           GJ.M.PANDO         S. de Machaca                      8.735     4      - 96            648.177
33 La Paz           LARECAJA           Sorata                            16.073    36         95         2.780.723
34 La Paz           G.VILLARROEL       PaDel Pampla                       5.039    37         95           871.777
38  La Paz          MURILLO            Palca                             12.360    37         95         2.1t8.353
s6 La Paz           AROMA              Sica-Sica                         19.682    4 1       95          3.387.801
37 Chqisaca         YAMPAR.AEZ         TarabUoD                           19.607    30        94         8.38.126
88La Paz            MURILLO            Mecaoaca                           9.66e    38        94          1.654.974
S9 Oruro            SAUCARI            Toledo                             5.569    42        94 9_3.469
40 LaPaz            LARECAJA           Tacacoma                           6.881    41        93          1.190.453
41 La Paz           NOR YUNGAS         Cnpata                            10_276    46         93         1.777.809
42 la-Paz           MANCO KAPAC        CO ana                            18.573    39         92         2.84209
43. La Paz          AROMA              Patacamaya                        15.6546    42       92          2.689.549
44 Oruro            SEBASTIAN PAG.  Sqo. de Huai                          7.712    S4        91          1.334222
45 CoChabamba       CAPINOTA           SantSahez                          0.332    38         91         1.096.473
46 Chuuisaca        SUDCINTI           Las Carreras                       3.s3      37       90           5771148
47 Oruro            CERCADO            Caracolo                          14.849    39        90          2.563.984
48OCochabam-ba      JORDAN             Toco                               6.880    42        90          1.103778
49 La Paz           LARECAJA           Guanay                            27.819    43        90          4.726.348
60 C     aca        OROPEZA            YotaWa                             9.486    33        89          1.641.184
61 Codiabarmba      CAMPERO            Aiouile                           20.796    37         89         3.697.657
b2 La Paz           LARECAJA           ri_uan1i 18.708    48_                                 89         2.571685
sa ChtxRisaa        SUD CN'n           Conaa-                             3.160  S8          88            546.fiss
54 La Paz           SUR YUNGAS         Irupa                             11929     j 44       87         2.063.788
65 Sant Owm         O.SANTIESTEBAN   Oral, Saavsr 11839    5j                                87         2.018.615
568 22amba          ESTEBAN ARCE    Arbieto                               7818      39       86          1.352.214
67 Codxabarrta      JORDokN            Tolabte         70                 3.618    44        86           825.589
68 Cochabamba       PUNATA             San) Ber_to                       12158    44         86          2.103.060
59 La Paz           SUR YUNGAS         Chulumanr                         11.101    46         as         1.920.538
60 Sana Cruz        M. CABALLERO       Coorna                            11.84      45        84         2.049.428
61 Santa Cruz       O.SANTIESTESAN   Minaros                             34.462    so         84         6.960.390
62 Senr             ITENEZ             Maodaona                           7.812    s2         4          1351.622
6s Potosi           R. BUSTILLO        Unca                              24.7b4    29        83          4282587
64 CochabaMba       QUiLLACOOLLO       Site Sip8 19.1068    41                               02          1.39.812
__    C  bamba       IJORDAN        < Cliza                _   _           17.S0     44        82 s3023.160



Annex 13
Participatory Rural Investment Project
Financial Management Assessment Summary
Vice Ministry of Popular Participation and Municipal Strengthening
E'valuation of the Financial, Control and Reporting Functions
Organization
1.    The Vice M[inistry of Popular Participation and Municipal Strengthening is one of five
Vice-Ministries in ithe Ministry of Sustainable Development and Planning. The Vice Ministry
works through the nine prefecturas which represent the federal Government in each department
of Bolivia. The administrative and financial (including, accounting, financial budgets and
treasury) functions as well as the internal audit functions are to be returned to the Ministry level.
Accounting and Budgeting
2.    All accounting is centralized in La Paz. There are 30 staff in the financial departnent in
La Paz, of which nine work in the accounting unit. Accounts are computerized and financial
statements are produced quarterly. For the on-going Rural Communities Development Project
there is a project administrator in each prefectura who reports to the Financial Department in La
Paz. Budgets are prepared by the planning and monitoring unit in the Coordinator General's
unit. The accounting department keeps track of budget implementation data and reports along
with its accounting data and reports.
3.    Accounts are prepared on a cash basis which is not in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. The Vice Ministry agreed to change the accounting treatment of
operations and adopt an accrual system of accounting to accord with generally accepted
accounting principles.
4.    The impact of the centralization of financial administration (and internal audit functions,
see below) will make it much more difficult to obtain accurate and timely data on the Vice
Ministry's operations, at least in the short run.



Annex 13                                                                Page      2
Flow of Funds to Support the Project
5.    Treasury functions are managed by a unit in the administration and financial section.
There is a long series of approvals of project execution, contractual obligations, payment
amounts and supporting documentation, etc. at the local, departmnental and headquarters levels.
The entire process is time consuming. Systems and controls for the use of the Special Account
and for reconciling it and replenishing are detailed and sound.
Internal Controls
6.    The control of projects at the municipal level is carried out by staff in the departmental
project units in the prefectura. The bidding and disbursement process for the ongoing RCDP
project is managed by the departmental project units and is very cumbersome. Controls are
numerous, complete, and excessive, but they cannot be described as inadequate. The
disbursement process takes from five to six weeks on average and it is estimated that the time
between entering into an agreement with the municipality and the completion of the contractual
arrangements with the executing agency can take three months to carry out the bidding,
adjudication, legal resolutions and contract negotiations.
Auditing
7.    The internal audit unit now reports to the Vice Minister. It consists of four staff, two
senior and two junior auditors. The internal audit unit has evaluated some programs, carried out
fixed asset audits, and audited some projects, reviewing physical implementation using data
supplied by supervising consultants. However, the number of auditors is insufficient to carry out
the kinds of operational audits which are needed. More field trips are needed to do inspections
and review original documents in the field and do studies of costs, implementation efficiency,
etc. across departments (prefectures).
8.    The audit function needs to be strengthened both in terms of human resources and
financial resources for field work, especially. However, salaries for audit staff are very low
compared with those of other technical staff. At least one or two more experienced staff are
required and the other staff needs training. The General Controller of the Republic offers
training courses in accounting and auditing.
9.    The strengthening of the internal audit function will be greatly complicated by the
transfer of internal audit staff to a unit at the Ministerial level with responsibility overall for the
internal audit functions of its five Vice Ministries. Under this new arrangement the internal audit
staff at the ministerial level will work on internal audit programs covering all five Vice
Ministries.
10.   Coopers & Lybrand carried out the 1996 external audit of the Vice Ministry and are
expected to carry out the external audit for 1997 as well. The auditor's opinion had one small
qualification which was corrected in 1997 and no material observations on the system of internal
controls. The external auditors did note in their report on the 1996 financial statements that
accounts were kept on a cash basis and that this was not in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. An accrual system should be adopted and that such a change would not
cause problems with the Controller General of the Republic.



Annex 13                                                                     Page      3
Operational and Financial Reporting System
11.   Planning and budgeting and carried out by the Planr .ng and Monitoring Unit of the General
Coordinators office. Coordinating units at the Vice Ministerial level develop annual plans based on the
overall strategic objectives of the Government and the specific objectives percolating up from the
departmental level. The departments in turn develop activities and subactivities based upon the
objectives set forth in municipal and local operational plans based on their considered needs. The
objective is to strengthen the municipalities using the prefectures as channels for the Vice Ministries
operations.
12.   The Vice Ministry has a planning system in place but is modernizing it with resources from a
Japanese grant. By the middle of 1998, the Vice Ministry expects to have the computerized project
monitoring system fuilly functioning. It is expected to supply data and indicators of the quality and
quantity of project outputs, time taken to implement projects, etc. The Vice Ministry also plans to make
ex-post evaluations of consulting assignments with data supplied by the system. Monitoring of Bank
projects should acco]rdingly be strengthened.
Personnel
13.   The Vice Ministry has manuals classifying staff and their positions and describing functions (now
being revised as mentioned above). There is some rotation between Vice Ministries and initial
recruitment efforts are made within the ministry. Failing that, posts are advertised and selection is based
upon the applicants' CV and the results of interview in the normal way. For some key posts there are
competitive exams.
Conclusions and Recommendations
14.   Other than internal audit, existing systems appear to be working reasonably well and, with
proposed strengthening could be deemed adequate. However, the proposal to centralize financial and
internal auditing functions argues strongly for the creation of a project unit to manage the financial
control aspects of any proposed Bank project. Realizing these impending difficulties the General
Coordinator of the Vice Ministry plans to establish a project unit with an administrative manager to
whom an accounting unit and a financial administration unit (responsible for budgeting and operational
reporting) would report. Planning and monitoring data on subprojects would be supplied by the planning
and monitoring unit of the General Coordinator's office. Disbursements (i.e., special account
disbursements) would be handled by the central office based on data supplied by the project unit.
Apparently, at each departmental level there would be a project operator (already in existence) supported
by one or two technical assistance staff financed by external funds and some local administrative support
(national counterpart).
15.   Such an arrangement, as it may be made satisfactory to the Bank, would avoid the principle
problems raised by the planned centralization of financial functions at the ministerial level, provided
treasury functions continued to work effectively. However, it would not solve the internal audit problem
caused by the centralization. There are two potential solutions to this issue. One would be to engage a
qualified internal auditor to monitor the work of the project unit and the projects it financed as a top
priority, devoting additional time if any to general internal audit work in the ministry. The other
alternative would be to agree upon a work program for internal audit staff of the ministry to cover the
projects and operations of the project unit which was acceptable to the Bank and the project units'
external auditors. Bank staff should review the functioning of the new planning and monitoring systems
and agree upon the datta required by the Bank on subprojects it finances to satisfy its reporting
requirements.



Annex 13                                                              Page     4
Fondo de Desarrollo Campesino
(Small-Farmer Development Fund)
Evaluation of the Financial, Control and Reporting Functions
Organization
16.   The Small-Farmer Development Fund (FDC) is a public enterprise with administrative
and financial autonomy, a Board of Directors of five, named by the Minister of the Presidency
and 148 employees, 88 at headquarters in La Paz and 60 in the departmental offices (one office
in each of the prefecturas). Reporting to the Board is a President. In addition, reporting to the
President is the internal audit unit (three staff), the legal staff (five), an advisor, a coordinator on
desconcentration, a public relations officer and two assistants on resource mobilization. A
general manager reports to the President. Reporting to the General Manager are three
departmental managers (Credit Department, Technical Department and the Administrative and
Financial Department). The manager of the Credit Department has 18 technical staff. The
manager of the Technical Department 11 professional staff including a coordinator, seven
technical staff assigned to projects financed by specific external sources of funds (Japan, IDB,
World Bank, KFW), a training specialist, a bridge engineer and an irrigation engineer. The
manager of the Administrative and Financial Department has nine administrative staff, six staff
in the accounting unit, and three staff devoted to the financial control of projects financed by
specific external sources. Finally, reporting directly to the General Manager are the nine
departmental offices. The departmental offices have from six to nine staff, including a Chief of
Department, project evaluators, project supervisors, an administrative officer, a secretary, driver
and messenger. The Chiefs of Departments are required to report directly to the General
Manager by law and the General Manager has to formally delegate his responsibilities to his
departmental managers.
Accounting and Budgeting
17.   Accounting and budgeting functions are carried out at headquarters in La Paz with six
staff, including a head of the accounting unit, an accountant, a budget officer, a treasurer and two
staff who input accounting and budget data. A new accounting system entitled CONTAB/F is
being put into place. The old system was inadequate in that it had inadequate information about
subprojects and was not in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The new
system integrates accounting and budget data and coordinates project and related banking
accounts. Because FDC accounts had to be in accordance with a presentation prescribed by the
Superintendency of Banks, only financial accounts appeared as assets and the related donations
to finance them appeared in a global account (acreedores varios or general creditors).
Subprojects under implementation only appeared as memorandum accounts outside the
accounting system. Accordingly, controls over such subprojects were inadequate as was the use
of resources from the various external financial agents financing them. FDC agreed to revise the
accounting treatment for subprojects in order to retain them as an asset until the project with the
external financial agency financing them was completed. This would comply with generally
accepted accounting principles and would improve the overall accounting control over



Annex 13                                                              Page     5
subprojects being implemented. If the Superintendency of Banks objected to the new accounting
treatment, the Bank would take the matter up with it.
18.   With the above mentioned revisions, and the full implementation of the new accounting
system CONTAB/F, which is part of an overall management information system which has been
designed and is in the implementation stage, the accounting system of FDC should be in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and be adequate to reflect the financial
condition and results of FDC on a timely basis. Financial accounts are now produced by the
tenth of the following month. However, the accounting system is being decentralized to the
departmental level along with budgeting and treasury functions. By the end of 1998 the
implementation of these changes are to be completed with detailed accounting, financial
budgeting and treasury functions handled at the departmental level, and public relations, resource
management, overall accounting consolidation and reporting and the control and monitoring of
projects carried out at headquarters.
19.   Financial budgets are prepared annually. Budgets are prepared and submitted in
September and normally approved the following February. Supplementary budget requests are
reviewed and approved the following September. Budgets are by program and the non-
reimbursable component of the FDC's operations (basic infrastructure, production support,
institutional support) is based on planning estimates supplied by the project control staff, i.e.,
staff coordinating programs by source of funds, based on data supplied by the departmental
offices. FDC receives no money from the state and receives funds from external financial agents
to cover the administrative costs of intermediating their resources. Financial budgeting systems
appear to be adequate. However, as mentioned above, budget functions are to be decentralized to
the departmental level which raises some issues discussed below.
Flow of Funds to Support the Project
20.   Treasury functions are now managed by FDC headquarters. There is a long series of
approvals required before disbursements can be made and the processing of such requests is
slow. Moreover, the control of specific project funds was inadequate in 1996 and funds from
some external financial agencies were used to finance the costs of projects of other external
agencies or to cover local costs. These improper payments were rectified in 1997 and a new
financial control system for projects is being established which should help prevent this in future.
This system will also facilitate the preparation of SOEs. Controls over the use of the special
account are now adequate as are procedures for reconciling and replenishing it.
Internal Controls
21.   The system of controls for selecting and authorizing projects, for bidding, contracting,
implementation control, payment and the final transfer of ownership to the municipalities was
reviewed. Procedures are clearly set out in manuals and legal requirements and appear to be
strictly followed. Approvals and authorizations are many and time consuming. New procedures
for the financial execution and control of projects were set forth in a manual and introduced in
October 1997. Many documents are required at every stage in the process and they are carefully
reviewed and maintained in files. Performance guaranties are required from contractors. A list
of the various documents is contained in the Procedures Manual for the Financial Control and
Execution of Projects.



Annex 13                                                                Page      6
22.   Despite these many controls the financial management believes that problems still occur
especially at the bidding stage and during project implementation. FDC now rarely contracts
independent supervision engineers for fear that they will be corrupted by the contractors. In
order to deal with such potential problems operational audits need to be developed by the FDC's
internal audit staff and for this the internal audit unit of FDC needs to be strengthened.
Moreover, decentralization of key functions to the departmental offices will mean that internal
control systems will need to be changed to maintain adequate controls over project selection,
approval, implementation, disbursement, etc.
Auditing
23.   The internal audit unit of FDC consists of three staff, the chief of the unit another
qualified auditor and an audit junior. The unit was increased from one to three last year but this
is still an inadequate number, especially when the accounting, budgeting and treasury functions
are transferred to the departnental offices.
24.   The chief of the internal audit unit reports directly to the President. However, the internal
audit unit has not carried out useful audit functions. Management has paid little attention to the
work of the internal audit unit which must be approved by the Controller General of the
Republic. In designing the new computerized management information systems the internal
audit unit was not consulted. Accordingly, modifications may be needed to assure that data
useful to the internal audit are supplied by the new systems and that appropriate controls over the
new systems be established. Moreover, internal audit field visits will become more important
when accounting, budgeting and treasury functions are transferred to the departmental level.
Accordingly, the internal audit needs to be strengthened in numbers of qualified audit staff and in
financial resources to carry out the internal audit function adequately. True operational audits
will need to be carried out to e.g. review programs, compare the costs of similar projects across
departments, etc.. The Bank and other external financial institutions want to assure that this is
done. The Bank will require FDC's external auditors to review the work program of the internal
audit unit to make sure that it is adequate.
25.   The external audit of FDC's accounts for 1996 was carried out by Acevedo and Company
who are associated with Deloitte's a well known international firm. Basically there were two
qualifications to the 1996 audit report, one relating to the improper use of funds from one
international financial institution to finance projects of another such institution or to finance local
costs, and another relating to an account receivable for value added taxes paid by FDC which the
external auditors considered were not recoverable. Both of these matters were resolve during
1997.
Operational and Financial Reporting Systems
26.   In addition to the new accounting system CONTAB/F, a new computerizeJt management
information system is being implemented. Tne system consists of four modules. CONPRO - a
system for financial control of projects providing data on source of finance, location of project,
executing agency, contractor, physical and financial execution, etc.; SISCONT - a system to
control bidding and contracting of projects; SISTEC - a system to control the physical
implementation of projects and their supervision; and SISEV - 3asystem to provide data on the



Annex 13                                                              Page     7
quality of projects including indicators of their physical, economic, financial, social and
environmental impacts. The systems are to be tied together with the accounting system to
produce an overall set of useful management information and to provide data required on
subprojects financed by the external agencies. This is an ambitious project, the implementation
of which should be reviewed carefully by the Bank.
Conclusions/Recommendations
27.   FDC apparently underwent substantial changes in its management last year. The new
management is undertaking to strengthen management systems and to improve the general
operational culture of the institution. It appears to have made considerable progress and, if the
ambitious program of new systems functions well, it should have important and useful subproject
data for its own management purposes and to share with its suppliers of external finance. At the
same time it is preparing, apparently at the request of the external financial agencies including
the Bank, to decentralize its operations and is transferring the responsibility for accounting,
budgeting and treasury functions to its nine departmental offices. The FDC understands that it
must complete this decentralization during 1998 and accordingly FDC's top management is
studying the need for strengthening the departments in terms of human resources, computer
equipment, training and technical assistance. A well defined program to fill these needs will
speed up the decentralization process and make it more effective. It is especially important that
FDC recruit trained accountants to operate the new accounting, budgeting and treasury
operations in the departmental offices and that they be adequately trained in the new accounting
and internal control norms. The Bank should review this program when it has been completed
and follow-up its implementation.
28.   FDC management also agreed to strengthen the internal audit department with additional
staff and budget funds. The Bank should also see that this is accomplished and that the
strengthened unit has a suitable work program probably reviewed by FDC's external auditors. It
will be important that new internal control systems be designed for the new procedures to be
followed in the new decentralized system and that they be carefully reviewed by FDC's internal
audit unit and its external auditors.



BOLIVIA
PARTICIPATORY RURAL INVESTMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
I YEAR and QUARTER                        ____Agency                   ___1998                  1999                2000
ACTIVITIES BEFORE PROJECT EFFECTIVENESS                -Mid-Term_Review___
Preparation of the ~Prpjetq_perational Manual  1 __   VMPPFM,FDC,VMDR                                                  ____    ___
Preparation of 350 Project Profiles      I  __           VMPPFM + VMDR
Pre-Qualification of Executing Agencies                  VMPPFM + FDC
Recruitment of Project auditors          jVMPPFM
Baseline Monitoring Study in 30 Municipalities            VMPPFM
Fine-tuning of the Financial Managemen and Contrating     VPF         __
Establishment of Project Managemqent Unit                 VMPPFM-
InTpIementation of 13 Indigenou s Poles Development Plans  VMPPFM           ......
Seleto opilot municipalities and agreement negotiations   FDC__-
Engineering studies for US$1 0 million of investments     FDC            __   _
Fine-tuning of FDC monitoring system       ____           FDC                  --.-                  ----         ~    __-...-.- -.--~-_--                                       _
Annual FDC Disbursements reach US$12 million __            O                                              __                       __                        __ 
Establishment Environmental Unit              __       FDC                      .---._                                     -     -     - - - ___
Continuation of Environmental Assessment   -       ~      FDC___                                                        __ 
Recruitment of Social Scientist          t_ ___ FDC  ______                                                                        .-.      _
Project Launching Workshop                                All________________                              -             _CD.                _
MILESTONES DURING FIRST PROJECT YEAR                                                                              _ 
Signature of Project Agreements with Prefecturas    - -   VMPPFM        ___.
Preparation of 500 project profiles______VPF+MR------e
Selection and contr0a,,n   miTrnngIstuions                VMPPFM                                                                  __      ~      ___
Traina~ ~~~q?f personnig Intitt'PP---
'riigfr200 pros municipalstaff                        VPF__.... .....
Elaboration/imnplemn. of 15 Indigenous District Development Plans  VMPPFM    -,        -.--                                                                -.
Forrmul-ation of 6-6 a-dditional M-unicia Deeopet_ln      VMPPFM_-                                                                                ------
Municpalities (50) benefiting from rmunicipal assistance  VMPPFM              -- .-.                                                                      _
Establishment of the Guarantee Fund                       FDC
Start Pilot Program Financing in 5Mncplte(U$million)    FDC
Program financing with 5 NGOs (US$2 million)              FDC                                       AN
Recruitment of additional accountants    IFDC__
Recruitment of project analysts          I___
Recruitment of training officer                           FDC                  .-                             _
Project FDC disbursements reach US$ 4 million             FDC____
Project engineering studies reach #200   tFDC__
fD~Ce  lopjys nine female professionals iLn Departments   FDC   -__                      -     _
FOG Departmental Offices fully staffed    ---
Page 1 of 2



IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
IYEAR and QUARTER                                    Agency    =   19ss          =         1999                   2000  =            =   2001                    2002  _#
I         l                                                    l    II  li~Fl  IV          I ilIII   IV II II1              IV         I  1    iII  IV    i_      if   iI  iv         I II  III  IV
MILESTONES BEFORE MID-TERMR                                    ___                          _ __IE
Technical Assistance to PDM implementation (# municipalties)  VMPPFM   _50                                                          -    100                     100             -       200                      2
# of m            w   thc  assistants.VMPPFM    _   ___                                                            10             -        30                     5 _ 55                       _ - 
Municipal  angmnMoueintroduced                                VMPPF-M                                          - 103                    -0      -                 50                      50  _                    50          4
Indigenous District Development Plans                         VMPPFM                        13                     28                      43
Intrducton o caastre in # munii ai'ties                   V-MPPF-M         -              -                                                                  2              _20       0        ~20
Pe--rsons tra-inedT -                                         VMPPFM                                              200                     500                  1_000            ____  2,000 ____                2500
Non-formal training sessions                  ~~~~~VMPPFFM                                                                 6--o                                           2                       150
n nf cgmmumty le ders                        ___.VMDR .25   _   50                                                                                                7                        .                      102
Project disbursements for rural investments (US$million)       FDC                                              4,000   _  _      ._  10,000                  17,000    _     __| _  25,000        __  _       33,000
Pre-mnvestment studies caried out                              FDC        . .   .                                 200                    400 .                   600                     800                    1,000
Program ftnancing of municipalities (US$mrilion)               FDC                                                                      3,000                  6,000 ______            9,000       ___         12,000
Subcontractmngof NGOs (US$mllrron)  ____             _         FDC                                                                      2,000                  4,000 I_                6,000                    8,000
Technical, Economic and Environmental Audit                   FDb=
FDC employs eighteen female professionals in Departments      All
Annual Audit
.1           -        -         _______  .__  _---.-  ----------1----  I-.------- I_ -_ --------_-- -_- 
PROCUREMENT PLAN                      _ _ _ _DC   _
Purchase of vehicles and compute                                              _                -         _    - -         -          ___  _  _ __ -  _                                         - 
'.aunching  of bidding ______________
CotatgI_ - __ _ _ _H__  Evlato                           ___ __ __II
Contractin                          _________VMPPFM
Purchasede ui  wentVMPPFM  _______ _-- -    ---------
Launching o b        _______
Contractin _________  ____      I      _I
Cs
Page 2 of 2



PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION MONITORING INDICATORS
Component I: Rural Investments
cumulative figures_ _
Activities                        Impl.        Monitoring Indicators       1999   2000   2001   2002   2003 1
Agency
A.1 Works                         FDC          Amounts disbursed ($'000)    4,000  10,00   17,00  25,00  33,00
________________________________               Beneficiary contributions     800  2,000  3,400   5,000  6,600
A.3 Technical assistance          FDC          # of contracts                30      60     90    120    150
A.4 Pre-investment studies        FDC          # of studies                 200    400    600    800   1,000
A.5 Guarantee fund                FDC          Operation ($'000)            500 _
Program financing of Municipalities    FDC     Amount contracted ('000)           3,000   6,000  9,000  12,00
Subcontracting of NGOs            FDC          Amount subcontracted ('000)        2,000  4,000   6,000   8,000
Component II: Institutional strengthening
B. 1. Municipal strengthening   VMPPFM
B. 1.1. PDM formulation         VMPPFM   # of additional PDMs                 66
B.1.2. Technical assistance to PDM    VMPPFM   # of municipalities with executing  50    100    200    200    200
implementation                             agencies
VMPPFM   # of municipalities with technical  10      30     50     50      50
assistants
B. 1.3 Implementation of municipal   VMPPFM   # of systems installed           10     30     50     50      50
administrative systems
B. 1.4 Cadastre systems         VMPPFM   # of cadastre systems operational            10     20     20      20
B.1.5 Indigenous districts      VMPPFM   # of PDDI formulated and             15      30     30     30      30
implemented
B. 1.6 Elaboration of profiles  VMPPFM   # of profiles                       200    400    600    800  1,000
of which with indigenous peoples,                                             20     40     60      80    100
gender or cultural heritage focus



Activities                       Impl.       Monitoring Indicators           1999   2000   2001   2002   2003
Agency                                                                                              t
B.2 Community Strengthening      . 
B.2.1 Community subproject profiles VMDR     # of profiles                     300    600    900   1,200  1,400
of which with indigenous peoples,                                               30     60      90    120    140
gender or cultural heritage focus
B.2.2. Community based information  VMPPFM   # of communities implemented       30             30             30
and monitoring system
B.3. Training
B.3.1Formal training             VMPPFM   # persons trained                    200    500   1,000  2,000  2,500
of whom women                                                               40    100    200    400    500
VMPPFM   # environmental training programs      5     10      10     10      10
B.3.2.Non-formal training        VMPPFM   U training sessions                   20      50    100    125    150
of which on women issues                                                     2       5     10      12     15
B.3.3.Training to community leaders  VMDR    training sessions                  25     50      75    102    102
of which for women and                                                       2      5       8      10     10
indigenous peoples                                                                    I
B.3.4. Training of NGOs and private  FDC     # training sessions                10     20      30     40      50
sector
B.4. VMPPFM strengthening
B.4.1. Consultants               VMPPFM   # person-years                        13     26      38      50     60
Community Monitoring system      VMPPFM   baseline study carried out             x                       _
#monitoring studies                                1              1
'd
on
Dq
4S



Activities                       Impl.       Monitoring Indicators           1999   2000   2001   2002   2003
Agency                                                .
(D
B.5. FDC Strengthening
B.5.1 Project Unit               FDC         # person-years of consultants       4       8     12      16     20
N-umber of projects complyin g         % of projects accepted by FDC     25%    40%    60%,S   70%    70%
with FDC's processing schedule
B.5.2. Training Unit             FDC         # person-years of consultants        1      2      3       4      5
B.5.3. Environmental Unit        FDC        # person-months of consultants      18     36      48      60     72
guidelines for environmental        x
FDC        analysis established
FDC        # environmental audits                      I       2      3       4
B.5.4 Departmental offices       FDC        # person-years of consultants        9      18     27      36     45
B.5.5. Indigenous people and     FDC         % of subprojects implemented      2%      4%     8%      8%      8%
women's program                              which were included in indigenous
district development plans
FDC        % of subprojects implemented       2%     4%      5%     5%      5%
with gender focus
Employment of technical investment FDC       # of technical investment officers
officers                                                                                50     50      50     50
Technical audits                 FDC         # of audits                                 1      2       3      4
In-depth evaluation of 20        FDC        # of subprojects studied            20     40      60      80    100
subprojects                                                          .
B.6. Strengthening of prefecturas    VMPPFM   # of person-years of consultants  26      52     78    104    130
B.7. Strengthening of VMDR       VMDR        # of person-years of consultants    2       4      6       7      8
U,n



Annex 15
Participatory Rural Investment Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)             Planned             Actual
(At final PCD stage)
US$350,000         US$375,000
B. Project Schedule                          Planned             Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)        09/21/1997          10/03/1997
Appraisal mission departure                05/26/1998           1/26/1998
Negotiations                                10/01/1998         3/16/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness              06/30/1999          11/30/1998
Prepared by:
the Fondo de Desarrollo Campesino;
the Vice Ministry of Popular Participation and Municipal Strengthening; and
the Vice-Ministry of Rural Development
Preparation Assistance: PHRD Fund No. JPN 25479-BO
Bank Staff who Worked on the Project Included:
David Tuchschneider (task manager in Bolivia)
Martien van Nieuwkoop (advisor)
Pierre Werbrouck (task team leader at headquarters)
Hideki Kagohashi (project cost)
Maria Elena Castro (social assessment)
Jorge Uquillas (indigenous peoples assessment)
Roberto Laver (lawyer)
Thao Le Nguyen (disbursement officer)
Consultants were:
P. Rossignol of TRANSTEC (technical assessment)
M. Szauer (environmental assessment)
S. Mouftaftchieff and C.Gregorio (FAO/CP-economic and financial evaluation)
J. Baldivia and Yvan Cossio (NGO assessments)
Howard Jones (financial assessment)
Jose Daniel Coach, Rafael Rojas and Maria Cristina Betancourt (municipal, communities
and beneficiary assessments)



Annex 16
Participatory Rural Investment Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Bank Staff Assessments
Social Assessment, Maria Elena Castro-Munoz
Project Cost Tables, Hideki Kagohashi
B. Other
Informacion General del FDC, Ministerio de la Presidencia, julio de 1997
Entidades Ejecutoras Privadas (ONGs) para el FDC, Informe de Consultoria, Lic.
Jose Baldivia U., La Paz, noviembre de 1997
Marco Institucional del PDCR, Infonme de Consultoria, Danilo Paz Ballivian,
noviembre de 1997
Seguimiento del Programa de Desarrollo de Comunidades Rurales (PDCR) en su
Componente de Inversiones Rurales, Informe de Consultoria, P. Rossignol, octubre de
1997
Sistema de Informaci6n Municipal de Base Comunitaria, VMPPFM, December 1997
Aspectos Ambientales "Proyecto de Inversi6n para el Desarrollo Rural
Participativo", M.T. Szauer, 23 de diciembre de 1997
Evaluaci6n Econ6mica y Financiera de Proyectos de Inversi6n Rural del Fondo de
Desarrollo Campesino, FAO/CP, 22 de diciembre de 1997
Ansilisis de Organizaciones no Gubernamentales Operando en el Desarrollo Rural,
Centro de Estudios y Proyectos, enero de 1998
Diagn6stico de Comunidades del Proyecto, Centro de Estudios y Proyectos, febrero de
1998
Consulta a Beneficiarios y Operadores del PDCR, Maria Cristina Betancourt,
February 1998
Financial Assessment, Howard Jones, January 1998



Annex 17
Participatory Rural Investment Project
Statement of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank Group Operations in Bolivia
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Loan
or
Project     Cr~ilit  Fiscal                                                         Original Amount in
ID         No.    Year            Borrower                    Purpose          IBRD  IDA  Cancella
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 59
Active Loans
BO-PE-401 10 IDA N0330 1998 MINISTRY OF FINANCE (MOF) PUB FIN DECEN & ACCT    0.00 15.00
BO-PE-6173 IDA 27613 1998 GOV OF BOLIVIA                  CAPITALIZATION PROG        0.00  2.90
BO-PE-34606 IDA 27890 1996 GOVERNMENT                     FIN MRKTS & PENS REF       0.00  9.00
BO-PE-6173 IDA 27610 1996 GOV OF BOLIVIA                  CAPITALIZATION PROG        0.00 50.00
BO-PE-6178 IDA 27620 1996 REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA             HYDROC.SEC.REF&CAPIT   0.00  10.64
BO-PE-6186 IDA 28050 1996 REPUB. OF BOLIVIA               ENV.IND.& MINING           0.00  11.00
BO-PE-6191  IDA 27900 1996 GOVERNMENT                     POWER SCTR REF TA &        0.00  5.10
BO-PE-6202 IDA 27720 1996 GOVERNMENT OF BOLIVIA   RURAL COMMUJNITIES DE  0.00 15.00
BO-PE-6206 IDA 28060 1996 GOVT OF BOLIVIA                 RURAL WTR & SANIT          0.00 20.00
BO-PE-37005 IDA 26470 1995 GOV'T OF BOLIVIA               REGULATORY REF & CAP   0.00 14.70
BO-PE-6181 IDA 26500 1995 GOV OF BOLIVIA                  EDUCATION REFORM           0.00 40.00
BO-PE-6197 IDA 27420 1995 GOV OF BOLIVIA                  LAND ADMINISTRATION    0.00 20.40
BO-PE-6205 IDA 27050 1995 GOV'T. OF BOLIVIA              JUDICIAL REFORM             0.00 11.00
BO-PE-6190 IDA 25650 1994 GOVMT OF BOLIVIA                MUNICIPAL DEV              0.00 42.00
BO-PE-6196 IDA 25310 1993 GOV OF BOLIVIA                 INTEGRATED CHILD DEV   0.00 50.70
BO-PE-6200 IDA 25320 1993 GOVT OF BOLIVIA                SOC INVEST FUND II          0.00 40.00
BO-PE-6180 IDA 23950 1992 GOV'T OF BOLIVIA A             RD MAINT                    0.00 80.00
BO-PE-6188 IDA 22160 1991 GOVT OF BOLIVIA A              TECHNOLOGY DEV              0.00 21.00
BO-PE-6166 IDA 20920 1990 GOVERNMENT OF BOLIVIA  INTEGRATED HLTH DEV    0.00 20.00
BO-PE-6179 IDA 21340 1990 GOVERNMENT OF BOLIVIA   PRIVATE ENTRP DEV                  0.00 16.10
Total                                                                                0.00 494.54
Active Loans    Closed Loans    Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA)         284.69         974.33    1,259.02
of which has been reiaid:        0.00          277.69     277.69
Total now held by IBRD and IDA         494.54         685.37    1,179.91
Amount sold                              0.00            .05        .05
of which repaid                      0.00            .05        .05
Total Undisbursed            :         203.96           12.42     216.38
a. Actual disbursements to date minus intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Ainual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS =
highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in
Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-90 1), August 23, 1994.



Annex 17                                                             Page        2
Bolivia
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 3 1-Jan-98
In Millions US Dollars
---------Held------       ----------Disbursed----------
----------IFC ----------    ----------IFC----------
FY Approval            Company                 Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic  Loan Equity  Quasi Partic
0                      Minera                  0.00    3.40   0.00   0.00   0.00   3.40   0.00   0.00
1976/88/90/91/95       BISA                   14.00   2.70   0.00   0.00  14.00   2.70   0.00   0.00
1989/92/94/96          COMSUR                 13.86    0.00   2.14   3.50  13.86   0.00   2.14   3.50
1991                   Bernejo                 0.00    5.90   0.00   0.00   0.00   3.00   0.00   0.00
1991                   Central Aguirre         1.06    .35   0.00   0.00   1.06    .35   0.00   0.00
1992                   Inti Raymi             12.50   0.00   5.00   0.00  12.50   0.00   5.00   0.00
1993                   GENEX                   1.20   0.00   1.19   0.00    .76   0.00    .90   0.00
1996                   Mercantil-BOL          10.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   9.65   0.00   0.00   0.00
1996                   Telecel Bolivia        10.00    0.00   5.00  20.00   6.67   0.00   5.00  13.33
Total Portfolio:                       62.62   12.35  13.33  23.50  58.50   9.45  13.04  16.83
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan Equity Quasi Partic
Total Pending Commitment:               0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00



Annex 18
Participatory Rural Investment Project
Country at a Glance
Bolivia at a glance                                                              8/28197
Latin  Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            America  middle-
Bolivia   & Carib.  income      Development diamond'
Population mid-1996 (millions)                          7.6       485    1,125
GNP per capita 1996 (USS)                              930      3,710    1,750                 Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions US$)                                 7.1      1,799    1,967
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                                          2.4        1.7      1.4      GNP                               Gross
Labor force (%/6)                                       2.6       2.3       1.8     per                              primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                             capita                         enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of populaton)
Urban population (%6 of total populafion)                58        74       56
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        60         69       67
Infant mortality (per 1.000 live births)                69         37       41                Access to safe water
Chid malnutrition (I% of children under 5)               13
Access to safe water (% of populafion)                   60        80        78
Illiteracy (% of populaiion age 15+)                     17        13
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)    95       110      104               Bolivia
Male                                                  99                 105                 Lower-middle-ncome group
Female                                                90         ..      101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985      1998      1996
Economic ratios'
GOP (billions USS)                             1.9      3.6        6.8      7.5
Gross domestc investmentVGOP                  24.5     16.8       14.8     16.1              Openness of economy
Exportsofgoodsandservices/GDP                 26.1     14.3       18.3     17.6
Gross domestic savings/GDP                      ..       ..        9.7     10.1
Grossnationalsavings/GDP                      16.3     11.3        9.6     11.0
Current account balance/GOP                   -8.1     -5.5       -5.2     -5.1
Interest payments/GDP                          1.5      5.3       2.6       2.1      Savings                     Investment
Total debtVGOP                                53.3    133.5       77.4     68.3
Total debt service/exports                    17.5     49.6       29.7     26.7
Present value of debt/GOP                       ..       ..      55.0      47.0
Present value of debtVexports                   .         ..    303.5    278.0                   Indebtedness
1976-86  1986-96     1995      1996  1997-06
(average annual growth)                                                                  -    Bolvia
GDP                                  -0.2      3.8      3.9        4.0      5.5
GNP percapita                       -3.1       1.9      1.6        1.6      3.2                Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services        -4.2      8.2     11.2        2.9      6.3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     198(      199P      1996      Growth rates of output and investment(%)
(% Of GOP)
Agriculture                                   20.3     36.9       17.7     17.5      20
Industry                                      32.2     36.3      25.6      25.7  \
Manufacturing                               12.3     15.3       15.0     15.1
Services                                      47.5     26.8       56.7     56.8      0
91   92   93   94   9s   96
Private consumption                           71.2     81.1      77.0      76.5    .10 -
General govemment consumption                 10.5     10.6       13.4     13.4                  GDI        *-GOP
Imports of goods and services                 32.1     22.8      23.5      23.6
1976-85  1986-96      1995      1996
(average annual growth)                                                             Growth rates of exports and imports I%)
Agriculture                                    1.4       ..         ..       ..    20 -
Industry                                      -3.2       ..                         Is .
Manufacturing                               -1.8
Services                                       1.4       ..         ..       ..    95-
Private consumption                            2.8      3.9       4.1       4.2 5
General govemment consumption                 -0.9      2.5        1.2      1.3
Grossdomesticinvestment                      -15.7      6.3        9.2      9.1             91   92   93   94   95    ws
Importsofgoodsandservices                     -6.3      5.2        8.3     15.7                   Expors     o  Imports
Gross national product                        -1.0      4.1        3.9      5.0
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds show fotir key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing. the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex 18                                                                                         Page              2
Bolivia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985      1995     1996
Domestic prices                                                                     Inflation l%)
(% change)                                                                         30
Consumer prices (Dec./Dec.)                    7.8  11,749.6     12.6      8.0    20
Implicit GDP deflator(Dec./Dec.)               6.5  11,289.1     12.9      12.7
Government finance
(% of GDP)                                                                          0
Current revenue                                 ..       ..      23.2     22.6             91   92    93    94    95    95
Current budget balance                          ..       ..       5.6      5.9               -    GDP def.   o    CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..       ..      -1.8     -1.8
TRADE
1975     1985      1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                        Export and import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                             ..    628       1,075    1,131      2,000
Tin                                           ..      187        89       88
Fuel                                          ..      376       142      138      1500
Manufactures                                  ..
Total imports (cif)                                    691      1,394    1,568      1,00
Food                                          ..        ..        ..5                         I:f
Fuel and energy..                                       .50
Capital goods                                 ..      253       566      702         o
Export price index (1987=100)                   .       93         70                     90  91  92  93  94  95  96
Import price index (1987=100)                  ..      120        194                            [ Exports   I] imports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                               78         36
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985      1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                      Current account balance to GOP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                 486      721      1,252    1,328                          -
Imports of goods and services                 618      807      1,594    1,772          9o  91   92   93   94   95 +       a
Resource balance                             -132       -86      -342     -444
Netfactor income                              -41     -423       -221     -169     -5
Netcurrenttransfers                            19      311        209      229            L
Current account balance,                                                                          l  l
before official capital transfers           -154     -198      -354      -384
Financing items (net)                         114      227        477      720
Changes in net reserves                        40       -29      -123     -336     -15
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)           197      492        737    1,132
Conversion rate (localfUS$)               2.8E-05       0.8       4.8      5.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
(millions US$)                              S1975     185        1995     1996
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         1,013    4,805     5,266     5124
G    A
IBRD                                         21      207        95   61.354                 F 305  88       B
IDA                                          50       94       770  842.701       CompositiowPlf tot"   1991B*ill. USS)
Total debt service                             87      366        372      355
IBRD                                          2       27        36   32.154                                      C
IDA                                           1        2          8    8.321                                    259
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               8       71        202      221            E
Official creditors                           38       -1       271       256           1705
Private creditors                            78      -36        41        -5
Foreign direct investment                    53       10        177      426
Portfolio equity                              0        0          0        0                              1843
Worid Bank program
Commitments                                  40        0        116     58.5                A-                     E -Bilateral
Disbursements                                10       12        113   99.845                IBR-       m-Other   FG-SPrivate
Principal repayments                          1       13         29   28.262                9.IDA                  tea ot
Net flows                                     9        -1        84   71.583    1            D
Interest payments                             1       16         15   12.213
Net transfers                                 8      -17         69    59.37
Development Economics and LA3C1                                                                                      8/28/97



r~                                                                                                I --
--4'                          BOLIVIA
PARTICIPATORY RURAL INVESTMENT PROJECT
r_ Mo r Roods           Ral ef 'mete-'       Cl "o'c Zones
-VCOBIJA                          gR 8EALTA)                     R Rcers                  ');              -'r  m   ; > a5r    e .t.T
! f Mogdoleno \ . ,.--t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B                                              R   A    L
T(                   Dn porrmeDAD   to    e                           a-v 0
rc~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~                               nirnrine   none en 4os                   '-           -
El                                                   N                                        ""~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AGN  NRAT
" cd-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
^ ~ ~          ~          ~~~~~               ~ ~~~~~~~~ A R;aJ   A  G U A Y
IAZ               ce Bene  Sc: Ace   M       0                                                 PER_SvUTH AMERICA
.x   @                     i  |  R         '. !0    . ,         ,                                                           r
- 2 2   q !51   1z4 i in--) >   / j9_ .          /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,~~4,~
T<                                                                                                                                 11mmv-ln af-\ F.>_  oub 
t  t a r r S S   n 0 7  , 5,  e    z   (  s  -   >  !   _         v    . t ~~~~~~ [ -   l                            _
v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~          ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ JR R TOe  e/1rt     
o rfe t v f C - + Pa P ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- c 1u T r 12 a t~~~~BLAE 
_  r . rA. ) J     6 t  _  t   _  -K



