Page  1
October 27, 1997
His Excellency
Edgar Millares
Palacio de Comunicaciones Piso 19
Av. Mariscal Santa Cruz, esq. Calle Oruro s/n
La Paz, Bolivia
Re: 
Japanese Grant for a proposed Participatory Rural 
Investment Project - Grant TF025479
Excellency:
I
am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to indicate the 
IDA's agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to make a grant in an amount not 
exceeding  seven hundred thousand U.S. Dollars ($700,000) (the Grant) to the Republic of Bolivia (the 
Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial assistance and for the 
purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient 
represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant 
for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, 
dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by IDA of the copy 
of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective as of the 
date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL
 DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
/s/ Isabel Guerrero
Isabel Guerrero
Director
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Edgar Millares
Minister
Page  2
Date: October 30, 1997
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purpose and Activities
The purpose of the Grant is to prepare the proposed Participatory Rural Investment Project (the 
Project).  The specific activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:
(a)
Carrying out an institutional assessment of selected municipalities in the territory of the 
Recipient, the Recipient’s 
Fondo de Desarrollo Campesino
, non-government organizations and other 
private sector entities operating in the territory of the Recipient, aimed at determining their 
implementation capacity and management procedures, examining the potential for their involvement in 
the Project and defining effective Project implementation arrangements, building on local capacity and 
private-public partnerships.
(b)
Carrying out a social assessment of potential beneficiaries under the Project, aimed at 
determining adequate targeting mechanisms for such beneficiaries and selected municipalities and 
ensuring their effective participation, such assessment to comprise a survey of communities and the 
organization of focus groups with the potential beneficiaries.
(c)
Carrying out a review of technical, economic and environmental aspects of municipal 
infrastructure projects in the territory of the Recipient, aimed at determining project design standards, 
economic eligibility criteria, cofinancing mechanisms, environmental screening mechanisms and quality 
control, such review to comprise 
inter alia 
pre-investment studies and participatory impact evaluations.
(d)
Carrying out an analysis of the effect of rural infrastructure on land prices in the territory 
of the Recipient, aimed at determining a land tax-rural infrastructure leverage mechanism.
(e)
Preparation of an indigenous development plan, aimed at ensuring that indigenous 
peoples affected by the Project receive culturally compatible social and economic benefits, such plan to 
include 
inter alia
:
(i)
an assessment of the legal framework (legal status of indigenous peoples and 
their ability 
to access the legal system);
(ii)
baseline data (maps, analysis of social structure and income sources, inventories 
of resources);
(iii)
land tenure regulations affecting indigenous peoples;
(iv)
a strategy to ensure indigenous participation;
(v)
technical identification of development and mitigation activities;
Page  3
(vi)
institutional capacity assessment and development plan;
(vii)
implementation schedule, monitoring and evaluation mechanisms; and
(viii)
cost estimates and financing plan.
2.
Implementation Generally
The Recipient, through the Vice Ministry of Municipal Development and Popular Participation shall: 
(a) carry out the Activities with due diligence and efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for that purpose; (c) furnish all information covering the Activities 
and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as IDA shall reasonably request; (d) from time to time exchange 
views with IDA's representatives on the progress and results of the Activities; and (e) take all necessary 
measures required to enable IDA to visit the territory of the Recipient for purposes related to the Grant. 
Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if IDA shall so request, prepare and furnish to 
IDA promptly upon completion of the Activities a report, in form and substance satisfactory to IDA, on 
the results and impact of the Activities.
3.
Procurement
3.1.
Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ services and goods 
required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be 
governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex.
3.2.
The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to 
the place of use or installation, and that any indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely usable 
currency to replace or repair such goods.  The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities relevant to the 
Activities are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate practices and that any 
repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly made as needed.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by IDA on its books in the name 
of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant and 
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
Amount of the Grant
% of
Allocated in
Expenditures to
Item
U.S. Dollars
be Financed
(1)   Consultants’
500,000
100%
        services
Page  4
(2)  Goods
50,000
100% of foreign  
expenditures,
100% of local 
expenditures
(ex-factory cost) 
and 85% of
local expenditures
for other
items procured 
locally
(3)   Operating
100,000
100%
        Costs
(4)   Unallocated
50,000
TOTAL 700,000
For purposes of this paragraph:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in a currency other than that of the Recipient 
for goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other than the Recipient, and the term 
“local expenditures” means any expenditures that are not foreign expenditures;
(b)
the term “Goods” means any goods required for the execution of the Activities, including one 
vehicle and computer equipment; and
(c)
the term “Operating Costs” means the cost associated to the organization of seminars, workshops 
and focus group discussions.
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: (a) no withdrawals shall be made: (i) for 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by IDA, except 
that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding US$200,000 may be made on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after September 15, 1997; (ii) on account of 
payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures in 
the territories of any country which is not a member of IDA or for goods produced in or services supplied 
from such territories; (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of 
goods, if such payment or import, to IDA’s knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; or (v) after December 31, 
1998 or such later date as IDA shall establish by written notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date), 
except that withdrawals may be made for expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date if the 
corresponding application is received by IDA within four months after the Closing Date, after which time 
any amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be canceled; and (b) if, in 
IDA’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the items in the table in paragraph 4.2 above 
will be insufficient to finance the expenditures for such item, IDA may, by written notice to the 
Recipient, reallocate to such item an amount of the Grant then allocated to another item which, in IDA’s 
opinion, will not be necessary to meet other expenditures.
Page  5
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, it shall deliver 
to IDA a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the form specified by IDA.  Withdrawal 
applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the Recipient by the Minister of Finance or such other 
person as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) be accompanied by such evidence in support 
of the application as IDA shall reasonably request.  Authenticated specimen signatures of the person 
authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided with the first application bearing his or her 
signature.  Each withdrawal application for an amount of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be 
sufficient in form and substance to satisfy IDA that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount 
from the Grant Account and that such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the Activities. IDA shall 
pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account only to or on the order of the 
Recipient.
4.5.
IDA may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure for expenditures for: (a) services of consulting firms costing less than $50,000 equivalent; 
(b) services of individual consultants costing less than $15,000 equivalent; (c) goods; and (d) operating 
costs, all under such terms and conditions as IDA shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the Grant. IDA, at the 
Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall purchase with the currency of the Grant 
withdrawn from the Grant Account such currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of this Letter 
Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such value shall be as reasonably 
determined by IDA.
4.7.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and maintain in U.S. 
Dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in the Central Bank of Bolivia on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to IDA.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Attachment II to this Annex.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in 
respect of the Activities of the departments or agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the 
Activities or any part thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records and accounts referred to in subparagraph (a) above and 
the records and accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; (ii) 
furnish to IDA as soon as available, but in any case not later than six  months after the end of each such 
year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as IDA shall have 
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to IDA such other information concerning said records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as IDA shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account were made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in 
accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, 
until at least one year after IDA has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable IDA’s representatives to examine such 
Page  6
records; and (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in 
subparagraph (b) above and that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
IDA may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following events has occurred and is 
continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any of its obligations herein specified; or (b) the 
right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which IDA has made a loan with the guarantee of the 
Recipient, to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development or any development credit agreement with IDA shall have been suspended.
6.2.
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to make further 
withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals 
from the Grant Account shall have been suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 above; or 
(b) if the Recipient shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to IDA, within six months after the 
effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities.
Attachment I 
Procurement
Section I
.
Consultants’ Services
Part A
: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the Introduction and 
Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Bank in January 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of this 
Section I.
Part B
: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, 
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 
3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The short list of consultants for 
services under paragraph 1 of the Annex, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, 
may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Page  7
Part C
: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Single Source Selection
Services for studies requiring substantial involvement and knowledge of local issues, community 
needs, and/or participatory approaches under paragraph 1 of the Annex, estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract, in an aggregate amount not exceeding US$100,000 may, with IDA's 
prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services under paragraph 1 (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) of the Annex and services for tasks that meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 
5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by IDA of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for the selection of 
consultants under the Activities shall be furnished to IDA for its review and approval, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by IDA, 
and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for studies, training 
and workshops estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for studies, training 
and workshops estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $50,000, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second and third subparagraphs of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 
to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $15,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to IDA for its prior review and approval.  The contract 
shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
Page  8
(d)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated to 
cost less than the equivalent of $15,000, terms of reference shall be furnished to IDA for its prior review 
and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the procedures set forth in 
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Procurement of Goods
1.
Goods shall be procured: 
(a)
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by IDA in January 1995 and revised in January and August 
1996 (the Guidelines); and 
(b)
under contracts awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
2.
The review procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply to 
such contracts provided that the word “bids”, in paragraphs 1 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines, 
shall be read as “quotations”.
Attachment II
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term "eligible item" means the items 1 through 3 set forth in the table in paragraph 
4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to US$200,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of 
this Attachment.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in 
Page  9
accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After IDA has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly opened, 
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to IDA a request or requests for a deposit into the Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, IDA shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw 
from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to IDA 
requests for 
deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as IDA shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to IDA the 
documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Attachment for 
the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of 
each such request, IDA shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have 
been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by 
IDA from the Grant Account under the eligible item, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, at such 
time as IDA shall reasonably request, furnish to IDA such documents and other evidence showing that 
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, IDA shall not be required to 
make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, IDA shall have determined that all further withdrawals should be made by 
the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to IDA, within the period of time specified in 
paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to IDA pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the 
Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, IDA shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in whole 
or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the 
Page  10
provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall 
follow such procedures as IDA shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that IDA shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining 
on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the Special Account: 
(i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Attachment; 
or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to IDA, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from 
IDA: (A) provide such additional evidence as IDA may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if IDA shall so request, refund to IDA) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless IDA shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by IDA 
into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the Special 
Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from IDA, refund to IDA such outstanding amount.
