Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3065-BO
Development Credit Agreement
(Participatory Rural Investment Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 20, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3065-BO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 20, 1998 between REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist it in the financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from the Government of the Swiss Federation 
(GSF) a grant (the Swiss Grant) in an amount of, at least, five hundred thousand 
dollars ($500,000) to assist in the financing of Part A.3 of the Project on the terms 
and conditions set forth in an agreement (the Swiss Grant Agreement) to be entered 
into between the Borrower and GSF;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as amended through December 2, 
1997, (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Page  2
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"BCB" means the Borrower's central bank (Banco Central de Bolivia);
(b)
"CV" means a supervisory committee (Comité de Vigilancia) established in 
accordance with Law No. 1551 (as hereinafter defined);
(c)
"Decree No. 22154" means the Borrower’s Decreto Supremo No. 22154, dated 
March 15, 1989 and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on March 23, 1989, 
providing for the establishment of FDC (as hereinafter defined), as such decree may be 
amended from time to time;
(d)
"Department" means each of the Borrower’s prefecturas, the departmental 
representations of the Borrower’s executive branch, as established in the Borrower’s 
Law No. 1654 dated July 28, 1993 and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on 
such some date;
(e)
"Departmental Project Units" means each of the units established within 
each Department, under the Rural Communities Development Project financed under the 
Development Credit Agreement between the Association and the Borrower dated August 11, 
1995, and which units are responsible to coordinate the implementation of Project 
activities within the jurisdiction of the respective Department;
(f)
"Eligible Municipality" means a Municipality (as hereinafter defined) 
which has met the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual (as 
hereinafter defined) to: (i) carry out a pre-investment study under Part A.1 of the 
Project; and/or (ii) carry out an Investment Subproject (as hereinafter defined) under 
Part A.2 of the Project; and/or: (iii) participate under Part B of the Project, and 
"Eligible Municipalities" means all of such Municipalities;
(g)
"Eligible OTB" means an OTB (as hereinafter defined) which has met the 
eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined) to: 
(i) carry out a pre-investment study under Part A.1 of the Project; and/or (ii) carry 
out an Investment Subproject under Part A.2 of the Project; and/or (iii) participate 
under Part B of the Project, and "Eligible OTBs" means all of such OTBs;
(h)
"Eligible Indigenous Municipal District" means an Indigenous Municipal 
District (as hereinafter defined) which has met the eligibility criteria set forth in 
the Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined) to: (i) carry out a pre-investment 
study under Part A.1 of the Project; and/or (ii) carry out an Investment Subproject 
(as hereinafter defined) under Part A.2 of the Project; and/or (iii) participate under 
Part B of the Project, and "Eligible Indigenous Municipal Districts" means all of such 
districts;
(i)
"Eligible Small Producers Association" means a Small Producer Association 
(as hereinafter defined) which has met the eligibility criteria set forth in the 
Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined) to: (i) carry out a pre-investment study 
under Part A.1 of the Project; and/or (ii) carry out an Investment Subproject (as 
hereinafter defined) under Part A.2 of the Project; and/or (iii) participate under 
Part B of the Project, and "Eligible Small Producer Associations" means all of Small 
Producer Associations;
(j)
"Executing NGO" means a non-governmental organization which has met the 
eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined) to: 
(i) carry out a pre-investment study under Part A.1 of the Project; and/or (ii) carry 
out an Investment Subproject (as hereinafter defined) under Part A.2 of the Project; 
and/or (iii) participate under Part B of the Project, and "Executing NGOs" means all 
of such non-governmental organizations;
(k)
"FDC" means the Borrower’s small-farmer development fund (Fondo de 
Desarrollo Campesino) established pursuant to Decree No. 22154;
(l)
"FDC Institutional Development Program" means the program of actions and 
measures to be taken by FDC for purposes of its institutional development, including 
the consolidating and strengthening of its decentralization process, as such program 
is set forth in the Implementation Letter (as hereinafter defined);
(m)
"Fiscal Year" means the Borrower’s and FDC’s fiscal year commencing on 
January 1 and ending on December 31 of each calendar year;
Page  3
(n)
"Implementing Entities" means the Eligible Municipalities, the Eligible 
OTBs, the Eligible Small Producer Associations, the Eligible Indigenous Municipal 
Districts and the Executing NGOs, and "Implementing Entity" means any of such Eligible 
Municipalities, Eligible OTBs, Eligible Small Producer Associations, Eligible 
Indigenous Municipal Districts or Executing NGOs;
(o)
"Implementation Letter" means the letter, of even date herewith, from the 
Borrower to the Association setting forth: (i) the Performance Indicators (as 
hereinafter defined); and (ii) the FDC Institutional Development Program;
(p)
"Indigenous Municipal District" means any of the municipal districts 
established in accordance with paragraph III of Article 17 of Law No. 1551;
(q)
"Inter-institutional Arrangement" means each of the inter-institutional 
arrangements, satisfactory to the Association, to be entered into between: (i) VMPPFM 
(as hereinafter defined) and each Department; and (ii) VMRD (as hereinafter defined) 
and each Department, such arrangements to provide, inter alia, for the responsibility 
of the respective Department in the implementation of Parts B.1 (a) through (e), B.2 
(a) through (c) and (f), B.3 and B.4 of the Project, in the case of VMPPFM (as 
hereinafter defined), and Parts B.1 (f) and B.2 (e) of the Project, in the case of 
VMRD (as hereinafter defined) and to include the terms and conditions set forth in 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement and the Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined);
(r)
"Investment Subproject" means a specific subproject which meets the 
eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined) and 
consisting, inter alia, of: (i) the rehabilitation of access roads or bridges; (ii) 
the construction of bridges, small-scale irrigation schemes, outdoor markets and/or 
storage centers; (iii) river embankment improvements; (iv) the construction of 
micro-hydroelectric schemes; (v) the rehabilitation and maintenance of municipal 
infrastructure; (vi) the rehabilitation of cultural heritage infrastructure; (vii) 
soil conservation works; (viii) agro-forestry and forestry works; (ix) the provision 
of technical assistance in production, processing and marketing; and (x) the provision 
of agro-processing equipment, and "Investment Subprojects" means all of such specific 
subprojects;
(s)
"Law No. 1551" means Ley No. 1551 of the Borrower, dated April 20, 1994 
and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on April 24, 1994, providing, inter 
alia, for the promotion and consolidation of the participatory planning process of 
indigenous groups and rural and urban communities in Bolivia, and such term includes 
the regulations to such Law set forth in Supreme Decrees No. 23813, 23774, 23845, 
23858 and 24202 of the Borrower (Decreto Supremo No. 23813, Decreto Supremo No. 23845 
Decreto Supremo No. 23858, Decreto Supremo No. 24202 and Decreto Supremo No. 23774) 
dated June 30, 1994, May 9, 1994, August 18, 1994, September 9, 1994, and December 23, 
1995 respectively, as such Law and Decrees may be amended from time to time;
(t)
"Law No. 1654" means Ley No. 1654 of the Borrower, dated July 28, 1995, 
and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on July 28, 1995 providing for the 
administrative decentralization of the Borrower’s Executive Branch at the departmental 
level as such Law may be amended from time to time;
(u)
"Municipality" means an entity with legal personality established 
pursuant to Law No. 696 (Ley No. 696) of the Borrower dated January 10, 1985 and 
published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on January 10, 1985 and within the 
Project Area (as hereinafter defined);
(v)
"Municipal Development Plan" means a Municipality's development plan 
prepared in accordance with the Supreme Decree No. 216961, dated March 14, 1997, and 
which may include, inter alia, the design of Investment Subprojects, construction or 
rehabilitation of infrastructure, acquisition of goods and provision of technical 
assistance for the benefit of the respective Municipality and the population living in 
the area under the jurisdiction of such Municipality;
(w)
"Operational Manual" means the Borrower and FDC’s manual, satisfactory to 
the Association, to be approved by the Borrower and FDC pursuant to Section 7.01 (a) 
of this Agreement and setting forth, inter alia: (i) the eligibility criteria for 
Implementing Entities, and Investment Subprojects; (ii) the disbursement and 
procurement procedures for the Project; (iii) the terms of reference of the 
consultants to be contracted under the Project; (iv) the training program to be 
carried out under the Project; (v) the Municipalities included in the Project Area (as 
hereinafter defined); (vi) the environmental criteria and procedures to be used by FDC 
in the environmental management of Investment Subprojects; (vii) rules and procedures 
Page  4
for the operation of the guarantee fund under Part A.3 of the Project; (viii) a model 
Subgrant Agreement (as hereinafter defined); and (ix) a model Inter-Institutional 
Arrangement and a model Participation Agreement; as such manual may be amended from 
time to time by agreement between the Borrower, FDC and the Association;
(x)
"OTB" means an indigenous community or a rural community or a 
neighborhood association (Organizaciones Territoriales de Base) established in 
accordance with Law No. 1551;
(y)
"Participation Agreement" means each of the agreements, satisfactory to 
the Association, to be entered into between a Departmental Project Unit, on the one 
side, and an Eligible Municipality, Eligible OTB or Eligible Indigenous Peoples 
District, on the other side, providing for, inter alia, the responsibilities of the 
respective parties in the implementation of the relevant Project activity under Parts 
B.1 (a) through (f) and B.2 (a) through (c), (e) and (f), and including the terms and 
provisions set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement and the Operational Manual;
(z)
"Performance Indicators" means the indicators for measuring progress in 
the implementation of the Project and the attainment of its objectives, as such 
indicators are included in the Implementation Letter;
(aa)
"Project Area" means the area under the jurisdiction of the 
Municipalities listed in the Operational Manual, as such area may be amended from time 
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association;
(bb)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to a Letter of Agreement dated 
March 12, 1998, and countersigned by the Borrower's representative on March 20, 1998;
(cc)
"Small Producer Association" means an asociación de pequeños productores, 
a legal entity established and operating, under the laws of the Borrower, which meets 
the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual, and "Small Producer 
Associations" means all of such entities;
(dd)
"Special Account ‘A’ " means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 
(i) of this Agreement;
(ee)
"Special Account ‘B’ " means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 
(ii) of this Agreement;
(ff)
"Special Account ‘C’ " means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 
(iii) of this Agreement;
(gg)
"Special Accounts" means collectively the Special Account ‘A’, the 
Special Account ‘B’ and the Special Account ‘C’;
(hh)
"Subgrant" means a grant made or to be made by FDC out of the proceeds of 
the Credit to an Implementing Entity for the financing of a pre-investment study under 
Part A.1 of the Project or an Investment Subproject under Part A.2 of the Project;
(ii)
"Subgrant Agreement" means any of the agreements to be entered into by 
FDC pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement;
(jj)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 3.02 
(a) of this Agreement;
(kk)
"Table" means the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
(ll)
"VMPPFM" means the Borrower’s Vice Ministry of Popular Participation and 
Municipal Strengthening, Viceministerio de Participación Popular y Fortalecimiento 
Municipal; and
(mm)
"VMRD" means the Borrower’s Vice-Ministry of Rural Development, 
Viceministerio del Desarrollo Rural.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
Page  5
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to forty six million five hundred thousand 
(SDR46,500,000) Special Drawing Rights
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the 
following amounts to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit: (i) amounts paid 
(or, if the Association shall so agree, to be paid) by FDC on account of withdrawals 
made by FDC for the benefit of an Implementing Entity under a Subgrant to meet the 
reasonable costs of works, goods and services required for an Investment Subproject in 
respect of which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested; and (ii) 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for Part B of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars in BCB: (i) a special deposit account (the Special Account ‘A’) for purposes 
of depositing the corresponding proceeds of the Credit under Categories (1), (2) (b), 
(3) (c), (4) (c) and (6) of the Table in respect of Parts A, B.2 (d) and B.6 of the 
Project; (ii) a special deposit account (the Special Account ‘B’) for purposes of 
depositing the corresponding proceeds of the Credit under Categories (2) (a), (3) (a), 
(4) (a) and (b), and (5) (a) and (b) in respect of Parts B.1 (a) through (e), B.2 (a) 
through (c) and (f), B.3, B.4 and B.5 of the Project; and (iii) a special deposit 
account (the Special Account ‘C’) for purposes of depositing the corresponding 
proceeds of the Credit under Categories (3) (b) and (4) (d) in respect of Parts B.1 
(f), B.2 (e) and B.7 of the Project, all on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the Accrual Date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the Accrual Date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each February 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 2008, and ending February 15, 
2038.  Each installment to and including the installment payable on February 15, 2018 
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
Page  6
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall:
(a)
(i)
carry out Parts B.1 (a) through (e), B.2 (a) through (c) and (f) 
and B.4, of the Project through VMPPFM and the Departments, and 
with the participation of the respective Eligible Municipalities, 
Eligible OTBS and Eligible Indigenous Peoples Districts; 
(ii)
carry out Parts B.3 and B.5 of the Project through VMPPFM;
(iii)
carry out Parts B.1 (f) and B.2 (e) of the Project, through VMDR 
and the Departments, and with the participation of the respective 
Eligible Municipalities, Eligible OTBs and Eligible Indigenous 
Peoples Districts; and 
(iv)
carry out Part B.7 of the Project through VMDR, all with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, technical, engineering, financial, ecological and 
environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
such Parts of the Project;
(b)
cause FDC, under the Subsidiary Agreement, to carry out: (i) Parts B.2 
(d) and B.6 of the Project; and (ii) Part A of the Project pursuant to agreements (the 
Subgrant Agreements) to be entered into between FDC and the corresponding Implementing 
Entities, under procedures, terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, 
including those referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, all with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, technical, 
financial, engineering, ecological and environmental practices, and shall take or 
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services 
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable FDC to carry out Parts A, B.2 
(d) and B.6 of the Project, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with the carrying out by FDC of Parts A, B.2 (d) and B.6 of 
Page  7
the Project;
(c)
execute Interinstitutional Arrangements and Participation Agreements for 
purposes of the implementation of Parts B.1, B.2 (except B.2 (d)), B.3 and B.4) of the 
Project. Except as otherwise agreed with the Association, the Borrower shall not 
amend, assign, abrogate, suspend or fail to enforce any of such Interinstitutional 
Arrangements, Participation Agreements or any provision thereof; and
(d)
carry out, and cause FDC to carry out, the Project in accordance with the 
Operational Manual. Except as otherwise agreed with the Association, the Borrower 
shall, and shall cause FDC, not to amend, abrogate, suspend, waive or fail to enforce 
the Operational Manual or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall transfer to FDC, on a grant basis, the 
portion of the proceeds of the Credit under Categories (1), (2) (b), (3) (c), (4) (c) 
and (6) of the Table and allocated to Parts A, B.2 (d) and B.6 of the Project, under 
an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and FDC under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(b)
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
amend, assign, abrogate, suspend, waive or fail to enforce the Subsidiary Agreement or 
any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, 
a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.05. Without limitation or restriction to Sections 9.01 (a), 9.05 and 
9.06 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators, the 
carrying out of  the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, not later than February 15 and August 15 of each year of 
Project execution, progress reports on the Project including, inter alia: (i) progress 
achieved against the Performance Indicators; (ii) an assessment of the problems and 
issues derived from the implementation of the Project; (iii) updated implementation 
and disbursements schedules for the following semester; and (iv) status of compliance 
with the covenants contained in this Agreement and the Subgrant Agreements; 
(c)
prepare and furnish to the Association, for its review and approval, not 
later than November 15 of each year of Project implementation, starting in 1998, a 
proposed annual program providing for the activities, implementation schedule and 
proposed budget in respect of each Part of the Project in the upcoming year;
(d)
carry out, not earlier than 24 months, and not later than 30 months, 
after the Effective Date, a mid-term review of the Project to focus, inter alia, on: 
(i) progress in the implementation of the Project on the basis of the Performance 
Indicators; (ii) technical quality of the Investment Subprojects; (iii) implementation 
of environmental mitigation measures in connection with Investment Subprojects; and 
(iv) Project management and monitoring; and 
(e)
if, as a result of any of the above mid-term review, or any other reviews 
pursuant to Section 9.01 (a) of the General Conditions, the Association shall have 
reasonably determined that the progress in the execution of the Project or in the 
achievement of its objectives is not satisfactory, promptly take or cause to be taken, 
without limitation or restriction to any of the Association’s rights under this 
Agreement, all such action, satisfactory to the Association, as shall be necessary or 
Page  8
appropriate for the efficient execution of the Project or for the attainment of its 
objectives. 
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (a) through VMPPFM, maintain during the 
execution of the Project the personnel referred to in paragraph 3 (e) of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and (b) cause FDC, under the Subsidiary Agreement, to establish, not 
later than December 31, 1998, and maintain thereafter, an environmental unit with 
organizational structure, functions and staffing satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.07. Except as otherwise agreed by the Association, the Borrower shall 
cause FDC, pursuant to, and under the terms and provisions of, the Subsidiary 
Agreement and the Operational Manual, not to carry out Investment Subprojects which 
involve: (a) the construction of new roads; (b) the upgrading of roads within or in 
the proximity of any protected natural areas or any other forested areas; (c) new 
irrigation plots exceeding two hundred hectares; (d) water reservoirs with incremental 
surface areas exceeding one hundred hectares; (e) flood protection or agricultural 
drainage works which would adversely affect natural wetlands; and (f) involuntary 
resettlement of population.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall ensure, and cause FDC to ensure that: (i) only 
pesticides approved by the Association, from among the list of pesticides which meet 
the present standards established by the FAO and the World Health Organization, will 
be used on the Borrower's territory; (ii) persons handling pesticides will be provided 
with protective clothing and equipment, including health kits, and shall be adequately 
qualified and trained to handle pesticides; (iii) adequate advance notice will be 
given to the local population in the areas to be sprayed with pesticides; (iv) the 
labeling, packaging and storage of pesticide containers, and the disposal of 
pesticides and pesticide containers, will be carried out in accordance with the 
internationally accepted general standards provided for under the International Code 
of Conduct on the Distribution and Use of Pesticides published by the FAO; and (v) 
suitable pesticide effluent disposal mechanisms will be made available to prevent 
environmental pollution and pesticide leakage into groundwater, including leakage 
resulting from the rinsing of pesticide containers.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part B (excluding 
B.2 (d) and B.6) of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out such Parts of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Accounts for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
Page  9
from the Credit Account or payment out of the respective Special 
Accounts was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause FDC under the Subsidiary Agreement to 
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations and financial condition of FDC, including separate accounts 
for Parts A, B.2 (d)  and B.6 of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause FDC under the Subsidiary Agreement to:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, accounts, financial statements and the audit thereof as 
the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall: 
(a)
cause FDC, under the Subsidiary Agreement, to carry on its operations and 
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial, technical, 
ecological, environmental and engineering practices under the supervision of qualified 
and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers;
(b)
without limitation or restriction to paragraph (a) above, cause FDC, 
under the Subsidiary Agreement, to ensure that all of its departmental heads (jefes 
departamentales), national managers (gerentes de area), and unit heads (jefes de 
unidad) are recruited on the basis of open, merit-based and competitive procedures; 
and
(c)
without limitation or restriction to paragraph (a) above, cause FDC, 
under the Subsidiary Agreement, to carry out the FDC Institutional Development Program 
in accordance with its respective terms.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
that FDC shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations under 
the Subsidiary Agreement;
(b)
that the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have 
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of FDC or for the suspension 
Page  10
of its operations;
(c)
that Decree No. 22154 shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed, waived or not enforced in such manner so as to adversely affect, in the 
opinion of the Association, the ability of FDC to carry out Parts A, B.2 (d) and B.6 
of the Project or to perform any of its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement; 
(d)
that Law No. 1551 or Law 1654 shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such manner so as to adversely affect, 
in the opinion of the Association, the ability of the Borrower to carry out Part B 
(excluding B.2 (d) and B.6) of the Project or to perform any of its obligations under 
this Agreement;
(e)
that the Swiss Agreement shall have failed to become effective by June 
30, 1999, or such later date as the Association may agree, provided, however, that the 
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for Parts A.3 of the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement; and
(f)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
loan or grant (including the Swiss Grant) made to the 
Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have been 
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the agreements providing therefor; 
or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of 
its obligations under any loan agreement or grant agreement 
(including the Swiss Agreement) as the case may be; and
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower;
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (b) or (c) or (d) or (e) of Section 
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(c)
the event specified in paragraph (f) (i) (B) of Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (f) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
that the Operational Manual has been approved by the Borrower and FDC; 
and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed by the Borrower and FDC.
Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
Page  11
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Subsidiary Agreement 
has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and FDC and is legally binding 
upon the Borrower and FDC in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date of August 20, 1998 is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Palacio de Comunicaciones Piso 19
Av. Mariscal Santa Cruz, esq. Calle Oruro s/n
Casilla Postal No. 9917
La Paz, Bolivia
Cable address: 
Telex:
FINANZA
2617 (FINANZA BV)
La Paz, Bolivia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) and
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI) 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By  /s/ Marcelo Pérez Monasterios
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By  /s/ Maritta Koch-Weser
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
Page  12
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
   % of
Credit Allocated
Expenditures
(Expressed in
   to be
Category
SDR Equivalent)
 Financed
(1)
Subgrants for:
100% of
amounts disbursed
(a)
Pre-investment
 2,220,000
by FDC under
studies under
Subgrants
Part A.1 of the
Project
(b)
Investment Subprojects 
24,800,000
(2)
Goods:
100% of foreign
expenditures and
(a)
Parts B.1, B.4
   520,000
85% of local
and B.5 of 
expenditures
the Project
(b)
Part B.6 of the
   300,000
the Project
(3)
Consultants'
100% of
Services and
expenditures made
Training
by the Departmental
Project Units, under
(a)
Parts B.1 (a) through (e);5,180,000
the Participation
B.2 (a) through (c) and
Agreements, VMDR
(f) and B.3 of the Project,
VMPPFM and
and services for audits
FDC
under Section 4.01 of
the Development Credit
Agreement
(b)
Parts B.1 (f) and
   590,000
B.2 (e) of the
Project
(c)
Part B.2 (d) of 
    70,000
the Project
(4)
Consultants’ Services
80% of
expenditures
(a)
Part B.4 of the
   740,000
made on
Project
or prior to
December
31, 2000 and
60% of expenditures
made thereafter
(b)
Part B.5 of
 1,040,000
the Project
(c)
Part B.6 of
   670,000
the Project
(d)
Part B.7 of
   150,000
the Project
(5)
Incremental Operating Costs
80% of
expenditures
(a)
Part B.4 of the Project
   300,000
made on or
prior to
(b)
Part B.5 of the Project
   370,000
December 31,
2000; and 60%
of expenditures
made thereafter
(6)
FDC's Administrative
 4,060,000
100%
Page  13
Costs
(7)
Project Preparation
 1,110,000
Amounts due 
Advance
pursuant to
Section 2.02 (c)
of this
Agreement
(8)
Unallocated
 4,380,000
TOTAL
46,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term "Training" means expenditures in connection with trainers' fees, 
rental of conference rooms, per diem and transport of trainees and materials required 
for the training activities to be carried out under the Project;
(d)
the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means expenditures in connection 
with office rental, office material and supplies, utilities, maintenance of equipment 
and buildings, field materials and field allowances and transportation costs all 
associated with the Project; and 
(e)
the term "FDC Administrative Costs" means the expenditures related to the 
15% fee to be paid out of the proceeds of the Credit to FDC in connection with the 
provision of each Subgrant under Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR1,500,000, may be 
made in respect of the Category (1) set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on 
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after February 28, 
1998; 
(b)
payments made for expenditures under Categories (3) (a), (4) (a) and (5) 
(a) of the Table, in respect of Parts B.1. (a) through (e), B.2 (a) through (c) and 
(f) and B.4 of the Project, unless the respective Interinstitutional Arrangements and 
the respective Participation Agreement have been executed;
(c)
payments made for expenditures under Category (3) (b) of the Table, in 
respect of Parts B.1 (f) and B.2 (e) of the Project, unless the respective 
Inter-institutional Arrangements and the respective Participation Agreement have been 
executed;
(d)
payments made for expenditures under Categories (1) and (6) of the Table 
unless the corresponding Subgrant Agreement has been executed by the respective 
parties;
(e)
Payments made for expenditures under Categories (2) (a), (4) (b) and (5) 
(b) of the Table, in respect of Part B.5 of the Project, unless VMPPFM has retained a 
Project manager, an accountant and an administrator, all with qualifications and 
experience and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) works under contracts 
estimated to cost  $250,000 equivalent or less; (b) goods under contracts estimated to 
cost $100,000 equivalent or less; (c) services of consulting firms under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent; (d) services of individual consultants under 
contracts costing less than $20,000 equivalent; (e) Training; (f) Incremental 
Operating Costs; and (g) FDC Administrative Costs, all under such terms and conditions 
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Page  14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to promote economic 
development of rural communities and Eligible Municipalities through sustainable 
productive investments based on local demand which is generated through a 
participatory planning process.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Rural Investments
1.
Carrying out of pre-investment studies related to potential Investment 
Subprojects.
2.
Carrying out of Investment Subprojects.
3.
Establishment and operation of a guarantee fund (fondo de garantía) to 
facilitate the participation of Executing Entities in the implementation of the 
Project.
Part B:
Institutional Strengthening
1.
Provision of technical assistance to:
(a)
Eligible Municipalities, CVs and Eligible OTBs to carry out and monitor 
the Municipal Development Plans;
(b)
Eligible Indigenous Peoples Districts to formulate and implement their 
respective Indigenous District Development Plans; 
(c)
Eligible Municipalities in areas of planning, administration, accounting, 
engineering and environmental management; 
(d)
Eligible Municipalities in the area of municipal cadastre;
(e)
Eligible Municipalities and Eligible Indigenous Municipal Districts to 
prepare profiles of Investment Subprojects; and
(f)
Eligible OTBs and Eligible Small Producer Associations to prepare 
profiles of Investment Subprojects. 
2.
A program of training for:
(a)
Eligible OTBs, CVs, Eligible Municipalities and Eligible Indigenous 
Municipal Districts in the participatory planning process set forth by Law No. 1551;
(b)
Eligible Municipalities and CVs to manage and monitor the Municipal 
Development Plans; 
(c)
Eligible Municipalities, Eligible Indigenous Peoples District and 
Eligible OTBs to identify, design, implement and supervise their respective Investment 
Subprojects; 
(d)
Executing NGOs to identify, design, implement and supervise Investment 
Subprojects;
(e)
Eligible OTBs and Eligible Small Producer Associations in the preparation 
of Investment Subprojects; and
(f)
Eligible Indigenous Peoples Districts to manage and monitor their 
respective Indigenous District Development Plans.
3.
Design and implementation of a community monitoring system to assess the impact 
of the Project.
4.
Strengthening of the institutional capacity of the Departmental Project Units to 
assist in the implementation of Parts B.1 and B.2 of the Project.
Page  15
5.
Strengthening of VMPPFM’s institutional capacity to assist in the carrying out 
of Parts B.1 (a) through (e), B.2 (a) through (c) and (f), B.3 and B.4 of the Project.
6.
Strengthening of FDC’s institutional capacity to evaluate, approve, finance and 
supervise Investment Subprojects.
7.
Strengthening of VMDR’s institutional capacity to assist in the carrying out of 
Parts B.1 (f) and B.2 (e) of the Project.
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
(i)
Goods estimated to cost  more than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract; and
(ii)
works estimated to cost more than $250,000 equivalent per 
contract, shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Procurement of all goods and works under Part B.1 (a) above, shall be 
carried out using standard bidding documents acceptable to the Association.
2.
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $3,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $25,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include 
a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
4.
Community Participation
(a)
Works to be carried out by Eligible Municipalities under Investment 
Subprojects and estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000 equivalent, may be procured  by the 
Eligible Municipalities through the contracting of local communities in accordance 
with the procedures set forth in the Operational Manual.  Such works shall be financed 
under the Credit on the basis of flat rates per completed unit, satisfactory to the 
Association, and against progress made in the respective works as such progress is 
certified by FDC.
(b)
Works under Investment Subprojects and estimated to cost less than 
$30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000, 
Page  16
may be procured by FDC through the contracting of Eligible OTBs or Eligible Indigenous 
Municipal Districts on the basis of lump-sum contracts with payments made against the 
progress in the respective works as certified by FDC and in accordance with the 
procedures set forth in the Operational Manual.  As part of the foregoing, the 
Eligible OTBs and Eligible Indigenous Municipal Districts shall not be required to 
provide bank guarantees or invoices (notas fiscales)."
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods or works estimated to cost more 
than $100,000 equivalent and $250,000 equivalent, respectively, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to: (i) the first contract for goods awarded under the 
procedures referred to in Part B.2 of this Section; and (ii) the first two contracts 
for works awarded under the procedures referred to in Part B.3 of this Section, the 
following procedures shall apply:
(A)
prior to the selection of any supplier or contractor, as the case 
may be, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a report on 
the comparison and evaluation of quotations received;
(B)
prior to the execution of any contract, the Borrower shall provide 
to the Association a copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract; and
(C)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for technical assistance under Parts A.1, B.1 and B.2 of the Project 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent and more than $20,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Page  17
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for technical assistance under Parts B.1 and B.2 of the Project 
estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection
Services for technical assistance under the Project which are estimated to cost 
less than $20,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$1,000,000 equivalent, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section III.
Special Provisions
A.
In addition and without limitation to any other provision set forth in this 
Schedule or the Guidelines, the following rules shall govern all procurement of goods 
and works referred to in Part B.1 of Section I of this Schedule:
1.
A merit point system shall not be used in the prequalification of bids.
2.
The award of goods and works contracts shall be based exclusively on price and, 
whenever appropriate, shall also take into account factors similar to those referred 
to in paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation 
shall always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure 
for such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid.
3.
The Borrower shall open all bids at the stipulated time and place in accordance 
with a procedure satisfactory to the Association.
4.
The Borrower shall use a single envelope procedure.
Page  18
5.
Whenever there is a discrepancy between the amounts in figures and in words of a 
bid, the amounts in words shall govern.
6.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the bidding process shall not 
be declared void if only three bids or less have been submitted unless such bids have 
been determined not to be responsive.
7.
Any standards and technical specifications (quoted in the bidding documents) 
which are at least substantially equivalent to the national standards and technical 
specifications shall be acceptable.
8.
Foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate.
9.
Foreign bidders shall not be required to legalize any documentation related to 
their bids with Bolivian authorities as a prerequisite of bidding. 
10.
No margin of preference shall be granted for any particular category of bidders.
11.
The auction procedure (Puja Abierta) shall not be used.
12.
In the event that a bidder whose bid was evaluated as the bid with the lowest 
evaluated price withdraws its bid, the contract may be awarded to the second lowest 
responsive evaluated bid.
13.
Foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for submitting bids, be required to 
enter into a joint venture agreement with local bidders.
14.
No other procurement rules or regulations of the Borrower’s agencies or of any 
state-owned entity shall apply without the prior review and consent of the 
Association.
B.
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines, the following rules shall govern all 
procurement of consultants' services referred to in Section II of this Schedule:
1.
As a condition for participating in the selection process, foreign consultants 
shall not be required to enter into a joint venture agreement with local consultants, 
unless the conditions stated in paragraph 1.12 of the Consultant Guidelines are met.
2.
As a condition for participating in the selection process, foreign consultants 
shall not be required to legalize their proposals or any documentation related to such 
proposals with Bolivian authorities.
3.
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be registered in the Borrower’s 
National Registry of Consultants (Registro Nacional de Consultoría).
SCHEDULE 4
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term: (i) "eligible Categories for Special Account ‘A’ " means 
Categories (1), (2) (b), (3) (c), (4) (c), and (6); (ii) "eligible Categories for 
Special Account ‘B’ " means Categories (2) (a), (3) (a), (4) (a) and (b) and (5) (a) 
and (b); (iii) "eligible Categories for Special Account ‘C’ " means Categories (3) (b) 
and (4) (d), all set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and (iv) "eligible Categories" means collectively the terms referred to in 
(i), (ii) and (iii) herein;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the respective eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation A" means an amount equivalent to 
$4,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special 
Account A pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; 
(d)
the term "Authorized Allocation B" means an amount equivalent to 
$2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special 
Account B pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; and
Page  19
(e)
the term "Authorized Allocation C" means an amount equivalent to $150,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account C 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account ‘A’, Special Account ‘B’ and Special Account ‘C’ have been duly opened, 
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation ‘A’, the Authorized Allocation ‘B’ and the 
Authorized Allocation ‘C’, as the case may be, and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Accounts shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation ‘A’ , Authorized Allocation 
‘B’ and Authorized Allocation ‘C’, as the case may be, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits into the respective 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the respective aggregate 
amount of the Authorized Allocation ‘A’, Authorized Allocation ‘B’ and the Authorized 
Allocation ‘C’. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the 
respective Special Accounts such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Accounts, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the 
respective Special Accounts at such intervals as the Association 
shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On 
the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Accounts such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the respective Special 
Accounts for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Accounts, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish 
to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was 
made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the respective Special Accounts:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation 
A, the Authorized Allocation B and the Authorized Allocation C, as the case may be.
Page  20
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the respective eligible Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have 
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special 
Accounts as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the respective Special Accounts: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount 
not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by 
the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may 
request; or (B) deposit into the respective Special Accounts (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the respective 
Special Accounts shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made 
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any of the Special Accounts will not be required to cover further 
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the respective Special 
Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 5
Procedures and Terms and Conditions of Subgrants
1.
Each Subgrant will finance up to 85% of the cost of each pre-investment study 
under Part A.1 of the Project or each Investment Subproject under Part A.2 of the 
Project.
2.
Each Subgrant shall be made pursuant to a Subgrant Agreement, whereby FDC shall 
obtain rights adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association, 
including the right to:
(a)
require the Implementing Entity to carry out and operate the respective 
pre-investment study or Investment Subproject with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with sound administrative, technical, engineering, financial, ecological 
and environmental standards and to provide the necessary information to FDC to enable 
FDC to comply with its obligation as provided in Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
require that: (i) the works, goods and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
3 to this Agreement; and (ii) such works, goods and services shall be used exclusively 
in the carrying out of the respective pre-investment study or Investment Subproject;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association, if 
the Association shall so request, the goods and works included in the respective 
Investment Subproject, and any relevant records and documents;
(d)
require the Implementing Entity to finance at least 15% of the total cost 
of the corresponding pre-investment study or Investment Subproject, such financing to 
be made either: (i) in cash; (ii) in kind; (iii) through the provision of labor; or 
(iv) by means of any combination thereof;
(e)
require the Implementing Entity to take all such action as shall be 
necessary to acquire as when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as 
shall be required for carrying out the Investment Subproject and shall furnish to the 
Association, promptly upon its request, evidence satisfactory to the Association that 
such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to the 
Page  21
Investment Subproject;
(f)
require the Implementing Entity to: (i) prepare and furnish to FDC an 
action plan, satisfactory to the Association, to mitigate any potential negative 
environmental impact resulting from the carrying out of the corresponding Investment 
Subproject and identified in the environmental assessment for such Investment 
Subproject, all in accordance with  environmental criteria acceptable to the 
Association; and (ii) carry out the action plan referred to in (i) herein in 
accordance with its terms; and
(g)
suspend or terminate the right of the Implementing Entity to benefit from 
the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such Implementing Entity to comply with any 
of its obligations under the corresponding Subgrant Agreement. \0c SCHEDULE 6
Terms and Conditions of Inter-institutional Arrangements and Participation Agreements
1.
Inter-institutional Arrangements
Each of the Inter-institutional Arrangements shall provide for, inter alia, the 
responsibilities of the respective Department in the implementation of the relevant 
Project activities, including:
(a)
the obligation of the Department to provide the financial contribution 
required in accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual;
(b)
the obligation of the Department to enter into Participation Agreements; 
and
(c)
the delegation by the Department’s Prefecto with approval by the 
Department’s council (Consejo Departamental) to the Department Unit of the exclusive 
authority to execute and enforce Participation Agreements.
2.
Participation Agreements
Each of the Participation Agreements shall provide for, inter alia, the 
responsibilities of the Departmental Project Unit and the respective Eligible 
Municipality, Eligible OTB or Eligible Indigenous Peoples District in respect of the 
implementation of the relevant Project activity including:
(a)
the obligation of the Eligible Municipality, Eligible OTB or Eligible 
Indigenous Peoples District to finance, at least, fifteen per cent (15%) of the cost 
of the relevant Project activity; 
(b)
the obligation of the Eligible Municipality, Eligible OTB or Eligible 
Indigenous Peoples District to carry out the relevant Project activity with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound administrative, technical, 
engineering, financial, ecological and environmental standards and to provide the 
necessary information to the Borrower to enable the Borrower to comply with its 
obligations, as provided in Section 4.01 of this Agreement;
(c)
the obligation of the Eligible Municipality, Eligible OTB or Eligible 
Indigenous Peoples District to procure the services and goods to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement; and
(d)
the right of the Departmental Project Unit to suspend or terminate the 
right of the Eligible Municipality, Eligible OTB or Eligible Indigenous Peoples 
District to benefit from the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such Eligible 
Municipality, Eligible OTB or Eligible Indigenous Peoples District to comply with any 
of its obligations under the corresponding Participation Agreement.
