Document of
The World Bank
rOR OMCAuL uSE ONLY
-4?'-/- 2-/-
Repor No. P-4034-IVC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONJ A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$ 110.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF IVORY COAST
FOR A
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PROGRAM
May 20, 1985
T   duwunt b a s narnctred dlftlbtk. sd may be wed by recipiets way in the performanee Of
teir *official dutie. Bs Coeim y Mt o tderise be dilsed widtot Wodd Bank autourhion-



Cirrency Tiit - CFA FraP  (CFAF)
US$ 1.0 - CWE 490
CFAP 1.0 - S$ 0.002
Jauiry 1 - December 31
SYSM4 OF 11   i AND MWAS]F  02C
1 ueter (t             -         3.28 feet (ft)
1 square wter (n2)      -        10.76 square feet (sq ft)
1 libic mater (13)      -       35.3  aibic feet (cu ft)
1 dlcmLeter  )          -        0.62 mile (iii)
1 square ldlcmeter (km2) -       0.39  square mile (sq ii)
1 metric ton (t)        -        2,205 pouods (lb)
AND ACROS
Ewj I sh                             French
adt      average daily traffic                  trafic journaaer mP ye1
AEDB     African Development Bank               Banque Africaie de DEveloppMnt
ANA!     Airport Mnagement AgeaqCy              Aece Ntiamle des AMrodroes et
de la )Etiooke
AsBaiA   Agency for Air NaVigatiOn              Agence pir la Sian; tg de la
Safety                                la Navigatim Aaiie
BSIE     Special luvestnint Budget              BdWget Special d''nestisse-
iiene de l'Etat
CAA      Special Amorization   dEndA                                   s     ts
CEP      Center for Vocatioa Tratinig           Certre de Formtim Profes-
siomnefe
QC'B     National Center of Freight             Centre Natioml des Bureaunc
Bureaus                               de Fkrt.
DOMX     Directorate for                        Direction et CR
Control of Major Works                des Grands Travunc
JEP      Directorate of Sties and               Direction des Etudes et
Progmming                            mPron
DR       Directorate of Roads                   Directim des Poutes
DT       Directorate of Transport               Directimo des Transports
DIXP     Directorate of Public Works            Direction du Material des Travaux
Equipment                             Publics
ENSIP    National Public Works Sciool           Ecole Natinale Suphriene des
Travanu Publics
Buildings and Public Works            Laborataore du Batimeat et des
Laboratory                            TravanT Ptblics
NEPE     Ministry of Econcxi                    MinistEre de l'Econnmie
and Finan                             et des Finances
NiPCEr   yinistry of Public Works,              Minist&re des Tmaux Publics,
Contrction, Post and                  de la Constuction, des Postes
Telecaniunications                    et des relc"micarions
OSER     Road Safety Offie                      Offic de la Skarite Routigre
RAN      Abidjan-Niger Ralroad                  Rigie de henain de Fer Abidjan-
Nir
SDR      Road Data Service                      Service des Donn6es Rcutiares



FOR OFCAL USE ONLY
IVORY COAST
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR LOAN
Loani and Project Sumn.-try
Borrower:       The Republic of tne Ivory Coast
Loan Amount:    US$110.0 million equivalent
Terms:          Standard
Co-Lenders:     AFDB (US$50.0 million equivalent)
Commercial Banks (US$33.4 million equivalent).
Sector Program: The loan would support a three-and-a-half year
US$230.7 million equivalent Highway Sector Program
covering the period mid-1985 to end 1988. The program
would contain all road construction, upgrading,
strengthening, rehabilitation and maintenance works to
be undertaken by the Borrower in the program period on
the public road network of the country, as well as
legislative and government measures destined to improve
the efficiency of the road transport industry and
encompass (i) investments in new road construction, and
in rural road upgrading and rehabilitation; (ii) a
proper level of routine and periodic maintenance of the
entire road network of the country; (iii) training of
road maintenance staff at all levels and the
introduction of personnel management systems for such
staff; (iv) legislative changes to deregulate the road
transport industry and provide it with a system of
freight allocation based on market force competition;
'v) a program of enforcing vehicle load limits; and (vi)
the preparation of a national transport plan. The Loan
would provide financing for civil works by contract;
road maintenance works by force account through the
purchase of fuel, spare parts, materials and a limited
amount of equipment; and technical assistance and
consultants' services for road maintenance, personnel
management, deregulation and reform of the road
transport industry, enforcement of road traffic
legislation and the preparation of a national transport
plan.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by tecipients only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be diacicsed without World Bank authorization.



if
Benefits
and Risks:       Transport costs inside the Ivory Coast and for transit
to the adjacent countries would be significantly reduced
through a decrease in vehicle operating costs,
improvement in competition among transporters, and
reduction in administrative constraints on road
transport. The program would consolidate the practice
of allocating resources in the highway sector in
accordance with priorities based on economic analysis.
The main risks stem from political considerations
overriding economic ones in determinlng the selection of
program activities and the allocation of funds.
Rowever, since investment and allocation criteria have
been agreed at negotiations, and Government counterpart
funding of road maintenance would be a condition for
utilization of the loan for purposes of new investments
in roads, this risk is considered acceptable.
SUMMRy' Project Cast Ftimate and FTinIRg Plan
(US$ flxRuand
Local      FreP           Total
FstIlad Cost
1. Road Cmsltcm and lapronment                71,545       67,592       139,137
2. Road 1ahntenax2
(a) Rural Road Reibflatlnc                 10,713        6,292       17,005
(b) Periodir Muintenunce
Ci) Bitis Roads                        6,398        8,832        15,230
(i) Gravel oaxds                        9,498        5,577       15,075
(c) Routine Mainteoane                      7,959        3,411       11,370
(d) Spares                                   370          865         1,235
(e) Wo*bfhp Rdmbilitto                        1S8         420          600
3. Traning Pmgrm                                 792          223        1,015
4. Road TsaBprt Ini&stry Progra                   80          150          230
5. &forcmaet of Road Taff Lcg.Iratin-
(a) Equ4IpIMt                                 27          523          550
&b) Operatirg Costs                         1.160           0         1,160
6. National TXpxrt Plan                          486          904        1,390
7. ProgramSesdom                               1,b96        1,364        3,060
Total Base Cost                           110,904       96,153      207,057
Physical Ccmtfrgmies                        4,571        4,316        8,887
Price Cr    ncis                            7,999        6,735       14,734
Total Cost (with taxe) a/                  3,474       107,204      230,678
a/ Not all taxes ani duties are exempt under the project; a total of UE$11,526 rdllIim
equivalent in taxes will be financed by GDveTument and are included in local costs.



IA81    FbreUp    Total
FInmchg PIBU
DBD                                     51,400    58,600   110,000
AfDB                                    18,100    31,900    50,000
Goverrnnt                               37,278       -      37,278
C.mmrcial Baas                          16,696    16,704    33,400
ToDtl                                  123,474   107,204   230,67B
Estimated IBRD Disbursements
(US$ Million)
IBRD Fiscal Year
1986      1987       1988       1989      1990
Annual                     12.9      34.7       35.9       22.7       3.8
Cumulative                12.9       47.6       83.5     106.2      110.0
Economic Rate of Return
Highway sub-projects to be financed under the proposed Loan
would be appraised according to agreed technical and economic criteria
and would have a minimmn rate of return of 12Z, except for the
economically disadvantaged northern part of the country where a minimum
rate of 1OZ will apply. The sub-projects included in the first year of
the program have an estimated weighted economic rate of return of 21Z.
WAFT1
May 1985



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
FOR A SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PROGRAM
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Ivory Coast for the equivalent of
US$110.0 million to help finance a Second Highway Sector Program. The
proposed loan would have a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace,
with interest at the standard variable interest rate. The African
Development Bank is considering cofinancing the program with a loan of
US$50.0 million equivalent. Commercial bank cofinancing in the amount
of US$33.4 million is proposed.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The Report No. 1147b-IVC "Ivory Coast: A Basic Economic
Report" was circulated to the Executive Directors in May 1977 and
published under the title "The Challenge of Success" in 1978. The
assessment of the country's economic prospects has been periodically
updated in subsequent President's Reports on specific projects. It has
been presented in greater detail in the "Note on the Economic Situation
in the Ivory Coast" attached as Annex IV to the President's Report on
the Second Structural Adjustment Loan (P-3613-IVC) of June 9, 1983. The
paragraphs below incorporate the principal findings of a recent Bank
economic mission. Annex I provides basic country data.
Background
3.        During the first two decades after independence in 1960, the
Ivory Coast experienced an average 7% per annum GNP growth rate, one of
the most rapid in the world for a non-oil exporting country. As a
result, GDP per capita reached US$1,150 in 1980, the second highest in
Sub-Saharan Africa. This achievement has been all the more remarkable
as the country has no important mineral resource or other special
natural endowment. Growth performance has been based mainly on the
efficient development of agriculture and a productive use of foreign
factors of production, capital as well as labor, within a remarkably
stable political environment, an open economic framework, and a wide
scope for private initiative supported by pragmatic public policies.
Despite important diversification efforts, the country has remained
highly vulnerable to variations in the international environment.
Foreign trade corresponds to more than 60% cf GDP and the three main
agricultural products, coffee, cocoa and timber, still represent about
50% of exports of goods compared with 85% in 1960. The benefits of
growth were also unevenly distributed as the more limited potential of
the north led to lagging income growth in this region, despite
impressive gains in selected crops such as cotton. Through 1975.



- 2 -
fluctuations in the external terms of trade were not large. The first
major increase in oil prices was temporarily offset by favorable export
prices. The effects of moderate external shocks were also in large part
countered, internally by a price stabilization mechanism for the main
agricultural products and, externally, through membership in the West
African Monetary Union which ensures, inter alia, unlimited free
convertibility of the currency through a cooperation agreement vith
France.
4.        Present economic and financial stringencies stem largely from
the difficulties the country faced in adapting to the sharp aVYerse
changes which have occurred in the world economy after an export boom
had led to a degree of financial imprudence. Spurred by high coffee and
cocoa prices, which led to an 80Z improvement in the terms of trade
between 1975 and 1977 and to surpluses in the stabilization fund
(CAISSTAB) representing more than 10% of GDP in 1977, Government
launched an overly ambitious public investment program which rose to
over 25% of GDP in 1978, some 40Z of which was financed by external
borrowings. The Government maintained the public investment effort at
some 20% of GDP between 1978 and 1980, in spite of declining coffee and
cocoa prices and the resulting 30% deterioration in terms of trade
during this period. However, this program did not generate sustained
economic growth, as public investment had been increasingly oriented
toward high-cost and excessive scale operations in sectors with long pay
off periods, such as education and transport. Marginal returns to
investment in directly productive sectors began to drop off as most
obvious comparative advantages had been exploited. These excessive
investments, followed by a decline of export earnings and a contraction
of Government revenue, led to a severe financial crisis in 1980. While
GDP was still growing at 7.7%, fueled by still mounting public
expenditures, the public sector financial gap grew to 12.7Z of GDP in
1980 while the balance of payments current account deficit reached 16.7%
of GDP.
Recent Economic Developments (1981-1983)
5.        The continuing adverse prospects for coffee and cocoa prices,
the high cost of foreign borrowings and the worldwide recession led the
Government to launch, at the end of 1980, a stringent financial recovery
plan coupled with a longer term structural adjustment program. The
financial program which aimed at restoring internal and external
equilibrium consisted of a series of budgetary and monetary measures to
contain credit expansion, to increase government revenue, to reverse the
upward trend of current expenditures, and to restrain the investment
program while restricting external borrowings and improving the external
debt profile. This program was supported during the 1981-1983 period by
a SDR 484.5 million (US$514 million at 1983 SDR/US$ exchange rate)
Extended Fund Facility from the IMF. The first phase of the structural
adjustment program called for wide-ranging reforms in planning and
programming, institutions, and incentives. Public investment was
curtailed and redirected toward productive projects; public enterprises,
particularly in agriculture, were reorganized to make them more
efficient, and the price, subsidy and tariff systems were progressively
overhauled to restore the growth of output in both agriculture and



-3-
industry. The Bank made a US$150.0 million loan in December 1981 in
support of this first phase of the structural adjustment program.
6.        Between 1980 and 1983 the Government succeeded in reducing the
public sector and cirrent account deficits despite four unfavorable
factors beyond the authorities' control. First, the terms of trade
declined by a further 14% during this period and were, in 1983, some 40%
lower than in 1977. Second, the world recession has proven to be deeper
and longer than was originally expected, reducing the demand for Ivory
Coast's exports, while higher interest rates increased the debt service
burden. Third, the development of domestic oil production was not as
rapid as previously expected as it reached a level of only 1.1 million
tons a year in 1983. Finally, rain:Jall was far below average in 1983.
7.        The first objective of the financial recovery program had been
to reduce the public sector deficit, which is at the root of present
external imbalances. This deficit declined from 12.7% of GDP in 1980 to
10.9% in 1983, before taking into account debt amortization. Under the
program, the trend of rapid expansiron of current expenditure has been
substantially slowed; implementation of a strict recruitment and wage
policy, cuts in direct and indirect consumer subsidies, and improved
firancial control of parastatals enabled the Government to reduce the
current budget by about 2% in real terms; capital expenditures have been
curtailed by more thar 25% in real. terms during this period by
cancelling or postponing expensive non-priority projects.
8.        The balance of pavments current account deficit declined from
16.7% of GDP in 1980 to 13.8% in 1983. Despite the deterioration in the
terms of trade, the trade surplus increased from 5.0% to 9.5% of GDP.
This was mainly due to a reduction of imports, which declined from 41.2%
to 36.2% of GDP following the slowdown of the economy and the
development of local oil production.  -he decline by about one-fourth in
the real effective exchange rate during this period was also an
important factor in the 4mprov-ement of the trade account of the balance
of payments. However, the rapid rise of interest payments on public
debt, which more than tripled ir CFAF terms from 1980 to 1983 and
accounted for 8.1% of GDP in 1983; red-aced the impact of this
improvement on the current account. The debt service ratio rose from
33.4% in 1980 to 36.8% in 1983 because of high intereet rates, slow
growth. in export receipts, and t'le large increase of foreign borrowing
required to finaace the public sector deficit. During the same period
the external debt outstanding increased frrom 5% to 80% of GDP.
9.        These budgetary and moaetary policies have contributed to a
marked slowdown in the economy.  For the first time since 1960, the
country experienced a decline in national income. GDP in real terms
declined by 8.1% between 1980 and 1983 compared with a 6.1% average
annual increase during the four previous vears. This represents a 20%
decline per capita over these tLree years to about US$720 per capita in
1983.  The secondary sector has beeen the most severely hit by the
recession with value added falling ry 2.O 0  in the aggregate during this
per'od and by more than 50% in the case of tne construction and public
works subsector which depends heavily on pubiic investment. Inflation,
measured by the consumer price i.ndex, was about 11.3%, the average since



1980, the impact of the activity slowdown and the restrictive monetary
pollcy being counterbalanced by the increase in import prices and the
effect of fiscal measures.
The Present Economic Situation
10.       The economic and financial situation of the Ivory Coast
further deteriorated in the second half of 1983 as a consequence of the
worst climatic conditions since independence and a sharp reduction in
foreign borrowing. The impact of the 1983 drought and related bush
fires is estimated to correspond to a 4% decline in GDP. Coffee
production fell by two-thirds compared with its 1982/1983 level while
the reduction in electricity supply by about 30% following the drying up
of the reservoirs induced the implementation of a severe load-shedding
plan. Hydroelectric plants generated about 85% of electricity in
previous years, but only about 60% in 1983. The effect of the drought
on the energy sector alone increased the public sector and balance of
payments deficits by the equivalent of 1.5% of GDP. In the second half
of 1983, public arrears increased rapidly, and represented 10.9% of GDP
at the end of the year. In order to avoid a liquidity crisis the
Ivorian authorities decided to intensify their financial recovery and
economic adjustment programs and to request a rescheduling of public
external debt service payments due in the 25 month period starting
December 1, 1983. Members of the Paris Club agreed to reschedule 100Z
of principal and 50% of interest payments falling due until the end of
1984 and signed a goodwill clause for rescheduling debt service due in
1985. Private creditors of the London Club rescheduled 100% of the
principal due during the 13 months period and agreed, in principle, to
reschedule 90% of the principal to be repaid in 1985. These creditors
also agreed in this context, and for the first time in Sub-Saharan
Africa, to make a US$120 million loan for balance of payments support.
11.       A much intensified financial recovery program was implemented
in 1984.  It aimed at avoiding further deterioration in Ivory Coast's
external creditworthiness and at sharply reducing external and internal
imbalances. It was supported by the IMF with a SDR 82.75 million
one-year stand-by agreement. This program aimed to reduce the public
sector deficit from 10.4% to 4% of GDP and the current account deficit
from 13.1% to 7% of GDP. Government payment arrears were to be cut by
60% and, after taking into account the impact of the debt rescheduling,
the overall balance of payments was expected to be in equilibrium. To
achieve these objectives a series of tough stabilization measures was
implemented. They include a freeze on Government's current expenditures
in nominal terms, a further cut in public investment, large increases in
electricity and railroad tariffs, prices of petroleum products, and
water charges, a reduction in civil service enrollments and technical
assistance, and a reform in scholarship policy. Improvement in the
financial situation of the public sector should also stem from a large
increase in CAISSTAB receipts resulting from firm world prices for
coffee and cocoa and drawing on stocks accumulated in previous years.



12.       The second SAL of US$250.7 million approved by the Board in
July 1983 supports Implementation of policy measures aimed at:
(a) further improvements of public finance management and investment
policy, (b) rehabilitation of parastatal enterprises and improvement of
their management, (c) additional improvements in the agricultural
incentive system, (d) resumption of industrial growth through reduction
of the excessive levels of protection and removal of distortions in
incentives, and (e) substantial reform of housing policy through a
reduction of public subsidies, enhancement of private savings
mobilization, and a shift in housing investment from the public to the
private sector. The public investment program has been further
curtailed and redirected toward productive sectors, while projects with
low rates of return have been postponed or placed on a list of
non-priority projects to be started only if borrowing on very soft terms
can be secured. Substantial progress wa.. also made in the continued
rehabilitation of parastatal enterprises. The program of management
studies and its follow-up is being progressively implemented, albeit
with some delays from the original schedule. A monitoring system based
on synoptic tables (tableaux de bord) has been introduced in the
transportation and telecommunications sectors, and the first
program-contract has been signed with SOTRA, the Abidjan mass transit
enterprise. The situation of PAIMINDUSTRIE, the oil palm company, has
already much improved and the implementation of the restructuring
program of SODESUCRE, the sugar company, has begun with the closure of
the two least efficient sugar complexes.  Rehabilitation programs for
the petroleum refinery (SIR), the railway company (RAN) and the
telecommunication sector have also been initiated. Producer prices of
all major crops have been substantially increased, the consumer price of
rice has been raised by 23Z and the fertilizer subsidy has been
eliminated. Although these increases in producer prices only partially
offset the impact of the depreciation of the CFAF, they contributed to
alleviating the impact of the drought on farmers, the poorest segment of
the population. The first phase of the fundamental reform of the
incentive system in the manufacturing sectcr covers more than 50% of
industrial output. It includes a revision in import duties to harmonize
effective protection, the replacement of quantitative restrictions by
temporary import surcharges on a declining scale, and export subsidies,
the adoption of a new investment code and improvement in the fiscal
system. Important progress has also been made in implementing the
housing policy reform. The land tax and civil servant housing policies
have been improved while the land development agency is being
restructured and is introducing a system of full cost recovery for its
new developments. The Government has decided to proceed with a gradual
liquidation of the assets of SOGEFIHA, the largest public housing
agency. In the light of these satisfactory developments the Second
Tranche of SAL II was released in July 1984.
Medium and long-term Economic Prospects
13.       Over the remainder of the decade, the evolution of the Ivory
Coast economy will stay critically dependent on public finance and
balance of payments constraints. As is typical in a country undergoing
a rescheduling of its external debt, the challenge will be to maintain
sufficient monetary and fiscal discipline and to generate the foreign



-6-
exchange required to withstand the transition to the post-rescheduling
period, when deferred debt service payments will have to be met. This
transition period will be difficult as payments on external debt are
projected to increase sharply following two years of rescheduling In
1984 and 1985, and as the necessary increase in production of tradeables
for exports and for efficient import substitution is likely to
materialize only gradually over the rest of the decade. The necessary
continuation of tight fiscal and monetary policies along with
substantial improvements in the quality of the public investment program
and further implementation of agricultural and industrial incentive
reforms, are expected to enable a resumption of GDP growth in real terms
at an average annual rate of 3.7Z over the 1985-95 period.
14.       The public sector deficit is expected to decline in 1985.
Nevertheless, conditions are expected to remain very tight in the Ivory
Coast for a number of years. Continued monetary and fiscal discipline
and intensification of the structural adjustment program will be
required if the stabilization ls to be consolidated and the conditions
for resumed growth are to be re-established. We are closely monitoring
economic developments in the Ivory Coast and a new economic report is
presently under preparation.
15.       Of the US$5,200 million external public debt outstanding
disbursed at the end of 1983, 15% was provided bilaterally by
governments, 21% by international aid agencies (of which 69.9% by the
Bank Group), and 55% by private banks and bond issues, while 9.1Z came
in the form of suppliers credit. About 75% of the total capital not
supplied by international aid agencies came from four channels:
internationally syndicated loans (33.3%), France (29.1%), USA (11x) and
Lebanon (5.6%). France and the European Communities remain the principal
sources of development assistance in grant form, accounting for about 1%
of the flow of foreign assistance to the public sector.
PART II - BANK GRLOUP OPERATIONS IN THE IVORY COAST
16.       Since 1968, when Bank Group operations in the Ivory Coast
started, lending has expanded rapidly and now includes forty-eight
operations totalling US$1,324.6 million, including US$14 million from
the Third Window, and an IDA credit of US$7.5 million. Of these,
eighteen have been for agriculture, supporting cotton, cocoa, rubber,
forestry, oil palm and coconut development, and rural development in the
North-East Savannah and Center-West regions. There were six road
projects and a highway sector project. The remaining twenty-four loans
were for education, telecommunications, the Abidjan sewerage and
drainage system, water supply, urban development, petroleum exploration
and development, power distribution, tourism development, small- and
medium-scale enterprises, a regional cement project, a regional railway
project and, most recently, for structural adjustment and related
technical assistance.   IFC has supported textile, fertilizers, flour
milling, development banking, and agricultural plantation operations in
the country. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Group
operations. In general, implementation of Bank projects has been



- 7 -
satisfactory and has improved substantially over the past five years.
The disbursement ratio has risen from 15.2Z in 1977 to 37.2% in 1982.
The 1983 Ivory Coast disbursement ratio of 33.1Z compares very favorably
with the Bank-wide average of 23.4% and with ratios for comparable
countries such as Tunisia (15.5%), Cameroon (24.9Z) or Kenya (16.2%) for
the same year.
17.       The Bank's first two structural adjustment loans approved in
FY82 and FY84, respectively, supported the Government's program of
firm measures to adjust the economy to the deteriorating international
environment and to lay the basis for future growth. They reflect the
close and frank dialogue on economic policy between the Bank and the
Ivory Coast. Implementation of the initial stages of the structural
adjustment program has led to the development of longer-term
rehabilitation and reform programs for several sub-sectors and key
public enterprises, which are now at the project preparation stage. The
external environment in which the Ivory Coast has pursued its initial
adjustment efforts since 1981 has been much less favorable than was
anticipated. The economy is likely to remain vulnerable to public
finance and balance of payments constraints and to require sustained
adjustment efforts. A third phase of the Government's continuing
program of structural change is being prepared.
18.       Bank operations in agriculture have been in support of the
Government's policy of crop diversification, promotion of exports, and
increased emphasis on developing smallholder production. The most
recent projects approved by the Board are a forestry project, a rubber
project, two rural development projects for the North-East and
Center-West and another forestry project. In the near future, the Bank
is considering assisting the Government in rehabilitating the sugar
subsector, providing further assistance to the oil-palm and rubber
subsectors, as well as for improved systems of extension and research.
19.       Thus far, the Bank Group has financed six road projects
totalling US$123.3 million, and a highway sector project of US$100
million, which was approved in November 1980. This loan, which finances
a portion of the country's highway investment program, is now fully
committed. A railway project, focusing on the improvement of the
Bouake-Petionara section of the Abidjan-Ouagadougou rail line, renewal
of rolling stock, technical assistance and training, was approved in
FY78 and has now been completed.
20.       The Bank has been closely associated with the Government's
efforts to modernize the education system, in particular at the primary,
secondary and vocatioual levels, through three education projects and a
fourth, focusing on rehabilitation and cost reduction, is under
preparation. A first health project, aimed at expanding nurse training
in the country, is also being prepared. The two Abidjan sewerage and
drainage projects, approved in FY75 and FY78, cover the first phases of
a ten-year Government program to improve sanitation in Abidjan. The two
urban development projects approved in FY77 and FY82 aimed at helping to
meet some of Abidjan's low-income housing and transport needs and at
assisting Government in carrying out its regional development policy of
snifting rapid urban growth from the capital city to regional centers.



-8-
These actions have been complemented by two water supply projects. In
the energy sector, a First Power Project was approved in July 1980 to
finance power distribution facilities and technical assistance, and a
Petroleum Exploration and Development Project for 3ffshore hydrocarbons
was approved in June 1982. A project to develop offshore gas reserves
is also being studied.
21.       In view of the predominance of foreign ownership and
management in the private sector of the Ivorian economy, the Government
is placing high priority on strengthening local entrepreneurship. In
support of this policy, the Bank extended a loan for the promotion of
small-scale enterprises in FY76, which has been followed up by an
artisans, small- and medium-scale enterprise project approved in March
1979, and two lines of credit for hotel financing and technical
assistance in the tourism sector. The industrial sector is now
undergoing major changes in its policy environment as part of the
country's adjustment program. An Industrial Restructuring and
Development project, to assist existing enterprises in adapting to the
reformed environment, is under preparation. In June .976, the Bank also
extended a loan to the Ivory Coast in support of the CIMAO project, the
clinker production plant located in Togo and owned jointly by the
Governments of Ghana, Ivory Coast, and Togo.
22.       The Bank Group's lending in the Ivory Coast has increased
steadily from a yearly average of below US$20 million during the early
years to an average of US$164.8 million annually in the FY8O-84 period.
The average annual lending rate is expected to continue to grow over the
next few years. The Bank Group's share of the Ivorv Coast's external
debt is expected to rise from the present 17.4% to about 26Z in the
first half of the next decade; its share of total debt service is
expected to rise from 15.3% at present to about 17.5% by 1990.



-9-
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. The Transport System
23.       Since independence in 1960, the Government has consistently
accorded a high priority to the improvement of transport infrastructure
in support of its agricultural dcvelopment strategy. During this 25-year
period the transport sector was allocated on average between 20% to 25%
of all public investments. In the second half of the 1970's transport
investments increased rapidly, reaching a peak of CFAF 95 billion (then
US$400 million equivalent) in 1976 at the height of the coffee and cocoa
boom. With the arrival of economic recession and increasing budgetary
stringency in the early 1980's, investment levels declined to about CFAE
40 billion (US$90 million equivalent) in 1984, roughly in line with the
overall decline in the public investment budget. The share of highways
in transport investments averaged 63% between 1973-83, while railvays
and maritime transport received 12% each and civil aviation 11%.
24.       The ambitious transport investment program of the late 1970's
turned out to be of mixed quality. A number of large scale investments,
particularly in highways and airports, were undertaken with expensive
commercial financing wbile yielding very low economic returns.
Furthermore, lax contracting procedures and inadequate supervision often
led to high unit costs. However, following the adoption by Government in
1981 of a financial and economic adjustment program, past excesses were
gradually reduced through the introduction of a more centralized and
tighter controlled i:ivestment selection and budgeting process, as well
as greatly improved contract administration. On the whole, the quality
of the investment program has improved over tle past few years, at least
partially due to the fact that the principal and also least
discrimlnating sorrce of funding for transport investments -- external
commercial financing - has largely dried up since 1982, but also due to
the introduction of objective economic criteria in the selection of
investments under the Bank financed First Highway Sector Loan.
25.       Following the massive transport investments of the past
decade, Ivory Coast currently boasts a modern and well developed
transport system by West African standards, comprising : (a) about
48,000 km of roads of which 3,620 km are paved; (b) two excellent
deepwater ports at Abidjan and San Pedro; (c) three international
airports at Abidjan, Yamoussoukro and Bouake, and 22 smaller airports
serving other towns; and (d) a 1,156 km regional railway line between
Abidjan and Ouagadougou in Burkina (630 km in Ivory Coast).  Abidjan,
the principal population and commercial center, remains the focus of the
transport system, with the country's principal port and airport, and
heavily trafficked trunk roads and the rail line radiating inland.
26.       The inter-urban transport market is increasingly dominated by
road transport at the expense of rail transport. Roads currently
account for 92% of total freight traffic (in ton-km) ana 90% of
passenger traffic (in passenger-km). The railway carries 7% of freight
traffic and 9% of passenger traffic, while domestic air transport
accounts for 1X of domestic passenger traffic.



- 10 -
27.       Rail transport is provided by the Regie des Chemins de Fer
Abidian-Niger (RAN), a bi-national enterprise owned by the Governments
of Ivory Coast and Burkina Paso. International traffic currently
accounts for 88Z of RAN's ton-km and 65Z of its passenger-km,
underscoring the comparative advantage of the railway for long distance
transport of bulk commodities and low-income passengers, as vell as the
importance of RAN for Burkina's external trade of which it carries
between 70 and 75Z. RAN's domestic traffic within Ivory Coast and
Burkina is steadily decreasing as it is taken over by road transport.
28.       RAN's performance has severely deteriorated in recent years
due in part to the conflicting pressures exerted on the enterprise by
the two countries. Its management has not performed well despite
considerable technical assistance provided under the Bank supported
First Regional Railway Project which was completed in 1983. RAN's
investment strategy favored new, in some instances unnecessary, capacity
investments over maintenance of existing assets. In operations,
loss-making higher class passenger services were given precedence over
more remunerative ordinary passenger traffic and freight transport.
Freight traffic declined from 750,000 tons in 1980 to 625,000 tons in
1983 (-17%), while over the same period passenger traffic declined from
4 million to 3.1 million passengers (-22%). In addition, employment was
allowed to increase at a time whbn tra'fic went down, while tariff
adjustments lagged behind increases in operating costs. Mounting
payment arrears by Burkina exacerbate RAN's financial situation. In
1983, there was a net loss of CFAF 7.5 billion, about equal to one third
of that year's revenues. Restoration of RAN's efficiency would require
decisive reform measures, which are presently being discussed between
the two Governments, the Bank and other donors.
29.       Of the two deep-water ports at Abidjan and San Pedro, the port
of Abidjan (PAA) is the country's main commercial port; it serves export
and import traffic for Burkina and Mali as well. The port's cargo
handling capacity came close to its limit in 1980 with traffic reaching
9.4 million tons. However, due to the economic recession, traffic
declined to 7.6 million tons (-19%) in 1983. The port of San Pedro has
handled 1.3 million tons in 1983 (about one-third of its capacity), 90%
of which were exports, particularly timber.  With the recent opening of
a cement clinker grinding plant and a flour mill, as well as the growing
importance of agro-industrial plantations in the region, traffic is
likely to become more balanced in the future. The two ports are well
managed and well equipped with private companies performing all cargo
handling and stevedoring operations. The financial performance of PAA
has been satisfactory; it enjoys a low debt-equity ratio, and even with
the recent decline in traffic, its operating results remain positive.
However, like other public enterprises, it is subjected to a restrictive
financial and accounting regime. In the course of preparation of a
proposed Abidjan Port Project, the Bank has started discussions with
Government with a view to allow PAA to operate as a commercially
oriented public enterprise.
30.       The air transport network includes three international
airports at Abidjan, Yamoussoukro and :-ouake, and 22 regional airports.
Since 1982 the airports are managed by the Agence Nationale des
Aerodromes et de la Meteorologie (ANAM), an autonomous public



- 11 -
enterprise. ASECNA, the international agency which operated the
airports previously, is now only responsible for flight control at the
Abidjan airport. ANAM revenues are insufficient to cover the operation
and maintenance costs of the airports and it receives Government
subsidies to cover the deficit.
31.       Air traffic increased rapidly between 1973-80 at an average
annual rate of 17.1Z, reaching 1.1 million passengers in 1980, but has
stagnated since then. This progression, however, shows large
differentials by categories of traffic. Inter-African traffic shows
steady growth, while intercontinental traffic stagnated between 1979-82
and domestic traffic developed erratically due to wide fluctuations in
tariffs. Freight traffic is about 30,000 tons per year, virtually all
international. Abidjan airport dominates air transport, accounting for
87% of total passenger movements in 1983. Scheduled domestic flights
are provided by Air Ivoire, a Government-owned airline, managed and
operated by the military. Despite recent tariff increases, it operates
at a deficit, and is heavily subsidized through military operationa'.
support (flight crew salaries, etc.).
32.       The planning and management of the transport sector basically
comes under the purview of the Ministere des Travaux Publics, de la
Construction, des Postes et des Telecommunications (MTPCPT), with the
exception of ports and shipping which are under the technical control of
the Ministry of Marine, and Air Ivoire which is administered by the
Ministry of Defense.
33.       Up to 1980, the technical ministries and autonomous agencies
enjoyed considerable freedom in the preparation and execution of
investments as they had virtually independent access to external
financing. As part of the measures introduced in 1981 to control budget
expenditures and foreign debt, Government adopted two measures which had
an important bearing on the management of the transport sector. First,
it strengthened the role of the Ministry of Economy and Finance (bEF) in
the investment decision-making process by giving it sole authority below
the President to procure and/or approve financing for projects proposed
by the technical ministries for inclusion in the three-year rol3ing
investment budget. This new policy proved significant in two respects:
(i) it restricted the freedom previously abused by technical agencies
and parastatals to contract directly with suppliers which offered their
own commercial credit, often under onerous financial conditions; and
(ii) it set the stage for MEF to curb past excesses in the selection and
design of projects through the requirement that in principle all project
proposals be supported by an economic justification. As a result, the
quality of the investment program has improved over the past few years.
The second measure consisted of the centralization of contracting and
supervision for major projects under a single entity, the Direction et
Controle des Grands Travaux (DCGTX), with the aim to reduce excessive
project costs caused by lax contracting procedures and administration in
the past. The DCGTX was in 1981 transferred from the MTPCPT to tbe
Presidency with the mandate to manage and execute, on behalf of
technical ministries and state enterprises, all civil works contracts
with a value above CFAF 700 million (US$1.4 million equivalent).  DCGTX
rapidly developed into a well managed and efficient organization,
successfully bringing unit construction costs under control. Ba ed on



- 12 -
its excellent record in comparison with other Government agencies, DCGTX
gradually expanded its field of activities in response to ad hoc
requests by the President and technical ministries.
34.       Intermodal coordination has traditionally been weak in Ivory
Coast in the absence of a central planning and coordinating agency in
the sector. Following an internal reorganization of the MIPCPT in 1984,
a new Directorate of Studies and Prograunnig (Direction des Etudes et
Progrmmation, DEP) was established to play this role for the road, rail
and air transport modes.
B. The Road Transport Subsector
35.       The road network of Ivory Coast currently consists of about
48,000 km of national (class A), regional (class B) and local (class C)
roads. The proportion of paved roads is still quite low at 8%
(3,620 km) of the network. Countries like Ghana and Senegal, which are
comparable in size but with much lower per capita incomes, have paved
road densities as a ratio of population that are equal to, or
substantially higher than, in Ivory Coast.
36.       Inter-urban road transport in 1983 was estimated to total some
5.5 billion passenger-km and 3.5 billion ton-km. A rough estimate of
the corresponding total financial transport costs is about CFAF 185
billion, indicating that the roads subsector is an important consumer of
resources (GNP was about CFAF 3,100 billion in 1983). During the period
1975-83, passenger traffic increased by almost 10% per annum and freight
traffic by about 12% per annum. Although no comprehensive traffic
counts were conducted during the period 1976-81, derived demand
indicators (notably fuel consumption) suggest that the growth in road
traffic was concentrated during the years 1976-80, after which traffic
declined probably by about 10-1'% due to the combined effect of the
economic recession and high fuel prices . Preliminary results of 1984
traffic surveys seem to indicate a resumption in traffic growth; for the
rest of the 1980's it is reasonable, in line with previous experience,
to expect traffic to grow slightly faster than GDP, that is, 4-5% per
annum. The vehicle fleet size was about 150,000 units in 1983. As this
figure is based on cumulative new vehicle registrations adjusted by
theoretical scrapping rates, the estimate could be subject to a
considerable margin of error. New vehicle registrations (about 12,000
per an-num), currently are well below the level necessary to maintain the
present fleet size. Especially for trucks and semi-trailers, new
registrations have dropped to extremely low levels which might be an
indication rhat the trucking industry has started the process of
adjustment for present low fleet utilization. Ultimately, with the
resumption of growth in transport demand, it is expected that the
vehicle fleet will show renewed growth.
37.       Paved roads, although accounting for only 8  of the total
network, carry over 70Z of total traffic. About 950 km of paved roads
have traffic levels in excess of 1,000 vehicles per day (vpd). Traffic
is concentrated in the Abidjan, Daloa and Bouake regions and to a lesser
extent in the San Pedro region. Ivory Coast began its program of
building paved roads later than other countries in the region and a
number of roads with sufficient traffic to warrant paved standards still



- 13 -
exist in the country. The paved network has been expanded at the rate
of 300 km per annum between 1976-80 and by 135 km per annum between
1981-84. The relative slowdown in recent years is largely explained by
the need to reconstruct or strengthen older bituminous roads which had
come to the end of their useful life. During 1981-84, road strengthening
progressed at the rate of about 150 km per annum with Bank financing
under the First Highway Sector Loan. As a result of these efforts,
close to 50% of the bituminous network has a pavement age of less than 5
years; of the remaining, 250 km (7%) are in poor condition, of -hich 210
km are currently being rehabilitated. Therefore a resumption of the
paving effort of high-traffic gravel roads is now timely as contained in
the proposed sector program. Additionally, the condition of the unpaved
rural roads has deteriorated substantially in recent years due to a
progressively declining maintenance effort. Therefore, rehabilitation
of the gravel and earth roads should also receive priority over the
coming years.
38.        The MTPCPT is responsible for the design, construction and
maintenance of roads, and the formulation of road transport policy and
regulations. It is supported in its tasks by three autonomous agencies:
the DCGTX; the Public Works Laboratory (Laboratoire du Batiment et des
Travaux Publics. LBTP); and the Road Safety Office (Office de Securite
Routiere, OSER). The MTPCPT has ten central directorates, four of which
are directly concerned with roads and road transport; and seven regional
directorates which are responsible for the execution of road
maintenaDce. The Directorate of Roads (DR) is responsible for the
preparation and execution of minor investments (up to CFAF 700 million),
and the formulation of maintenance programs based on information
provided by the regional directorates. It undertakes the budgeting and
monitors the implementation of the maintenance program. The Equipment
Directorate (Direction du Materiel des Travaux Publics, DNTP) owns and
maintains the road maintenance equipment fleet, which is used by the
regional directorates to execute their maintenance tasks. The
Directorate of Transport (Direction des Transports, DT) is in charge of
the monitoring of the road transport industry through regulations and
tariffs.
39.       Highway investment proposals are generated through a
collaborative effort between various agencies. Within the DR, the Road
Data Service (Service des Donnees Routieres, SDR), with the assistance
of the regional directorates, collects and analyses road inventory data,
and conducts vehicle traffic counts covering the national and regional
network. The LBTP maintains a condition inventory of the bituminous
network. On the basis of this, the DCGTX establishes a preliminary
listing of potential major projects and then carries out pre-investment
studies for each project to determine the optimal technico-economic
solution, and finally prepares or contracts out detailed engineering
studies and verifies the conclusions of the economic studies. DCGTX has
recently set up its own economic studies capability which allows close
integration with the technical design process through the use of
advanced computer facilities. The planning methodology utilized has
been developed under previous highway projects and is satisfactory to
the Bank. The newly established DEP together with DR is responsible for
the preparation and analysis of other investments up to CFAF 700
million, as well as for the collection and coordination of road



- 14 -
transport investment plans prepared by other agencies (primarily DCGTZ).
MEF checks the viability of the program proposed by the NJPCPT,
coordinates higlway investments with those in other sectors of the
economy, and incorporttes the result in the draft budget submitted to
Government for approval.
40.       Design and construction of roads has undergone important
changes in recent years. A decade ago geometric design standards were
becoming increasingly excessive resulting in unjustified investments.
The trend has recently been reversed, with economic justifications
increasingly used for determining design e.emeuts such as design speeds
adapted to terrain conditions, and cross section geometry selected in
the light of expected maintenance costs. There is a very large body of
knowledge available in the LBTP and the DCGTX on road construction
materials and the performance experienced with different types of
design.
41.       Construction, major rehabilitation and strengthening of Dain
roads are done by contractors. A large number of wholly or partially
foreign-owned contracting firms are established in the country. with an
annual road construction capacity in excess of US$200 million
equivalent. The sharp decline in construction activity in recent years
has created a highly competitive environment among these firms. A
contracting industry of small local firms engaged in road works has
developed only ttu a limited extent; they are mainly subcontractors for
the larger firms or are engaged in works of limited scope, mainly on
rural roads.  Work supervision is the responsibility of the DCGTX for
large contracts (over US$1.4 million equivalent), and of the MTPCPT's
regional offices, for smaller ones.
42.       Rural roads improvements have traditionally been carried out
by force account. Maintenance is being carried out (i) under MTPCPT
management, by force account for routine maintenance of all roads and
periodic maintenance of gravel roads, and (ii) under DCGTX management,
by private contractors for periodic maintenance of bituminous surfaces.
43.       Through the 1970's and early 1980's, road maintenance in the
Ivory Coast was among the best in Africa. Throughout this period there
was a steady increase in funds allocated to road maintenance, roughly in
step with the expansion of the road network, and management and
supervision of force account works were adequate. In the early 1980's,
supervision and management became increasingly lax and, after 1982,
maintenance funds first stagnated, then declined sharply. Faced with
this disappointing performance, the Government began to rely
increasingly on contracting for road maintenance, with Bank assistance
under the Feeder Roads and Highway Maintenance Project and the First
Highway Sector Loan. Experience with this indicates that the local
contractors are suitable for constructing drainage works (culverts and
small bridges) but not for undertaking extensive regravelling programs,
for which the Government now intends to emphasize, once again, force
account works while addressing the deficiencies in management and
supervision. This seems a sensible approach since it had yielded
satisfactory results already for more than a decade in the past.



- 15 -
44.       The force account maintenance is organized through the seven
MTPCPT regional offices and carried out under 32 departmental services.
It covers the tasks of cleaning drainage structures, grading and
regravelling gravel roads, pothole repairs, patching of bituminous
surfaces and maintenance of signalization.   Altogether, the MTPCTP has
a work force of some 6,200 persons and an equipment fleet of close to
900 major units for road maintenance works. Work is planned and
executed through the Directorate of Roads (DR), while equipment
management and maintenance is divided between the DR for vehicles and
trucks and the Directorate of Public Works Equipment (DMTP) for heavy
equipment. This division of responsibility has led to unnecessary
duplication of maintenance workshops at the regional level and a
corresponding number of superfluous administrative and mechanical staff.
The DMTF is equipped to carry out the full range of maintenance and
overhaul work in its central workshop in Abidjan.   Moreover, with new
equipment financed under a concessionary loan from Japan and an
equipment rehabilitation effort well within the reach of the DMTP: there
will be little need during the program period for replacing and/or
renewing the equipment fleet which will have an average age of 5 years
in 1985. The regional offices check on their maintenance progress, in
particular equipment utilization, through a comprehensive Cost
accounting system. The system is presently used predominantly to monitor
maintenance works, but could, with little effort, be used also for work
planning purposes.
45.       Under the ongoing First Highway Sector Loan, training is aimed
at upgrading about 800 operational personnel of DR and DMTP. Training
is the responsibility of a joint venture of two local Ivorian schools,
called FORMAROUTE: Ecole Nationale Superieure des Travaux Publics
(ENSTP) and Institut National Superieur de l'Enseignement Technique
(INSET). At the end of the loan period (mid-1986), the objectives are
expected to be largely achieved. In addition, 14 local training
officers and instructors have been trained, existing facilities have
been upgraded and equipped, and adequate equipment allocated to the
training.
46.       Future training for DR and DMTP personnel will need to ioLus
on (i) the ENSTP engineering students in the field of road maintenance;
(ii) heads of departments, regional directors and engineers in
managerial and technical fields (road and equipment maintenance);
(iii) newly recruited personnel or personnel to be promoted to occupy
vacancies (mechanical technicians and foremen, and storekeepers) and to
replace a large number of middle level technicians and skilled workers
who will retire during the next few years (heads of brigades, operators,
mechanical foremen and mechanics); (iv) training officers assigned to
FORMAROUTE and local instructors; and (v) personnel to be assigned to
the new personnel unit created under the proposed project.
47.       In addition to training, personnel management needs
strengthening. Under the Administrative and Financial Directorate, a
Personnel Sub-Directorate is responsible for managing all DR and DMTP
personnel including training activities. This Sub-Directorate is
understaffed and can only handle matters of routine nature. In order to
improve this situation, a small personnel management unit will be
created under the DR Director and headed by an ENSTP engineer.



- 16 -
48.        Road user taxation is based on considerations of general
revenue rather than on principles of cost recovery. The financing of
highway expenditures is therefore a function of overall resource
" availability and of relative priority accorded to the sector. Available
data for 1982 suggest that total user charges were sufficient to cover
the short-run marginal costs of road use but that heavy vehicles are
making a largely insufficient contribution to the variable road costs
attributable to them. The principal user charge is taxes on motor fuels;
Ivorlan fuel prices are among the highest in West Africa. Current pump
prices are: for premium gasoline CFAF 350 per liter (US$ 2.70 per
gallon) ; for regular gasoline CFAF 325 per liter (TTS$ 2.51 per gallon);
and for diesel CFAF 255 per liter (US$ 1.97 per gallon). Because of a
comprehensive tax reform implemented in March 1985 which also affected
various road user taxes, the 1982 results are valid as background only
and an updated analysis of road user charges is required before definite
conclusions can be drawn on the user charge issue, and specific tax
measures recomumended to resolve identified deficiencies.
49.       The financing structure of highway investments, which averaged
about CFAF 45 billion between 1978 and 1983. has undergone a marked
shift towards foreign borrowing. Whlle in 1978, Government's own funds
accounted for 68Z, the situation completely reversed in subsequent years
due to the drying up of cocoa and coffee surpluses, anid increased
recourse to foreign commercial credit. In 1981, own funds contributed a
mere 172 while commercial credits accounted for 67X and official aid for
16%. In 1983, as a result of increasing limitations on commercial
credit, its share fell to 52% while that of official aid rose to 29% (of
which 24Z Bank) and own funds accounted for 19%. Considering that the
tax element in highway investments averages about 25%, the net
contribution of Government has become negative in recent years.
Maintenance operating costs are financed through a Road Maintenance Fund
(FER), which is replenished by periodic transfers from the general
budget. Most salaries and administrative overheads are met from the
general budget, while major purchases of maintenance equipment and major
rehabilitation contracts are funded through the investment budget.
After 1981, allocations to the FER have declined in absolute terms,
amounting in 1985 to only CFAF 6.8 billion or 35% below the desirable
level of CFAF 10.4 billion.
50.       The road transport industry is dominated by a large number of
small, privately-owned companies, typically operating 1 to 5 vehicles.
Virtually all common carriers are members of the National Union of
Transporters, which, through its local chapters, exerts considerable
influence over the transport market. To enter road transport, a number
of Government regulations (e.g. transport authorizations, tariffs,
freight documentation and route selection) have to be complied vith,
which, in practice, are inconsistently enforced. Furthermore, the
numerous and uncoordinated road blocks set up by various government
agencies (police, customs, Ministries of Agriculture and Mines) along
the country's main routes result in considerable time delays and
additional expenses for transporters.
51.       The present freight marketing system is not well developed. A
National Center of Freight Bureaus (Centre National des Bureaux de



- 17 -
Fret, CNBF) intended, inter alia, to provide freight-brokerage services,
is in the process of liquidation. The absence of an efficient system of
local freight bureaus has permitted the development of monopolistic
practices by transporters with the local chapters of their union
controlling supply of transport capacity. This has resulted in limited
supply and high freight rates for short distance transport, and excess
supply for long distance transport, as truckers have problems in
obtaining return loads in areas wbich are not controlled by their own
union chapters. This situation is, at least partly, reflected in the
low utilization of the trucking fleet. Fleetwide average annual mileage
is estimated at only 37,000 km compared to a more normal average of
50-60,000 km. There is therefore considerable scope for raising vehicle
utilization; potential savings to the economy from improved fleet
productivity could well be in the order of US$10-20 million per annum.
Further, with the prevailing monopolistic practices and the restrictive
regulatory regime, it may well be that reduced transport costs as a
result of road improvements are not fully passed on to users and may
therefore not have the anticipated development impact; hence the need
for reforms in the regulatory and freight allocation systems.
52.       Whereas enforcement of legal axle load limits was discontinued
in 1981, available information suggests that overloading of trucks is
widespread. To avoid damage to the network, a systematic control of axle
loads should be reinstituted.
C. Bank Involvement in the Highway Subsector
53.       Since 1968, the Bank Group has lent a total of US$223 million
for seven projects in the highway subsector in the Ivory Coast. Under
the First Highway Project (Ln. 542-IVC, US$5.8 million, 1968) a
TDP-financed transport sector survey was carried out by consultants
with the Bank as executing agency. This survey concluded that priority
should be given to highway development and called for an extensive
program to upgrade primary roads and to improve the capacity to plan and
execute road maintenance. The subsequent four highway projects (Second
Highway Project, Ln. 761-IVC, US$20.5 million, 1971; Third Highway
Project, Ln. 837-IVC, US$17.5 million, 1972; Fourth Highway Project,
Cr. 406-IVC, US$7.5 million, 1973; and Fifth Highway Project,
Ln. 1161-IVC, US$43.0 million, 1975) were designed to meet these
priorities. The construction components of these projects were generally
satisfactorily completed, but efforts to build an efficient maintenance
organization did not produce lasting results. However, there were
important advances in building up of local transport planning capability
(Project Performance Audit Report No.3665 of October 28, 1981).
54.       Currently, the Bank has two ongoing highway operations; the
Feede-: Roads and Highway Maintenance Project (Ln. 1501-IVC,
US$29.0 million, 1977) and the First Highway Sector Loan (Ln. 1914-IVC,
US$100 million, 1981). The results achieved under the Feeder Roads and
Highway Maintenance Project have been rather negative due to:
(a) significant delays in project execution and serious shortfalls in
production targets; and (b) persistent severe weaknesses in the
administration of force account works and in the control of loan funds
for this purpose. The disappointing performance of the unit responsible



- 18 -
for road betterment works prompted the Government to dissolve it In 1982
and increase the use of private contractors in this type of works. It
emerged that the choice of the most suitable mode of execution depends
on the type of works to be performed, contractors being preferable for
drainage works and force account for regravelling. The project is
expected to be completed by mid-1985.
55.       After a slow start, activities financed by the First Highway
Sector Loan gradually picked up in 1983 and 1984. Available loan funds
were virtually committed by the end of 1984 and final disbursements are
expected by mid-1986. The DCGTX showed itself to be very efficient in
the handling of contracts for civil works, which with few exceptions,
were completed on time and within budgets. Institutional development,
in particular investment planning and road maintenance manpower
training, has also progressed satisfactorily. A major step forward was
Government acceptance of the concept that highway investments should be
based on sound economic and engineering criteria, including the flexible
application of design standards. On the other hand, maintenance efforts
have in recent years declined below acceptable levels due to reduced
funding and deteriorating management.
56.       The Bank role in the highway sub-sector has been expanded
through the use of the sector loan concept. This has provided the
vehicle for a much broader and intensive dialogue than possible under
conventional projects, and stimulated the Government to make substantial
improvements in the management of the sub-sector. Continued Bank
involvement on a subsector-wide basis would therefore be justified and
would contribute to strengthening the Government's resolve to
(a) consolidate and further expand on advances made in investment policy
formulation; (b) restore maintenance funding and capacity to adequate
levels; and (c) address important non-investment policy issues such as
road transport regulations. traffic control, road nser charges and
manpower development.
PART IV - THE SECTOR PROGRAM AND LOAN
A. Program Objectives and Description
57.       The main thrust of the Government's 1985-88 program for the
road sector is to selectively expand and improve the road network, to
improve maintenance and management of the highway system, and to enhance
the overall efficiency of the sector. Major features of this would be
to (i) insure that resources made available to the seftor are used with
maximum efficiency; (ii) accord priority to road maintenance and to
feeder roads works in support of agricultural development; (iii) improve
the enforcement of traffic legislation; and (iv) deregulate and open the
markets for the road txansport industry in order to lower the cost of
public road transport. To this end the proposed loan would be used to



- 19 -
help finance a three-and-a-half year national program 1/ of expenditures
on the country's entire public inter-urban road network for:
(a) highway investments to be selected on the basis of agreed
technical and economic criteria; (53.92)
(b) periodic and routine road maintenance of the road
network, including deferred periodic maintenance of
gravel-surfaced roads; (44.7Z)
(c)  training of the highway personnel in MTPCTP in road
maintenance planning, execution and supervision; (0.3%)
(d) technical and organizational assistance to improve the
efficiency of the road transport industry; (0.1%)
(e) enforcement of road traffic legislation and policy;
(0.4%) and
(f) the preparation of a national transport plan. (0.4%)
58.       Activities Financed.   The proposed Loan would be used to
finance expenditures as follows:
(a) for road construction and improvement: the cost of a
number of sub-projects for road construction and improvement,
all of which would yield satisfactory economic results. An
initial program for execution during the project period
has been selected, but may be amended from time to time
provided that all sub-projects meet agreed selection criteria.
(b) for road maintenance: periodic maintenance of bituminous
roads by contract, and a part, declining through the program
period, of the incremental cost over present levels of
expenditures of the Government's force account program of
routine and periodic maintenance, including a regravelling
program for feeder roads; and supervision of all road
maintenance.
(c) for training of the road maintenance staff: the cost of
technical assistance and a limited amount of equipment to
FORMAROUTE, and technical assistance to the DR.
(d) for improving the efficiency of the road transport
industry: the cast of consulting services and cechnical
assistance.
1/  The relative share of expenditures (including non-incremental
expenditures for maintenance) are shown in brackets.



- 20 -
(e) for the enforcement of road trnffic legislation: the cost
of rehabilitation of veighbridges and organization and
execution of an axle load control program.
(f) for establishment of a national transport plan: the cost
of provision of consultant's services.
B. Road Construction and Improvement Program
59.       The indicative program of investments for construction and
improvements in the road sector, during the program period, has been
discussed and agreed with the Government. It has been established
taking into account the needs of the sector (paras 36 and 37) and
prevailing macroeconomic constraints. Covering all investments in the
sector for this period, it entails investments of CFAF 8.0 billion for
the second half of 1985, CFAF 23.5 billion for 1986, CFAF 25.4 billion
for 1987 and CFAF 14.7 billion for 1988, all in constant 1985 prices.
These levels will be updated yearly between the Bank and the Government.
(Section 3.03 of the DLA).
60.       Within this over-all framework, the selection criteria to be
used for individual sub-projects have also been discussed and agreed.
The criteria are similar to those developed under the First Highway
Sector Loan, with a minimum acceptable economic rate of return for any
individual sub-project of 122, except in the economically disadvantaged
northern part of the country where a minimum rate of 10% will apply.
During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government that it
will undertake no road investments that do not meet the agreed criteria
(Section 3.04 of the DLA).
61.       Design standards will be those adopted by the Government and
selected on the basis of economic and cost criteria. Where traffic
volumes do not yet justify immediate paving, alignments and cross
sections will be constructed to allow paving later, in accordance with
those standards. Standards for strengthening of existing roads involve
structural reinforcement only, with no changes in geometric standards.
Standards for rehabilitation of feeder roads involve the provision of a
4.5 - 6.0 m wide surface in selected gravel or laterite, the width to be
determined as a function of traffic volumes. The standards, which have
been discussed and agreed with the Government, were confirmed during
negotiations (Section 3.04 of the DLA).
62.       Over the three-and-a-half year period, the present programming
calls for construction of about 875 km of new bitumen roads, about
200 km of new gravel roads, and a key bridge crossing. The composition
of the program would be reviewed and updated annually in the light of
work progress on oa-going subprojects and of road sector developments.
This was confirmed with the Government at negotiations (Section 3.03 of
the DLA).



- 21 -
C. Road Maintenance Progrsm
63.       The maintenance program covers the entire network of roads
classes A, B and C. The present condition of roads classes A and B
(both bitumen and gravel surfaced) is in general good enough for
deferred maintenance and rehabilitation not to be required. The rural
roads in class C are in considerably varying condition and their
maintenance will contain rehabilitation of earthworks and structures as
required. The program insures periodic maintenance of bitumen roads by
contract and force account maintenance of bitumen and gravel roads in
the form of bitumen patchings, shoulder repair, drainage cleaning and
grading of gravel surfaces at intervals determined in relation to
traffic intensity. This will contain a total of 45,000 km of routine
maintenance, including 90.000 m2 of bitumen surface patching,
1.7 million m3 of regravelling on the class A and B network, and
2.6 million .3 of regravelling on the class C network. This program
would result in regravelling a total of about 4,200 km of gravel roads
annually, composed of 1,400 km of primary and secondary (class A and B)
and 2,800 km of feeder (class C) roads. The regular regravelling will
be supplemented by reconstruction of bridges, culverts and other
drainage structures, to materially improve all-weather capability of
feeder roads where passage is impeded by flooding during the rainy
season.
64.       PeriodLc maintenance of bitumen roads is done on the basis of
technical and economic justifications; planning of the road maintenance
works in force account has been done on the basis of (i) forecast
development of the network and rates of deterioration over time related
to traffic volumes and climatic conditions, and (ii) improved rate of
equipment utilization reaching 1,200 hours/year. Provided that this can
be achieved, all maintenance needs can be met by the own forces of the
Directorate of Roads supported by the equipment maintenance facilities
of the DMTP. With the recently purchased road equipment from Japan
(US$25 million equivalent), and a limited amount of rehabilitation of
existing equipment, there will be no or only minimal requirement during
the project period for additional equipment.
65.       The MTPCPT has the organizational and personnel framework as
well as the necessary equipment, to carry out the required volume of
maintenance works now planned in force account. Work efficiency will be
ensured by greatly strengthening supervision which was previously
deficient through independent monitoring and reporting by DCGTX. Yearly
reviews between the Government and the Bank, of maintenance performance
and progra -ing, will be carried out to identify any corrective action
required. The domestic construction industry will be strengthened
through their participation in the bridge and culvert reconstruction
program. The choice of executing most road maintenance by force account
has been discussed and agreed with the Government. The maintenance
planning, review, execution and supervision arrangements were confirmed
at negotiations (Section 3.06 and Schedule 5 of the DLA).



- 22 -
D. Training Program
66.       The training program vill have as primary function to prepare
present staff of the MTPCPT to take over the functions of about 200
supervisors, mechanics and operators that are expected to retire during
the program period, and to insure continuous recycling of staff to
conserve their skills. The program will have two main thrusts : (i) to
continue and complete the program embarked upon by FORNMROUTE under the
First Highway Sector Loan; and (ii) to insure that subsequent training
is properly planned for the needs of road maintenance and carried out in
a cost-effective manner making optimum use of existing facilities both
inside and outside the NTPCPT. For these purposes, FORNAROUTE will be
restructured and become the fourth specialized school under the National
Public Works School (ENSTP). The training program is integrated vith a
program to recruit capable staff from inside and outside the MTPCPT. It
is estimated that all regional (civil and mechanical) engineers and cost
accountants will receive 1 to 2-week refresher courses annually; vhile
about 40 field supervisors, brigade chiefs, foremen and operators will
receive 2-6 months of basic training annually; and 22 vorkshop heads and
chief mechanics will go through 2-year courses of basic training. In
addition, all specialized staff would go through 1-week refresher
courses yearly. The personnel management function of the NITPCPT will
also be strengthened to provide integration of training coordination and
career development for road maintenance staff. During negotiations the
training program was agreed with the Government (Section 3.06 of the
DLA).
E.   Road Transport Industry Program
67.       A program of reforms will be introduced to deregulate and
enhance the efficiency of the road transport industry, and ensure that
road investments significantly induce economic development. This would
include: (i) making the issuance of road transport authorizations
contingent only on professional competence and the possession of a valid
commercial registration; (ii) replacing mandatory tariffs by a system of
recommended (reference) tariffs, based on road conditions and weight or
volume of commodities transported; (iii) abolishing the obligatory bill
of lading (lettre de voiture) for all national road transport; (iv)
completing the liquidation of the CNBF; (v) reducing the number of road
blocks for the control of road transport by 60 to 70% nationwide; and
(vi) carrying out a feasibility study of a pilot freight bureau project
involving two or three cities. The Government has indicated that the
requirement for bills of lading has been abolished and the CNBF has been
dissolved and agreed that formal confirmation of these steps having been
taken will be a condition of Loan effectiveness (Section 6.02 of the
DLA). The Government has also agreed to (a) change the regulation of
road transport authorizations not later than June 30, 1987, (b) replace
mandatory tariffs with recommended tariffs by June 30, 1986 for all
commodities except coffee, cocoa, fuel, cement, cotton, rice, fertilizer
and sugar, and by December 1987 submit to the Bank a timetable for
eliminating mandatory tariffs on these commodities, (c) by December 31,
1985 largely redu^e the number of road blocks, (d) by December 31, 1986
submit to the Bank a feasibility study for a freight bureau pilot
project, and (e) by June 30, 1987 submit to the Bank the road user



- 23 -
charge study, indicating recolmended measures to correct identified
deficiencies in the user charge structure (Section 3.07 of the DLA).
F. Enforcewent of Road Traffic Legislation
68.       The present pervasive overloading of trucks requires improved
enforcement of axle load limitations to diminish premature damage to
road surfaces and structures and avoid excessive wear and tear on
vehicles. The axle load controls that were abandoned some years ago
will be resumed and the number of load checkpoints increased to eleven
from the present nine inoperative points. New equipment costing about
US$ 0.5 million equivalent would be installed, and the operation of the
checkpoints would cost some US$2.2 million during the three-and-a-half
year program period, including equipment maintenance and personnel
costs. During negotiations, this was confirmed with the Government
(Section 4.06 of the DLA).
G. National Transport Plan
69.       The national transport plan to be established under the
program will cover (i) intermodal planning including international
traffic and container movements; (ii) investment programming;
(iii) recommendations for improvements in the management and operations
of agencies and enterprises active in the sector; and (iv) review and
analysis of the transport pricing policies of all transport modes. The
Government has prepared a detailed study proposal which is acceptable to
the Bank. During negotiations the objectives of the Plan were confirmed
and agreement was reached that the study would be submitted to the Bank
by December 31. 1987 and its agreed recommendations thereafter
implemented in accordance with a timetable established by the Gover=meut
and agreed to by the Bank. (Section 3.08 of the DLA).
H. Cost and Financing
70.       The Loan will help finance components with a total cost
estimated at US$230.7 million equivalent, of which 46X is foreign
exchange costs and 54% is local costs including 5% of taxes and duties.
The estimate is based on February 1985 costs and expressed in current
prices, considering price increases for local costs of 5Z for civil
works and 7% for other items annually, and for foreign costs of 5% in
1985, 7.5% in 1986, and 8% annually thereafter and excludes the preseut
level of Government funding for maintenance (about US$77 million
equivalent over the program period). Contracts for civil works will be
exempt from the customary value added tax of 25%, and the estimate only
includes those taxes and duties that will actually be paid on civil
works, goods purchases and services, and are estimated at about 5%. The
cost of technical assistance and consulting services is based on current
rates observed in the Ivory Coast.



- 24 -
71.       The program will be financed by a US$110.0 million equivalent
loan from IBRD, US$50.0 million equivalent from APDB and US$37.3 million
equivalent from Government. This presently leaves a financing gap of
US$33.4 million which is proposed for cofinancing by commercial banks
which have indicated strong interest in a B-type loan. Such a loan
would help confirm the confidence and the support of commercial banks in
the Ivory Coast. If the B-type loan materializes the Bank participation
in an amount of up to US$10.0 million would be funded from the proceeds
of the proposed IBRD loan. The Government's contribution will be in
addition to its present annual level of about US$22.0 million of
financing for road maintenance expenditures. During negotiations,
agreement was reached on the Government according priority, within its
agreed funding, to the timely and complete funding of its obligations to
the road maintenance programs, as a condition for approval of any new
investment sub-projects (Section 4.02 of the DLA).
I. Implementation
72.       The program will be implemented under the responsibility of
the DCGTX. The road investment program will be carried out by
contractors under direct supervision of the DCGTX. The road maintenance
program will be carried out by force account by the MTPCPT through the
DR and DNTP, and will also be supervised by the DCGTX. The practices
and reporting details of this supervision were agreed with the
Government during negotiations (Schedule 5 of the DLA). Training will be
implemented through FORMAROUTE under the ENSTP, and training
coordInation and personnel management will remain the responsibility of
the DR training officer. The pilot study of freight bureaus will be done
by DCGTX assisted by consultants. The program of enforcement of axle
load legislation will be initiated and executed for two years by DCGTX,
theu transferred to the NTPCPT. The preparation of the national
transport plan will be done by the DCGTX assisted by consultants.
Preparation is completed for the road investment program for 1985/86,
the outline of the maintenance program, and the training and axle load
legislation enforcement components.



- 25 -
J. Procurement
73.       Procurement will be in accordance with Bank guidelines;
amounts and methods are given in the table below.
Amounts and Methods of Procurement a/
(US$ million equivalent)
Item        Category                  Procurement Method b/        Total
ICB         LCB       Other
1         Civil works         112.9        78.4          -         191.3
by contract         (73.0)     (11.5)          -         (84.5)
:4        Equipment,            0.7        14.6          1.4         16.7
spares and           (0.7)       (7.5)         1.4        (9.6)
material
3         Fuels and             -           15.0         0.5         15.5
lubricants            -          (9.8)         -          (9.8)
4         Technical
assistance, and
Consulting           -            -            7.2         7.2
Services and         -            -           (6.1)       (6.1)
Fellowships
113.6       108.0          9.1       230.7
Total                           (73.7)       (28.8)       (7.5)      (110.0)
3 of IBRD Financing              67           26           7          100
a/ Amounts include contingencies. Amounts in parentheses indicate amount
of IBRD participation.
b/ Procurement method and IBRD participation may change according to
co-financing available.
74.       Standard procurement documents for civil works have been
reviewed and agreed with the Government. All civil works contracts
above US$6.0 million equivalent, and contracts for goods and materials
except fuels above US$300,000 equivalent, will be on the basis of ICB
procedures that are acceptable to the Bank. Contracts below these
levels, and contracts for fuels, will be let according to LCB procedures
acceptable to the Bank. The rather high LCB-ICB cut-off point for civil
works is explained by the fact that the Ivorian environment, with about
16 foreign contractors permanently based in the country, is highly
competitive. Based on past experience, it may be assumed that
contractors not based in Ivory Coast are unlikely to be attracted to
compete for contracts of less than US$6 million. Also mitigating in
favour of a-high cut-off point are the facts that LCB may be
internationally advertised, is open to outside foreign contractors
without restrictions, and that the only significant difference between
ICB and LCB is the currency of payment, for LCB mandated as the CFAF,
which is a currency freely convertible into French Francs.   Purchases



- 26 -
of proprietary spares for equipment upkeep under the road maintenance
program will be directly from authorized dealers. Bank financed
contracts over US$1 million equivalent will be subject to prior Bank
review and approval, which will cover nearly 85Z of the total value of
all Bank financed contracts. Other contracts will be subject to
selective post-award reviews.
K. Disbursements
75.        Disbursements for civil works and consulting services would
be on the basis of contracts approved by the Bank. Individual
disbursements would be above US$50,000 equivalent each. Disbursements
for highway maintenance expenditures would be against purchases of fuel
and materials. In order to expedite the flow of disbursements, a
Special Account would be established in the Caisse Autonome
d'Amortissements (CAA).   An advance of CFAF 1.0 billion would be made
by the Bank in the Special Account representing about four months'
foreseen needs for external financing of the maintenance program at the
start of implementation. The Government's part of eligible expenses for
fuel and materials -would be disbursed through the Treasury in accordance
with current practices, which are acceptable to the Bank. CAM would
effect the payment of the Bank-financed share up to agreed annual limits
from the Special Account only after documentary proof that the
Government's share has been paid; each payment would be fully supported
by certified statements of expenditures (SOE's). The MTPCPT would be
responsible for preparing SOE's and all supporting documents and the
Treasury will verify and authorize the payment. The advance to the
Special Account would be made after the declaration of loan
effectiveness. Applications for replenishment of the advance to the
Special Account would be made on a monthly basis or whenever payments
are in excess of CFAF 250 million. Agreement was reached during
negotiations on the operation of the revolving fund; the establishment
of the Special Account will be a condition of effectiveness (Section
6.01 of the DLA). External auditors acceptable to the Bank will be
engaged to carry out specific yearly audits of the Special Account
(Section 4.01 of the DLA). Disbursement above a ceiling of US$27
million will only be made once the Loan agreement from the AfDB has
become effective (Schedule 1 of the DLA).
76.       The standard disbursement profile for highway projects in the
West Africa Region indicates that an eight-year period is required to
obtain full disbursement, but the profile pertains to conventional
project lending and is not considered appropriate for the proposed
project. Given the experience under the First Highway Sector Loan and
the advanced level of preparation of subprojects, the proposed Loan is
expected to be fully disbursed after four and a half years. This makes
allowance for a one-year delay in project execution. The proposed Loan
closing date is December 31, 1989.
L. Benefits and Risks
77.       The realization of the country's economic objectives will
depend, inter alia, on the continued availability of a reliable and
efficient highway system. The project has been designed with a view to
carefully balance allocations to new investments, rehabilitation and



- 27 -
maintenance, taking into account, on the one hand, present economic
circumstances of Ivory Coast and outlook for the next four years, and,
on the other hand, the absorptive capacity of the executing agencies and
the construction industry.
78.       Benefits from the program would accrue to the economy at
large, primarily in the form of savings in vehicle operating costs and
increased efficiency of the road transport industry. Also, timely
pavement strengthening and more efficient highway maintenance would
result in savings in future construction requirements. The overall
program would support the Government policy of reducing regional
imbalances by providing better and less costly access to all parts of
the country.
79.       As the minimum economic rate of return for subprojects to be
included in the program is 122 in general and 10Z for the northern part
of the country, the economic viability of the project does not present
particular risks. The subprojects already evaluated and likely to start
during the first year of the program, have an estimated weighted
economic rate of return of 212.
80.       The sector loan format affords sufficient flexibility to
respond to changing economic conditions. Should the economy not improve
at the rate predicted, the highway program can relatvely easily be
adjusted without affecting its viability.
81.       The Government has indicated its willingness to further
improve its management of the highway sector both to make sure that the
network is improved and maintained in the most efficient way within
available resources, and that sector policies are geared to greater
efficiency of its economy. This derives at least in part from the
increasing pressures on financial resources during the last few years;
should these pressures relax, there is a risk that the vigor of this
commitment would also be relaxed. However, the ceilings on annual
investment levels, selection criteria and semi-annual review meetings
should minimize this risk.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
82.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Ivory
Coast and the Bank and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for
in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank
are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Special
conditions of the proposed project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
83.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 28 -
PART VI - RUCOMMDATION
84.      I recomand that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachents
Washington, D.C.
May 20, 1985



-29 -                                      Am= I
_, cw  m s, am u
wIN&        ,1W T    uui m          fA a. O  SaM          P. aUCA & Hz. UR
UTN"                                 3S.L    3   323.1        325
AGUCUL!OAM.                           SOI         57.          61.3
-M  cain (VW)                      20LO         400.0        930.0             11IL9                   1149.0
cKUOumI o7O         SVd  AE           30.0       10.0         191.0               29.0,                  022.1
-           a lUs lL 0 s
OPUAIu& AU00N1-1341 (IogiW.)        3460.0      3000.        4936.0
ON"1*o3  a2s (340 NYL)                19.         V.            1.o              n29.7
1ppATI   PROJOcz
popuATu  1N Tam 2000 oWILL)                                  17.1
SwTTlA     NIOrII    (hLL)                                   S3..
PoNULAT= DIUm
M   SQ. M.                          10.7        13.5         20.0               3.0                    3].L
NM i. EL AGR. LAW                   01.7        00.7        124.0              18.3                    441.7
PONIuAIKO  1a3 5uUCVB (O)
0-14 TM                            43.o        0L9          43.0               *13. 04
13-4 To                            32.0         33.0         3L9                31.7                    33.1
IaAM AU                              L0          L22          2.0                LI                      3.3
CwiLTD    RO   RAT  (x)
TOTAL                                Lt          1.7 Lu.      4. Ie              L0                      2.0
gso"                                4.0          7.3          8.3                3.2                     4.3
cx6 31N11  AU (CM  TN=)              49.2         48.4         47.0               47.0                    40.4
CI   3A= MIR (Pu 1J)                 23.7         20.3         10.9               1.2                     L1.3
cansS        lO IO                     3.4         3.4          3.3                3.2                     2.L
ACCPTUS. A_LL (1T 3)                 ..
USS  (C 07 AU1D WI)                   ..          ..          3.0                 ..                    2L2
- -o
rxIN     or ram  -.  M  CAPru
(199-71-[Ol)                         99.0         97.o        107.0               91.0                    97.3
r CVs=  SPLTY Or
CAW^IZS (X OF REQUIltUNTS)         110.0       120.0        112.0               9.2                    110S
nauzuC (GINS P= DAY)                37.0        00.0         30.0               34.7                    70.1
Of WNld ADDIAL AM PULS            13.0        10.0         10.0 /d            17.0                    17.0
ClILD (ACU 1-4) DWA   MAZ             40.0        31.0         23.0               10.7                    14.0
sIALU
LIt EWPCr. Ar 0SIRT  (C140)           20.5        42.3         47.4               31.7                    37.3
UWAII MORT. MAU (PU TNDUSJ           167.0       140.0        119.0              102.7                   101.3
ACCZSS TO SAFE VATn (210)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..         1.0  .             3.                        .r
8u1*                                  ..          ..         s0.o 7;            34.1                    04.5
LUIAL                                 .,          .,. 3 0                       27.3                   21.4
ACESS To  aEMT  DISPOSAL
(Xo  roFULAToN)
TOTAL                                ..           .0         2S.0                 .
URS                                  ..         23.0         33a.0.
RURAL                                ..          ..          2Lo.
POPULATIOl IP  PMIScIAN            29190.0    14090.0       21040.0 #f         11948.3                  4245.1
POP. PER  13111C P11SO              2920.0 f    200.0 f%    31o.O   5           2240L9                  1831.1
POP. PE  HOSPITAL  MM
VTTAL                              080.0       790.0        310.0              900.9                   42L9
U                                     ..       *90.0          ..               164.7 ?43.3
RURAL.                                *'      1330.0            -             4012.1                  2313.3
A3ISSIOII  PE  HOSPrUL 30              ..           .,           .,                 .,                    2.2
AVESACZ SX12 O NOUSEELO
TOCTAL                                ..          ..
UllA                                3.4 It       ....                                                    -
RURAL                                 ..          ..
AVEZAQ EL OF PUSOM/lo
TOTAL                                ..           ..
011                                   .0 Il       .. . ..
=aAL                                  ''          '''''''
ACS TO ELWCT. (2 or VRLLXI=)
TAL                                  1.0  k       .,           ,,                 ..                    44.2
a3                                  0.7k IL                    .- *                                     77.7
RUPAL                                 ..          ..           ..                 -                     10.1



- 30 -  .                                  AinI
iwia  :po        AJJ-a h                                         et
PaDows_                                             _     LL  S_L  M   A_L
flOllYl205             24,.0       6,.6        7.0L GL.           9.                     UL.
FU,M                         210         61.0         600               73.                     72.6 
snam b rUon                         LO         9.0         1.0 n              17.4                   4Lo
MAL                      4.0        14.0        22.0               23.                     9.L2
1311                     1.0         4.0         9.0               14.6                   3L6
VOCAflEaL CX OIF UU0WART)            12.7        7.3         31.0 IL            3.3                    10.3
PtDUAW                             61.0       '3L6         39.0L.&            36.6                   3.3
ASK.? L?MU*C  PAIR CS)                3.0 At    20.0         23.0               31.6                   GL3
PSECAIhTHbUULW  P0M              3.3        LI.2        14.7               S 0.                   7.1
BAD=O uIwrUlinU3        FM           13.9        11.0       121.0              1603                    313.1
TV 31zv335/IUoUBU MOP                 0.4 L      4.6         30.3               10.3                   46.1
K32U3U?) CVLUUI!U
PU TIUSKU  N9ulAU                   2.2        LO           6.7a              17.2                   21.2
CLIU  AMIWL A!ISUUUICAI?A.                        LO     GA            0.2 L                            1.1
TTmAL LAsm iam   (9SOW)            1131.0     266.0        6402.0
136118 CImF                        14.2       42.7         41.3               22.6                   M0L;
LAICaLIUS  (vuCuW)                 89.0       84.0         79.0               37.1                   02.4
uim.um   clUmcmI                   3.0         LO0          4.0               17.4                   VA.
PARETCUIATI RATE CrESCST
TOMA                               33.7        32.2        49.3               26.2                   3.2
HAIE                               3.6.       39.3         33.6               47.6                   46.6
FouVA                             49.1        46.7         42.4               22.1                    3.6
gcohIC             "TMm 37           0.9         G.E          1.0                1.4                    1.E
IPCICM  Olr fOVATE XIICU
RICZKEIR ST
UGIEST 32 or  gn IUU              30.9           .
Zug~E 200  HouIEWLI            31.6          ..
LOMWU  20 or UWEWUSK                LG          . 
LIhS? 402 air mUIsV.m              16.3          ..
ESDITEDU   AISOULZ lOVElY  DImmN
LLEVl (US$ FM CAfMZ)
033*3  L.                                       ..       274.0  uL322                              24
USUAL                 -.          --       ~~~~~~~~~~~94.0~   249.0                  177.2
nSTU 4    *ATIVE lOVElYT [HCUS
LEVEtL (US$ PUR CAIPITA)
0384                                ..           .        I.0 Ic0            477.4                  "Lo.
RUsAL                                     ..              24.0 7.              U.0                  24.9
eSrDIATZD MP9. B11L01 ALSOLUTE
PoV  I.t IEO1 LEVEL CZ)
RUAL                                ..        L1
NOr AVAIA 0E
NW! APPLICABLE
I. Thu SgOUP a'.qW0 fOr each LndICator are seru.1a1a-w1Jmaish at1Ehat1c mm"a. OMNI"u of cominEtan" C
Ldcacars deni an avaiIabLLY of date ar   la not uinem.
.lb   t.1... orbarwise noted. 'auto ear 1900 refer tonay, yeeg betwm.. it" ..d 194; "Dats  for t197S  betiae LI9 aM
1971;a   data for 'Met bAmgt fcasto' bart.. 196 maid 1912.
acmur to LigmAraln  popaatlue *ravth rat. is mi~e chin Cate of macoral iin.aaa;  Id 1977; LI~ 1970; It 1972;
1343. lA Covernaufc persmnal 0.17;Z  AfrIca. pouamul.ka  Ltin th  1ty of  %Nwk. SAlY. for1937-4s  --1936.
AT      p.p"atlaMlo   a urS. CansterO. Abei'gourom. lAgarlU*. Dibabb   ad Mm only'. refer to bD 8W&
C 2;  L 1979;_ Lo 1971.; a  1972.



-  31  -Annaz I
Page 3 of 6
deemcl   bee.. .9   f lb    ..h   -    Ammeericcddt   iiee.ieiwcsdh  dttlc.,oA  meere    .  etei.m  l   ide.  W. acme..1  ooWkhct-.1 ..a   e
-oewrt  cwdm.. a pt oimi..  Sen,mt  tees., .5  i*ew..iert.,  neidi m.i  dtltmwcsm. kim.. 4M.mert.
1kin6tmm.m . e. II) at.  mm doanl  duwe  .6 hI. mcab)cet dooli?rr.5   i 61  amadcm ."?am    wIth o-olha hlkit -.eec    tg-s  thw-  al.                tt jii  milk
ahjm. mmmii 4.mpe  e. omt  tsmm   ot mell..ermmoa  Wpaw m W.ttist. i...hu S iath           .,I  ad pmini Ecm  I. ink.  kmmsmal m1 I-it.' .smeelw~av.mcl
e11tMti..i.  is she wet,...   m             del. it   lmaIn   he ,.emlmtlEa  e.tht.l .tg:11oait  m. h rdwf   ..d  tedt-.mtr.  .1mm.  Ur thoom .mJcwmmw mlb Sb         ri.m
imp h.e atm  9mw mhdste,.ine.m inenelwlrim   '                            m.- aftk  teb.  ar. dep.Sm  -  wtw. ..I Imbin,  el  tm  I d. .4   . -   madfal. mmml..o -Im  he
seemice  Ic weietme             orwcc   t"em  irteewI   eeI        - te   -..t -. em  etti   -4wi.i I. _mp.tie  eM. minim  c  ...  Simt.. .' . ml-  _ace  Ibm  mty
3961 ietim...S e..k.I  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~    ~     ~ ~ ~~t%I  iuima  li    J                   -     1P.emetm  ilmide  by cmhrm  p.m.im
ae                      domde.                                                                            m      teihgm   imatbtok    l   ciwe
MilslaiiL- lit..'.tS  alptieie-c  am  emd tmmprttw  a.m,emtv'                                                              ne.    ett    .c. g.wce-tt al,             .ah
*eew pm1 pemmm   -c.    ad hiOw. jw..d. met  it. 1.1mm  IWIII                             leA.e litati-e.
MeL     a              o,W        g.-                                                               H" mIi..  mE .:cJ.Mhf -a I -.S sceIJm mds  t.m .taic6mii
~iiliuIIU~Wi  cmeme      - . "n a -    rul  b. mgt. (146041 ki.mclt                       ewmhmi-mii   cclo.e..  iNccmietma  m.                     ""mmm".m  .MmmtlU ic
in". I.mu. had mimatt atm                                                                       by       -       pcm.  mbymeim.  tteti.hcmei-. "eettj  wmcpl w          4S
-r ec     teaasmd,  igoti Shc.pm"etm   haoaoam. m-.1as  Iect lb 
_mi tayMm   -                              -emhmAmce    Mewc  ec.mwt.s.l V  mre                   mdn    cltccwpem.i,eewd by e pby.ict, lb"i by e aikm
wrlcee -mmcme-icii  L. ine.wetwtc   -. -Imwt e   e  byWr. -cItcc                     adem.mmcc. -mm. M.11P9. et..) blA  ff cr6. m-mi-t .rc.Admtim. al
liN     a   m.d...                                                                                       M t.ni.tiL      T.- Lee  eeb. ci    m.mimcm  em    di.bmc
MRIMPU L USP-                        - Ac cw hall 1i tie. tLwm. a  1ci 1tmm
diwewc- d cc  -                        -v r    ee.ee   .w . P.wec.mimc     d.9  e.             ad mmmi, -tm   -..i.  a booeSe  cmi..e   W   -v -                 mm-.I.dad me
low..elrc.   iitcli. .5mes Seine.                                                     li  m.me.mid 9cr ..t.t.. tte-..rme
.:I               byiiiii Nj.   o aom.  dimiw.emiw    a  wewetImtei=ilim.. ...p.ti1.cr   amitemm  e..Ltd. .e.me                                            guwe 
nEed.  Pwejm.iie   pemtw   cm m.w..mty we.e mpw.. It. :1c                               mmcepdm tt.
iee.tc  eret tE9e. metwl         et1  mithr icrelmmt   mctpm-                               em.m IA4M M'm     !1rimtw .rem X.     -11.1dwm e m - .cet eq..  a   c
mmmmi        et  i_.g-".Mt. i9  e.pw         bow' cttlt    . me1            .1          be...lem.   in      i..W  -I mlmcr,.ewo    iwnlctwe               mmmlm.
P..= q. imm   miwiti   eedc  ic  En-   t.I.m  a                   Z ei                        EL.
rWtcmfl  rtw-t   ic0   tooi   W icecm.  h  i.   wet. tmmsmticc   eeJ.c   c  6i99mm.=t m`c.mhe m   trm '.  dmett  mm0
a   qctmete msl   e..lbie  teleb.c 1.   slci  a.e ).tc.im.cce-etcmmcesemetem    ,  cmc                                                                                ..OPrme
zromemlo       c... ooa  e d-inemF   wmeet .    .     -.5..      .tmc    eteeee                            wrl  l   i.c be  1.' ttilct  P,m =                    - -.
btee9l   p.c ied  mb.cm.-lm   cm the wecmte  me the weew                            .                                           tpeS    cee-tme.
eecmticm    -L-. -Itemt    IMc It    e.   cccmm          mwd  9iei.wceicrtIL                             m_   .JiM Em.l m9c.ed.t    eelmmllmmet
a-     lcee.--e----m.  ci -.gcw    e  ..c-S  A                                                                            -I.cdr  -.teeci-            .  eeteeme  meao
PtliC -.ee! MrEsr..   ..ed-m   .e.deide.bea   em.e   e
96jV     ljrM b.,.c_~.wcclleew.c. iiee   mdmm.mlmmmecctmiec.
~iiiiY~ic1  mit.. ill.,  a  i d.mc.                             CleEw ImlewS., fle icer`t -lot-l.el   cile   cl   we.iime cicl
I..  ..  m. crlrime.E  I    -  m.*lcd      cbmm  em ewlrtlcml l.d    pe..cww  c  s..m  mcmlrmtmeei. cm I  m-w -a  eTt
eeiej mmmdl. ide m.d ltcm  dm1.. ~ ~  ~              ~             ~             ~             ~             ho- 
rem.laicm Ae dlrewemm   qc.r.et) - III ie.. limm  mm..,, mmitereem  Il.-  tmimttm
ma w.rcl medtwiicd  m  wmem  -cm.m  -  pr.eecm  e  elin.e  c..... int.I.e  wmmeci wmcle mcl -   cmmcct mre mtcm   el.
r.tle   raim  mete     ne    mcI. -  mcl*em  wmml.i.cd                                       lmw.,m ci
,..  w.i.i.  mm  4-ee.  iS-lt  el  .in-l.Mcd.  Im,w.e. er.ecte.mm.    - licwe 1                                                   tmimw            t
re.i.m   retitI   rrem      r.-  em w-~             m.m   me Zrtme   -                                     -jcrm    Il   Ie mlmee.   c ccIcltc           1 mlde-
wcwmcmlcm Em  'til-el. tn-u.-e  lwe-it.              mlttemc.  retmmer  tmrm.e.lm.a  ten.e.ac  .mtc..eiin m  ra
Idptc  mcm   lie.1 Cm.., -e                                   ..                               eee    elmm.temc  cemim.  .ti...lc.i     e.em
Itc   t..m.tc   m.    Amcd  str 9   mdIlt.    m..ei  cl *Ict.ctl.              e  er.s.   e.mt.ice  i  mm   -icME               ci
me   se  rt.lcrmtdm ciemlcec    teeccmemiei                                        c.metmettlm   .m    tced  cemmcl-U.th   cmi



Annex 1
Page 4 of 6
- 32 -
'uselme   m   gm                        u.iqi.-mL1 Musa IS? MWI - siEmii
- or Coto              1             65, 39t
Nowgrim m     r  t                                                                          t g         
emma.. . '
,Zallow l
MisSe                          m'm _ pam                                         666                                   fltuwi
191       iX      1        tl1 197  93 37  9            91       19       191      366                395      CIII     1161     196       lIP      1
_                                                                                                                                     _I
_^- _issla  posit                1.                           0      6.6      *.        1.9      1.1                6.3     -4.6     .4.4      4.1                2.1      La       Li        6.1      4.9      4.1
"bt&w                       ItILL                         Sl       4.       I6.1      L7       9.1                LI      -Li    -i1.        -5.2                .1       6.1      6.1      6.3      *.       4.1
imam3 112i                                               1I15      9.1     39.3        .i      *.1                *.7   -1L2        L2     -ILS                 Li       6.7      IL2       LI       6.1      L.
:u                             Li.                      -IL13   -I.1        1U6.     6LI  7 .J                     .6      4.?      4LJ    -3-11               4.2        3.d     6         LI       a.'      4. 2.
It.la6   a 3s.bam            W.a                         1461     33.1    *4.3       ' 41   .4.1               .18.3      Lia    -16         L5                LI      Li      .2         1.2      L.       LI
Cue trn                       561.4                         14.6      9.7     11.9      Lb        9.4              -1.      ..6      -L3      -.6                13.      1.6       1.4      L9       LI        4.1
I-   Imm                      1176.1                       E.&       GA.      21.9    '4.6       -1.9                      -11.5    -19.9    22.6                -6.       2.6       :.L       LI     -i         L.:
!U in  I* WI                  291.6                         11.1    .1.9       5. .3      i      IL3                1.1      La       -.1       1.5               L.S  L61           2.6      :.       L        :.l
awe of oI                     669                            Y.1    2.       14.6  *   1. 2 L     .1              - .'    -1.6    -11.9   L-2                             5.1       3.2       .6      L.a       L:
IW   Su.st 11wimp              .I                         .6.6      14.6    -zs.:   -21.?    AM                  -17.3    -76.2          J    16.1               6.1   -32.         1.6    .1.       .1.3      q.1
W   llter s3913u               329.5J 5                           1 6.        91.6     97.6    3U.0               366.  136.3   132.5    146.6                  131.7    163.0    17L.      199.1   765: Sl3.,
(c Ma   . I                                                             _3_.3  71  255.1    323.6    212..    zu.  373.1    31.6    33.3  49.0    3OL.    14..6    612.      626.    66 _ _ 16.1
IWO of W   66 lwbsj frsgusll                                                       'ma 696   tl  lmum 
.la mw   on                                                                  '6 6u 6q61  IS  gijgg
66666 wdo P,sh   afit          366.6    366.0    66.6    366.0    366.6    36.9    366.                    6.3                .3                6.9                                  LSI2.
4B~w3cw                       61.3     39.&     2.9        1.2     27.6     V.?      76.'1               5.6               6.?               6.6               4.?.                6.3
[pass"                        N3         1      1. 3.9 3.3  37.  36.6    135.5      36.6               Iii4               6.6              36.6               -4.6               6.6
35.6L   2VA       23.6     1.5    IL.        7.        76.6               9.6             136.6                4.6               -4.3               1.1
ftIs-I u b  W       'am       i:.61    36.5   2IL9       ILI       6.0     ZL3 .     2.1L                             I   _.6               36.6                3.2               3.6
:womb=                          6L.      13.6    1LI       17.6     19.6    19.?    36.3                   6.1               7.3                .0              -4.1                Lo
G -6 Imoetums .6                         21.3     21        Me        6.      33.6     32.3                7.3                 3              13.6               *7.5               L.3
Eawto    WI                     17.1      6.1    25.1      16.1      =1.      6.2      V7.6                1.                6.                  .?               1.9               Li
low's go aI                      3.      )L.3    29.3      3.L       3.2      7.       13.4               1.1                L                3 .1              -36.9               L I
is-ee  hatngal  laue            IL       ILI6 66.   1 1  9.4         36.9     36.6      LS0              3[La               33.6                .4              -I36.               3.2
C1a1.  rim=                              393      .9        n,      is       195       3699
v.'u6 66 tZL Z                            a       LI      1.9      33.?      m6.e    26.4
evt E,u.in1                             :s.6     :1        6.I 7.1 M         5.6     Z J.1
:.uloc l6un96                            2.' I             3.g       6.6      :.11     3.
IS _ ..... sU   (a .u  at wus           5.3       1.      L IC   11.         1.2 .
='  .u I F,.:aq  'is9.9                           1.5     .I        1        1         5_
;e  or :Nita 6s"  5gg  CA3               Lo                  .                                   , 
1111                                      3.1               L.                  . 
*69e   a.g  Ea_                          .2L               :. 2.4             Z.6.               3.3
"MW   f        t            al            p.9                .l e.i                              3.: .. L
w~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                        ----- -- --------- '  -



fli  V#                  I'll      I'll                 I'll      t'll      olle      I'll                            sl~~~~~~~~~~919961eq  i Ill
-  0     4         @                       11Ct                       00                              i        [let      Vol            file  9fl39   Fs.p
-  00  10    90                     -     ~~~~       ~~~~~~~~I'll  4'  1                        1         1                                    19131 *ty
%D                                                                                                                             I'tt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l 0  C  019  6                                                                       Iliad99  h  9  1119 ')
0                                                                 6161~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~II  till  Sit!  UtIl            MII      til        @111      01 1!                    ti    il        0109      P19i           MI  NUl A  100112319111
$"I IA34'     993 %aliim   1911113                  Iii   l n"    lInk;eaq                                 113*1fl03 191*911h111
11  Ill-    VI                   66                  19                  0009    ~~~~~       ~~~~~     ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~01909  01009  lt so 0109 6 01    0109 0009
ti        as                  ra                   9:                  15                  root~~~V   I'nt    oI't        root      o-.os     *-t;      ggijI
5041fl1        519flI's           V5910                 -101               10fl91              9149      1509      050T       UII1      Sil       119       Olt&
1.1  ~~~~  **U  III     13      CIt                 **0~~~~~isif  15      *I       *5COl                         64        III       1.191      0'S091                                          3159 *9*9II  JI
1151  lIlt    SKI  504   ~*95    *~lI                055       063        6N II1                        0009      863       CII rlil    ilt     i'l 61l                                       HIaNIIII39919 tn6e
ri                      tie       LOI..     615.....................j.g ......             *...(..........11......1...5 .... o.. i.....o...................n .........o....m........................
I                     5111       I'll0 5  *5   U       'l      I'M       t1i                *099       CO        I'l       Ilia                 6]00      9'S.      I'tl      illo    1ol poi                                             tovi nElis
1 Vt    Oil1        91W       15-5      5I"        I'll                V1111    1I'll      119-      lip                  015     1 I'll       1'.                1'I9                           3091                       ,eegi tpl  'i*ie
51     m       I I       '999 ll     rt     1'l                  Cl-i      **9       95[       lU                   0VOI-    109        I'll      919j      Cii9                                         loo591      l pHlIi
01'3      VI'       Il        Ili                  vI 9                P19       Oi-    V11-          lItt-               Ill       50s-      Ill       6169       *191                           (-f0ll           sjnhl   eslltpnq,
0i0t      5191    1519         -9         5       OS I'I-                        11        001        9ll                 Ill       91        $11-      lii-      81                             5101                       hsljs.oe
50t       t10       50l       15VI 0                                   II        L -    11s          113                  VWU        Ull      93O       6109      I'll                           0119                     It ni*t
11   51        51        Ii        50        I                    Oild   1LII-        909-      fII.                 Ill*      Ilo       01        IT9        I'll                          51fl9j            uiMd;i allp.eliq
0043  SkI  Wi  jUl  9049      5549                 9509      1509~~~~~~~el  Olt9  999                1001      lilt       Itil      l'i      Illtlia                                                    Also
,IlsrIJd                                   1131h1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t913J                      ;iajqil                                       9U3t       I 93*51           spdfi         9921939ib
....                                                           1609  9119             Mi          itjiiij  M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........
9fl9549 393J  . tiniest  'ii 3333                  19I91S49 501 4"e                we               II  N,   II
.A           . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . .  . . . . ..  . . .  . . . .  . . . .  . . . .  . . .  . . . .  . . . .  . . . .  . .. .  . .    . . . . .  . . . .  . . .  . . . .  . . .  . . . .  . . .  .



-34-                                                              AnnexI
Page 6 of 6
oil . xI          trN' cM- ftO  P fMucs sIuM carn,0 m0uMP
w   colts                i.1,q31
gus  in.   gin       916~~~l  19n      am        0111    lit                 INS       Mu                IU       396      III      tin       tP       in        it"
hewn  a                             ma      'ii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M.:    ae.   :ar  as-   31s.  m1u.     wa1P.              nu.a    3.5a               Muo   NH.a    mi'             m.    us        em11..   a1
P-af  isswIuecim                                  0.9      .1 hI       .111.    119.11    11.1   *g.      ILI1   138.1               ALI.   55.9                11g7.    616.31  168.6   11271.1  129.3   Im.            .ge.i3
sdmu655                                          i1i.!        W. I1.         :1.1.6    6?.I    MI.?    a18    27.93.1                          3.8               W.,   ,73.45   20.9    '.IL          M1 W      SI 383     U
"a8   haews, lmenu.                               178      114.3   1113.09 1M.1   16.9    90.s    611.3    O4                        8131.1     WS.             31139.1    SL uLl   g        IOIj 113 1   PLIt    110.5   211gM
ler-     aivmI.t            43 rnwo.h.   -m1   -wp.'  .ini.,  *IMaI.9   us..e  -is.,  -1644e                                       -111111   -gels              -1.e1.a  -1.LI  -11nu   -t11.:  -iAm1  -:mU.8  -met
'No PI*  live. piuml                           -13? 6   -.13. -16.183.    -Me4  -gg.a.r  *1gx1.s  .u11n.s   -OLI                   4311.11  .0.3               -.45,   -253L8   -14.   -I82?.  -3391.   -l3M.?  -61.111             -
*Untw  is". P  stalb                           -MLi    -I..    -44I.   -81.4   31011.8  .411g4118-M               M.63.              2t1.   469.5              483.7   411.1    M.0.       413.  -333  .1 -368.3 -sb
*1 Iwu       g- La                                      -14.1    -"8.I 1A-33    763.1   -111.7   -3114   -41L8                    -142,6   -51.l              -465.1   -eLI   -*6%         31.1834 15.       -ML:.  -IOLP
* west ftmlats.                               -1.    *319    -144.81  43.;   .112.8  .gIg             ...j   .462.4               &3IL4   -335.               -238.64    1  -333  19.4   U18.9   .457   4313.8   -981.
ftl lErsist                                       -                 7.8      28.0    as'.m    aILS3      i1       bi.1               mG        MO.               a4...    Iea       36.8     gs.m1    ILA         .eO     8.8
:mft -g         hasIMp                          -38       .6       -min.e   '1L.   *gUY.g  -gg3.g   alu6.   -m*                     4119.e   -is..              -in8..  .63.9    sj11.   .12%s6   *t.2    -u11.3   -110.4
lteci *wmga ismetwte                                '.0     Oi.     -u.s    [ito        1.9.8    W9."    g1e.e    am4.6               u.e1    n.e                in.*-4    gate    isv..    ste..   1u.0.    useI    i
eLF CaitatS                                        61.7I    M33     q.gI   'IL.:    sIt.:    iii..    219.6    Is..                    aeLs    g1I.:              462.2.   u3.S    -u.s.    n".e       ll    7.8    21.,.l
'..w  imogs                                        aLt.   .g1j.  .7ie.g    SLg         alg.,    g3g.6       g.e    *646              .911.9     11.4                6.   .4 9.6       6.0       8.6           I.E   .       7.
41e of    ron                                     11.8   .39..   .3e,.0  .ilt.st   .9a.e    mu..1   sn.e    u1.e                        .e .g                   -sic.'    11.g    -l.:    aFl?         30g.P     =.a    i.
Asewn. Los-                                       1111:    u..i    tot.:    619:    'V-:   *,.sA.    -'i'.m   -'1.6                 -g54LJ  .101g.g              -9e.7  -1673.,  -in#..  *3gg3.g  -43C.m   -14a1.:  *argti
94mg ins grat                                                       :!.i    '%.8 IsI? I    1s.2.          03g.9                     41.9      15.1               ga.9     g1.s    .6.1      g...-    :9 J      i.tJ      is.)
Es ~muiJ  O                                           saws.                           't       ea .1 113    Iit?.                              sea              .m.1         11.2  8'.'     c.         el.'   wft.:    .11."
ow                               ~~~~3.:       a      ".       t        a.:       t         a       1'2.                         --                          -         .        --
Mu-s'6aiN91  Lem                                I6.       2.       "31.'    M3.,    4%6..   iWl.    W..I   Itt.t                   aLl        IJ.,             a11.,    P".       "a6.!   iV..   :ioi.s    ale., U.        .
H'nmoil (me. cramit, -ti41sel                 767       1.       S1 a      7.i1   351.        13.1    :I 9      it;.              by.;       .                      
is                                            23.6      5.6      V 0      3..       u1.      r.'  ~ v.         139.2             1954    :7_4                z-       :n;..    71.3.     ULao     fl2.1     W,       1
Silvew ftgtslotwI                              11.2      P.:  :i.:         ::.11     l.3I     '1.     11.4    14.l                M4                           .         .                 -  
"iats.                    ~.1 e                        M.s       ".s.     -.a      ma.   siln.;    ".          .a                 .C       311.               43.7    705.      166.      2    .3  18.4    ?f.3.    94311
am   leOutauqegI sinews                         *1.6    924.1   a1'S.4   r40.9   11. v   349.1  'XL'.  6fl5.5                     Im.   15L9.                 40e't7    00.1    5121.1   s9t9   TaL2    MIs.    11W.'
N4snlaS                                      311.4    316.2    411.0    1~11.61   818.7   814.6  tlam.aI    alto                5161.? ,04t. t              rs4..:    W         11ia 6:3alid38. I   T3qe.    %1'ij  'SitU
Plf-do                            ' .16. ik  ML:.    '11.e G YI   193.1   2119.    2'L. t s11.9                      3611.2   :311.,s            M10 1.9    ALLt   1678.    317. I   Ta5,   ho6.3   Its.'
wama". ant                                      "LI3   IC7. I1-i0 I   yl I   1W1..  Ind.11   eq1.?   gsa..4                       iil&5    QIPL               3C1.s   g-s.1 27.       : =J  M 32 .9 3799   grn.9   :13.1
Inte   stoce pemwso                            iil.t    3le.1    lit.;       I. a6.            771         ?    '912                 35.1      tt.             lilA4   36141.  :533.7   12.'   ills.1   D11.1   716  I
35ms'St                                                .lI    iii.2    :'4.  'I23    Nl.a    741.             434. 4             ff1'.   187.2                M. 6t La.I   *24L4    g91.&    7*1*   612               Id.'
b"  larwnr I86.6                                 '.3      0.3      mi.a      ::.u     39.4      3.7    :LI        1.7.              31.5      P.6               eM.      61.2      61.8     81.       *2.1      0.1      7a. I
loat Iwt. liu$a 145189694 3M                      -        .                           -        .  -                                           -                21.      4351    19.3    21.6         VJ.       =6        6
-wIm aswlvam    Ist ea  sti                       1..1     11.2        .1      l II.3             I.       a [.: P   .                 5.2     32.1G              i:..     3.1      M3.       s.e.     I 36.     38.2      t.:
06*'gaaa                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~.-,  ..*.  .. P                                                                                                                                        
.....       .....  ............                .............9 .....  ........................... .......... ..............    .    ..... ..
33 .nrts.ui wcmt "D f,.ct,..
-tm..I4   MistWe Wr..It mawing  *  -    a    atw;r. aCctor
' 4. otelasm e
.'ertort ia'wcist ofk        tgw
S'.,.Clpi do    the. if WWI                                                                                        03.
ftgpi        stAg. 3,WnI                                                                                     SI.:



- 35 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 3
Status of Bank Group Operations in Ivory Coast
A. Statement of Bank Loans and Credits (as of March 31, 1985)
US$ milio0
Loan o-       Fiscal                                       Amount (less cancellations)
Credit No.    Year    Borrower       Purpose                Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
One credit fully disbursed                                    -      7.5
Twenty-eight loans fully disbursed                          694.1   -
1177-IVC      1976    BIDI          DFC                       8.0   -           0.85
1347-IVC      1977    Ivory Coast  Urban Development         30.0   -           2.98
1348-T-IVC    1977    Ivory Coast  Urban Development         14.0   -           1.37
1501-IVC      1978    Ivory Coast  Feeder Roads              29.0   -           4.79
1577-IVC      1978    Ivory Coast  Abidjan Sewerage II    33.0   -              8.46
1633-IVC      1979    Ivory Coast  Rubber III                 7.6   -           0.03
1663-rVC      1979    CCI           Artisans                 12.6   -           6.44
1698-IVC      1979    Ivory Coast  Tourism II                14.2   -           4.90
1735-IVC      1979    Ivory Coast  Forestry                  18.0   -           4.63
1777-IVC      1980    Ivory Coast  Education III             24.0   -          10.77
1827-IVC      1980    Ivory Coast  Rural Development          9.4   -           6.20
1896-IVC      1981    EECI          Power                    33.0   -          26.66
1914-IVC      1981    Ivory Coast  Highway Sector           100.0   -          34.34
2048-IVC      1982    Ivory Coast  Urban Development IIL  51.0   -             26.27
2059-IVC      1982    Ivory Coast  Technical Assistance   16.0   -             10.87
2130-IVC      1982    Ivory Coast  2nd Water Supply          43.0   -          27.57
2167-IVC      1982    Ivory Coast  Center West               13.0   -          10.46
2189-IVC      1982    PETROCI        Petroleum              101.5   -          59.03
2323-IVC      1983    Ivory Coast  Rubber IV                 32.2   -          23.01
2496-IVC      1985    Ivory Coast  Forestry II 1/            31.3   -          31.30
Total                               1314.9   7.50      300.93
Of which has been repaid             118.7    .15
Total now outstanding               1196.2   7.35
Amount sold                    5.1
of which has been repaid       5.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA              1196.2   7.35
Total Undisbursed                            300.9             300.9
1/   Not yet effective.



- 36 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 3
B. Statement of Rogional Bank Loans and Credits to Ivory Coast
and Other West African Countries.
tlSS million
Loan or       Fiscal                                     Amount (less cancellations)
Credit No.    Year    Borrower     Purpose                Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
1295-WAF      1976    CIMAO        Regional Clinker        49.5   -          0.00
1490-ICUV     1978    RAN          Regional Railway        23.0   -          0.00
969-WAF      1980    BOAD         Project Preparation      -     3.0         1.94
2242-WAP      1983    BOAD         Regional Development    6.1  -            6.05
1331-WAF      1983    BOAD         Regional Development    -    14.0        14.00 2/
2/   This Credit is denominated in Special Drawing Rights.  The figures in
this table have been converted into U.S. dollars at the exchange rate
prevailing at the time of Credit negotiations.



- 37 -
Annex 2
Page 3 of 3
C. Statement of IFC Investiets (as of Marct 31, 1985)
Type of                US $ '000
LEr    Obllgator                         BSuLess              Loau      Equity     Total
1965   Bsnque Ivoirienu  de              Industrial             -       204.0      204.0
D6velopp_aent Industrial        Developu_nt Bank
1978    Banque Ivoiriance de             Industrial             -       219.5      219.5
Diveloppeuet Industriel          Develorment Bank
1979    Eta R. Coufreville, S.A.         Textiles               -       884.7      884.7
1980    Sociftf Ivoirienne d'Engraia   Fertilizers          5,120.0   1.272.0   6,392.0
1980    mSO                              Flour Mill         2.900.0     406.7   3.306.7
1985    Co. des Caoutchous de            Rubber
Pakidie S.A.                    Plantation         2,280.0      270.0   2.550.0
Total Gross Coumitments                            10,300.0   3.256.9  13.556.9
Less cancellation. sold or rapaid                     320.0       -        320.0
Total Commitments now held by IFC                  9,980.0   3,256.9  13,236.9



- 38 -
Annex III
Page 1 of 1
IVORY COAST
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PROGRHM
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Since taken by the country to prepare the project: 6 months;
(b) The agency which has prepared the project: Direction et
ContrBle des Grands Travaux, assisted by the Bank Staff;
(c) Date of first Bank mission to consider the project:
December 1984;
Cd) Date of departure of appraisal mission: February 1985;
(e) Planned date of effectiveness: July 15, 1985.
Section 1I: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The establishment of a Special Account for handling the Bank's
financing of road maintenance will be a condition of loan
effectiveness;
(b)  Formal confirmation by the Borrower of the requirements for
domestic trucking Bill of Lading having been abolished and the
National Center of Freight Bureaus has been dissolved will be
a condition of loan effectiveness;
Cc) Disbursements above a ceiling of US$27.0 million will only be
made once a cofinancing loan agreement with the AfDB has
become effective.



'A                                                                                -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IVORY CO T.-J
~~                                   V                                                                  SECONToD  HIGHWAY  SCT R 8A~
-    AAIN TRANSPORT IkFRAb'ThUtift
-  PAVEDN         -        4   hpni1U
BURKINA                                                                           Tmmm-
ra aeoftbwNAEMLCDDTUa -
MAVEALWAATOA  RPR    Ufl~
*1                           -I 'A:fFAL
-   ~~~~~~~            ~ VEHICLES PER DAY                    me .m       A-
S  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   Agnb.t    3    ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/  '       --~~~~~~~i
r ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~                                                            
Doti L ~ ~  ~        ~         ~        ~        ~        ~          i   
- ~~~~ ~~~  b  ~ ~   ~ ~ DA D
...,  - . -  4.*                                                                                                                                                   AP IL IBIS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r



