Docunent of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY                                     Repot No  10300
Report No. 10300-IVC Type: (PCR)
WEILLE, J./ X31708 / T-9102/ OED3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
(LOANS 2581-IVC AND 2581-1-IVC)
FEBRUARY 4, 1992
Infrastructure Operations Division
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency: CFA Francs (CFAF)
1984 ...     USSI a 487
1986 .. ..       .   US11 a 449
1988 ...... USI *aS48
1987 ...USUSl =  01
1988 .                USS1 a 298
1989 .         .   US8 = 319
19 .                  USUI a 820
FISCAL YEAR
January 01 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Item                  - -         ------------------ English/French ----------------------…--__ _______
AfDB          African Development Bank / Banque Africalne do D6veloppement
BFCI          Freight Office / Bourse do Fret
CAA           Special Amortization Fund / Cabse Autonome d'Amortissements
CFP           Canter for Vocational Tralning / Centra do Formation Professionnolle
CNBF          National Center of Freight Bureau- / Centre National des Bureaux de Fret
DCGTx         Directorat  for Control of Major Works / Direction et Contr8le des Grands Travaux
DEP           Directorate of Studies Programming / Direction des Etudes et Programmation
DMTP          Directorate of Public Works Equipment / Direction du mat6riol des Travaux Publics
DR            Directorate of Roads / Dlrection dos Routes
DT            Directorate of Transport / Direction des Transports
ENSTP         Natlonal Public Works School / Ecole Natlonsle Sup6rieur- des Travaux Publics
LUTP          Buildings and Public Works Laboratory / Laboratoire du Bitiment ot des Travaux
Publics
MEF           Ministry of Economy and Finance / UMnist&re do l'Economis et des Finances
MTPCPT        Ministry of Public Works, Construction, Post and Telecommunications / Ministire des
Travaux Publics, do Ia Construction, des Postes et des T6lhcommunications
OSER          Road Safety Office / Officeo do Is S6curit6 Routi4re



THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A
Opwakah Ifawuin
February 4, 1992
MEEORNDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Cote D'Ivoire Second Highway
Sector Proiect (Loans 2581-IVC and 2581-1-IVC)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Cote D'Ivoire Second Highway Sector Project (Loans 2581 -IVC
and 2581-1-IVC)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office with Part II of the
report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by
the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
2
I Thb document has a resticted distribudon and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disckeeh without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCUAL USE ONLY
PROJEC  CONLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
(LOANS 2581-IVC AND 2581-IVC)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .i
Evaluation Summary   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .ii
PART   I.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . .        1
A. Project Identity 1. . ..
Ba  Project Background.. . . . . . . .                          1
C.  Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . .       2
D.  Project Design and Organization . . . . . . . . . . .       4
E.  Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       6
F.  Major Results of the Project  . . . . . . . . . . . .       8
G.  Project Sustainability  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    12
H. Bank Performance                .         .12
I. Borrower Performance          . ..13
J. Project Relationships.. . . .                               14
K.  Consulting Service,  . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . .    14
L. Project Documentation   ..14
PART  II.  SUMMARY REPORT PREPARED BY BORROWER .15
Object of the Study . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    15
Methodology used for ex-post economic evaluation of road
schemes .15
Basic hypotheses used to determine economic benefits. . .    16
Economic evaluation    ..21
PART III.  STATISTICAL INFORMATION           . . . ..                      31
A.  Related Bank Loans and Credits  . . . . . . . . . . .    31
B.  Project Timetable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    32
C. Loan Data.. ....                                            33
D.  Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    34
E.  Project Costs and Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . .    35
F.    Studies   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  36
G.  Compliance with Loan Covenants  . . . . . . . . . . .    37
H. Use of Bank Reso                 us . ....                  37
MAP - No. IBRD 18805R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



~~TCOMPLETIN REPO
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
(LOANS 2581-IVC AND 2581-IVC)
PREFA
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Highway
Sector Project for which Loan 2581-IVC in the amount of US$110.0 M was approved
on June 13, 1985. This loan was subsequently supplemented with Loan 2581-1-IVC
to a total of US$147.5 H. This amount excludes the US$8.0 H which was cancelled
from Loan 2581-IVC and assigned to a B Loan totalling US$33.4 M for which the
balance was provided by a consortium of commercial banks. The supplemental loan
was approved on November 3, 1987. The loans were closed on December 31, 1990,
one year behind schedule. The last disbursement was made on April 10, 1991, and
the loans were fully disbursed.
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division of the
Occidental and Central Africa Department (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I
and III), and the Borrower (Part II). The Africar. Development Bank, which had
cofinanced the project, provided verbal comments to a draft version of Parts I
and III; these have been incorporated in this final version.
Preparation of the PCR is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal
Report, the Loan Agreement and Amending Agreement, supervision reports, and the
correspondence files.



*ROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
(LOANS 2581-IVC AND 258l-I%C)
Obiectives
The major objectives of the Project were to:  (a) ensure that resources
made available to the road subsector were used with maximum efficiency;
(b) accord priority to road maintenance and to rural road works in support of
agricultural development; (c) improve the enforcement of traffic regulations; and
td) deregulate and open markets for the road transport industry in order to lower
the costs of public transport (para. 7).
imilementation E&Dert.ence
ii.       Construction works were carried out by contract.   They proceeded
expeditiously and ahead of schedule, thanks to the efficiency of the executing
agency, DCGTx. The maintenance program was drafted on a decentralized basis by
the regions and departments and then finalized by DCGTx. Works were effectively
executed by departmental forces at agreed-on costs, using an incentive system to
reward good petrformance.    The  excellent performance under  these project
components reflects the capacity of the DCGTx to ably manage the Project
(paras. 18-20).
Results
iii.      The phy:'cri comipenents of the Project were well executed.   The
transport study provided the basis for the preparation of future road and
transport sector projects which are currently under preparation. Performance was
less successful as regards the transport components, and unsatisfactory as
regards the training componenti (paras. 46-48). Several conditionalities in the
Loan Agreement regarding reforms in the transport sector seem in retrospect to
have been overly ambitious, given the difficulties of achieving reforms. A more
conservative and slower approach may have been warranted under the circumstances
(para. 32).
iv.       The estimated project cost at appraisal was US$230.7 M, while the final
cost at completion is US$313.2 M. This 36Z increase in total costs as expressed
in US dollars is attributa61e to the drop in the value of the dollar relative to
the CPA franc (para. 23).   The ex-post economic evaluation prepared by thce
Borrower in November 1991 shows that the ERR for Part A of the Project (road
construction and improvement, accounting for 84X of total actual project costs)
- is 25.5Z, compared to 212 estimated at appraisal for the first year of the
program (para. 39).



C)
- iii -
Sustainability
v.        The Project will be readily sustainab'le if adequate funding for
periodic and routine road maintenance is provided. However, resource constraints
have, in recent yeats, led to a curtailment of field operations, as most of the
available funds go into meeting fixed personnel costs, with little left over for
fuel,  spare parts  and supplies  of tuilding materials.   A  financial  and
institutional action program is now being developed to urgently address this
issue in the context of a nuw project, under which the financial and organiza-
tional structure of road maintenance will be revised to make it more cost-
offective and responsive to budgetary fluctuations. This should ensure that the
achievements of the Second Project can be sustained (para. 43).
Findiuis and Lessons Learned
vi.       The elimination of the proposed cross-effectiveness clause with the
AfDB from the draft loan documents was a wise move, as it enabled the Bank loan
to be disbursed, and the Project to proceed long before the AfDB loan became
effective (para. 17).
vii.      While the Bank's lending for road maintenance was only about 10X of the
total maintenance expenditures, this modest participation, along with financing
from the Road Maintenance Fund and the Special Account, played a significant part
in achieving the successful execution of this component (para. 19).
viii.     The method to be used in bid analysis should be clearly stated in
detail in the bidding documents (para. 22).
ix.       The commercial banks which provided the B loan might have been better
advised to have disbursed only on the basis of works completed (paras. 24 and
41).
x.        Conditionalities seem, in retrospect, overly ambitious, given COte
d'Ivoire's reluctance to adopt reforms in the transport field (para. 32).
xi.       The project demonstrates the excellent results that can be achieved in
Africa on road construction and maintenance components by good management,
adequate funding, use of incentives and other innovative features which greatly
helped to achieve work targets and held down costs (paras. 28-29).
xii.      Experience shows that when resources decrease,  field maintenance
operations are cut back disproportionately because of the lack of materials and
fuel while labor costs remain fixed by the reluctance of the Government to reduce
its labor force only as a last resort (para. 42).
xiii.     The Project demonstrates the pros and cons of transferring main
contracting activities for road construction from a technical ministry to a
competent and well-managed agency. On the one hand, the physical activities of
the Project were well executed and within budget; on the other hand, the
opportunity, difficult as it would have been, to strengthen a technical ministry
was lost.  Nevertheless, the staff of the ministry benefitted from the training
experience in planning, programming and field operations through the use of an
incentive system (para. 45).



- iv-
xiv.      Bank supervision during 1985/86 was thorough, but from 1987-90, the
time spent on supervising physical works fell off because of the Bank reorganiza-
tion and staff constraints. Also, the training component should have been more
closel; i,nd more frequently supervised, preferably by training specialists, to
ensure that thte courses and training procedures were appropriate (para. 47).
xv.       The auditors have questioned the disposition of funds from the B Loan
to meet the needs of the Project (para. 53).
xvi.      The Bank enjoyed a -lose relationship with AfDB during the early years
of the Project, but less effort was made to reach a consensus during the
preparation of a fol.low-up AfDB road project (para. 55).
'\



PROJXCT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
(LOANS 2581-IVC ASD 25-iVc
MART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Prolect Identity
Project Names         Second Highway Sector Project
Loan Numbers:         2581-IVC and 2581-1-IVC
RVP Unit:             Africa
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Infrastructure Operations Division
Countrys              Republic of C8te d'Ivoire
Sectors               Transportation
B. Prolect Backaround
1.        Since independence in 1960 up to 1985, the Government consistently
accorded a high priority to the improvement of transport infrastructure in
support of its agricultural development strategy. During that 25 year period,
the transport sector was allocated on average between 20-25X of all public
investments. In the second half of the 1970s, transport investments increased
rapidly, reaching a peak of CFAF 95 billion (then US$400 M equivalent) in 1978
at the height of the boom.   With the onset of a recession and increasing
budgetary stringency in the early 19808, investment levels declined to about
CFAP 40 billion (US$90 M equivalent) in 1984.
2.        The share of highways in transport investments averaged 632 between
1973-83. The result of these massive investments was a modern and well developed
transport system by West African standards, including 48,000 km of roads, of
which 3,620 km were paved.
3.        Between 1968 and 1984, the Bank Group lent a total of US$223 M for
seven projects in the highway subsector (Table A).  These included the First
Highway Sector Project (Loan 1914-IVC, US$100 M, 1981) which was completed in
1986.   After a slow start, execution of the First Highway Sector Project
gradually picked up in 1983 and 1984. According to the PCR dated April 21, 1988,
the Project was successfully executed with the exception of the training program
which was rated as "less successful." 1/ The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) for
the Second Highway Project took a more optimistic position noting that the
objectives of the training component as of mid-1986 'are expected to be largely
achieved." 2/
1/   PCR paras. 7.01-7.05.
2/   SAR No. 5605-IVC dated May 20, 1985.



-2
4.        The First Highway Sector Project contributed to the implementation of
a sizeable road construction program and succeeded in putting in place a
comprehensive maintenance management system. A major achievement of the Project
was the introduction of economic criteria based on sound engineering and economic
analysis in the decisions for investment selection planning and programming. 3/
The PCR was reviewed by OED but a full audit was not carried out. g/
5.        According to the SAR for the Second Highway Sector Project, 5/ the
executing agency for the First Highway Sector Project, the Directorate for
Control of Major Works (DCGTx), had been very efficient in the handling of
contracts for civil works, which, with few exceptions, were completed on time and
within budgets. Institutional development, in particular investment planning and
road maintenance manpower training, had also progressed satisfactorily. The Bank
considered that the Government's acceptance of the concept that highway
investments should be based on sound economic and engineering criteria, including
the flexible application of design standards, was a major step forward. On the
other hand, it felt that road maintenance effort in recent years had declined
below acceptable levels due to reduced funding and deteriorating management. The
Bank considered that its role had been expanded through the use of the sector
loan concept, and that this concept had provided the vehicle for a much broader
and intensive dialogue than possible under conventional projects.
6.        During the implementation of  the First Highway  Sector Project,
substantial advances were made in investment planning and execution, and the
emphasis of investments gradually shifted towards upgrading of secondary and
feeder roads in support of agricultural development, snd preservation of the
paved network.   However, the maintenance effort on the unpaved network had
decreased over the years due to reduced funding from Government, lack of
serviceable equipment and inadequate management by MTPCPT. This situation was
to be redressed under the Second Highway Sector Project by improving the
efficiency of the country's road transport industry, and further reinforcing the
progress attained towards rational use of economic criteria in selecting
priorities in the roads subsector. Hence, Bank participation in the sector was
considered important as it would contribute to maintaining prudence in the
overall level of highway investments in light of the country's macro-economic
constraints, as well as channeling and directing support of the international
financial community in the development of the sector.
C. Proiect Obiectives and Descrintion
7.        Proiect Objectives.   The main thrust of the Government's 1985-88
program for the road sector was to selectively expand and improve the road
network, to improve maintenance and management of the highway system, and to
enhance the overall efficiency of the sector.   Major objectives were tot
(a) ensure that resources made available to the sector were used with maximum
efficiency; (b) accord priority to road maintenance and to local road works in
support of agricultural development; (c) improve the enforcement of traffic
3t   Ibid.
4/   Memorandum dated February 22, 1989 from OEDD1.
51   SAR, dated May 20, 1985, paras. 2.36-2.37



legislation; and (d) deregulate and open markets for the road transport industry
in order to lower the cost of public road transport. 6/
8.        Proiect Description. 7/ The Project consisted of a 3.5 year national
program or. the country's entire public inter-urban road network.
tart A: Road Comstruction and Imnrovement
Study   -  execution of Construction Projects  including
construLtdon, reconstruction and pavement strengthening of
the Borrower's existing and planned road network which are
included in the Borrower's Highway Sector Investment
Program.
Part Bt   Road Maintenance
Execution of Maintenance Projects for the Borrower's entire
road network under the Borrower's Highway Sector Investment
Program.
Part C:   SuDoort for MTPCPT
1.   Training of MTPCPT's highway personnel in road mainte-
nance planning, execution and supervision.
2.   Strengthening of the operating capabilities of MTPCPT's
Service des Donn4es Routieres by provision of computer
eouipmetkt and consultant's services.
Part D:   TransDort Industry
Relaxation of the Borrower's regulations pertaining to its
road transport industry and improvement of its efficiency.
Part Et  Axle Loads
Carrying out of the Axle Load Control Program.
Part PF   National Transport Plan
Preparation and commencement of implementation of a national
transport plan.
Part Gs   SuDDort for DCGTx
Strengthening of DCGTx's operating and supervisory capabili-
ties.
6/   SAR, para. 3.01
7/   Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement.



-4-
D. Prolsct Design and OrLanization
9.        The Second Highway Sector Project includeds
(a) fn Indicat ve Program of Investments for Construction and Im rovement
of about 875 kS of New Pitumen Roads. 200 km of New Gravel Roads and
a KeP Bridge Crossina. The program took into account the needs of the
sector and prevailing constraints (para. 1). The selection criteria
used for the individual sub-projects were similar to those used under
the First Highway Sector Project with a minimum acceptable rate of
return of 122, with the exception of the disadvantaged northern part
of the country where a minimum rate of 102 was applied.   Design
standards were selected on the basis of economic and cost criteria.
The composition of the program was to be reviewed annually in the
light of work progress on the ongoing sub-projects and updated road
sector developments.
(b)  The Maintenance of the Entire Road Network Consisting of Three Classes
(Bitumens Gravel Surfaced and Rural).   The program provided for
periodic maintenance of bitumen roads by contract and force account
maintenance of bitumen and gravel roads.   Perindic maintenance of
bitumen roads was to be done on the basis of technical and economic
justifications, while plarning of the force account work was to be
done on the basis of forecast development of the network and rates of
deterioration over time related to traffic volumes and climatic
conditions. Again, yearly reviews between the Government and the Bank
of maintenance performance were to be carried out to identify any
corrective action required.
(c)  A Trainint Proaram to prepare the staff of the Ministry of Public
Works, Construction, Posts and Telecommunications (MTPCPT) to take
over the function of about 200 technical personnel who were expected
to retire during the Project period, and to ensure continuous
retraining of staff to conserve and sharpen their skills. Existing
training institutions were to be strengthened to carry out this
program.
(d)  The remaining components included:   (i) a program to enhance the
efficiency of the road transnort industry, and ensure that road
investments significantly induced economic efficiency; (ii) rein-
stitute enforcement of axle load limitations that had been abandoned
some years ago; and (iii) a national transport plan that would cover:
a) intermodal planning, including international traffic; b) investment
programming; and c) recommendations for improvements in the management
and operations of involved agencies and enterprises; and review and
analysis of the transport pricing policies of all transport modes.
10.       The SAR indicated that the Project was well designed to meet the needs
of the highway subsector and to help strengthen the MTPCPT. A second sector loan
was considered appropriate to follow up the progress made under the First Sector
Project.   The SAR considered that the Bank's sector lending policies were
correctly applied in COte d'Ivoire in view of the good progress that had been
made over the past 16 years in developing the country's road institutions. The
files indicate that project preparation was coordinated with the Agriculture
Division which wanted attention focussed on rehabilitating feeder roads.



-5-
Li.       The total Project cost was estimated at US$230.7 H, of which US$107.2 H
was in foreign exchange. The Bank provided US$110 H under the original loan
agreement, the AfDB lent US$50.0 M and the Government US$37.3 H. This left a
financing gap of US$33.4 H, which was to be provided by commercial banks as a
B type loan, with the Bank contributing US$8 H cancelled from its earlier loan
participation.   Following considerable efforts on the part of the Bank, the
B Loan was signed on September 19, 1985. In view of the substantial drop in the
value of the US dollar in 1986/87, the Bank amended the Loan Agreement to raise
its earlier loan by US$45.5 H to US$147.5 H, the total amount estimated at that
time to complete the Project.
12.       Parts B, C, and D of the Project were implemented under the responsi-
bility Lf HTPCPT, while Parts A, E, F, and G, as well as monitoring of Part B
came under the DCGTx (para. 8). The road investment program was carried out by
contractors under the supervision of DCGTx, while the road maintenance component
was carried out by force account by the MTPCPT through the Directorate of Roads
(DR) and the Directorate of Public Works Equipment (DMTP) under the monitoring
of the DCGTx.   The role of the DCGTx, while unusual, was designed to help
strengthen MTPCPT's road agencies (para. 6) through the involvement of a highly
experienced executing agency.   DCGTx had in 1981 been transferred to the
Presidency with the mandate to manage and execute, on behalf of technical
ministries and state enterprises,  all major civil works.   DCGTx had been
particularly successful in the past in reducing excessive project costs caused
by lax contracting procedures and administration.
13.       According to a memorandum dated November 28, 1984 to the Director, WAP,
'a review of bid documents under the First Highway Sector Project Loan in the
fall of 1983 revealed that Ivorian procurement procedures were contradictory to,
or at variance with, the Bank's Procurement Guidelines. The main discrepancy was
the fact that the foreign exchange risk was borne by foreign contractors instead
of the Borrower. In December 1983, Regional Management decided to agree to the
Government's continued use of its own procedures for a limited time, until
June 30, 1984 to avoid interrupting the ongoing project while allowing the
Government time to bring its procurement procedures in line with Bank's
Guidelines."  Resolution of this issue was long and difficult, and involved
regional management and the Bank's senior procurement experts. It was finally
settled by a post-appraisal mission to COte d'Ivoire.
14.       Apart from the above procurement issue, several other issues arose
during the preparation of the Project. They were raised in an Advance Issues
Paper dated January 17, 1985 circulated after the return of the preappraisal
mission.   These issues  included:   (a) the  institutional arrangements  for
executing the proposed project; (b) the range of investments to be covered under
the Project; (c) the size of the highway investment program; (d) the financing
plan including utilization of cofinancing and B Loan arrangements; and
(e) acceptability of road design standards. The use of the Advance Issues Paper
to raise these matters before appraisal greatly helped to expedite project
processing. 8/
8/ Decision Memorandum dated April 2, 1985.



-6-
E. Proiect Imlementation
15.       Lon _ ffectiveness and Prolect Start-un.  Loan 2581-IVC was appraised
in February 1985, negotiated Hay 6-14, approved on June 13, signed on June 21,
and became effective on October 4, 1985. This speedy processing by both the Bank
and the Government reflects well on both institutions. The supplemental loan was
subsequently approved on November 3, 1987 and signed on November 5, 1987. The
amendment became effective on February 24, 1988. The Project timetable is given
in Table B of Part III.
16.       The expeditious processing of the Project (para. 15) is all the more
noteworthy, since during project appraisal and loan negotiations, the Government
strongly objected to subjecting all new investments to the 12Z criterion for ERR
(para. 9(a)) and to the right of bidders to quote part of their bids and receive
part of their payments in the currencies in which they expected to incur
expenses. Following difficult negotiations in Washington and in COte d'Ivoire,
these issues were finally resolved in favor of the Bank's policy of avoiding
uneconomic investments with non-Bank financing, and agreement by the Borrower
that Bank procurement guidelines for ICB would be followed. 9/ The Bank did
agree, however, to a rather high ceiling (US$6 H) for Local Competitive Bidding
(LCB). However, since the CFAF was a fully convertible currency, foreign firms
were free to bid on LCB works, and as they were well represented in C8te
d'Ivoire, the ceiling did not lessen competition as LCB and ICB were essentially
carried out on the same basis. The only difference of note was that under ICB,
contractors had the option of submitting a performance bond with their bid in
place of a Bank guarantee. Since the former was an American practice, and the
latter a European practice, and there were no US firms operating in Cate
d'Ivoire, the issue to all practical purposes was of no consequence. The files
are less than complete on the discussions during negotiations concerning the
above procurement issues which were noted as Racrimonious." 10/ There is no
procas-verbal on file of the negotiations, or memorandum of discussions between
a senior management post-appraisal mission to C8te d'Ivoire and the Government
to resolve the procurement issue (para. 13).
17.       One further matter which deserves to be noted was the request of the
Ivoirien delegation to the Bank during negotiations to drop the use of a
cross-effective clause with the AfDB Loan Agreement.   The delegation was
concerned that use of the clause might mean that disbursement of World Bank funds
would be delayed, as AfDB's loan preparation was behind that of the Bank. It was
agreed that only disbursements up to a ceiling of tZ$27 M would be made before
the AfDB loan had become effective. 11/  This seems a reasonable compromise
since the two loans were financing disparate lists of components, and would
ensure only that a further major delay in the AfDB loan processing would not hold
up execution of the agreed overall program.
18.       Implementation Schedule.  The Project was originally scheduled to be
completed by June 30, 1989. The last components were finally completed one year
later in mid-1990. Execution of civil works got underway promptly because DCGTx
9/ Memorandum from Acting Chief, WAPT1, to Chief, PPDPC, dated March 15, 1985.
10/ Ibid.
11/ Memorandum from RVP to SVPOP dated Hay 17, 1985.



-7-
called for bids on the first batch of construction contracts early in 1985 so
that contracts could be awarded shortly after loan signing. Construction works
were carried out expeditiously and ahead of schedule, thanks to the efficiency
of DCGTx which had direct Presidential support. By the end of 1986, implementa-
tion was noted as fully satisfactory with 73Z of the IBRD-financed program, i7Z
of the AfDB program, and 5Z of the B loan program completed. Execution of the
maintenance component was also started promptly, and good progress was made
during the first two years (1986/87) of the program; however, in 1988/89, budget
constraints slowed progress slightly.  Start of the remaining components was
slower than scheduled, but by 1987, they were all underway. Table D of Part III
shows the results in achieving targets.
19.       The design and implementation of the maintenance program were of
particular interest. The program was drafted on a decentralized basis by the
regions and departments who were to consult their local constituencies, including
institutions involved in agriculture, transport, tourism, and other users. A
program of specific works was then proposed and agreed between the DCGTx and the
regions and departments at agreed-on cost. After the program was prepared, DCGTx
allocated Project funds through the Special Account as needed by the implementing
units for purchases of spares, fuel and supplies, and for contracts for repairing
equipment with private garages to repair equipment. Purchase orders were placed
efficiently and spares and supplies were promptly delivered. Bank lending for
maintenance was only about lOX of total maintenance expenditure, including funds
from the Road Maintenance Fund.
20.       DCGTx devised an incentive system which was based on performance of the
implementing units of the MTPCPT in achieving their agreed targets in the work
program. These targets were adjusted to take into account the varying weather
and soil conditions in different regions of the country. Incentives to reward
good performance were based on a scale ranging from 80 to 120Z in achieving the
targets with the manpower limits agreed for the tasks.   Incentives were
calculated quarterly and paid monthly. Routine maintenance of equipment was
carried out by the MTPCPT's local workshops, but major repairs were generally
contracted out to private garages because of poor performance and waste at the
central workshop.
2i.       Procurement.  Because most problems with the bidding documents were
settled before the Project got underway (para. 16), procurement of civil works,
supplies, and equipment progressed smoothly and was generally ahead of schedule.
DCGTx performed well as an executing agent and is credited with good performance
under the Project. Generally, procurement procedures followed Bank guidelines.
A few disagreements arose between the DCGTx and the Bank over contract awards,
but these were resolved promptly, if not always amicably. Given the very large
number of contracts awarded for civil works, engineering, fuel and equipment
between 1985-89, this is a commendable performance and a vindication of the
arrangements for project procurement and control established at the time the
Project was prepared (para. 12).
22.       One noteworthy feature of DCGTx's procurement policy was to ensure in
the bid analysis, that bidders had provided for adequate equipment to carry out
the Project. In one case, this resulted in an award to a bidder who was slightly
over the lowest bidder. A detailed analysis of the bidding by the Bank confirmed
that DCGTx's policy of analyzing the equipment capacity of bidders to carry out
the work was an appropriate and sound basis for bid analysis.   This avoided
earlier problems of contractors who were either unable to meet the established



schedule, or complete the works with the resources at their disposal.
Nevertheless, the review of equipment capacity in analyzing bids does open the
door to possible abuse, and the method to be used in any such review should be
clearly stated in detail in the bid documents or at the time of prequalification.
23.       Proiect Costs.  The estimated cost of the Project at appraisal was
US$230.7 H. The final cost at completion is US$313.2 M as shown in Table B (i)
in Part III, and the planned and actual Project financing is given in
Table B (ii).   The increase in total costs of 36Z in US dollars is solely
attributable to the precipitous drop in the value of the dollar to the CFA franc
in 1986 and 1987. As most contracts were denominated in CFA francs, the drop in
the value of the dollar placed on the Government a burden which it was unable to
meet in view of its tight budgeting situation in 1987188.
24.       The supplemental loan (paras. 11 and 13) became effective just in time
to meet a growing shortfall in foreign exchange funds. Table E (ii) shows that
the AfDB loan had to be supplemented, but not by the same increment as the Bank
loan. One reason for this is that the Bank loan was calculated at a time when
the dollar was at a peak to the CFA franc. Also, the AfDB loan was in its units
of account, a basket of currencies, while both the initial loan and the B Loan
were made in US dollars (para. 11). The B Loan was disbursed in a lump sum at
the beginning of the Project to the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA).
25.       Disbursements.   The disbursement percentage was raised to 1OO2 for
Categories l(a) and 4 in May 1989. The estimated and actual disbursements of
Loan 2581-IVC are given in Table C(i) in Part III. Disbursements were ahead of
schedule due mainly to the fact that contracts were denominated in CPA francs
while the value of the US dollar fell substantially. Because of the delay in
completing the training and studies components, and in order to allow disburse-
ments for the remaining civil works, the original closing date of December 31,
1989 was extended by one year to December 31, 1990. Disbursements were made up
to April 10, 1991, when both loans were fully disbursed.
26.       Loan  Allocation.      The  original  and  revised  allocations  for
Loan 2581-IVC are shown in Table C (ii), Part III. The allocations were revised
from time to time to reflect changes in financing needs as the Project
progressed.
P. Major Results of the Proiect
27.       Proiect Obiectives.   The Project was only partially successful in
meeting the major objectives outlined in para. 7. It was successful in expanding
and improving the road network, and in improving the maintenance and management
of the highway system, but less than successful as regards most of the non-
physical components.
28.       Phvsical Results.  The implementation of both the construction and
maintenance components was highly successful.   By the end of 1987,  road
maintenance activities had been substantially improved since project inception
through the establishment of an efficient monitoring system, the introduction of
performance based incentives and adequate funding. The maintenance component
greatly contributed to strengthening the executing capabilities of the MTPCPT.
By the end of 1988, the maintenance component was running particularly well with
almost 300 teams in the field, consisting of 70 grading units, 45 regravelling
units, 160 road repair crews, 7 mechanized brush cutting units, and 7 patching



.9-
crews.  The work program was spelled out in detail and operations were closely
monitored by only a half dozen managers.
29.       A by-product of the Project was the development and expansion of the
local construction industry, consisting of both foreign and domestically-ovned
firms. By providing a sustained program of works, Government assured icself of
keen bidding resulting in competitive prices, and a continuing interest in future
works. This is far more efficient than carrying out large works with departmental
forces. Similarly, the engineers, supervisors, and operating crews and teams of
the MTPCPT benefitted from on-the-job training during the execution of the
maintenance program through a transfer of skills from DCGTx. Ivoirien staff did
an excellent maintenance job because they were well paid, motivated and
supervised. This practical training should enable the MTPCPT to carry on the
program in future, provided that sufficient maintenance funds are made available.
30.       The following works were accomplished by the end of the Project. Under
the construction component, 1,040 km of new paved roads, 240 km of new gravel
roads, and 12 bridges had been built, as compared to the appraisal targets of
875 km of new paved roads, 200 km of new gravel roads, and one bridge,
respectively. Under the maintenance component, regravelling totalled 12,000 km
over a three-year period or an average of 4,000 km/year, as compared to the
appraisal target of 4,200 km/year.   Regrading totalled 450,000 km over the
45,000 km-long network, or the equivalent of an average of 10 passes over the
entire network.  Good progress was also made on culvert repair and replace-
ment. 12/
31.       Trainint. Whereas on-the-job training seemed to have been successful,
little progress was made in implementing the formal training program. According
to the report of a consultant 13/ who accompanied the February 1990 supervi-
sion mission, the results, almost a year after the Project was to have been
completed, were far from satisfactory and little had been achieved either in
training maintenance personnel or truck drivers as part of the road safety
program. The lack of success in implementing the training program, caused by
friction between the Government's training agencies, under both the First and
Second Highway Sector Projects, is a cause for deep concern. The consultant's
report presented a detailed list of recommendations for strengthening training
of road maintenance personnel and should provide a basis for a training component
in a follow-up project. The need for training is greater than ever because over
recent years, many of the most experienced drivers and operators in the MTPCPT
have retired or are about to retire.
32.       Road TransDort Industry Prosram. This component consisted of a series
of reforms to enhance the efficiency of the road transport industry and ensure
that road investments significantly induced economic development. These reforms
included: (a) making the issuance of road transport authorizations contingent
only on professional competence and the possession of a valid commercial
registration; (b) replacing mandatory tariffs by a system of recommended tariffs,
based on road conditions and weight or volume of commodities transported;
(c) abolishing the obligatory bill of lading for all national road transport;
12/ Rapport d'Execution on December 31, 1988, Entretien Routier, DCGTx.
13/ Rapport d'Evaluation de la Composante Formation a l'Entretien Routier,
Mars 1990.



- 10 -
(d) completing the liquidation of the National Center of Freight Bureaus (CNBF);
(e) reducing the number of road blocks for the control of road transport by 60
to 70S nationwide; and (f) carrying out a feasibility study of a pilot freight
bureau project involving two or three cities. The execution of this program
called for a list of conditionalities, some dated, which in retrospect seems
overly ambitious, given CMte d'Ivoire's reluctance to adopt reforme in the
transport field.
33.       During negotiations, the Government took the first of the above steps
by abolishing the requirement for bills of lading and dissolving the CNBF. The
Government subsequently reinstated the bill-of-lading and established the Bourse
de Fret (BFCI) in 1988 as a freight exchange. The Government has made progress
in carrying out the remaining reforms except for the reduction in road blocks.
While road blocks were first organized as a means of checking and controlling the
enforcement of transport regulations, they degenerated into a means of collecting
bribes from the trucking industry. This is known to have added up to 35Z to the
cost of transport. Road checks were substantially reduced in April/May 1990, but
were partly resumed six months later.
34.       Enforcement of Axle Load Limitations.  While the weigh bridges were
installed under the Project, established loading limits are not being observed,
and overloading is common practice with considerable negative effects on both
vehicles and the road network. Enforcement of axle load restrictions is seen as
a potential source of corruption. Reform of the transport tax system, as well
as better organization of the transport market, could contribute to reducing
overloading practices and will be pursued under the follow-on project. 14/
35.       National Transnort Plan.  A substantial amount of work has been done
in preparing a National Transport Plan, and it formed the basis of a Transport
Sector Review.   The Review is a comprehensive  look at all the transport
subsectors, including roads, road transport, railways, civil aviation, and
maritime transport in the light of economic crisis in Cate d'Ivoire in the decade
from 1980-90. The crisis has affected transport demand because the volume of the
country's8 external trade has stagnated and has been partly replaced by an
increase in internal trade resulting from rapid population growth (3.5Z per year)
and a higher rate of urban growth in secondary cities. The Review concluded that
COte d'Ivoire must carry out a comprehensive series of regulatory reforms if it
is to regain its lost competitiveness on the international and domestic markets.
It sets forth in detail a strategy to be devieed for the transport system to
expedite the flow of both international and national trade.
36.       Executing and Honitorint Agency.   DCGTx was establishe,0 under the
Office of the President of the Republic to take over responsibility for the
country's main contracting activities from the technical ministries, including
roads, buildings, ports, dams and water systems. DCGTx was very professionally
staffed by 70 expatriate experts and 100 Ivoirien engineers; it had a total staff
of 750. The establishment of DCGTx had a mixed impact on the transport sector.
On the positive side, it has helped to eliminate fraud and corruption from public
works contracts, opening them up to international competition and imposing strict
quality and price controls. This has increased the competitiveness of foreign
c,ontractors, and provided net gains for the State, although these are being
14/ Source: Transport Sector Review, June 28, 1991



- 11 -
eroded by the continuing crisis. In addition, the technical resources of COte
d'Ivoire, and particularly of the transport sector, have been strengthened by the
establishment of DCGTx, and this, applied to the technical and financial auditing
of activities in the public and parastatal sectors, has made some of them more
efficient. However, the fact that such a highly effective Directorate has been
attached to a single agency means that the technical ministries have been unable
to develop their expertise to the same degree. This drawback, together with the
ineffectiveness of the training program, hinders the coordinating and regulatory
activities that MTPCPT is supposed to perform, especially as regards the
relationship between the public and private sectors. 15/
37.       TransDort Environment. In contrast to the satisfactory infrastructure
network, the transport environment remains unfavorable. The regulatory framework
is still poorly adjusted, and administrative and customs procedures are
cumbersome, complex and ineffective. 16/
38.       Economic  Performance.        Highway   sub-projects   financed  under
Loan 2581-IVC were to be appraised according to agreed technical and economic
criteria, and were to have a minimum rate of 122 except for the economically
disadvantaged northern part of the country, where a minimum rate of 102 was to
apply. It was estimated at appraisal that sub-projects included in the first
year of the program had an estimated weighted economic rate of return of 212,
while the maintenance component was estimated to yield in excese of 302. When
the supplemental loan was presented in late 1987, 171 the average economic
rate of return for the construction and improvement component was estimated at
19Z, quite close to that estimated at appraisal.   For the road maintenance
component, the ERR was estimated at over 502, or about two thirds more than the
appraisal estimate.
39.       Part II of this PCR describes the ex-post economic evaluation prepared
by the Borrower in November 1991.   The ERR for Part A of the Project (road
construction and improvement, accounting for 842 of total actual project costs)
is estimated at 25.5?.   The increase of this rate over that estimated at
appraisal (212) is due tot (a) higher unit costs of vehicle operation, (b) a
larger share of trucks and especially buses in the overall traffic composition,
and (c) lower construction costs in real terms. On the other hand, average 1990
traffic volumes were 42 below the original estimates, and forecasts of future
traffic were also reduced to take account of the country's economic condition.
40.       Due to a lack of adequate data, no ex-post evaluation was prepared for
Part B of the Project (road maintenance, accounting for 11? of total actual
project costs). It is probable that the ERR for that component is lower than
estimated at appraisal, as cuts in the road maintenance budget after 1988 have
reduced the physical work performed.
41.       The Government at the time of project appraisal/negotiations repeatedly
stated that it considered massive investments in infrastructure as its main
15/ Sourcet Transport Sector Review, June 28, 1991
16/ Ibid.
171 Proposed Supplemental Loan for the Second Highway Sector Project,
Loan 2581-IVC dated October 14, 1987.



_ 12 -
vehicle for resumption of economic growth.   The economic growth did not
materialze. and indeed most of the investments under the Project were carried
out through international contractors, whose activities left very little in terms
of investment funds remaining in the country. However, it is estimated that well
over 90? of the labor force of international contractors consists of local
employees. An important advantage to the use of international contractors was
the training received by local workers such as mechanics, equipment operators,
skilled labor. and foremen, which is a long-term benefit to the economy.
G. Proiect Sustainabilitv
42.       The Project demonstrated that maintenance by force account works well
when properly funded. However, the resource constraints of the last three years,
led to a curtailment of field operations, as most of the funds go into meeting
fixed personnel costs, with little left over for fuel, spare parts and supplies
of building materials.
43.       A financial and institutional action program is being developed to
urgently address this issue. In the context of the proposed Road Maintenance and,
Rehabilitation Project, which is scheduled for appraisal in mid-1992, the
organizational structure of road maintenance will be revised to make it more
cost-effective and responsive to budgetary fluctuations, partly by privatizing
key road maintenance activities. This should ensure that the achievements of the
Second Highway Sector Project can be sustained.
. Bank Performance
44.       The Project was prepared, appraised, and presented in record time
despite difficulties in reaching agreement with the Borrower, both during
negotiations and the post appraisal. The Bank performed well in expediting the
processing of the Project during the appraisal stage.  Considerable time was
saved in the Bank by the innovative use of an Advance Issues Paper after the
return of the preappraisal mission (para. 14), thus advancing the internal
discussions of the issues before appraisal. This helped to formulate the Bank's
position during appraisal and negotiations on several difficult issues. The Bank
helped to arrange the B Loan financing with commercial banks. The B Loan was the
first such loan arranged for an African country and was successful in strengthen-
ing the relations between the Government and foreign banks under the auspices of
the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA). Unfortunately, later in the project
execution cycle, these relations deteriorated somewhat because of slow response
of the CAA to inquiries from the lead bank of the B Loan.
45.       The establishment of DCGTx had advantages and disadvantages to the
execution of public works in COte d'Ivoire. DCGTx, as a centralized agency, was
efficient, effective, and incorruptible. It was imposed by the Presidency and
managed wholly by expatriates; thus, DCGTx had no local constituency to support
it. The advantage of using DCGTx was the lower costs of implementing public
works. On the other hand, the cost of this approach was the attrition of
technical and management expertise in the technical ministries. The Bank gave
careful consideration as to whether it should be an active party to the use of
DCGTx and finally decided in favor of this approach.   In view of the recent
resurgence of the technical ministries, and the decline in the power of DCGTx,
it remains an open question as to whether the Bank's decision was the correct
one. In the judgment of the Division, the Bank's decision was probably correct
as it assured fully satisfactory control over civil works and monitoring over



_ 13 -
road maintenance, but the attrition of MTPCPT's management expertise is still an
area of concern.
46.       As discussed in paras. 13 and 21, the Bank encountered considerable
difficulty in persuading the Borrower to agree to follow its Procurement
Guidelines.   However, management persisted and finally succeeded in this
difficult task which almost led to a break in relations with the Borrower. The
Bank's handling of procurement issues during project execution was good,
especially so, given the Borrower's tendency to consider the procurement
guidelines as an intrusion into its sovereignty. The Bank's responses to myriad
requests for approval of documents and proposed awards or comment on procurement
matters were generally prompt.
47.       Bank supervision during 1985/86 was thorough, but from 1987-90, the
time spent on supervising physical works fell off because of the Bank reorganiza-
tion and staff constraints. The Bank assumed that DCGTx could be relied upon to
continue to do a good supervisory job on construction and maintenance. While
this was a reasonable assumption in the light of limited staff resources, it
would have been useful to have had at least a final supervision mission to spot
check DCGTx's performance and to ascertain whether the newly-built roads were
being properly maintained.  The time spent on supervision during 1987-90 is
considered low in the light of the Project's size and broad scope across the
highway sector. From 1987 onward, staff resources were focussed increasingly on
supervising the Technical Assistance components, in particular the National
Transport Plan (para. 35). One of the results was the issue of a comprehensive
Transport Sector Review, and some important input in an ongoing COte d'Ivoire
Competitiveness Study. Although a training specialist was used to help prepare
the training component. only two supervision missions included a training
specialist. His 1990 report (para. 31) provides a useful basis for improving
training under the proposed future project.
48.       Given the decline in the value of the dollar to the CFA franc
(para. 23), the Bank moved promptly to process the supplemental loan when it
became evident that remaining loan funds were completely inadequate.
I. Borrower Performance
49.       As noted in paras. 18-20, the Borrower's executing agent, DCGTx,
performed well indeed in executing the physical works under the construction
component, and in monitoring the maintenance component, both in terms of progress
and quality of works. DCGTx's programming responsibility is now being taken over
by the MTPCPT. DCGTx kept the Bank well informed of progress through quarterly
reports, but audit reports were generally sent with a delay of three to four
months.
50.       The MTPCPT performed well in carrying out the maintenance component
until works were slowed by a shortfall in funding (para. 40). Performance under
the training component was unsatisfactory.   Performance under the transport
industry component was mixed. Compliance with covenants is shown in Table G,
Part III.
51.       DCGTx was responsible for putting the axle load control program into
place. This work was done; however, at last report, the weigh stations, which
come under the Ministry of Transport, are not being used to check on overloading.



- 14 -
52.       On an overall basis, the performance of the Borrower in meeting its
commitments under the Loan Agreement was satisfactory as regards the physical
aspects of the Project, but less satisfactory as regards the training and
transport industry components.
53.       As noted in para. 24, the B Loan was disbursed as a lump sum to CAA.
According to an auditor's report dated June 13,1989, 6 billion CFAF of these
funds were used by the Ivoirien Government to meet external debt service in
October 1988. According to the guidelines of the Ministry of Economy and Finance
(MEF), this amount must be reimbursed to the level of 3.04 billion CFAF by direct
payments to suppliers under the Project. The auditors note that such payments
in an amount of 2.96 billioa CFAF are still outstanding, and that a financing gap
of 1.30 billion CFAF on the availability of these funds is foreseen. However,
the Bank has requested the Government replenish the total amount, i.e., 6 billion
CFAF, but the issue is still pending. As a result, payments to suppliers have
been delayed.
J. Prolect Relationshins
54.       As noted in para. 13, discussions between Bank staff and the Government
at appraisal were long and difficult and had to be followed up in COte d'Ivoire
by a post-appraisal management mission to resolve the issues which had arisen.
Also, the files Indicate that relations on a few occasions between the Bank and
the DCGTx were not always harmonious. However, these issues turned out to be
relatively minor in the light of the success of the overall procurement
activities involving hundreds of contracts awarded under the Project over a
five-year period.   Given the Bank's very detailed and specific procurement
guidelines and a strong minded local administration, a few differences of opinion
were to be expected.
55.       The Bank established close coordination with the AfDB during the early
years ot the Project. However, later in 1989, the AfDB negotiited a further loan
with the DCGTx for road construction without entering into a thorough dialogue
the Bank, its partner in earlier sector loans. As a result, there has been
continuity in terms of external aid for the road construction sector, but less
so on road maintenance, which is the more important of the two.
K. Consultint Services
56.       Design of the road construction component and supervision was carried
out by DCGTx at a cost of about 7Z of total cost. This is considered reasonable.
Consultants were used to carry out the topography surveys and soils analysis.
The quality of the design and supervision by DCGTx was very good.  DCGTx also
contributed to the technical knowledge in COte d'Ivoire as regards sand asphalt
technology, and cement stabilization, using adequate compaction procedures.
L. Prolect Documentation
57.       The SAR and the Loan Agreements are considered fully adequate.  The
correspondence files were found to be incomplete as certain key papers regarding
negotiations were either not prepared or not filed (para. 16).   Also, the
Decision Memorandum of April 2, 1985 and two supervision reports were missing
from the files. Copies of some documents which were available elsewhere, have
now been placed in the files.
AF1IN
January 14. 1992                                                 G4jd"P4  .AP/ZcS-



- 15 -
PROJECT 0       N RERT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
(LOANS 2 81IV  AND 2581.IVC)
PART II:  SUMSo=   REPORT PREPARED BY EOR&OWER*
I.   OBJECT OF THE STUDY
This ex-post economic evaluationt covers the road schemes executed within the
framework of the Second Highway Sector Project financed by IBRD, the African
Development Bank (AfDB) and COte dlvoire.
The period of execution of this project, which was initiated in the spring
of 1985, ran from 1985 to 1990.
The purpose of this study is to recalculats the internal rates of return of
the various road schemes executed, following updating of the data used in the
appraisal calculations.
It supplements the September 30, 1990 Progresa Report drawn up by the
Directorate for Control of Major Works (DCGTx), which reviews for each operation:
-    the characteristics of the route before the project;
-    the project characteristics;
-    initial estimates;
-    estimated financial schedule;
-    principal characteristics of the contract and possible amendments;
-    actual (invoiced) costs of road improvements;
-    progress of the works.
II. METHO0DOLOGY USED FOR EX-POST ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF ROAD SCHEMES
The methodology used for the ex-post economic evaluation, and the justifica-
tion for the basic hypotheses, are amply set out in a separate reports Volume II,
Second Highway Sector Program, Economic Evaluation - Methodology - Basic
Hypotheses, Summary of Results.
The key data are reproduced below (Chapter II$). A comparison of the figures
used for the appraisal (1984 values) and those of the present ex-post evaluation
(1987) is contained in the following annexes (reproduced separately from this
PCR):
_    Annex 2:  Vehicle operating costs
_    AAnnex 3:  Highway maintenance costs
-    Annex 4s  Time and speed values
-    Annex 5s  Costs of highway accidents.
*    Translation of the Sumtary Report "Ex-Post Economic Evaluationo
November 1991, DCGTx, Republic of COte d'Ivoire.



- 16 -
In addition, Annex 1 contains a comparison between the original investment
cost estimates and actual costs.
Lastly, Annex 6 contains the key dates for each operation, with time periods
and amounts of disbursements.
III. BASIC HYPOTHESES USED TO DETERMINE ECONOMIC BENEFITS
III.1     Overatina costs of vehicles
The evaluation was based on the results of BCEOM's May 1983 study, adjusted
to suit the road types concerned, and updated on the basis of the results obtained
within the framework of the 'COte d'Ivoire National Transportation Plan" (1987
values).
The road types ares
-    new surfaced road:  Ri
-    surfaced road at end of lifet R2
-    unpaved road on final earthworks: RT1
-    track (unpaved) in good conditions  RT1-2
-    track (unpaved) in average conditions  RT2
-    track (unpaved) in poor condition:  RT3.
III.2     Method of adiusting operating costs to different road types
The adjustments used are based on the following simple hypotheses, expressed
first in qualitative and then in quantitative terms.
111.2.1   Qualitative adiustments
-   with a paved road, deterioration starts in the first year, and gains
momentum with the passage of time.
-    With a dirt road (regularly maintained), no deterioration occurs over
time, but the intrinsic quality can vary substantially from one road to
another (quality being linked primarily to geometry, visibility, number
and size of drainage structures, presence of rocky sills or lateritic
hardpan, and availability of quality materials for periodic mainte-
nance).



- 17 -
111.2.2   Ouantitative adiustments
Paved Roads
The operating cost of a vehicle on a paved road (maintained regularly)
varies depending on the age of the road (t) in accordance with a
parabolic equation of the following types
C(t) - Co(I + at2)
Co being the cost on a new surface4 road (RI)
-    Two types of road are defined:
-    roads designed a long time ago, whose pavements were structurally
dimensioned to precisely accommodate current traffic, and whose
life is estimated at 15 years (the age at which these roads have
generally been reinforced);
-    roads of more recent design, with more rational pavement dimen-
sions, stricter construction specifications and an estimated life
of 20 years.
-   At the end of their life (T), the operating cost of a vehicle is
assumed to be equal to an average of the costs:
-    on a new paved road (Rl)
-    on a unpaved road with final earthworks, in good state of repair
(RT1). (At the end of its life, c paved road will be designated
R2.)
Dirt Roads
There is as much difference between the maintenance costs of vehicles
(these being the only costs with any significant variation) on tracks
in average condition (RT2) and on unpaved roads on final earthworks
(RT1) as between those same costs on a track in poor condition (RT3)
and a track in average condition (RT2).
For example, for a private vehicle (costs excluding VAT, 5/1987):
Road      Total cost   Difference   Maintenance   Difference
._____ ____  _ _______ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _sh a re
RT1         86.76                       30.65
12.40                       11.57
RT2         99.17                       42.22
12.40                       11.57
RT3        111.57   1              1   53.79      _



- 18 -
We would also recall that the costs of vehicle maintenance on roads designed
RT1-2 and RT2-3 are calculated as follows:
-    RT1-2 s 2/3RT1 + l/3RT2
-    RT2-3 : l/3RT2 + 2/3RTS
which basically means that maintenance costs can vary for a private car, for
example, as followss
RTI-2 : 34.51 F
RT2-3   49.93 F
(i.e. an increase of 442)
111.3     Traffic
III.3.1   Sources used
The available data are:
-    traffic volumes for 1969 and 1975, supplied by the SETEC study at
80 counting stations (preparatory study for the 1976 Transporta-
tion Plan);
-    traffic volumes for 1982, 1983, 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989
and 1990, supplied by the Highway Data Service (SDR) for around
200 counting stations, the annual results given being the average
of the results of three 4-5 day counting campaigns;
-    traffic volumes obtained from spot checks carried out by DCGTx for
the purpose of:
-   verifying information available elsewhere;
-    supplementing such information where it is inadequate or
unreliable;
-    studying traffic variations along a given route, through
surveys at various points along the route;
-    rerouting  detoured  traffic  (GAGNOA-ISSIA,  DALOA-ISSIA,
SASSANDRA-SAN PEDRO);
-    traffic volumes obtained from the "origin-destination" surveys
carried out by DCGTx as part of the preparatory work for the
National Transportation Plan in 1986-1987 (four 3-day campaigns at
59 survey points), or possibly surveys of the same kind in the
form of spot checks.
III.3.2   Traffic growth
Traffic growth has been analyzed on the basis of historic traffic count data.



- 19 -
Two concurrent phenomena are noted for the period under study (1984-1991),
namelys
-    *normal' traffic growth;
-    generated traffic due to improved traffic conditions on the project
routes.
'Normal' traffic growth was determined by using the following two complemen-
tary methodss
-    analysis of fuel consumption within COte d'Ivoire over the period 1985-
1990s
-    analysis of historic traffic count data covering 77 non project road
sections. Based on fuel consumption data, this analysis will make it
possible, thanks to the input of unit fuel consumption figures for the
different vehicle types, to establish a record of traffic growth by
vehicle category over the same period.
Annex 7 (reproduced separately from PCR) presents the results of this
framework study.
The generated traffic, which is due to the reduction in transport costs on
specific project roads, is obtained by subtracting the traffic due to 'normal'
growth from observed traffic volumes.
For the post-1990 period, the following traffic growth assumptions were made:
-    1990-1991s
car - jitney (taxi-brousse] - pickup          o 0x
tractor trailer                          * + 1Z
bus                                      t + 2Z
-    1991-1992      s + 22 (all vehicle types)
-    1992-1994       s + 2.5Z per annum (all vehicle types)
-    1994-1996      s + 3.0? per annum (all vehicle types)
-    after 1996     s + 3.52 per annum (all vehicle types)
This means that no account was taken in the short term of any increase in per
capita GDP, the growth rates adopted barely keeping pace with population growth.
III.4     Road maintenance costs
Road maintenance costs (tracks, unpaved roads on final earthworks, surfaced
roads) were deduced from the experience of the DCGTx road maintenance monitoring
mission, following an analysis of costs and productivity for the years 1986 and
1987.
The different parameters considered are:



- 20 -
-    the traffic carried by the road (for tracks), which influences the
regularity of annual maintenance (grading) and periodic maintenance
(regravelling)s
-    age of the road (for paved roads), which influences the annual number
of patching operations, and its design, which influences its life span
(15 years for old designs, 20 for new ones).
The reduced or additional costs of road maintenance are determined by
considerings
-    the supplemental cost resulting from maintaining the planned road;
-    the savings achieved by ceasing to maintain an existing road, if this
is possible, i.e. if the alignment of the planned road is sufficiently
close to that of the present road.
Tables summarizing national average costs by road category are given in Annex
3 (reproduced separately from PCR).
To be consistent with the 1985 calculations, the ex-post evaluation did not
take account of productivity differences among the various departmental road
maintenance organizations.
Sensitivity study No. 5 analyzee a theoretical situation in which road
maintenance is deficient.
111.5 User time savinas
The average number of passengers per vehicla type is known exactly, thanks
to the results of the OD surveys carried out in 1986 and 1987 by DCGTx within the
framework of preparing the National Transportation Plan.
Vehicle category      Private     Jitney    Hinibus (up           Bus
car                 to 30 seats)   (over 30 seats)
No. of passengers        24,837      43,909       69,487           78,600
counted  ,
No. of vehicles cou-      9,714       5,714        4,916            1,672
n te d                 _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _
No. of persons per          2.55       7.68          14.14           47.01
vehicle                           I           I              I                 I
-    the value of user (passenger) time is estimated on the same basis as in
the earlier studies (preparation of Second Highway Sector Loan - 1984
and preparation of Second AfDB Highway Program - 1987), without
updating unit values, i.e.:
-    private car passengers:        CFAF 329 per hour
-    public transport passengers:  CFAF  47.5 per hour



- 21 -
Vehicle speeds by road category, which serve to determine travel times in
before -and after- project situations, as well as assumptions regarding the time
value of a vehicle's occupants, are shown in the table belows
USER TIME VALUES (travelers only, normal traffic only)
Vehicle category            Private   Jitney    Minibus        Bus
car                (up to 30  (over 30
seats)     seats)
Av. no. of passengers per vehicle       2.55       7.68       14.14      47.01
User time value (CFAF/hour)           329.0       47.5        47.5       47.5
Vehicle time valne (CFAF/hour)        839.0      364.8       671.7   2,233.0
Average vehicle speed (km/hour)
on dirt road RT1                     80        80          70         70
on dirt road RT2                     65        65          55         55
on dirt road RT2-3                   55        55          45         45
on dirt road RT3                     50        50          40         40
on surfaced road
referene scpeed  100 km/hour    110         110         100        110
reference speed   80 km/hour       90        90          80         90
reference speed   60 km/hour       70        70          60         70
III.6 Costs of highway accidents
The BCEOM analysis performed in 1984, based on 1982 data, revealed the
following average costs for traffic accidents (in CFAF per vehicle and per km):
-     paved roads                    s  3.8
-     unpaved roads                  s 14.4
The values taken into account in the present study are the same as those
used for the appraisal, i.e.:
-     cost on track                  : CFAF 14/veh/km
-     cost on RT1 road               : CFAF  9/veh/km
-     cost on paved road
at end of life                 : CFAF  9/veh/km
-     cost on new paved road         : CFAF  4/veh/km
IV    ECONOMIC EVALUATION
IV.1  Investment costs
The investment costs used in the economic study are actual prices,
calculated as values excluding all taxes by multiplying costs net of VAT by the
coefficient 0.85.



- 22 -
In the case of strengthening of surfaced roads, the residual value of the
investment is taken as equal to zero.
IV.2 Economic benefits considered
The economic benefits were calculated in 1987 values, because:
-     the different parameters taken into account in determining the
economic benefits were estimated in 1987 values in the study of the
National Transportation Plan (vehicle operating costs, road and track
maintenance cost, values assigned to travel time, and costs of
traffic accidents);
-     1987 being the central year of project implementation, it was natural
that this should be taken as the base year for all calculations,
rather than "deriving" the values of the parameters and investments
over time, more or less at random.
The economic benefits considered are as follows:
- - reduction in vehicle operating costs, due both to the reduction in
unit costs per km resulting from the improvement in road quality and
to possible reductions in trip distances, resulting either from the
fact that the alignment of the planned road is straighter than that
of the present road (normal traffic) or from the rerouting of
detoured traffic once the project is completed;
-     given that the reduction in transportation costs generates induced
traffic, the corresponding advantages are also taken into account,
using the normal formula of:
3     Ai - 1/2 Ti(Co-C), where
Co - operating cost before project
C  =  operating cost after project
Ti - induced traffic estimated on the basis of normal
traffic To
-     AAi -  the benefit linked to induced traffic
-     fluctuations in road maintenance costs;
user time savings (passenger vehicles only) resulting from higher
vehicle speeds;
-     reduction in the cost of highway accidents  resulting from the
improvement in road quality and hence in safety conditions.
The following factors were not taken into account in the present study:
-     The building of new road infrastructure in formerly inaccessible
regions makes it possible to market agricultural goods produced
there. The resultant increase in their agricultural output, which is
often quite substantial, now contributes value added to the national



- 23 -
economy on a scale matching that of the savings on transportation
costs.
The detrimental impact of poor existing road conditions on the
quality of certain fragile agricultural products (particularly export
bananas and pineapples).
IV.3 Economic rate of return calculations
A LOTUS model for PC use has been developed and used to determine the
economic rate of return of the projects.
The model shows exhaustively all the assumptions made for the calculations,
determines traffic projections (normal traffic, induced traffic and total traffic)
and calculates separately the time series for the various benefits considered.
The cost-benefit comparisons are established and discounted at different
rates, and the internal rate of return is determined. The ratio of the discounted
net benefit to the discounted investment cost is also calculated for the different
rates considered.
Over and above the basic case, the following sensitivity analyses were madet
-     Sensitivity Analysis lt all tracks are classified RT2 (no adjustment
for variation in road conditions)
-     Sensitivity Analysis 2: investment cost are increased by 10?
-     Sensitivity Analysis 3: user time savings are not taken into account
-     Sensitivity Analysis 4t (for the record)
-     Sensitivity Analysis 5: road maintenance is inadequate
IV.4 Summary of results
Each project was covered by an individual study.  The following summary
tables are given belows
-     Summary of key data and Internal Rates of Return (IRR) for the 23
road subprojects.
-     IRR calculations for all new paved roads (basic hypotheses).
-     IRR calculations for all unpaved roads on final earthworks (basic
hypotheses).
-     IRR calculations for all strengthening operations for existing paved
roads (basic hypotheses).
-     IRR calculation for all 23 subprojects combined.



*  24  .
SUMMARY TABLE: INVESTMENTS. TRAFFIC (4) AND INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN
Invosanoma Coats (million FCFA)             Traffic formcast - u               Rate of Return
_    In;  Estimate            . Actual                                              ( e 1990  Tnaffc  e)
____________________.   _ ____                                                                                      199        ._0 _r
coatin-                       (;GwrOeoa
Type of   Bs co_    geeses   Total          rvoiced  Normal   a_d    T_a          Toal    Foeas  Acuma
PROJECT             ~~~~~Works    0145                 cot        costa      (2)   0)-
DALOA . ISSIA                           Paved rod        3.252       103     3.355       3.496    3Su        51      472        708       17.8      17.S
=ALOA  VAVOUA                           Paved md         3.966       138     4.104       4.163     445      168      613        639       18.0      17,4
BONOUA  ABOISSO                        8wnngft V         2.238        64      2.304      2.5S6    1299        0    1299         1.B2      44.5      93.7
tORHOGO (PC 34) . BOUNDIALI    Unved oad                  164         65      Ln72       1.587     132       19      t51        119      22.9       6&s
OAONOA - SIN?RA                         Paved lead        4.748      182      4.930      4.692     5IS      294      812         "S       10.2      13.4
DlvO - OUME                             Paved oad        4.765       287     S.052       5.629     276      173      449        331      20.6      12.3
UOUAPLE * DALOA                          9      _tr g    3.400       215     3.615       3.328     n7         0      927        700       31.7     69.0
ABENGOUROU *AGNtIILERICOU    _                            2.198      221      2.419      2.128     642        0      6"2        698       31.0      79.8
ASgNGOUROU - NIASLE                     Paved toad        L774        91      L865       2.36      326      157      483        458       18.2     11,0
PERKE-OUANOOLO                          Paved rod        2.96        153     3.118       3.116     182       87      269        401       17.6     21.8
OLAFLBE - ZUBNOULA                      Pveod r          1.658        70       .728      1.435     254       38      292        209       13.0     13.4
ABIDJAN - SACOUEVILLE                   Paved  ad        2.739       141      -So80      2.764     333       84      417        378       13.1      12.1
SAN PEDRO  - awtburde BEREIY            Paved  d         2.564       268    2L32         3.020     229      101      330        571       14.4      14U3
KATIOLA * DADAKALA                    Unpaved mad        2.217       301     2.5L1       2.99      132       35      167         92       '6.7      4.4
OAONOA - ISSIA                          Paved  ad        5.1#s       534     S.659       4.280     349      169      51S        429       18.4      20.5
=-~ ~ .-                                                                       -   -                       - --    ~1'
VAVOUA - SEGUELA                        Paved road       5.371       604     S.975       4.388     211      118      329        360       13.1      13. 5
OA8OU-I OSROU                          Paved to"        2458        18      2.646                 360      182      542        516       17.21    2.1
IOSROU - ORAND LtAHOU                  Unpaved mad       2.695       3501    3.045       4.n91     218       46      264        328       11.S      11.11
MAN - DANANE                            Paved mad        5.71        573     5.344       5.422     227      14       371        359       13.6     14.2!
SAN PEDRO - SASSANDRA                | ae coed            5.262      592      5.S541     7.280     160      138      298        232       21.9      13.4!
OUANOOLO - MALI                         Paved mad        5.883       670      &553                 114       47      161        167       11.2      18.0
OUANOOLO - BURKINA  (1)                 PSved road        1.635      202      L8)7       5.756      71       15       86        158       10.4      14u.
MAN. FACOtLY                            Paved |a   2.048             292     2.3401      2.470     348      179      527        412      16.7      15.7
*  .   TOTAL.,,', ~'.  -                 76.595     4.344   61.701      76.3      5.094   15345  10.439         9.992      21.7   IS.S
(I) bidl diect ell4n_me. bypasin KAUARA                      0
M): fbl_li  divhed hL
(3): slmui*        basd.o opsuloa c _savls  nof mal and geneated taffic
(4): Avmege Am     Duly Tafic
d



SUMMARY TAELD: PRINCIPAL DATA AND INMRNA RATBS OP RTUMRN
Initial Diltmim   ~~~~~~~~               Foocog bRon of Rdtur                                      &-Poo Rd=e Of Retun
______             *CFAP.NAnM*
Typ         Dim CON  C=d118-  Toid1            xi           saB   Seasib.  Sipiib.  Siasib.  Siotib.  Seosib    Diwsc  eosib.  Sea"~b    Sem& Sasib.  Senib.
Pr*c'              ~~~~~~~ofWrnt     Olin5        ui    C@uis         co ~g      cm          I        2        3         4        5       cawc       I        2                 4        S
DALCA - ISSIA                                                  S 3.35       103      S.355       3.496      317.     310.     36.0      37.3    31.3       31.3    31.5    31.1    I4.0    11.1i    i.e           23.4
DALOA-VAVOUA                                PvdMd              3.966       133       4.104       4.163      11.0     22.2     16.21    17.3      37.4      21.3    31.4    23.31    35.6         4.,1    i.      21.2
SOOOUA - ABOOSSO                           Suoimlm             2.23)8        4       2.304       2.514      40.1     4D.40    4a.1      43.0     44.5      DA       93.1      i.e      05.6    91*9 1            44.4
KORHtoGO(P'K  343.- BOUN DIALI             upvdfo              1.1663        45      3.726       3.581      22.9     20.1     20.7      22.4     22.8      39.   .1 4      .4   3,      .0      4.2    i.13.1
GA0340A -SINFRIA                            Pe        food     4.148        352      4.930       4.692      20.2     20.2      34.3     39.3     394.1    29.5      33.4      13.4    12.2    33.8        .       17.4
WoVO.OUME                                   Povjed oo          4.161        267      5.02        5.629     20,6      20.6      S6.3     39.9     mo.65    21.4      32.2     12.3    Il.i      33,9              IS.. 5.
BOUAFLE . DALOA                                   -.           3.400        215      3ASS        3.320      31.1      *.o      29.3     30.9     33.71     BA       49 A       .      4  3.5    474      a..      31A
ABENGOUROU . AGNSOILEIKROU                                     2.196        221      2.439       2.326      33.0      .e       26,6     30.3      31.0     BA       1.        ie      1.2      1.        ie       3.
ABENOOURIOU-N3ABLE                                             1.774         91      1.661       2.368      366.2    .2         6.3     316      37.7      21.9     11.0      31.4      9.9    s0.1      1. 4.5 
F'ERKE -OUANGOLO                                               2.9451       113      3.115       3.116      37.6     35.1      35.6     37.3     11.0      23.4     21.6     19.3    39.6    21.4        i.e     29.  'U
DOUAFLE - ZUENOULA                                             3.6fod18      10      3.228       3.43   1  33.0       *.0      33.4     12.  132.5        31.1      23.4      i.        2.2    32.4      i.e      37.4 
ABEDJAN - JACQUBVILLE S                           fo           2.139        341      2.88        2.164      33.3      5. 13.     5  3A 2.4       12.91    31.4      12.0     12.0    30.6    33.5         a..     31.7
SAN PEDRO - cart.fourd. SEREST              FVWrm              2.144        248      2.0321      .3.020     14.4     34.4      It.0     34,0     34,0      19.7     14.31   34.3    32,91   14.2         1.e      39.5
KATIOLA.- DABAKALA                                             2.211        301      2.138l      2.199      16.  133.4        34.6    31.4       36.5      34.4      4.4      3.0       2.8     3.71     BA0      9.0
OAONOA . iSSIA                             .15  .121                        134      1.619       4.260      138.4    36.4      36.5    31.6    31.6        36.1     20.5     20.  1 2364    20.0          ..     24.3
VAVOUA-SEGUELA                             Pave  god           1.313       604       s.9is       4.388      33.3     33.0     33.1      32.6     32.6      37.2     13.5     13.3     32.3    32,9       ie      23.1
OASOU . KSROIJ                                                 2.416        I"8       A46                  31.2     31.2      31.5      36.4     36.7     21.   1 . 2s.         3     23.0    24.4A              30.3
IIOSROU .GRAND LA3iOU                     Uuwvedmgood          2.691        310      3.045       4.293     33.51      6.91    iO.3      30.  1 13.3        30.5     83.:              is 30.   30.4           6..  4.
MAN. DANANES                                Pa     ma    t      .1     73  11        53441       1.422     33.6      33.$132.2    133.           13.1      37.7     14.2     32.1     3.0       3.      a        3.
SAN PEDRO -SASSANDRA                        5ae  ia             .263        192      1.541        .280     22.9      22.0     20.6      22.4     23.0      21.3     33.4    35.4    32.21   13.0        1. 4.5
-a-ed --
OUJANOOLO - M'ALI                                 ___           1.803      610       6.553                A31.2       9.1     30.0     13.        093.1 0.0                 11.4    14.51   31.4                22.0
OUANiGOLO-DURKINA  (3)                                         1.6 00 I31   202      3.7 1.       117 .76  10.4       9,4      9.2      30.3     30.29    30.41    14.60    11.  133.4    34.3           a.      1.2
MAN -FACOOLT                                ae roa             2.040       292      2.340       2.41       36.3      36.71    31 .0    301.2     36.3     24.4     315.7    35.  134.2         313      i.      2.
TOTAL                                        '14.3901    6.3064 0.10           76.3641    217                                                      25.1     23.61
(1): InlalW dircd aftigacu. bypasing KAUARA



ALL NEW PAVED ROADS COMBQD T
COSI - BENEFIT CobPARISON AND RATE OF RETURN CALCUiLATiON (BASE CASi) miions    F. CFA
ECONOMIC BNEFIS                                                                      Bamd
Year           Opfts Cost       U     _       T1u       A=e      nd           TOW            C
cad    swa    saip
Nonni      a lWIIS
TramiC     TUlIT
19s5        0.000      0.000      0.000       0.000      0,000   0.000        0.000        3.101.660   -3.161.006
1S86        0,000      0.000      0.000       0,000      0,000   0.000        0.000        9."63.033   40.663.033
1987     736,563    170.770    247.522       35.654    145,124   0.000    1.337.653       14.155.401  -12.017.628
1960    1.e97.000    744.525   1.457,365     05.867    302.495   0.000    4.657.20l       12.203.772   -6.240.491
198    3.457.718   1.290.551    652.959    172.392    597.019   0.000    6.177.539         0.630.173    .460.634
1990    4.005.166   1.532.693    950.218    201.560    071,130   0.000    7.420.793        2.409.560    4.957.225
1091    4.667.612  1.653,120    645.867    231,128    743.107   0.000    7.940.920           255,661    7.685.259
1992    4.917.549   1.643.017   1.056.529    250s,25    787,759   0.000    9.256,279           0.000    9.256.279
1993    5.007.640   1.631,346   1.121.346    257.096    607.453   o.000    6.825.080           0000 oo   .625.068
1904    5.091.394   1.061.314    7S3.001    203.521    827.639   0.000    8.552.6609           0,000    .SS2,069
1995    5.192.520   1.598.519    969.105    271,426    852.466   0.000    8.884.030            0,000    6.804.036
1996    5.26s.256   1.577.956   1.652.475    270.570    870.043   0.000    9.674.304           0.000    9.674,304
1997    5.398,345   1.554.638    769.257    209.350     06.777   0.000    6.920.373            0.000    0.920.373
1990    5.502.197   1.526.553   1.145.449    299,402    940,580   0.000    9.416.261           0.000    0.410.201
1999    5.506.960   1.499.700    722.930    310.564    973.500   0.000    9. 103.0o            0.000    9.103.660
2000    5.081.535   1.408,093   1.940.472    320,612   1.007,570   0.000   10.424.462          0,000   10.424,482
2001    5.754.732   1.433.723    767.434    332.041   1.042.837   0.000    9.330.767           0.000    9.330.767
2002    5.815.295   1.396.567    921.262    343.063   1.070.337   0.000    9.550.144           0.000    9.550,144
2003    5.081.865   1.358.395    688.972    3S5.608   1.117.115   0,000    9.302.035           0.000    9.382.035
2004    5.093.000   1.317.507   1.805.691    368.141   1.150.213   0.000   10-030.812          0.000   10.630.012
2005    5.907.155   1.274.103    679,499    380,024   1.1906,01   0,000    9.438.402           0.000    9.430.402
2006    5.902,087   1.226.004    792,677    394.364   1.230,566   0,000    9.556.298           0.000    9.s56.296
2007    4.677,708    817,742    209.367    319.097    927,235   0.000    8.951.749         -7.236.011   14.1t7.760
2006    2.751.700    705.461    300.700    107.445    460,015   0.000    4.445.361        .13.510690   17.604.071
2009    1.490.174    415,038    283,521    108.837    272,770   0.000    2.578.940         .7.533,090   10.112.930
P   - Vahm at Ihbwhg Disaun Ras (C 1987 eiWofuim) 
0  106.663,032 29.463.629 21.296,675   0.050.170  18.994.419   0.000  182.467.927      20.956.003  101.509.064     7.706
2   80.371,626  22.657.139  10.465.934   4.507.046  14.210.005   0.000  136.231.750    26.409.844  109.741.906     3.852
4   01.665,000  17.729,101  12.987.983   3.420,Oi5 10.828,965   0.000  106.631.125     32.154.050   74.476.269     2,310
0   46.125,518  14.098,390  10.401.073   2.641.108  8.396,628   0.000   63.664.117     33.571.971   50.092,740     1.492
6   38.102,040  11.378.576   6.450.451   2.073.626   6.022.415   0,000   06.693.110    33.692,744  33.000.360      0,979
10   30.712.170  9.306,074   6.071.658   1.653.400   5.303.108   0.000   53.949.152     33.000.103  20.809.049     0.631
1 2   25.056,021   7.709.723   5.821.000   1.337.507   4.308.034   0,000   44.232.291   32.008.319   12.163.972    0.379
14   20.696,643  6.457.175   4.916,700   1.096.345   3.546.093   0.000   36.715,156     30.856.023    5.859.133    0.190
1 6   17.295.645   5.463.093   4.196.554    909,645  2.954,387   0.030   30.819,523     29.5eo.6I5   1.258.700     0.043
10   14.603.455   4.664.515   3.615.930    703.150   2.406.676   0.000   20.135.732     26.251.604   -2.115,673    -0.075
20   12.447.312   4.015.746   3.142.371    646.755   2.117,4 7    0.000   22.3690.60    20.967.921   -4.590.261    *0.171
rITERNAL RATE OF REtURN   I%)        1 066



ALL UNPAVED ROADS ON FINAL EARTHWORKS                |
COSI - BENEPr COMPARISON AND RATE OF RErURN CALCULATION (BASE CASS) mlos PF.CFA
ECONOBENEFlCs
yaw          Opuiiki Cci     mSII1wCC     T        Accda,  Okw         Total
Trf        TaFfic
19085      0.000     0.000      0.000      0.000     0,000   0,000      0.000         264,376    -204.376
1066       0,000     0.000      0.000      0,000     0,000   0,000      0,000        1.195.840  -1.195.840
1987      74.047     6.314   1t8.938       8.070     13.137  0.000     209.106       1.622.157   .1.353.051
1988     140,064    12.715    167.774     13.790    25.581   0.000    365.924         952.469    -5008545
190      180,010    14.098    -52.431     18.103    27,725   0.000     186.905        810.301    *643,450
1000     228.058    51.573     90,692     22.767    38.201  0,000      439.371        280.315     159,056
1901     271.715    72.038   -228.780     27.173    45.239   0.000     187.379          0.000     107.379
1992     277.150    72.038    .90,142     27.717    48,144   0.000     332.907          0.000     332.907
1993     284.077    72.038    160.752     28.410    47.297   0.000     617.574          0.000     617,574
1994     291,180    72.038   .211.050     29,121    48.481   0.000    228,862           0.000     228.862
1995     299,915    72.038    -57.508     29.994    49.934   0.000     394,313          0,000     394,313
1990     308.912    72.038   -281.074     30.894    51,432   0.000     181.602          0.000     181.602
1997     319.726    72.038    127.089     31.976    53.232   0.000     604.001          0,000     004.001
1998     330.915    72,036     54.403     33.094    55.095   0.000     545.545          0.000     545.545                             a
1999     342.407    72.038   .220.703     34,253    57.023   0.000     285,108          0.000     205.108                             N
200,0    354,485     72.038   .102,373    35.452     59.019   0.000    410.621           0.000    4180.21
2001     300.802     72.038    -84,443    38,692     01.085   0.000    472.264           0.000    472.264
2002     379,733     72.038    .12.343    37,977     83.224   0.000    540.629           0.000    540.829
2003     393.023     72.038    37.575     39.300     65.435   0.000    807.377           0,000    607.377
2004     400,779     72.038   -102.373    40.682    67.727   0.000     484.153           0.000    404.853
2005     421.016    72.038    -84.443     42.105     70.097   0.000    540.813           0.000    540.813
2000     435.751    72.038   .203.075     43.579     72.550   0.000    420.043           0.000    420,043
2007     328.895    63.584    -41.849     35.121     54.025   0.000    437.778        .810.334    1248.110
2000     205.524    63.584    159,200     20,637    32.964   0.000     481.915       -1.122.932   1.804.847
2009     205.524    57.527      0.908     21,359    34,117   0.000     319.495      .1.140.220    1.465.715
Pte_u Vah at FoTovhg D   Pmu Rim (a 1957 __)li Pfu_osa
0   6.831,008  1.422.803    734,584    684.272  1.138,844, 0.000   9.342.443      2.046,032   7.296.411    3.566
2   5.089.780  1.080.430   -508.827    509,035    849.323   0.000   7.001.750     2.889.320   4.112.430    1.423
4   3.885,595    8005.05   .343.573    385.975    845,072   0,000   5.358.733     3.308,870   2.051.863    0.620
6   2.989.738    621.833   -225,744    298,026    490,684   0,000   4.183.737     3.470.752    700.985     0,203
8   2.352.288    488,072   -140.210    234,0806   393.717  0.000   3.327,951      3.503,544    -175,593    -0.050
10   1.880,580    388.790    .77,845    188,824    315.108   0,000   2.893.407     3.449.048    -755.570    -0,219
12   1.525.914    313.949    -32.247    151.320    255.900   0.000   2.214.902     3.349.935  -1.135.034    -0,339
14   1.255,120    250.076     1.118    124,252    210.771   0,000   1.047.937      3.228.011  .1.380.074    .0,428
10   1.045.332    212,236    25.488    103,301    175.738  0,000    1.562.096      3.096.191   -1.534.095    -0.495
10     800,552    177,304    43.199     800863    140.200   0.000    1.336,117     2.962,0e4  -1.025.947    *0.s49
20     749.433    149.510    55,948     73,797    126.272  0,000    1.154.959      2.030.007  -1.675.048    -0.592
INTERNAL RATE OF REIURN (O      |     7.63|



I              UALL NESW PAVED RtOADS BEING STMREN       M]HND l]                  -
- DNENTr COPARISON AND RATE OF RErURN CALCULAlIN (BSE CASEW bfMILOJNS F.CFA%
ECONOMBENEPns
.Xe           Ope.us coa         Wiaui m     Tmm       AcidOM    Odm         Told            c1.
C-            .    .s
1^ff1h    Tmlfic
1985       0.000       0.000      0.000 0o000            0.000   0.000       0.000         408.459    *408.459
10s8     300.400       0.000      4.204      7.18?     24.142   0.000      338.013        4.904.680   .4.568.675
1987    3.414.831     0.000      53,092     44.058    251.401   0.000    3.763.462        1.496.621    2.266.841
1986   4.972.072       0,000     75.540     44,038    334,544   0.000    5.430.194           0.000    5.430.194
1989    5.147.910     0.000      79,540     44.644    339,230   0.000    5.611.330           0.000    5.611.330
1990    5.512.509     0.000      79.540     40.031    319,850   0.000    5.s67.730           0.000    5.957.730
1991    5.851.032      0.000     76.201     40.400    318,322   0,000    8.293.055           0.000    0.298.055
3992    6.095.912     0,000      86.625     49.369    324.688   0,000    6.536.594            0.000    6.538,594
1993    6.217.199     0.000      66,.25     50.603    332,805   0.000    6.687.232            0.000    6.667.232
1994    6.335.325      0.000     666,025    51.60      341.125   0,000    8.794.943           0.000    0.794,943
1995   6.401.300      0,000      660825     53.424    351,359   0.000    6.952,794            0.000    6.962.794
1996    0.024.763      0.000     61.113     6.027    361,900   0.000    7.102.803            0.000    7.102.803
1997    0.797.34      0.000     45.305     56.952    374,566   0.000    7.274,657            0.000    7.274.657
1996s   .908.761       0,000     45.305     58.948    367.677   0,000    7.460.079            0.000    7.480,679
1999    7.136.935      0.000     45.305     61.009    401.246   0.000    7.644,495           0.000    7.644.495
2000    7.301.7e5      0.000     45.305     03.144    415.289   0.000    7.625.503            0.000    7.825.503                          r
2001    7.482.568      0.000     33.592      65.354    429.824   0.000    7.991.336           0,000    7.991.330                          0
2002    7.618.686      0.000      0.000      87.642    444.808   0.000    8.131.128           0.000    0.131.126
2003    7.769.144      0.000      0.000      70,009    460.438   0.000    8.299.591           0.000 o.299.5s 1
2004    7.913.309      0.000      0.000      72.459    470.554   0.000    0.462.322           0.000    8.462.322
2005    0.050.220      0.000      0.000      74,996    493.234   0.000    8.618.450           0.000    0.6t1.450
2006    4.958.226      0.000      0.000       0,000    311.859   0.000    5.289.807           0.000    5.20.6087
2007        0.000      0.000      0.000       0.000      0,000   0.000       0.000            0,000       b.ooo
2008       0.000       0.000      0.000       0.000 0o000   0,000            0.000            0.000       0.000
2009        0.000      0.000      0.000       0.000      0,000   0.000       0.000            0.000       0,000
PuVduo sI Folwbi DbMWA_ PA"S (i 19i7  m  f)
0  128.930.715      0,000    914.622   1.085,160   7.494.601   0.000  138.42S.096      8.809.788  131.615.330    19.327
2   99.788.886      0,000    765,691    84c.290  5.807.069   0.000  107.207.745        6.524.962  100.682.763    15.430
4   78.532.085      0,000    647.207    671,03i  4.578.603   0,000   84.428.928        6.257.899   78.171.029    12.492
8   62.787.193      0,000    551.981    540.490  3.670,096   0,000   07.549.780    .    6.007.085  81.542.881    10.245
8   60.948.987      0,000    474.699    441.844   2.967.769   0.000   54.853,290       5.771.246   49.082.042    8.505
10   41.918.058     0.000    411.398    388,221   2.467.632   0.000   45.183.210        5.549,221   39.613.969    7.139
12   34.931,670      0.000    359.092    307,448  2.065.100   0.000   37.683.319        5.339.948   32.323,371    6.053
1 4   29.454.045    0,000    315,512    261,181   1.749,417   0.000   31.780.135        5.142.472   20.037.803    5.180
1 8   25.104.114    0.000    278.915    224,243   1.498.463   0.000   27.105,735        4.95s.924   22.149.812    4.469
18   21.607.622      0,000    247.957    194,440   1.296.431   0.000   23.346,450       4.779.512   18.506.936    3.885
20   18.764.630      0.000    221.584    170.104   1.131.635   0,000   20.208.353       4.012.518  15.675.637     3.399
|  NrNAL RATE OF RTURN (s)                79.28



ALL ROAD IMPROVEMENTS UNDER SECOND HIGHWAY SEciR 
I                                                        . -!!RTF~.
coWr - BENEPrr COMPARISON AND RATI OF RETURN CALCULATIoN (ASE CAS)ilomi .CFA
ECONOMC BENBM
Ypm&g co*        Caktmmom     rmw ,,   Acc S as     s       Tota          C
"'   am    Mmm.           a.
TW&        Tf0ic
t985       0o000     0.000      0.000      0.000      0.0&w  0.000       0.000       3.834.701   -3.834.701
1908     300.400     0.000      4,284      7.187     24.142   0,000    330,013      15.763.581  -15.427.540
1987   4.228;001    177.084    469.552    85.762    409.742  0.000   5.370.221      17.274.259  -11.904.030
1980   7.115.145    757.240  1.704.679    153.715    722.e20   0.000   10.453,399    13.856.241   -3.402,842
1989   8.708.244   1.311.449    080,068    233.139    964.874   0.000   11955.774    7.448.534    4.507.240
1090   9.005.755   1.584.280  1.134.450    270.354  1.029.069   0.000   13.023.894   2.749.803   11.074.011
test   10.790.359   1.725.184    493.282    306.701   1.106.746   0.000   14.422.254   255.601   14.106.593
1992   11.200.611  1.715.655  1.033.012    327.911   1.158.591   0.000   16.125.780      0.000   16.125.780
1993   11.609.124   1.703.364  1.373.723    330.108  1.187.555   0,000   16.109.894      0.000   16.109.894
1994   11.717.090  1.680.352    808.468    344.510  1.217,245  0.000   15.576.474        0.000  15.576.474
1995   11.73.0821  1.670.557    978.162    354.840  1.253.750   0.000  16.231.145        0.000   16.231,145
1996   12.219.933   1.049.996  1.431.914    305,491  1.291.375   0.000   16.956.709      0.000   16.958,709
lo97   12.516.505  1.626.678    941,651    376.204  1.336.575  0.000   16,799,091        0.000   10.799.091
1098   12.801.863  1.600.591   1.245.157    301.522  1.363.352   0.000   17.422.485      0.000   17.422.465
1999   13.078.392   1.571.744    547.532    405,828   1.431.709   0.000   17.033,283     0.000   17.033.263
2000   13.337.785  1.640,131   1.886,404    419,408  1.481,878   0.000   18.68.06       ,o000   18.008.606                        0
2001   13.584,190  1.505.701    M36A583    434.087  1.533.746   0.000  17.794.367        0.000   17.794.367
2002   13.813.046  1.468,625    908,910    440.282  1.587.429   0,000   18.227.901       0.000  18.227,001
2003   14.024.032  1.430.433    726.547    405.003  1.642.968   0.000   10.289.003       0,000   18.289.003
2004   14.213.086  1.369.605  1.793,518    481.262  1.700.494   0.000  19.577.987        0,000  19.577.987
2005   13.378.391  1.346.141    815.050    498.125  1.760,012  0.000  16.597.725         0.000  10.597.725
2000   11.290.666  1.300.042    568,802    437,943  1.622,775   0.000  15.246,228        0.000   15.240.228
2007    5.004.603    661.328    107.518    354.818    981.200   0.000   7.389.525    -8.046,345   15.430.870
2008    2.907.224    769.046    519.086  168.082    492.970  0.000   4.927.296      -14.641.822   19.506.918
2009    1.703.698    473.1865   264,489    130.196    306.887   0.000   2.898.435    *e.08.,210   11.578.645
nV.     P VOW=, a FlIwli DbcmmS  (in Wl1937 mOfn,a ).
0  242.424.835 30.806,432 21.476.736  7.819,602 27.627.884   0,000  330,235,480  29.814.683  300.420.805    10,076
2  185.250.096 23.717.577  16.744,798  5.062,377 20.866,396   0.000  252.441,246  37.904.147 214.537.009   5,660
4  144.082.741  18.534,168 13.291,617  4.477,022  16.053.240  0.000  190.418,768  41.719.625  154.699.161  3.708
6  113.902.446 14.720,224  10.727,310  3.479,630  12.568.609  0.000  155.398.221  43.055.009  112.342.412  2.6009
0   01.403,314  11.866.048  8.790,940  2.749.559  10.003.891   0,000  124.674,351  . 42.967.530   81.9006815  1.908
10  74.510,814  0.697.470  7.305,209  2.200.512  8.085.625  0.000  101.6,05829    42.078.370  59.727.459    1.419
12  61.513.613  6.023.672  8.147,851   1.796,281  0.029.094   0.000  04.110.511   40.756.202  43.352.309    1.004
14  51.408.008  0.713,851  5.233.330   1.461.75C  5.506.281   0.000  70.343.227   39.226.506  31.110.722    0.793
16  43.445.290  5.075.330  4.500.957  1.237.189  4.628.587   0,000  59.487,354    31.612.929   21.874.425   0.582
18  37.091,629  4.841,.19  3.907,085  1.044,458  3.933.308   0.000  50.018,299    35.993.101   14.825.t11   0.412
20   31.901,S74  4.105,268  3.419,903   600,056  3.375.582   0.000  43.012.972    34.410.445   9.402,527    0.273
INTEtNAL RATE OF REIURN (S 2)5.45]



- 30
rV.5 Conclusions
Overall, the infrastructure Improvements made under the Second Highway
Sector Project show a very good economic rate of return (25.5X), slightly higher
than the 1985 appraisal estimate (21.71).
-     New paved roads have an IRK varying from 11.01 to 25.11, giving an
overall level of 16.71.
-     Unpaved roads ac. final earthyorks have a lower IRR than initially
estimated, the overall level being poor: 7.52. This is due to the
weakness of induced traffic noted on this type of road, and above all
to the rise that occured since 1984 in the average maintenance costs
for these roads.18/
The estimated cost per km of road maintenance over 20 years rose from CFAF
20 million per km in 1984 to CFAF 31.4 million in 1987. The transition from track
to unpaved road status, which generated an (estimated) benefit of CFAF 10.74 mill-
ion per km in 1984 (roads with traffic of less than 200 vehicles a day), would
now, using the new 1987 values, generate a cost overrun of CFAF 7.57 million per
km (over a 20-year period).
This is also explained by a reduction in the road maintenance cost estimates
for little-traveled roads between 1984 and 1987.
Ti?
-     The strengthening of existing paved roads results in particularly
high IRRs, from 69.01 to 93.7Z, with an overall rate of 79.32.
The results obtained are very satisfactory, and confirm, overall, the 1984-
1985 estimates.
Their achievement may be attributed to the following factors:
-     a judicious choice of subprojects, based on precise and objective
analysis;
-     implementation of subprojects within time periods and under condi-
tions designed to achieve optimum cost-effectiveness;
-     the quality of the new infrastructure, conducive to the generation of
substantial volumes of induced traffic.
18, By way of indication, the IRR for improving the unpaved road Korhogo-
Boundiali, which has been estimated at 6.81 in the present evaluation,
would have been 12.0? if the 1985 cost assumptions for road maintenance
had been retained.



- 31 -
PRO9JECT CO=PETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE DIVOIRE
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
(WAN!  2581-IVC AND 2SB1.IVC)
PART III: STATSTICAL INMEMI=ATIO
A.  Related Bonk Lan  and Credit.
Loan/Credit                                                Y"r of
Tltle                           Purpose                 Approval                  Status
Loan 542-IVC
First Highway Projeot       Transport Sector Survey               108       Completed In 1970
Loan 7B1-SVC                These projects were deigned to         1971      The construction cowponents of
Second Highway Project      meet the prioritie  determined                   these projects were generally
by the above transport survoy.                   satisfactorily completed but of-
forts to build an efficlent main-
tenanco organization did not pro-
duce lasting recults.
Loan 887-NYC                                                       1972
Third Highway Project
Credit 406-ZVC                                                     1978
Fourth Highway Project
Loan 1161-ZvC                                                      1975
Fifth Highway Projet 
Loan 101-ZNC               To upgrade feeder roads and            1977      Completed but result. were not
Feedr Road and Highway    strengthen the maintenance orga-                   fully satisfactory.
Maintenance Project         nization.
Loan 1914-ZNC               Further strenothen the alante-         19"               Completed In 1985
First Highway Sector        nance organization and carry out
Project                     major works by contrect rather
than by force account.
Loan 2561-IVC               To stimulate the Government to         1965            Completed In mid-1906
Second Highway Sector       continue making major Improve-
Project                     ment. In the monagement of the
highway subsector.
Source: SARs
AFlIN
January 14, 19M



32-
S. Project1~1E 1
Planned Cato                    Revised or
Item               Original            supplental A1ended                            Actul I
Leoon                 Loan                Date                  Date
|d*ntltioation            11/29/88                                                        11/29/88
Preparation               12/08/84                                                         12/08/84
Appraisal                 62/06/86                                       ..                02/O6/86
Negotlatlons              06/25/86                                                       06/00-14/85
Board Approval            60/18/66              11/08/67                             -1/18/85 - 11/68/87
Signature                06/21/86               11/66/87         _I_ 64/21/86-- 11/OS/87
Effectiveness Date        10/04/86              02/24/88                             10/64/85 -- 02/24/88
Closing Date              12/31/89              12/81/89             12/81/9=              12/81/96
Completion Date           06/80/89             60/80/89/9
AFIIN
June 25, 1991



- 33 -
C..   D
(1) Loan Disbur monts
Bank                       Disbursements (in US$ Million)
Flscal Yur                    Loans 2681-lVC and 2581-1-IVC
and              Eetimatsd             Actual           Actual X of
Quartar           Cumulattve /l        Cumulative /b       Estimated
1986     1                4.0                   -- 
2                7.8                  4.1               56
8                9.8                 11.9              121
4               12.9                 22.4              174
19n7    1               24.0                 87.7              167
2               82.5                 62.1              16O
8               41.1                 62.6              158
4               47.6                 77.5              16a
1988    1               68.7                 93.0              158
2               67.2                 98.7              147
8               78.4                109.8              148
4               88.6                128.6              148
1989    1               89.7                180.8              146
2               95.6                184.8              141
8              101.8                187.6              186
4              106.2                140.6              182
1990    1              108.2                148.0              182
2              110.0                148.5              189
8                 --                146.7              182
4                 --                147.6              184
/0     Source:  SAR, Annex 8-8
/b     Total cumulative disbursements reflects Loan 2581-lVC for US.151  M of which
USS8.0 M was concelled when it was transforred to the IB8 Loan and the
Suppleontal Loan 2681-1-IVC for US846.6 M.
AFlIN
June 26, 1991



- 34 -
C. Loan  eOt (continued)
(ii) Allocation of Loan Proceeds
In USS
Category                       Original Allocation | Actual Disbureementa
(I;  Civil Work                                     112,7W,000              112,800,824
(a) Financed Solely by the Bank
(b)  Coftnanced by the Bank and AfDB
(2)  Equipment, Spare Parts, Supplies, and           11,060,000              18,814,876
Equipment Overhaul under Contract
(8)  Fuel and Lubricants                               9,60,06                8,826,990
(4) Technical Assistance, Consulting Sr-             6,00,000                7,668,811
vices, and Scholarships
(6) Unallocated                                       5,700,000                       O
Totsl                                           147,600,000            147,5600,60
AFlIN
June 26, 1991
0. Project Iftlementatlon
Actual or PCR
Indicators                       Appraisal Estimate                    Estimate
-- 860 km now bitumen roads
Indicator 1              -- 200 km now gravol roads                 Target Exceedd
--   1 bridge crossing at Nzida               (pare. 80)
Indlcator 2              -- 46,000 km of periodic and routine             Done
maintonance of the road network
-- Trainina
Indicator a                    18 Fellowships                              No
40 Flld supervisors                    Progress
22 Workshop heads and chief
mechanics
AFlIN
June 25, 1991



- 35 -
E. Proloae  Cats_ and Flnalno
(i) Project Cost
(In US8 Millon)
At Appraisal /t                      Actual bk
Category             Local    Foreign      Total      Local /     Forolgn      Totl
1. Road Construction A
Improvoemnt               80.0        75.7     165.7        74.8       188.4       268.2
2. Road Maintenance           88.5       27.9       68.4        14.9        19.9        84.8
8. Support for MTPCPT           1.1       0.8         1.4        4.8         8.0         7.8
4. Road Transport
Industry Program           0.1        0.2        0.8        0.0          0.0         0.0
5. Enforcement of Road
Traffic Leolslotion         1.8       0.0         1.9        1.8         1.0         2.8
6. Natlonal Transport
Plan                       0.6         1.1        1.7        1.1         0.7         1.8
7. ProJect Supervision          1.9        1.4       8.8         2.1         1.2         3.8
TOTAL                 f  123. 6      107.2  1  230.7  [   99.0         214.2       818.2  J
jo    Source:  SAR, page 61
1k    Source: Loan disbursement data
/g    Includes only coste paid by Government.  It Is not possible to distinguish between true
local and foreign coats as most contracts were denominated in CFA francs (see pare 23)
AFlIN
June 25, 1991



- 36 -
E.  Prolect Costs td Ftnencinm (continued)
(11) Project Financino
(in US  MtillIon)
Plannod                               Rviseod
Source                      Agroment                                under
of                     (Loan 2691-IVC)                       Loan 2691-1-IVC
Funds           Local       Foreign      Total         Local       Foreign      Total
5~~~~                                                                                =
IBIR                   51.4        68.6       116.0 /I       49.1         108.4      166.6 /
AfDB                   18.1         81.9       60.0          22.8          49.8       72.1
Commercial Banks       16.7         18.7       88.4          12.2          26.5       88.7
Goverm ent              7.8                    87.8          14.9          82.0       46.9
TOTAL                 128.5       107.2       280.7     |   99.0          214.2   j 818.2
I.    Includes USt8.0 U provided by ZURD under B Loan from commercial banks.
AF1IN
Jun 26, 1991
F. Studi
Purposo as Defined at Appraisal        Status    | Impact of Study
Studies
National               To establish a national Transport       Completed       Provides a
Transport              Plan to covers:                         In 1990         basis for a
Plan                                                                           transport eec-
(a)  intormodal planning, Including                     tor loan.
International traffic and con-
tamner movements;
(b)  Investment programming;
(a)  recommendations for improvo-
ments In the management and
operation of agencios and *n-
terpriso action In tho sector;
and
(d)  review and analysis of the
transport pricing policies of
all transport modoe.
AF11N
June 25, 1001



- 37 -
0. Co t0ane, wIth Loan Covenonts
Section                     Description of Covenant                       status
8.08               To updato the Highway Sector Investment program.         Done
8.08 (a)           To define maintensnce projects to be lncluded In
the annual program.                                      Done
8.0S               To carry out a training program.
-- The status of CENAFER Is not yet approved.            Not met
8.07 (a)           To make Issuance of road transport authorizatton
contingent upon registration In Register of              Not met
Cosmerco.
8.07 (b) (c)       Gradual elimination of mandatory tariff.                 Ongoing
8.07 (d)           Reductlon of the number of road blocks.                  Ongoing
8.07 (e)           To submit a feasibility study on frelght broker-
age *ervices.                                            Done
8.07 (t)           To submit a study of road user taxation.                 Done
8.08               To submit a national transport plan.                     Done
AFlIN
June 26, 1991
H. Use of Bank Resouroes
(i) Staff Inputs bX Stone of Project Cycle In Staff Weeks
Stage of Project Cycle         |    Planned             RevL 'd      j       Final
Through Appralsal                                                                84.8
Appraisal through Board Approval                                                 89.4
Supervision                                                                      47.2
Other                                                                _
TOTAL                             f       0.0                 0.0 °             120.9
AF1IN
Juno 26, 1991



- 38 -
M. Ub of Bank Rsoure   (contilnued)
(ii) Mission Date
St-ass                   No.       Days  | Spcialilzatlon    Performance        Datoe
of          month/       of       In       Represented         Rating           of
Project Cycle      Year    Persons   Field            /             Status          Reports
Identilication     11/98       4        --      EN, EC, ME, fA         __             __
Preappraleal       12/84       a        1s        HE, EC, ME           -          01/17/6 /b
Appraisal          02/65       7        17     EN, EC, ME, FA,         __              __
TS, RTA, RTE
Post-appraisal    0s/85        2        N/A           __               __             N/A
Supervision  1     11/86       2        11          EN, EC          1/1/1/1       11/2/865
Supervision  2    02/80        8        10        EN, EC, TS        1/1/1/1       04/11/86
Supervision  8     12/86       2        10          EN, HE          8/1/1/1       12/22/86
Supervislon  4     11/87       1         °            EN            1/1/1/1       11/20/87
Supervlaton  6    07/88        1         2            EC            1/1/1/1       08/04/68
Supervision  6     12/88       1    |                 EC             /1/1/1       01/19/89
Supervislon  7    08/89        1         4            EC            1/1/1/1       05/08/89
Supervision  8     11/89       1         6            EC           2/1/2/1/2      12/20/89 /c
Supervision  9    02/90        2         8          EC, TS         2/1/2/1/8      04/12/90
Supervision 10    08/80        1         8            EC           2/1/2/1/8      09/04/90
/a     EN * Engineer                   EC u Economist               ME  = Mechanical Engineer
FA = Financial Analyst         TS * Tralning Speciallst    RTA = Regional Transport Advisor
RTE a Road Transport Expert    HE a Highway Engineer
Issues Paper
/e     Aide-m6molre
AFlIN
June 25, 1991
Job Id - AsStat.pcer
Diskette -- (MH35)



U                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRRO 18805R
f M                       ib A  h^L s I u                                                                                         COTE DI  VO I RE
- >   Z   tTa > t    _ o XSECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR LOAN
MAIN TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE
0r-n    ? Ti   15      9               y <  43            s5   U  RK I NA   FASO                                    PAVED ROADS              +    NTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS
to CLViW ) M'VPg   -       EARTH AND ORAVELROADS    t   OTHER AIRPORTS
9   \  }   /  r,ZRixlr}pu  in<   i%   ffi RAILWAY  PORTS
- *   NATION4AL CAPIJAL             RIVERS
*    PREFECTVR F OAPITAIS         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
NDIALI                     R KNE7S4SEDUU                     //                             \ a    O0 OTHER TOWNS
GUINEA  ;         _ AVERAGE DAILY ROAD TRAFFIC DENSITY  (
VHICLES PER DAY i                     iRKN
LI  e 2000 R 4000
*    1000-2000
y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  rooj,...                                       - I| $\eu<
koM                                                          B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UINE      N.kaunouo
- Ol d J <)/                                                                                                                                                   07tF4#r!<tlsERIANIOKUMA  POI,E
Ag.bi g%NAN
Onvo =Hci_R=*-~  '                                )           ..                                                    )GU )tD r
LIIARI1 1
GUIN A                   P~MASO
LIBF-RIA                                                                                                   $11 N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EOAL 4            OHA NA
-~~~~~  OF                                              Alt   ANT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i C  k.5 C TS  DIVO4R  -O
MARCH 19W



