Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C -4? -2 o- & F_r-
1': t I   W:s  ';    ' '1    ,
Report No. 8429-YEM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOURTH FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAY 20, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
Ilis document has a restrcted distIbut  and may be used by recdeiw only in te peroname of
their offlicf dIes Its c_ntet may ad ohewie be dicosed w     WoWdd Rak authod=aton



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit          Yemeni Dinar (YD)
Yemeni Rial (YR1)
YD  1        YRIs 26   -   US$2.17
YRl 1        YD 0.038       US$ 0.083
US$ 1        YD 0.461  -   YRls 12.00
(As of April 1991)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)             -    0.621 miles
1 square kilometer (kn2)         0.386 square miles
1 Kilogram (kg)                   2.205 pounds
1 metric ton (mt)                 0.98 long ton - 2,205 pounds
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AFESD       Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development
CACB        Cooperative and Agriculture Credit Bank
CFC         Coastal Fisheries Corporation
DANIDA      Danish International Development Agency
EEC         Commission for European Communities
FAO/CP      Food and Agricultural Organization/World Bank
Cooperative Program
FMDC        Fisheries Manpower Development Center
GCDFR       General Corporation for the Development of Fish
Resources
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GRP         Glass Reinforced Plastic
GUYW        General Union of Yemeni Women
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
IDA         International Development Association
IFAD        International Fund for Agricultural Development
1F          Ministry of Fisheries
MSRRI       Marine Science and Resources Research Institute
NCFM        National Corporation for Fish Marketing
PCEP        Public Corporation for Electricity and Power
PCR         Project Completion Report
PDRY        People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
PIU         Project Implementation Unit
PPAR        Project Performance Audit Report
PPF         Project Preparation Facility
PSC         Project Steering Committee
ROY         Republic of Yemen
UNDP        United Nations Development Programme
YAR         Yemen Arab Republic
YFC         Yemen Fisheries Corporation
YSJO        Yemeni-Soviet Joint Operation
YSJV        Yemeni-Soviet Joint Venture
GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Ut=C COFS I
FOURTH FISHAEI DVEW=                         ET
STAFF APAISAL P
table of Contents
Chapter,                                           .......................... aNo.
Credit and Project Summary  ..  .               .  .  .   .  .   .               i-i.i
I.   INTRODUCTION .1................. . .
II.       THE FISHERIES SECTOR  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                            3
A.   Sector Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                           3
B.   Role  in the Economy and
Sectoral Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . .                          6
C.   Past Government Policy and Strategy   . . . . . .                           7
D.   Sectoral  Institutions   . . . . . . . . . . . . .                          9
E.   Impact of Unification   . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         16
F.   IDA and Other Donor Involvement  in the Sector   .                        16
G.   Future Government Policy and IDA Strategy   . . .                         19
III.       THE PROJECT   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                           20
A.   ±eroject Concept and Objectives  . . . . . . . . .                        20
B.   Project Area  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         21
C.   Project Description   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         21
D.   Detailed Features   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         22
IV.       PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING   . . . . . . . . . . . .                           28
A.   Project Cost Estimates  . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         28
B. Financing Plan   ..29
C. Procurement   ..30
D.   Disbursements   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         33
V.       ORGANIZATION,  MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION   . . . .                         35
A.   Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         35
B.   Project Operations  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         37
C.   Implementation Schedule   . . . . . . . . . . . .                         39
D.   Monitoring,  Evaluation and Reporting  . . . . . .                        39
E.   Accounts and Audits   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         41
F.   Environmental  Impact  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        41
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to the ex-People's Democratic Republic of
Yemen in November 1989, comprising Francesco Scaduto-Nendola. Financial Analyst (Leader), Gert van
Santen, Fisheries Economist (IDA); Henry Gunawardena, Fisheries Consultant (FAO/CP); Stewart Waddell,
Transport Consultant; Niels Dryanne, Civil Engineer Consultant; and Cyrus Hamlin, Naval Architect (IDA
consultants); Nicholas Jarman, Institutional Specialist-, and Petra Splietboff. Huumn Resources
Specialist (IFAD Consultants); and post-unification discussions between the Government and Rahul Raturi.
Agricultural Economist (IDA), during a mission to the Republic of Yemen in December 1990.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reoipients only in the performance of
their officiaL duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank Authorization



ChX2                                                      P"e No.-
VI.    PRODUCTION, ARMXETIN GADM RICES . . . . . . . . . .    42
A.    Production  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  42
B. Marketing and Prices . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    43
VII.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION . . . . . . . . . . . . .    44
A.  Beneficiaries and Financial Benefits . . . . . .    44
B.  Economic Benefits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    46
C. Cost Recovery  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    49
D.  Project Risks  . . . .                            0 . . . . . . . . . . . .    so
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECO)IENDATION  . . . . . . .    51
A.    Assurances   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  51
B.    Conditions  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  53
C. Recommendation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    53
TABLES IN THE 
4.1   Project Costs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    29
4.2   Project Financing Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    30
4.3  Procurement Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    31
4.4   Disbursement Plan  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    34
4.5   Estimated Disbursements Schedule . . . . . . . . . .    34
6.1 Catch Composition .43
7.1   Financial Rates of Return  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    45
7.2  Crew Income and Long-Term Debt Service Coverage  .    46
7.3  Financial Rates of Return (Assuming 50%
Depreciation in Local Currency) . . . . . . . . . .    46
ANNS
1.   The Fisheries Sector
Table 1: Total Fish Landings in ex-PDRY . . . .    54
Table 2: Fish Landings in ex-YAR  . . . . . . .    55
Table 3: Fisheries Cooperatives Production
in ex-PDRY  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    56
Table 4: Number of Cooperative and Private
Fishermen, Fish Landing in
ex-PDRY: 1988 . . . . . . . . . . . .    57
Table 5: Fish Exports from ex-PDRY: 1982-1989    58
2.   National Corporation of Fish Marketing
Table 1: Historical Income Statements (YD '000)    59
Table 2: Historical Balance Sheets (YD '000)  ,    60



Wue No2
3.    Cooperative and Agriculture Credit Bank
Table 1: Historical Income Statements (YRls 000)  61
Table 2: Historical Balance Sheets (YRls '000)    62
4.    Financial Results of the Cooperatives  . . . . . . .    63
5.    Proposed Fisheries Facilities (Summary)  . . . . . .    64
6.    Proposed Training Program  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    65
7.   Development of Women in Fishing Communities  . . . .    66
8.    Summary of Technical Assistance  . . . . . . . . . .    69
9.    Terms of Reference for Project's Main
Technical Advisers  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    70
10.    Cost Tables
Table 1: Summary Accounts - Cost Summary . . . .    75
Table 2: Summary Accounts by Year  . . . . . . .    77
Table 3: Project Components by Year  . . . . . .    78
Table 4: Summary Accounts by Project Component .    79
11.    Project Financing Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    80
12.    Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of IDA Credit . .    81
13.    Summary of Implementation Schedule . . . . . . . . .    82
14.    Supervision Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    84
15.    Financial Analysis
Table 1: Financial Fish Prices  . . . . . . . .    85
Table 2: Main Assumptions for Boat Models . . .    86
Table 3: Boat Model: GRP 7.6 m  . . . . . . . .    87
Table 4:  Boat Model: GRP 9.4 m  . . . . . . . .    88
Table 5: Boat Model: Sambuk . . . . . . . . . .    89
Table 6: Boat Model: Intermediate Technology
Vessel   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  90
16.    Economic Analysis
Table 1: Economic Fish Prices for Traded Fish     91
Table 2: Calculation of Economic Beach Landing
Prices for Fish . . . . . . . . . . .    92
Table 3: Economic Calculations for
Fokum-Ras Imran Road  . . . . . . . .    93
Table 4:  Economic Rate of Return:
Intermediate Technology Vessels . . .    94
Table 5: Economic Rate of Return  . . . . . . .    95



Zam No.
17.    Cash Flow Projections
Table 1: Mukalla Cooperative  . . . . . . . . .    96
Table 2: Shihr Cooperative  . . . . . . . . . .    97
Table 3: Diss/Al Hami (including Al Qarn)
Cooperative . . . . . . . . . . . . .    98
Table 4: Quaseyr (including Musainah)
Cooperative . . . . . . . . . . . . .    99
Table 5: Sayhut Cooperative . . . . . . . . . .   100
18.    Selected Documents and Data Available in
the Project File  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  101
IBRD 22548 : Republic of Yemen - Fourth Fisheries Development Project



REPUBLIC OF YMEN
2MUM Fi_SHERIES DEVE PMRNT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower               :  Government of the Republic of Yemen (ROY)
Beneficiar             :  Private Fishermen
Fishermen's Cooperatives
Coastal Fisheries Corporation (CFC)
National Corporation for Fish Marketing (NCFM
Credit Amount              SDR 9.4 million (US$13.2 million equivalent)
Terms                   :  Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
IWementing Agency          Ministry of Fisheries (MF)
Project Oblectives
and Description            The objectives of the proposed project are to:
(i) expand fish catches and improve processing,
for both local consumption and export; (ii)
improve the efficiency of domestic and export
marketing of fish; (iii) improve the assessment
and management of the fish resources in ROY
waters; and (iv) help improve the position of
women in fishing communities. The project would
include: (a) the construction of facilities for
fish handling in seven villages and a road
between two fishing villages to improve access;
(b) the import of intermediate technoloh--
vessels, construction materials for boats,
outboard engines and gear, insulated and
refrigerated trucks and plastic boxes;
(c) technical assistance for CFC, NCFK, the
Mariue Science and Re3ources Research Institute
(14SRRI), cooperatives and MF; (d) the
strengthening of MSRRI's fish stock assessment
and environmental research; and (e) services to
women in fishing communities.
Benefits and Risks      :  Direct benefits of the project include:
increased fish production and exports; less
costly fish marketing; and increased employment
in the poorest areas of southern Yemen.
Indirectly, the project would help support the
Government's efforts to adjust the structure of
the sector to the impact arising from
unification, and help ease the strains of the
adjustment process. The estimated Aconomic rate
of return is 31 percent. Cost overrun is



^ il -
unlikely because project investment costs were
derived from ongoing project experience. As the
existing PIU would provide continuity for
project developments, delays in implementation
would be unlikely. Sensitivity tests show that
a two-year lag in incremental net benefits would
reduce ERR to 16 percent. The main risk of the
project would be possible delays in
implementation, and slowing down of the economic
reform process, caused by uncertainties arising
from the revised responsibility structure within
the Government as a result of unification of the
two Yemen republics. However, the post-
unification structure of MF shows good
continuity with past operations, thereby
minimizing this risk. Also, MF has shown clear
commitment to the sector's adjustment process,
which is proceeding well. A second risk
concerns the effectiveness of technical
assistance to improve management and financial
performance of the fisheries cooperatives: this
risk would be minimized by ensuring that ROY
select high caliber specialists.
Costs. linnelnn and DisburaeM= nt Smma
gEtimates Proisct Costsl8
Total
Foreign   Base
Local    reign  Total  Exchange  Costs
- .(US$ 14) -() --               --
A. Village and Fish Processing
Facilities                        2.6     5.7       8.3     69      26
B. Transport Facilities               0.1      1.3      1.4     95       5
C. Fishing Vessels and Gear           1.9    13.1      15.0     88      48
D. Fish Stock Management              0.1      1.0      1.1     91       3
S. Training                           0.2      0.3      0.5     57       2
F. Development of Women in
Fishing Communities               0.3     0.6       0.9     62       3
G. Technical Assistance and
Coordination                      1.2      3.2      4.4     73      14
.wotal Baseline Costs               6.4    25.2     31.6      80     100
Physical Contingencies                0.6      2.6      3.2     74      10
Price Contingencies                   1.0      4.0      5.0     80      16
Total Project Costs                 LJQ    1.i        9.      22 2
I/  Exclusive of duties and taxes. Totals may not add up
due to rounding.



- its. -
Iuc innS Plan:
Percent of
FincIng Source             Lg.al EQri istn      l    Itaca
---... (US$ M) .-....
Government                  3.8     0.0      3.8        10
IDA                         0.8    12.4    13.2         33
EEC                         2.9    13.4    16.3         41
IFAD                        0.5. 6.O2
Total                  810    39A
stiMte-d Gompletion Date:       December 31, 1998
Eatimated Disbursements:
IDI. Fispal Year
1993   12    1995    2      221           122k9
-.S   )--------------(s  M)----------------------
Annual            0.4'l  1.5    2.7    2.4   2.3    2.3    1.4       0.2
cumulative       0.4    1.9    4.6    7.0   9.3   11.6   13.0    13.2
1/   Project Preparation Facility Advance
Econoiec Rate of Return:  31 percent



REPUBLIC4 Q YEMSN
POURTH FISHERIES DEVELOIMENT PROJECT
STAFP APPRAISAL REPORT
I. XNTRODU=10
1.01      The proposed project was appraised in November 1989, prior to
the unification of the two Yemen republics, which took place in May 1990;
the project was to assist the fisheries sector in the ex-People's
Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY).'  Subsequently, an IDA mission
visited tho Republic of Yemen (ROY) in December 1990, to assess the
changes wV.ich had taken place in the fisheries sector as a result of
unification and to review the project's design to ensure that it continued
to address the principal constraints of the sector. As a result of these
discussions, some minor changes were made to the project's design and to
implementation arrangements, to better reflect the new environment in
post-unification ROY. Nevertheless, the overall concept, objectives and
scale of the project remain unchanged; it would continue to focus on the
sector's requirements in southern Yemen. IDA and other foreign lenders
have already made substantial investments in the fisheries sector in the
northern part of the new country, and no substantial programs are
envisaged in that area for the next few years. The International Fund for
Agricultural Development (IFAD) has recently negotiated a loan that
includes funds to import boat building materials, wooden hulls, boat
engines, gear, tools, etc. for sale in northern Yemen. The proposed
project allows for some extension of activities to the north, particularly
those related to fish resource management and the marine environment.
1.02      The newly created Republic of Yemen (ROY) has an area of about
537,000 km? of predominantly rugged desert, with a harsh arid climate and
few natural resources. Potentially cultivable land constitutes less than
3 percent of the total area. The population is relatively sparse, notably
in the south, and estimated at about 11.5 million. The country's main
natural resources are fish and oil reserves.
1.03      The unification of the Yemen Republics has brought together two
economies of different orientation. The North has proven oil and gas
deposits, tourism potential and a dynamic market system. The South also
has proven, though modest oil reserves, large fishery resources, a
strategic location and the Port of Aden. With a larger market,
unification offers considerable potential gains from economies of scale
for many industries. However, unification also brings together two
economies that are faced with serious macro-economic imbalances, which
need to be addressed urgently.
1.04      Before unification, the economic structure of the North was
undergoing significant changes as oil extraction increased. Agriculture,
.J/ All references to PDRY reflect the pre-unification territory of southern
Yemen.



however, remaired the dominant sector (24 percent of GDP), followed by
government services. In the South, government services were by far the
most important sector (33 percent of GDP during 1987-89), followed by
agriculture. In the combined setting, agriculture (growth in which is
constrained by limited arable land and a shortage of water) remains the
most important sector, followed by government services.
1.05      Virtually all production in both parts of the country still goes
to consumption, and gross domestic savings have been negative. At the
same time, fixed investment has been high, particularly in the South (39
percent of GDP during 1987-89; in the North, it was 14 percent).
Nevertheless, the fact that these levels of investment did not generate
growth is a cause for concern. With a lack of domestic savings,
investments in both parts of the country were financed by external
resources, in the form of workers' remittances, grants or loans. The
prolonged period of dependence on external borrowings has created a
precarious external debt situation, with total debt outstanding as of end-
1989 estimated at US$5.8 billion, or over 70 percent of GDP; an estimated
15 percent was represented by short-term borrowings. With regard to
public finances, both parts of the country have experienced prolonged
budget deficits, with the combined deficit for 1989 estimated at 15
percent of GDP. The cumulative effects of the continued large deficits
and their financing, largely by borrowing from the Central Bank, have led
to high inflation, an overvalued exchange rate, and balance of payments
current account deficits. With a small merchandise export base and
persistent excess demand, balance of payments current account deficits
have ranged between 12 and 18 percent during 1987-89.
1.06      The imbalances, which were already being aggravated by the
transition into a unified country, have, in addition, been severely
affected by the recent crisis in the Middle East. In the immediate
future, the effects of the crisis will be to reduce remittances and
further worsen the already high balance of payments deficit, as well as
exacerbate the serious unemployment problem of the country. To address
some of the problems emerging from the crisis, IDA is presently processing
an Emergency Recovery Credit.
1.07      Besides oil, fisheries is perhaps the only sector in ROY with
significant export prospects over the medium term. While data for the
unified -;ountry are not presently avatlable, in ex-?DRY, the exports of
fish (excluding direct shipments of the foreign fleet) grew from US$6.1
million in 1982 to US$18.0 million in 1989; they represented over 16
percent of all exports, excluding re-exports of oil products. With a
coast line extending over 2,000 km, ROY has very substantial fish
resources, particularly in the Gulf of Aden. With a few exceptions, most
of these resources are underexploited and the current average annual catch
of about 107,000 metric tons (mt) can be substantially increased on a
sustainable basis. Since several species being caught in ROY waters enjoy
good international markets, the expansion of fish production is a priority
development objective for the country.



II.  HflSflhkIS -ES9Tfl
A.
Fish Resources
2.01      The coastline of ROY extends for about 2,000 km, with around
1,500 km in southern Yemer. along the Gulf of Aden (Map, IBRD 22548). The
wind and sea current systems are seasonal, with a strong monsoon during
May to August. Winds and deep-sea currents cause pronounced upwellings of
cold, nutrient rich waters along the southern coast, resulting in one of
the highest primary productivity levels in the world; however, they also
cause local sea conditions to be susceptible to frequent changes,
resulting in major short-term fluctuations in the size and location of
fish stocks. The most productive fishery grounds are considered to be
along the eastern part of the southern coast, notably off the Hadramawt
and Al Mahrah Governorates. Knowledge of biological parameters of stocks
of individual fish species varies considerably. For the main commercially
important exportable species of the south--lobster and cuttlefish--major
efforts have been made to assess sustainable yields; however, for most
other stocks, knowledge is limited and subject to a large margin of error.
As compared to the south, overall fish resources along the northern coast-
line are much smaller; at the same time, very little detailed stock
assessmert has been done to estimate their actual size, except for a
single assessment of shrimp resources during the early 1980s.
2.02      The south's most valuable commercial resources are among the
species which are available in smaller quantities, notably the £Rokand
Deep Sea Lobster and Cuttlefish, with annual potential yields of some 600-
900 mt and 7,000-8,000 mt respectively. Lobster and cuttlefish resources
appear heavily exploited; cuttlefish resources are currently recovering
from past heavy fishing efforts. It is for these commercially important
species and for demersal fishi that resource management efforts should be
further strengthened to avoid the uneconomic or harmful exploitation of
resources. In the north, the nature of the catches and the size of
individual fish landed strongly indicate that resources are lightly fished
and that fishing efforts are relatively modest. A large part of the
northern fleet has, in the past, fished seasonally in Saudi Arabian
waters.
2.03      Traditional fishing grounds extend to about 12 km seaward, but
most small-scale fishing takes place within 4 km of the shore. Fish
resources close to the coast, and those surrounding sea-mountains off the
Hadramawt Governorate, can only be exploited by small-scale fishing
vessels. Although ROY has a 200 nautical mile exclusive economic zone,
most industrial fishing takes place within some 30 km of the shore, and is
largely limited to the Gulf of Aden. Industrial vessels are not allowed
to operate within five km of the shore, but violations are occasionally
reported.
J./ Demersal fish are those which remain close to the bottom of the seas



-4-
Fishb Productio~
2.04      Southern Yemen. The rich fish resources of the south are
currently exploited by: boats belonging to traditior,' coastal fishermen;
a fleet of about seven ageing industrial vessels owned by the Yemen
Fisheries Corporation (YFC); four semi-industrial vessels owned by the
Coaatal Fisheries Corporation (CFC); about five foreign and five local
industrial vessels operated under a recently established Yemeni-Soviet
Joint Venture (YSJV); and about fifteen industrial vessels from the
Yemeni-Soviet Joint Operation (YSJO).
2.05      During 1984-1988, total catches averaged some 85,000 mt, with a
peak of 91,000 nt in 1986 (Annex 1, Table 1), compared with an average of
75,000 mt for 1980-1983. Reported catch data indicate that the share of
foreign vessels (the fleet of licensed vessels and those operating under
joint-venture arrangements) has decreased rapidly--from 54 percent in 1986
to 41 percent in 1988--and Ls expected to continue to decline in the
future. The share of the traditional fleet has increased from 37 percent
to 52 percent over the same period. Although these trends have been
confirmed, the officially reported data need to be approached with
caution; notably, the reported landings of licenced foreign vessels alk4
private fishermen are doubtful. In terms of volume, an estimated 50-60
percent of the catch consists of small pelagic species (mackerel,
sardines), while the rest consists of cuttlefish, lobster, large pelagic
species (tuna, shark, king fish) and demersal species (breams, snappers,
rock cod, etc.). All fish originate from within the 200-mile economic
zone; sharks have traditionally been fished off Socotra.
2.06      f9grthern Yemen. Fishing in the north is largely done through
locally constructed traditional wooden vessels; it is estimated that 350
sambuka and 1,200 houris operate in north Yemeni waters.  The limited data
that are available indicate local catches of some 22,000 mt annually, or
about 20 percent of the total country's catch (Annex 1, Table 2). The
main species caught include mackerel, king fish, grouper, snappers and
bream. In addition, a small trawl fishery activity for catching shrimp is
carried out near Hodeidah by converted traditional uambuks; this activity
produces some 500 mt of shrimp annually. There is no industrial fishery
off the Red Sea coast, although following unification some vessels from
the south have explored fishing grounds in the north.
Fishling Operations in South Yemen
2.07      In contrast to the north, public involvement in fish production
and marketing in the south has been very substantial, with only a group of
small-scale fishermen operating in a truly private fashion. Small-scale
fishing in the south takes place from about 50 villages along the southern
coast by about 6,400 fishermen. Fishery activities are organized through
13 cooperatives, which till recently owned the boats and some of the gear
of their 3,500 members (Annex 1, Tables 3 and 4). Prior to unification,
the cooperative fishermen delivered their entire catch to the
cooperatives; the remaining non-member private fishermen owned their own
boats, and marketed some fish through the cooperatives (see paras. 2.32-
2.36). The coastal fleet comprises some 2,000 craft. Almost 900 glass-
reinforced plastic (GRP) boats have been constructed since 1982, when CFC



- 5 -
boat building operations started. The rest consists of old wooden
vessels, many of them constructed prior to 1970, which need to be replaced
within the next ten years.  Most ',.oats, from the wooden 12-15 m nambk  to
the wooden and GRP 5-7 m boUti and 6-9 m Iabadifa, are well adapted to
local conditions and are efficient and cost-effective. Virtually all
boats, except some small fortSi, are currently mechanized with outboard
engines. All fishing geai outboard engines and raw materials for GRP
boat construction are imported.
2.08      The locally ownei YFC industrial fleet consists of second-hand
freezer trawlers of between 200 and 1,500 gross registered tons. The
operation of the fleet has become increasingly inefficient due to weak
management, inappropriate vessel types and the very old age of the
vessels, resulting in major and time consuming repairs. The local fleet
has generally concentrated catching efforts on high value cuttlefish and
deep-sea lobster resources for export; when these resources contract, due
to natural phenomena or excess fishing pressure, the fleet switches to
catching less profitable food fish for the local market. The former
licensed foreign fleet, YSJO vessels, and the recently established YSJV
fleet all engage in high volume fisheries for small pelagic and demersal
species. In addition, CFC recently acquired four small, modern GRP
fishing vessels, of an intermediate design, which are operated on a pilot
basis to catch large pelagic fish.
2.09      Virtually the entire industrial fleet and a substantial portion
of the traditional wooden vessels are at the end of their economically
useful life; the early models of GRP vessels are also close to
replacement. Almost all construction of new vessels in ROY is being done
at the CFC boat yard in Aden, which produces GRP boats for small-scale
fishery. Construction of new wooden vessels has virtually ceased since
the 1970s because of the lack of foreign exchange for importing of logs.
No industrial vessels are being constructed in ROY, though the country has
floating repair docks to service the industrial fleet.
Fish Marketing
2.10      With the exception of rock lobster, the entire catch of the
traditional fleet is consumed locally. Most of the fish for local human
consumption are marketed in fresh or frozen form, while some tuna and
industrially caught mackerel are being canned for the local market.
Sharks are usually dried for consumption in Hadramawt, while virtually all
sardines are dried and used for animal feed and fertilizer.
2.11      Until two years ago, all fish sold locally for human
consumption, except fish produced by private fishermen, was marketed only
by cooperatives and by the National Corporation for Fish Marketing (NCFM).
Since 1987, however, NCFM's role in retailing has declined rapidly,
particularly since NCFM started to dispose of its retail operations. NCFM
had always been the only wholesale agent, selling directly to individual
retailers and traders. Cooperatives marketed most of their fish close to
the place of landing, with any quantities remaining sold to NCFM or
(increasingly) to private traders.



2.12      Since early 1990, and particularly since unification,
significant changes have taken place in fish marketing. Private fish
traders have virtually taken over all trading, transporting and marketing
of fish landed by traditional fishermen, resulting in a major reduction in
NCFM's role in domestic fish marketing.  Nearly all of the fish from Zhe
traditional sector is now sold by auction, organized either by the
cooperatives themselves or through auctioneers, and is done after the
landed catch is sorted and graded by quality/species. NCRM participates
in the auctions as one of the buyers, though in the face of rapidly
increasing prices, the quantity of fish it buys at cooperatives has been
declining.
2.13      Fish consumption per capita is relatively high in coastal
communities, decreasing gradually in the hinterland, except in Hadramawt,
where dried fish products, notably sharks, have traditionally been
consumed; the consumption of fresh fish is growing fast in this area. In
the southwestern part of the country, fish is usually consumed close to
where it is landed, or is distributed directly to nearby markets. Because
markets are limited east of Mukalla, relatively large quantities of fish
are now being marketed to Mukalla, Hadramawt and Aden by private traders
from the eastern coast. In comparison to the south, per capita fish
consumption in the north is substantially lower; fish marketing in the
north is largely limited to the coastal zone and large cities. With
unification, however, traders are increasingly buying fish in the south
for transportation to the north.
2.14      Until early 1989, producer and consumer prices of fish for human
consumption in pre-unification south Yemen were rigidly fixed by the
Government. Fish were classified into five groups; each group had
prescribed prices and marketing margins, regardless of quality, amount of
processing, actual marketing and transport costs, or demand or supply.
This rigid pricing system has now been abandoned for fish produced by the
traditional sector, and marketed by private traders.
2.15      Fish produced by CFC, YFC or YSJV continues to be marketed
through NCFM, or transshipped at sea by YSJV, without entering the
country. Fish produced by CFC or YFC are marketed locally with NCFM
performing the role of wholesaler (food fish from YFC or YSJV), or
exported (lobsters from CFC and YFC, cuttle fish from YFC and YSJV) by
NCFM to Europe (mostly lobsters) and Japan (mostly cuttlefish). Small
amounts of low quality food fish have recently been exported for the first
time by NCFM to Egypt and Saudi Arabia. Fish caught by the licensed
vessels has been shipped to Egypt and the East European countries.
B. Role in the Economy and Sectoral Performance
2.16      Few data are available to accurately determine the role, growth
and importance of the fisheries sector in the economy. Nevertheless, the
following broad patterns appear valid:
(i)   Yemeni industrial and traditional fleets, and related
processing and marketing operations, have demonstrated only a
modest growth over the past eight years;



(ii)   the role of the local industrial fleet is gradually
diminishing in value terms as a resul1t of inappropriate
equipment, the wrong price incentives, weak management,
increasing maintenance problems and the slow recovery of
stocks of cuttlefish, which were over-fished during the early
1980s;
(iii)   the share of catch by foreign licensed vessels and vessels of
the Yemeni Soviet Joint Operation (YSJO) declined from a peak
of over 50 percent in 1986, to about 38 percent in 1989
(Annex 1, Table 1) and is likely to decline even further; and
(iv)   the value added of industrial operations, except for high
value species, is modest, while all inputs, except fuel and
labor, are imported; traditional fisheries create more value
added, but also require imported inputs.
C. Past Government Policy and Strateav
2.17      In the first decade (1969-79) following independence, the
strategy of the Government of ex-PDRY for the fisheries sector was to
develop foreign and locally based industrial ventures. A large public
industrial subsector was established in a short period of time, comprising
a fleet of deep sea fishing vessels, cold stores and fish processing
plants. In addition, a substantial foreign industrial fleet was licensed
to operate in PDRY waters. This process of rapid industrialization
outstripped the sector's technical and managerial manpower resources,
causing the under-utilization of both the fleet and processing facilities.
In addition, industrial fishing, with relatively old-fashioned technology,
provided an increasingly inefficient way to capture some of PDRY's fish
resources. The country's traditional fisheries subsector, which accounted
for about half of the country's fish landings and operated much more
efficiently, received only marginal support.
Role of the Government
2.18      The role of the Government in the fisheries sector of ex-PDRY
prior to unification had been highly dominant; it is only during the past
two years and more so after political unification that the private sector
has started to play a more important role. Until recently, the
Government's policies focussed on maintaining the industrial fisheries for
export, while small-scale fisheries were to supply the local market only.
This development strategy resulted in massive investments in ports and
marketing infrastructure (an estimated US$145 raillion over the past 10
years). The strategy achieved less than it set out to do because: (i) the
Government underestimated the essential role of the market mechanism in
fisheries related activities, notably in catching and marketing fish;
(ii) the Government underutilized the production potential and efficiency
of small-scale and intermediate technology fishing; (iii) the existing
industrial fleet became increasingly inefficient to operate and exported
substantial volumes of low quality, low-priced fish to the Soviet Union;
and (iv) several infrastructure investments (including cold storage



. 8 -
facilities and fishing ports) had a limited impact on fish production. In
addition, the Government pursued economically inefficient institutional
arrangements and policies. Of the latter, the most important were
conflicting policy objectives, insufficient attention to the economic
impact of policies, lack of properly targeted economic incentives,
excessive administrative controls over enterprises, and rigid pricing and
marketing policies. Finally, the implementation of the Government's
strategy was constrained by the general lack of foreign exchange and the
effects of the 1986 civil disturbances in southern Yemen.
2.19      Sector Adjustment. Starting in 1986, but particularly after
1987, the Government of PDRY recognized that the fishing sector was
performing well below its potential and that better sectoral performance
required policy adjustment, in combination with specific investment and
operational actions. Following the earlier example of the agricultural
sector, the Government decided to: (i) enhance the role of the market in
directing the production, marketing and pricing of fish, by reducing the
role of NCFM and expanding the responsibilities of the cooperatives and
the private sector; (ii) focus major sectoral efforts on increasing fish
production, particularly by the traditional sector, while developing
arrangements to export more fish species for which good export markets
exist; (iii) give more managerial freedom to state-owned institutions and
provide them with clear and stronger incentives to operate in a
financially prudent manner; and (iv) reorganize and streamline the
operations of the industrial fleets and develop a strategy for their
replacement.
2.20      The Government also decided to minimize the possible initial
negative social effects of its policy adjustment (i.e., possible increases
in consumer fish prices in Aden), and to make the adjustment process
gradual. Hence, its strategy was to: (i) strengthen the economic base of
the sector, by encouraging additional fish production, allowing the
private sector and the cooperatives to play a more forceful role in local
marketing; (ii) revoke price guidelines for both cooperatively and
privately produced fish; and (iii) promote the rapid expansion of fish
exports. At the same time, the Government's presence in fish wholesaling
and exporting was to be initially maintained, because the private sector
was not expected to immediately take over these activities. It also
wanted to maintain price directives for fish handled by NCFN in order to
guarantee access to modestly priced fish to poor consumers in Aden. The
Government's emphasis on strengthening the performance of cooperatives
reflected a strongly felt need to maintain and expand economic and social
services in fishing villages. Finally, as a first step in reorganizing
its industrial fishery, the Government decided to enhance PDRY's benefits
derived from foreign fleet operations, and entered into negotiations with
the foreign partner; this resulted in the establishment of a more
equitable joint venture arrangement, which will expire at the end of 1991.
The impact of unification is detailed in Section E of this chapter.



. 9 .
D. Sectgral Institutions
Ministrv of Fisheries (MF)
2.21      The Ministry of Fisheries (MF) is the principal agency
responsible for planning and implementing national fishing policies and
projects, and for supervising the fisheries cooperatives. In addition, MF
has four corporations directly under its jurisdiction, of which three are
in the south: the Yemen Fisheries Corporation (YPC), which owns and
operates the industrial fleet; the Coastal Fisheries Corporation (CFC),
which is in charge of rock lobster collection and the construction of
glass reinforced plastic (GRP) boats; and NCFM, which is responsible for
local and export marketing of fish. In addition, the General Corporation
for the Development of Fish Resources (GCDFR) is responsible for fishery
development and for promoting fish marketing in northern Yemen. MF is the
national partner in both the Yemeni-Soviet Joint Operation (YSJO) and the
Yemeni Soviet Joint Venture (YSJV). The total number of employees at MF,
including the corporations, is about 4,000, of which some 1,000 are
employed in NCFM facilities throughout the country. Fisheries research
and resource assessments are the responsibility of the Marine Science and
Resources Research Institute (MSRRI), while fisheries training and
extension is carried out by the Fisheries Manpower Development Center
(FMDC); both 6rganizations report to MF.
2.22      MF is structured along functional lines, and is relatively well
endowed with skilled high-level staff, who have been effective in
initiating and administering recent sector adjustments. MF has received,
over the past three years, substantial bilateral assistance to improve its
institutional performance. Most of its functions rightly belong in the
Ministry, with one exception: the search for new fish export markets and
decisions concerning all fish exports are currently the responsibility of
a committee in the Ministry. NCFM is officially in charge of all fish
exports, including those of CFC and YFC, but the Ministry committee plays
a key role at present. This arrangement was set up to maintain the
responsibility for decisions concerning export prices and other export
arrangements within the Ministry. The committee, chaired by the Minister,
includes the three chairmen of the fisheries corporations in the south,
high-level ministry staff and various other official members. Although
the arrangement has worked satisfactorily in the past, when only two
commodities were being exported, it will become increasingly cumbersome
once exports expand and quick decisions are needed. Within the context of
the significant changes taking place in the sector, there is a need to
review the efficacy of mech:.nisms that are presently in place, as well as
to better define the manner in which MF can carry out its role and
functions in the future.
National Corporation for Fish Marketing (NFCM)
2.23      NCFM was traditionally responsible for all marketing related
infrastructure in southern Yemen and handled all movement and storage of
fish; in addition, it is responsible for fish exports. It implemented a
fixed pricing system and maintained buffer stocks of frozen fish to honor
the Government's commitment to make fish readily available at affordable
prices. Over the years, the role of NCFM has changed; it now wholesales



- 10 -
only fish that the joint ventures, cooperatives, private sector and CFC
are unwilling or unable to market. Its function of administering fixed
fish prices is also weakening; since 1989, and more so after unification,
the prices of privately marketed fish are being determined by the market.
A more liberal policy for NCFM producer prices has recently been announced
by Presidential decree. This allows NCFM to adjust prices according to
market conditions, species abundance and season. However, pricing
decisions still need to be cleared by MF.
2.24      Prior to 1987, NCFM ha,% a history of inefficient operations and
substantial financial 'osses. NCFf management was weak, bureaucratic and
inflexible; it had also invested in excessive, and sometimes ill-
conceived, infrastructure. Furthermore, it was forced to accept fish from
industrial producers, indifferently presented and often comprising species
for which no profitable market existed, at artificially high prices to
compensate for the inefficiency of the industrial fleet. Overall, NCFM
had several objectives, which could not be reconciled with cost effective
operations without selecting priorities. As detailed in Annex 2,
Tables 1-2, NCFM experienced a deteriorating operating margin, losses
throughout the 1980s, and a negative cash flow during most of those years.
2.25      Recognizing the problem, various actions were taken by the
Government to improve the efficiency and institutional performance of
NCFN; a draft business plan aimed at strengthening and modifying NCFM's
operations was submitted to IDA. However, with unification and the
subsequent liberalization in fish marketing, the role of NCFM is changing
markedly; its share in marketing the traditional sector's catch is also
rapidly declining. The present levels of its fixed asset utilization are
extremely low. In the context of this changing environment, a clear
strategy for the future of NCFN has yet to be outlined; broadly, the
Government views NCFMWs future role principally in terms of developing
export markets and exporting fish, executing wholesale functions to the
extent that they cannot be handled by the private sector, and of
maintaining limited food security. In the immediate future, the financial
viability of NCFM remains a matter of considerable concern. Many of the
assumptions underlying the business plan are no longer valid. MF is
presently reviewing a joint-venture proposal put forward by a Danish
company; discussions are also being held with Yemeni investors to
participate in the proposed joint venture operation that would essentially
concentrate on exports. However, given its limited experience with joint
ventures, and its uncertain financial situation, NCFM is in need of
technical assistance to define its future role and to advise on the joint-
venture negotiations.
Coastal Fisheries Corgoration (CFC)
2.26      CFC has traditionally concentrated on the collecting and
exporting rock-lobster and, since 1982, on producing GRP vessels for
small-scale fisheries. It is well managed, has been profitable since
1986, and has become highly efficient in its operations. CFC has been
able to avoid many of the problems affecting NCFM; it has a strong,
relatively independent management, and has been allowed to operate in
profitable 'niches' of the sector--lobster exports and boat building. Its
financial performance has been good. The core activity of CFC is



11 -
collecting rock lobster from small-scale fishermen, using annual contracts
which include sizeable incentive payments, with individual fishermen and
cooperatives for delivery of raw material. The boat buildlng actlvities
of CFC started in 1982. Designs are simple but effective; however, the
output of the boat yard has been constrained by the limited access to raw
material, and demand has consistently exceeded output. CFC sells boats to
cooperative fishermen for cash or with credit supplied by the World Food
Program, administered by MP. Because credit funds wsre limited, CFC at
one time sold boats to private individuals on credlt. Not well equipped
to handle such a credit program, it recently discontinued the practice.
2.27      CFC's test-fishing operations of intermediate-technology
vessels, with four small imported purse seiners which require shore
support services from NCFP, have been less successful so far. Although
the vessels have demonstrated that they are able to catch very substantLal
quantities of fish in a relatively short period, vessel operations have
frequently been hampered by inefficient NCFM shore services (lack of
timely supplies of ice, restrictions on landing times, and landing
capacity limitations), causing extensive periods of vessel inactivity.
Hence, tests should continue with the existing vessels, focussing on more
efficient shore services and financial performance in the rapidly changing
price environment prevailing at present. If the results prove
unconvincing,-alternative vessels and technologies should be tested before
large-scale investments in these types of vessels are contemplated.
Procurement of an additional four vessels under the proposed project would
be subject to joint IDA/EEC review during implementation, based on the
performance of the existing vessels.
Cooterative and AXriculture Credit Bank (CACB)
2.28      Prior to unification, the National Bank of Yemen was the only
banking institution in southern Yemen authorized to undertake lending for
development purposes. It, nevertheless, played a very limited role in the
fisheries sector. Since unification, the Government has decided that
credit for the agriculture and fisheries sectors of the country is to be
handled by CACB, which was established in 1982 and has been the principal
source of institutional credit for the agriculture and fisheries sectors
in the north. In addition, CACB is involved in significant trading
operations (the procurement and sale of farm machinery, irrigation
equipment, marine engines, fertilizers, etc.). It presently operates out
of 16 branches and 5 sub-branches in the north, and out of 3 branches that
have recently been established in the south (Aden, Abyan and Mukalla); in
addition, another branch is proposed for the Al Mahrah Governorate in the
south.
2.29      The  main financial resources of CACB are made up of paid-up
capital (YRls 224.9 million), loans from the Government (some of which are
externally financed), and noninterest bearing deposits from cooperatives
in the north (YRls 60.7 million as of December 31, 1989). Short-term
lendlng, mainly for fertilizer, constitutes about a quarter of CACB's
lending operations; the remainder is for term loans, mainly for
agricultural machinery, irrigation equipment, poultry and fisheries.
interest rates on loans vary between 7-10 percent per annum, which are
presently negative in real terms. CACB financial statements (Annex 3,



- 12 -
Tables 1 and 2) show that, despite relatively high trading profits and the
availability of interest-free deposits, the bank has suffered large
losses, for both 1988 and 1989, reflecting poor institutional performance.
Loan recovery rates have declined dramatically from about 70 percent in
1984 to below 40 percent in 1989, while loan administration costs are
high, presently estimated at 15 percent of outstanding loans. To a large
extent, the low loan recovery rates reflect CACB's poor experience in
agricultural lending in the Eastern Region, where the recovery of past
loans has been insignificant. This in turn has highlighted the
difficulties of initiating loan operations in tribal areas where
agricultural lending is not customary.
2.30      While CACB's overall loan recovery rates continue to
deteriorate, available data indicate relatively better performance on
loans made in the fisheries sector. Recovery rates on fisheries loans
made between 1985-90 (totalling YRls 18.3 million) were estimated at
around 65 percent as of the end of 1990. The relatively better recovery
performance is the result of various factors including: provision of loans
to fishermen based on identified needs rather than pre-determined loan
packages; use of the group guarantee system to encourage joint
responsibility; the use of credit camps for loan appraisal and
supervision, thereby also reducing transaction costs for the borrower as
well as loan-administration costs; and timely supply of equipment and
materials financed through credit.
2.31      IDA assisted CACB in defining a strategy to improve its
performance, as part of the recently closed Agricultural Credit Project
(Cr.1308-YAR). However, as noted in the Project Completion Report (PCR),
steps to strengthen the financial and operational performance of the bank
were generally not successful. The PCR notes that CACB suffered from an
inadequate spread on loans, and has been unable to substantially increase
its deposit base. Recently, IFAD appraised an Agricultural Credit
Project, co-financed with the Arab Fund for Economic and Social
Development (AFESD), which is aimed at increasing the lending capacity of
CACB, and at improving its overall institutional capability. The
Government expects the project to become effective shortly.
Coogeratives
2.32      There are presently 13 cooperatives in the south.  Prior to
unification, full membership was available only to those fishermen
operating vessels owned by the cooperatives. In addition, there were
associate members who sold part of their catch to the cooperatives, in
contrast to truly private fishermen, who sold directly to the public.
Cooperative membership had been attractive to many fishermen: it provided
a guaranteed outlet for fish, since few private fish traders were active
outside Aden and Mukalla until recently. In addition, prior to 1988,
fishermen could obtain boats, gear and engines only through cooperatives.
Finally, cooperatives became desirable for their extensive welfare
benefits, which include pensions, insurance for medical emergencies
abroad, credit for social purposes, health, education and other free
services.



- 13 -
2.33      The financial position of the 13 cooperatives varies (see Annex
4 for a summary of performance). Only two have shown consistent profits;
three have been consistent losers. In the past, the main sources of their
income were various percentage charges on the catch sold to NCFM and a
margin on fish marketed directly. All the cooperatives have received
grants and loans from MF. The arrears on repayments of most loans are
substantial and not only reflect poor management, but also the perception
that government credit need not be repaid.
2.34      The financial problems of the cooperatives can be attributed to
many factors, some of which were outside their control: (i) inappropriate
policies concerning fish marketing and financial arrangements for vessel
maintenance, as detailed below, have consiste3,dly given inappropriate
incentives to fishermen and created a financial burden for cooperatives;
(ii) the neglect of cooperative education and training, both of membership
and of management; (iii) direct control by MF, and appointment of weak
directors and staff; (iv) overstaffing, particularly of administrative
personnel; (v) lack of vehicles and of facilities for the temporary
storage of fish; and (vi) lack of access to credit for expanding
cooperative operations. The collection of fish by NCFM at fixed prices
also created problems. NCFM services proved unreliable, particularly in
remote areas, and cooperatives often reverted to the production of
traditional products, like dried sardines and shark. Cooperative
effectiveness was indirectly affected by lack of foreign exchange, which
has constrained imports of boat building material, engines, gear and
trucks. But the relatively weak financial performance of the cooperatives
was mostly affected by inappropriate arrangements for maintenance and
repair of boats, and for repayment of loans for boats and gear.
Cooperatives charged 20 percent of the value of the catch of cooperative
vessels, regardless of the size of the catch, to cover the actual costs of
loan repayments, cooperatively performed maintenance and repair, and
possible replacement of the vessel, engine and gear. This arrangement did
not provide any incentives to cooperative fishermen to maintain their
equipment well, while it penalized good performers, who paid more and
received less for their efforts.
2.35      The changes that have taken place recently have significantly
altered the role of the cooperatives. The more important among these
include the following:
(i)   ownership titles of all boats and gear, along with the
obligation to maintain them, are in the process of being
transferred to the fishermen;
(ii)   cooperatives are no longer involved in tha purchase and sale
of fish; instead, fish is sold by fishermen directly to
traders (or to NCFM if it wishes to purchase fish), based on
auctions that are organized either through auctioneers or by
the cooperatives themselves;
(ifi)   direct cooperative functions are now principally of a service
nature - selling ice, providing chill stores, operating
workshop facilities, arranging fish auctions, as well as
social security and social services; and



- 14 -
(iv)   Governuent has initiated financial arrangements to put each
cooperative on a healthy financial footing, including
rescheduling loan repayments, writing off old debt and
converting debt into equity.
Details of measurer to be taken under (i) and (iv) were submitted to IDA
during negotiations, where agreement was reached that the Government would
take the necessary steps to complete the implementation of these measures.
(para. 8.01(i)]. It was confirmed that ownership titles of boats are
presently in the process of being transferred. Furthermore, cooperatives
are already charging a price for the services offered; in addition,
fishermen now pay only 8 percent of catch value, of which 3 percent goes
towards social security and 5 percent towards the cooperative service
charge.
2.36      Despite their past financial and operational performance
problems, some of which were caused by factors beyond their control,
cooperatives clearly have an undeniably important social and economic role
in the fishing villages, and they are the only vehicle at present to
provide social support. Hence, future private sector development should
be pursued with commensurate parallel attention to cooperative
development, in order not to jeopardize the only social 'safety net'
available to fishermen and their families. Future development should,
therefore, explicitly aim at strengthening the organizational
effectiveness of cooperatives and at securing the viability of their
social and economic functions. Additional steps needed to further improve
the performance of the cooperatives, and for which the project would
provide support, include: (i) the creation of a nationwide training
program for cooperative staff; (ii) improved financial management,
including the separation of cooperative funds used for social purposes
(health, pensions, etc.) from operational funds; and (iii) government
encouragement for a stronger role for cooperative members in the
determination of the operations and objectives of the cooperatives,
including greater freedom of cooperative management.
The Marine Science and Rssources Research Institute (ASRMI)
2.37      Observed catch levels indicate that the expansion of most
fisheries in ROY is feasible and could be sustained by presently available
resources. However, the rational use and protection of these resources
represents an important task. The tropical marine ecosystem, though rich
and capable of fast renewal, is delicate and can be quickly destroyed by
overfishing or pollution.
2.38      MSRRI is part of MF. It has a well-trained staff and has
benefitted substantially from several technical assistance projects over
the past ten years. Because most assistance has ben related to
oceanographic work, MSRRI has relatively limited experience with fish
stock assessment and management and environmental research. It is
currently receiving technical assistance from PAO/UNESCO for stock
assessment, which is scheduled to be completed by 1992. MSRRI's main
activities center around oceanographic research and stock assessment of
the most valuable fish stocks, cuttle fish, lobster and some other fish.



- 15 -
Cuttle fish resources are actively managed following severe over-fishing
in the early 1980s. With increasing fishing efforts for rock lobster,
MSRRI has created size regulations and a ban on catches of females with
eggs. It is now proposing to further reduce the accidental death of such
females, and to increase the value of lobsters by catching them alive,
through the use of traps instead of the traditional gill nets. MSRRI has
always had major problems assessing the size of demersal stocks because no
adequate records are being kept of catches by private fishermen. It
intends to develop a statistical system to provide basic catch data of
individual species to strengthen the quality of its stock assessments. In
view of the current oil exploration in the country, and the substantial
movement of cargo vessels in the Gulf of Aden, MSRRI has initiated steps
to develop a capability in environmental research, notably in marine
environmental protection, study of coastal habitats, and conservation of
marine and coastal resources (of which fish is the most important). It
will, however, need technical assistance and equipment to develop these
capabilities.
The Role of Women
2.39      The economic and social status of rural women in ROY is governed
by deep rooted attitudes, customs and traditions, which still govern rural
life. Compared to agriculture, the role of women in the fisheries sector
is rather limited. Virtually no women are involved in fishing, while only
a few are engaged in fish processing, sardine drying or tuni canning. Few
women are involved in fish marketing, and then only in petty trade.
Because there are many migrating fishermen, women tend to remain at home
tending family land holdings and livestock and carrying out household
duties. Consequently, the role of women in the family is very important,
and assisting women in becoming more effective in their tasks directly
improves the well being of their families. However, as outside employment
is considered to be a violation of prevailing customs, women are rarely
allowed to market the products they produce themselves, which explains the
prevailing barter trade among women in remote villages. Programs to
assist women should, therefore, focus on creating a better awareness and
openness towards the participation of women in various activities, and
should aim at gaining support from the community for such programs. Low
educational standards, a lack of basic resources, socio-cultural
constraints and numerous repetitive tasks (supplying of water, collection
of fuel wood, etc.) keep women from increasing their productive
efficiency. Women in the fishing communities generally do not perceive
basic education (literacy/numeracy) as a need. Labor saving devices and
practical vocational training are considered more desirable by women,
since they render immediate results. It is, therefore, imperative to
tailor adult education programs to the immediate needs of women. These
programs should focus on vocational training (i.e., animal husbandry,
small scale farming) and the creation of employment opportunities (i.e.,
fish processing and marketing, sewing clothes).



- 16 -
E. Impact of UnLfication
2.40      The unification of PDRY and the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) has
already had a significant impact on the fisheries sector in the south,
particularly in terms of the liberalization of fish marketing, a reduced
role of NCFf in domestic marketing, and in the activities of cooperatives.
Fish prices received by the traditional fishermen, which have been totally
liberalized, have shown a significant increase from the earlior controlled
price levels, particularly for the high value species. In addition, it
appears that the former private PDRY fish merchants, who have long settled
in the former YAR, are returning and redeveloping their former private
fish distribution and export operations. A further expansion of their
role may be contingent upon the Government allowing private sector
investment in industrial fishing operations, which would facilitate
vertically integrated industrial export operations. The Government is
currently reviewing its policies with respect to private investments in
industrial fisheries.  At the same time, the future role of NCFM also
needs to be reviewed. Nevertheless, as fish production along the coast of
the former YAR of about 22,000 mt in 1988 (Annex 1, Table 2) has been
relatively modest compared to production in PDRY, there is growing
evidence that increasing quantities of fish from the south are being
marketed in the north. In the past, fish was mainly consumed in the
coastal lowland zone, while consumption has only become important in the
larger cities in the mountains during the past ten years. The rapid
expansion of private fish trade from the south has caused producer and
consumer prices all over Yemen to increase rapidly, particularly for the
prime species.
2.41      The unification has also caused private truck owners from the
former YAR to operate more extensively across the old border, thereby
easing current shortages, and creating opportunities for the private
sector to establish maintenance facilities.
2.42      Unification will likely affect CFC in two ways.  It will further
increase demand for GRP vessels from the CFC boatyard, as fishermen from
the former YAR (which does not yet have a GRP boatyard) will look for GRP
boats to replace their wooden vessels. However, CFC may also experience
competition from the private sector in its highly profitable lobster
export operations, if the Government decides to adjust the current CFC
monopoly on lobster exports. Unification has also created opportunities
for CFC semi-industrial vessels to expand production for species with
export or local potential.
F. IDA andOther Donor XInvolvement in the Sector
2.43      IDA has financed three fisheries projects in southern Yemen.  In
addition, IDA has financed one fisheries project in northern Yemen
(Fisheries I Project, Cr. 1025-YAR), which was recently completed. Each
of the t5ree projects in southern Yemen has focussed on separate parts of
the sector.
2.44      The First Fisheries PrgJact (Cr. 370-YDR. USS 3.5 million),
which became effective in 1974, supported the construction of 100 new



- 17 -
traditional boats (sambuka) and cold store facilities at Mukalla. The
civil works component of this project was delayed and incurred substantial
cost overruns, necessitating a supplementary IDA credit of US$1.6 million,
which was approved in 1975. According to the Project Performance Audit
Report (PPAR), the boat building component was implemented efficiently,
but credit arrangements (through MF) proved inappropriate, resulting in
weak repayment. The cold store initially operated at low capacity, but
with the construction of the new Mukalla port it is being fully utilized.
2.45      The Second Fisheries Prqlect (Cr 932-mi. USS 10.0 million),
which became effective in 1981, financed the construction of a
fishery/general purpose harbor in Nisbtun, including a fish processing and
storage complex and some village facilities. The project was constructed
within the planned implementation period, but at substantially higher
costs, that were financed by the Government and two co-financiers. The
project succeeded in creating a general purpose harbor, but the fishery
complex remains severely underutilized. The PPAR for the project noted
that: (i) the project displayed evidence of premature lending, as no
detailed designs for the civil works were available during its early
stages; (ii) the technical design could have been improved, notably of the
port and the water supply system; and (iii) because the Government
insisted that the complex be managed by NCFJM without assistance of an
experienced foreign management team (despite a covenant in the legal
agreement to this effect), operations of the fishery complex were
substantially below appraisal estimates. MF has recently decided that
fish can be exported directly from Nishtun and Mukalla, which was
prohibited before, and is exploring the possibility of entering into a
joint venture between NCFM and a foreign partner. The technical
assistance under the proposed project would provide advice to NCFM on
future management arrangements for the fisheries complex.
2.46      The Third Fisheries Development Project (CX. 1274-YDR. SDR 5.4
million) became effective in 1983. Recognizing the future needs for
trained manpower in the fisheries sector arising from the build-up of the
industrial fleet in the late 1970s and from fish marketing activities, the
project aims at establishing a Fisheries Manpower Development Center to
provide: pre-service training in marine engineering, navigation and fish
processing technology; management training for government fisheries
personnel; and a focal point for a nationwide fisheries extension service.
In addition, the project includes a village fisheries development program,
which provides fish receiving, engine maintenance and net repair
facilities in five fishing communities. The initial start-up of the
project was substantially delayed, due to: (i) delays in preparing
detailed design and procurement; (ii) changes in the co-financing package
after disagreement among co-financiers about procurement procedures; and
(iii) civil disturbances in PDRY. The cost overruns, resulting from more
elaborate designs, were fiaanced by one of the co-financiers. However,
since then implementation has been efficient, with construction having
been completed within the revised time schedule. Financial management of
the village facilities has been an issue. The cooperatives were initially
unable to repay the increased costs of the productive facilities in
accordance with the agreed cost recovery procedures and an extended
repayment plan had to be agreed upon. The new arrangements for boat
ownership and anchoring of fish will further change the financial



- 18 -
situation. The technical assistance under the proposed project will be
used for undertaking a detailed review on all financial issues. All
project created facilities are now in operation.
2.47      In northern Yemen, the Fisheries DevegoDment Proiec; (Cr. 1025-
YAR USS17.0 million), became effective in 1981, and financed credit
facilities to artisanal fishermen for the purchase and improvement of
traditional fishing vessels, imports of marine engines and modern vessels,
and the construction of an artisanal fishing port and related facilities
in Hodeidah, some shrimp and fish processing facilities in Khawbah, and
fish service centers, fish markets and a road link to facilitate
marketing. It took much longer than expected to appoint technical experts
and staff the project implementation unit in GCDFR, the agency principally
responsible for project execution. Consequently, implementation was
delayed, necessitating the extension of the credit by over four years.
The project succeeded in substantially strengthening the capacity of the
fishing fleet, largely due to the successful credit component, and in
establishing fairly satisfactory shore-based infrastructure. In Hodeidah,
in particular, the harbour and other facilities have proved to be of great
benefit to the fishermen. The facilities in Khawbah, however, faced some
problems, partly owing to the absence of the development of shrimp
fisheries in the area. DANIDA, which had co-financed the project, went on
to explore possible further assistance to address the problem of
satisfactory maintenance of the facilities constructed under the project.
2.48      The main lessons to be derived from the implementation of these
projects are the following: (i) a clear understanding and agreement should
be reached on implementation schedule for key activities, procurement
plans and cost estimates prior to Board presentation in order to avoid
delays in implementation start-up; (ii)  more attention should be given to
the actual requirements of the people for whom the facilities are intended
and to ensure that they fully comprehend and agree to the facilities to be
provided; (iii) clear agreement should be reached, prior to
implementation, between the Government, the beneficiaries and the lenders
on policy issues, like cost recovery, management agreements, fish pricing
policies, etc.; (iv) realistic projections of fish catches, species
composition, prices and markets should be used during appraisal, with a
critical assessment of areas of unusual risk; and (v) technical assistance
is more effective when advisors are directly involved in assisting
operations. The above lessons have been applied in the design and
processing of the proposed project.
2.49      The above projects have been co-financed by IFAD, the Arab Fund
for Economic and Social Development (APESD), the Abu Dhabi Fund and the
Commission for European Jommtnities (EEC).  In addition, the Danish
International Development Agency (DANIDA) and the Soviet Union have made
substantial investments in the sector.  DANIDA has financed many of the
cold stores along the southern coast and, lately, has successfully
initiated a technical assistance program to improve maintenance and
operations of NCFM's facilities.  The Soviet Union has financed the port
and related fisheries facilities in Aden and provided extensive technical
assistance to MF. Other countries that have provided assistance to the
sector are Japan, China, Kuwait and Cuba.



- 19 -
G. future Government 011wcX and IDA Strategr
2.50      ROY has few alternatives for development; fisheries and mineral
oil deposits are the only significant resources that offer substantial
potential. Yemeni waters are among the most productive fishing grounds;
present catches of some 107,000 mt are only about 25 percent of the
conservatively estimated annual sustainable yield. The efficient
exploitation of this resource would not only substantially assist
fishermen in increasing their incomes but would also produce sufficient
fish to feed the local population; it would also rapidly increase foreign
exchange earnings.
2.51     The traditional fishing fleet is aging, due to the limited
construction of boats. It is estimated that there is an immediate
requirement of 250-300 boats of various types, with a minimum of 60-70
vessels annually, to replace old vessels. Increased fish production is
also still hampered by some inadequate policies and by limited facilities
for handling, collection and delivery of traditionally produced fish;
constraints include lack of ice, vehicles and poor communications. The
successful development of the sector would require, in addition to
essential physical inputs, a close monitoring of the changes currently
unfolding in the marketing environment and further adjustments in
institutional policies. Improving the efficiency of the cooperatives,
which will need to play an important role in providing services to
fishermen communities, is also crucial.
2.52      Since the unification of the two Yemeni republics, several
policy adjustments have already taken place; this portends well for the
future development of the sector. The sector adjustment process currently
being implemented by the Government aims at the transformation of a
centrally planned, and largely state-controlled, sector. The reformed
sector would effectively combine private, cooperative and some state-
controlled activities under the umbrella of policies which let the market
predominantly guide production, marketing and investment decisions.
2.53     While the Government has taken major steps to achieve a more
efficient sector, the policy framework, institutional arrangements and
support for a "safety net" in fisheries require further adjustment. IDA
considers the basic thrust of the proposed government strategy sound and
supports most actions taken and proposed so far, while stressing that
certain support measures should be of a temporary nature. IDA strategy is
to continue its involvement in the sector, to support investment as well
as the sector adjustment process itself. With major steps having been
taken to improve the efficiency of the sector, IDA's support should aim at
improving production and strengthening marketing and exports, notably of
the private sector, while rationalizing the role of institutions involved
in the sector. The proposed project is a hybrid of investment in
necessary infrastructure for the small-scale sector, a flexible component
to enhance fish production through import of equipment and boat building
materials, which can be modified if the situation so requires, and a major
institution building component, focussing on MF, the cooperatives, women's
development, boat design and stock assessment. Project design is flexible
on purpose, to allow for adjustments as the sector develops. The proposed



* 20 -
project appears the most efficient vehicle to support the ongoing
adjustment process in the sector.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Protject Concept and Qbiectives
Project Concept
3.01      Because previous fisheries sector policies did not achieve the
desired objectives, the Government started to adjust the sectoral policy
framework in 1987, focussing increasingly on the development of non-
industrial fisheries, which were more efticient in exploiting coastal
resources, and on expanding Yemeni fish exports. The Government also
requested further IDA assistance in support of the traditional fishing
subsector. In response to this request, IDA carried out a review of the
PDRY fisheries sector, which led to discussions with the Government on
sector development policies and issues. The proposed project was
identified by a joint IDA-FAO/CP mission in November 1987 and prepared by
FAO/CP, following a December 1988 mission. The project was appraised by a
joint IDA-IFAD mission in November 1989.
3.02      The aim of the project is to facilitate fishing operations that
vould: (i) assist the economic development of all fishermen, with
particular emphasis on those who have limited or no assets, or who are
unemployed with no other source of income; (ii) strengthen the role of
cooperatives so that they effectively provide a range of physical services
and social welfare benefits for all fishermen and their families; and
(iii) provide the means for promoting women's development in the fisheries
sector. The project would directly benefit around 3,500 artisanal fishing
families residing in the project area; of these, it in estimated that
about a third would meet IFAD criteria and be eligible for IFAD loan
proceeds.
Prolect Obiectives
3.03      The project's main objectives would be to:
(i) expand fish catches and improve processing, for both local
consumption and export;
(ii) improve the efficiency of domestic and export marketing of
fish, notably through investments, policy changes and
adjustments in the institutional performance of cooperatives;
(iii) improve the assessment and management of the fish resources
in ROY waters; and
(iv) help improve the position of women in fishing communities.



- 21 -
B. PSojegt Axei
3.04      The project area in which specific infrastructure would be
constructed (Map, IBRD 22548) lies to the east of Mukalla, along the Gulf
of Aden, up to Sayhut. The area is poor in natural resources, other than
fish, and fishing is the main livelihood of the population: fish catch in
this area is also the most abundant in the country. The fishing
communities comprise about 3,500 fishermen operating approximately 1,200
crafts, 75 percent of which are of traditional wooden construction. The
selected villages are representative of the south's traditional fishing
communities. The criteria for their selection included: the presence of
rich coastal fishing grounds; the potential to eliminate bottlenecks that
constrain fishing operations; the progressive attitude of the fishermen;
and good access to Mukalla, the main base for operations. The coastline
at all locations is predominantly sandy, with some areas interrupted by
ledges of exposed rock. A distinctive feature of the coast is the
existence of an isolated shelf, about nine nautical miles off shore, in
the region of Musainah; this shelf has exceptionally rich demersal and
pelagic stocks.
3.05      The project would essentially be a follow-up to the prior IDA-
financed projects, to complete the earlier phases of infrastructure and
institutional'development in the artisanal sector in the south. There are
about 50 fishing villages on the southern coast. The earlier IDA-
financed projects focussed on the development of villages on the western
part of this coast; the proposed project would finance village facilities
in the eastern part. The project would focus on providing assistance to
the poorer sections of the fishing community, with special emphasis on
improving of the lot of women. Based on the limited information
available, it is clear that the average income of fishermen in the project
area declines the farther east they are situated from Mukalla and its
urban and hinterland market opportunities.
C. Prolect ResgriRtion
3.06      The project would provide the following:
(i)   the construction, furnishing and equipping of primary
facilities for handling, preserving and distribution of fish
in seven villages; and the construction of an asphalt road
between Fokum and Ras Imran;
(ii)   the import of: intermediate technology vessels; construction
materials for fishing boats; outboard engines, spare parts
and fishing gear; a fleet of insulated and refrigerated
trucks; and plastic boxes;
(iii)   technical assistance for CFC, NCFM, MSRRI, cooperatives, and
MF;
(iv)   the strengthening the MSRRI's fish stock assessment and
resource management program and environmental research



- 22 -
capability; and the import of materials to construct lobster
traps to reduce the depletion of this resource; and
(v)   services to women in the fishing c-mmunities, including: the
rehabilitation of community development centers, the
implementation of adult education and vocational training
programs, and the creation of income earning opportunities
for women.
D. DetAiled Features
Village and Fisbh tocessing Facilities
3.07      Specific village facilities would be provided at seven
locations: Mukalla, Shihr, Diss/Al Hami, Al Qarn, Quaseyr, Husainah, and
Sayhut. All facilities would be operated by the local cooperatives. The
proposed facilities, listed in Annex 5, would be, to a large extent
standardized, with modifications in size to suit individual locations.
While the types of facilities would be similar to those included in the
Third Fisheries Development Project (Cr. 1274-YDR), their specifications
would ensure that they would not be over designed, to avoid the cost
recovery difficulties experienced by the cooperatives under that project.
They would include: five fish receiving sheds; one ice plant and four ice
stores; five chilled stores; four generator houses and generators; five
workshops; one vehicle port; five boat repair areas; two cooperative
offices; fresh and sea/brackish water supply; two access roads and road
surfacing. A 15 km asphalt road between the facilities of Fokum and Ras
Imran (built under Cr. 1274-YDR) would be constructed to facilitate
transport of fish to Aden. The village facilities are described in
greater detail below.
3.08      Fish Receiving Sheds, ranging in size between 114 r? in Diss/Al
Hami to 382 m2 in Musainah, would be of simple structures, consisting of
concrete floors and foundations with light mesh reinforcement, concrete
columns with roofing of asbestos cement on steel or timber purlins and
girders. The sheds would provide accommodation for: office and toilet
facilities; and fish receiving, sorting, cleaning, gutting and icing
operations. Floors would be sloped to drainage channels.
3.09      Ice Plant and Ice Stores would be of containerized type and
would be delivered to site while only requiring connection to power and
water supply. The ice making plant (15 ton capacity) would be suitable
for continuous manufacture of dry, sub-cooled flake ice produced from
fresh water or sea water. Ice store temperature would be maintained at -
5e C. The project would provide multiple independent units to produce
ice; consequently, the ice plant could be operated at half capacity during
periods of low demand and would not have to be shut down completely during
machine maintenance service.
3.10      Chilled Stores, with capacities between 5 and 20 ton each, would
have a design storage temperature of 0 to +2'C, at a relative humidity of
95-100%, and would be able to store fish on ice.



- 23 -
3.11      Generator Houses and Generators.  Generator buildings, each with
a floor area of approximately 60 in, would include generator rooms, fuel
stores and switching panels. Generators (50 KVA and 90 KVA) would meet
the requirements of the village fisheries facilities, with some allowance
for supply to the adjoining residential coumawity.
3.12      WorkshoRs.  The buildings in Al Qarn and Musainah would include
a working area, an office (12 in), a resin and timber store (11 ip), a
woodworking room (12 in), a parts store (16 en), a toilet (11 nY), and a
general workshop working area. Smaller workshops would be provided in
three other villages (Mukalla, Shihr and Sayhut).
3.13      Boat Repair Areas would service the existing fleet of wooden
sambkas. Present arrangements for the maintenance of these vessels are
primitive, and the lack of a hard area makes hauling of the vessels
difficult and sometimes dangerous. The repair areas would consist of hard
stand areas (160 ml) of concrete, on compacted fill, located adjacent to
the workshops.
3.14      CooDerative Offices would be provided at Al Qarn and at
Musainah. They would have three office rooms, a store and a toilet. The
buildings would have a floor slab area of about 100 re.
3.15      Fresh and sea/Brackish Water Sunlies.  Fresh water would be
made available for five sites.  The supply to Mukalla, Shihr, Diss/Al Hami
and Sayhut would be drawn from the existing mains supply. For Musainah,
water would be supplied by a bouser f;. im a well located around 20 km away.
Because of thze scarcity of fresh water supplies along the coast, and to
economize on its use, the project would provide a supplementary brackish
water supply at Al Qarn and Musainah.
3.16      Access Roads would be provided under the project to connect the
village facilities of Al Qarn (improvements to 4.5 km of the existing 8.8
km road) and Musainah (1.75 km of road) to the main road running between
Mukalla and Sayhut. These access roads would have a compacted gravel
surface. Areas developed for the village facilities and subject to
traffic (totaling about 21,000 nP) would be surfaced with compacted gravel
on compacted fill material.
Transport Facilities
3.17      Fish Transaort Vehicles.  Funds would be provi&d for the import
of sixteen 5-ton and 8-ton insulated vehicles antd six 10-con refrigerated
trucks; these would be sold to private traders, xwho now provide the main
marketing channel, and, if justified, to cooperatives to facilitate the
transport on ice of increased quantities of fish from the landing sites to
the markets and fish processing centers; the refrigerated trucks would be
used for handling frozen fish.
3.18      Vehicle Workshons.  The project would provide necessary
machinery and equipment for setting up workshop facilities, which would be
established by any qualified operator willing to undertake the maintenance
and repair of the growing fleet of vehicles in the project area. The
technical and financial qualifications of prospective workshop operators



- 24 -
would be assessed prior to the sale of workshop equipment. For project
cost purposes, the indicative list of items to be financed would include
an engine/gearbox shop, fuel pump calibration unit, lathes, hydraulic
drills and jacks, air compressor, battery chargers, welding units, high
pressure water pumps, valve grinder and miscellaneous other equipment. It
is expected that with the rapid liberalization process presently ongoing
in the sector, demand for setting up such facilities by the private sector
would be forthcoming.
Fishing Ve-ssels and Gear
3.19      The glass reinforced olastic (GRP) hfadifa is by far the most
popular fishing boat among the inshore fishermen. This type of craft is
recommended for the replacement of the older boats (wood Ihadifa and
Houri) in the country. These boats have evolved as the best adapted to
local inshore maritime conditions. About 320 fishing vessels would be
provided under the project over a five year period: this estimate was
based on a detailed analysis of the existing fleet and plans for moderate
expansion in selected areas. The boats provided would be mostly of two
sizes: the smaller ones with an overall length of 7.6 m, a beam of 1.55 m
and a draft of 0.70 m; and the larger ones with an overall length of 9.4
m, a beam of 1.75 m and a draft of 0.75 m. The project would finance the
import of boat building materials. In the absence of any other GRP boat
building yard in the country, all boats would be constructed locally by
CFC and equipped with outboard engines. The project would also include a
600 me covered fiberglass construction yard to improve the production
facilities of CFC in Aden. The repair and maintenance of the fleet would
be provided by the village workshops financed under the project.
3.20      SambuXs.  The present fleet is very old and most of it will need
to be replaced over the next ten years.  Some 50 wooden sambuks, about
14 m in length, would be built locally and the required wood materials, 45
hp engines and fishing gear would be imported under the project.
3.21      Intermediate Technology Vessels.  Up to four of these vessels
would be financed under the project, if ongoing pilot operations of CFC
prove successful. These boats would operate up to a maximum of 7-8 days
per trip, as multi-purpose craft, using purse seiners, gill nets and long
lines. Between October and March, they could also collect lobsters caught
by traditional fishermen, with traps, for CFC. The vessels financed under
the project would have an overall length of 18-20 m and a beam of 4-5 m,
and would be equipped with a 175-200 hp engine attaining an economic
cruising speed of 9-10 knots. Incorporated in the hull design are: (i) an
insulated hold of 5 m3 to carry ice; (ii) a fish hold of 20-25 i3; (iii)
fuel oil and water tanks; and (iv) fenders. The boats would be equipped
with sonar, echo sounders, power block and basic navigation equipment,
including radio communication. If ongoing operations of existing CFC
vessels show unsatisfactory results during the first two years of project
implementation, the project might finance vessels of a different design
for continued testing.
3.22      Outboard Enpines.  A total of some 2,400 outboard engines (15,
25 and 45 hp) would be provided under the project for both new and



- 25 -
existing boats. Adequate supplies of the most essential spare parts would
also be provided to ensure uninterrupted supply of fish.
3.23      Eishtng  Gir.  Provision has been made for the import of fishing
gear for both the new boats and the existing fleet. The fishing gear
would include netting of mesh sizes (from 2.5 to 7 inches); polyethylene
and kuralone ropes (5 to 10 mm thickness); floats; shark lines and hooks;
hand lines and hooks; bait baskets; and mending twine. Provision has also
been made for gear replacements during the project period. Furthermore,
to protect the lobster stocks, the project would promote the use of
lobster traps rather than nets: 12,000 traps are included, to permit about
100 boats to catch lobsters during two years of trials.
Support for Fisheries Credit Scheme
3.24      A  majority of the sales of the project procured vehicles,
boats, engines and gear would be done on a cash basis, or where the
beneficiary would be able to mobilize financial resources for their
purchase without the direct support of the project. Nevertheless, there
is a small percentage of poor fishermen who would need direct credit
support. Accordingly, in order to meet identified key social objectives,
MF will establish a targeted credit scheme to assist the very poor
fishermen who have limited assets and no savings. This group would
include fishermen presently working as crew members on boats owned by
others; unemployed youth from the fishing community and graduates from
FMDC; employees laid off by cooperatives and from corporations of MF, none
of whom would have accumulated adequate cash resources of their own or
have the ability to independently mobilize financial resources. The
demand for credit under the proposed scheme is estimated to total
US$3 million equivalent, and would essentially cover the purchase of
boats, gear and engines.
3.25      Under the scheme, MF would establish a revolving fund in CACB
totalling the equivalent of US$3 million, using local currency generated
from the sale, on cash terms, of project procured items. While the
overall performance of CACB in the past has been poor, it is recognized
that its experience with disbursing and recovering credit for the
fisheries sector in the north has, so far, been generally satisfactory.
Accordingly, it has been agreed that CACB would be responsible for
disbursing the targeted credit and managing the affairs of the revolving
fund. However, in view of the prevailing financial sector issues that
still need to be resolved, CACB's involvement would essentially be in the
nature of a trustee on behalf of HF, for managing the revolving fund, with
the operations and management of the proposed fund to be kept distinctly
separate from the rest of CACB's operations. The terms and conditions
which will govern the operations of the revolving fund are detailed in
Chapter V. To support MF in monitoring the implementation of this scheme,
as well as to assist the cooperatives that would provide a channel for
credit disbursements, the project would finantce the services of an
internationally recruited fisheries cooperative/credit specialist for a
period of 30 staff months.



- 26 -
Ft e Stock _ = g2ment
3.26      FAO and UNESCO support to KSRRI is scheduled to be completed by
the middle of 1992. Under the proposed project, funds would be provided
to HSRRI to continue technical assistance for monitoring and assessing
fish stocks and analysis for fisheries management in the project area; in
addition, the project would provide for establishing an MSRRI unit at
Hodeidah, to enable survey coverage of the fish resources in the Red Sea
coastal areas of northern Yemen. Technical assistance to improve the
collection of data on vessel operations and catch statistics to enhance
fish resources assessment would also be financed. Finally, MSRRI would
receive assistance to monitor the effects on the marine environment of
ongoing sea traffic, the release of pollutants, and oil drilling
activities. This component of the project would include: (i) a field
survey of coastal habitats, including a faunal map; (ii) a habitat survey
of Aden harbor, including a scheme for regular monitoring; (iii) the
upgrading of existing buildings for the unit at Hodeidah; and (iv) the
procurement of equipment and training of staff for marine pollution
assessment and monitoring. The project would provide funds for: 50 staff
months of consulting services; the purchase of a small coastal research
vessel to collect samples in shallow waters; civil works; laboratory
equipment; three-wheel drive vehicles; and training.
Training
3.27      Under the project, local training would be provided to the
following cooperative personnel: senior and middle management;
technicians; operators of various facilities; truck drivers (in fish
handling); and fishermen. About 3,100 people would be trained under the
project in courses ranging from 3 to 60 days. The categories of personnel
to be trained and a list of subject matters are summarized in Annex 6.
This training would be given at the Cooperative Institute in Aden, the
Fisheries Manpower Development Center in Aden and the individual
cooperative offices. The project would also finance foreign training,
including scholarships for a four-year training program of two naval
architects; and one-month study tours for the two directors in charge of
cooperatives at MP in Aden and Mukalla, to give them exposure to
cooperatives in other countries. The Government agreed to this training
program during negotiations [para. 8.01(ii)].
Women's Develonment in Fishing Communities
3.28      To alleviate the social and economic constraints encountered by
women in fishing communities in the project area, this component would
focus on providing assistance through: (i) adult education programs (i.e.,
literacy, home economics, and primary health); (ii) vocational training
(i.e., animal husbandry, farming, fish processing, accounting, and
administration); and (iii) the creation of employment opportunities (i.e.,
clothing, poultry raising, fish marketing, and administrative services).
Implementation of this component would be mainly by directing existing
services, available from Government ministries and international
organizations operating in WOY, to the fishing village communities.
Facilities provided would include a building for a small clothing factory
to be run by an existing sewing cooperative, and rehabilitation or



- 27 *
construction of a total of twenty community development centers. An
internationally recruited short-term consultant woulU ake a detailed
survey of education and training services presently available for women.
An internationally recruited extension coordinator (total of 24 staff
months) would subsequently develop the education and training programs and
coordinate ongoing training programs available to women and make them
available ln the fishing villages. A more detailed description of this
component is shown in Annex 7.
Technical Assistance and Coordination
3.29      Technical support for MF would include the following: (i)
Fisheries Sector Adviser (24 staffmonths) to assist MF in drawlng up a
regulatory and legal framework for better defining and guiding MF's role
in managing and administering the fisheries sector resources of the
country, drawing up a framework plan for future investment, and monitoring
the effects of the ongoing liberalization process and advlsing on measures
necessary to address ldentified problems; and (ii) studies (18
staffmonths) for the marine fisheries subsector with a view to identifying
and preparing a future investment program (see Annex 9 for terms of
reference).
3.30      Technical Assistance.  Consulting engineers would be recruited
for the detailed design, preparation of tender documents and construction
supervision (153 staff months). In addition, the project would recruit
consultants to support the following components: project coordination (60
staff months); fisheries cooperatives and credit (30 staff months); fish
stock assessment (50 staff months); women's development (24 staff months);
NCFM (18 staff months); and boat building and gear (21 staff months). The
terms of reference for the project's main technical advisors are shown in
Annex 9. During negotiations, agreement was obtained from the Government
on terms of reference for specialist consultants [para. 8.01(iii)].
3.31      Promotional activities would include assistance to cooperatives,
private fishermen and traders, and to NCFM in marketing their products.
This component would be executed by MF. Funding would include: provision
of experimental fish stalls; testing, packaging and preparation of
promotional and display materials; preparation and shipment of sample
packages; and the establishment of commercial contacts overseas.
Status of Project PreRaration
3.32      Preliminary designs of the village facilities and a road survey
were prepared during project preparation; these designs were revised
during appraisal. IDA has assisted the Government in the preparation of
the terms of reference and letter of invitation for the selection of an
engineering firm which would undertake the detailed design and preparation
of tender documents for these facilities. Draft tender documents for the
procurement of construction materials for boats, marine engines and
fishing gear have been prepared by MF. IDA has approved a request from
the Government for a Project Preparation Facility advance of US$350,000 to
finance key activities prior to project effectiveness. Terms of reference
for the technical assistance component have been outlined in Annex 9 and
were agreed during negotiations. The Government agreed, during



* 28 -
negotiations, to proceed speedily with the strengthening of the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU), which would continue to be located in Aden,
through the local recruitment by September 30, 1991, of an accountant, a
civil engineer and a procurement officer [para. 8.01(iv)]. All of the
facilities would be built on either cooperative or Government-owned land
and, consequently, there is no need for land acquisition. The proposed
project and fishery cooperative/credit advisors are already working under
the Third Fisheries Development Project and are expected to continue under
the proposed project.
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Prolect Cost Estimates
4.01      The total project cost, Including physical and price
contingencies is estimated at US$39.8 million equivalent, of which US$31.8
million equivalent, or 79 percent would be in foreign exchange. Details
of cost estimates are shown in greater detail in Annex 10, Tables 1-4.
4.02      Base costs were originally estimated as of November 1989; these
have been updated to February 1991, based on either actual unit cost data
provided by MF or by applying estimated price inflation factors. Cost
figures for civil works for the village fish facilities and the Fokum-Ras
Imran road are based on preliminary engineering studies and designs
undertaken during June 1988 project preparation, and unit costs are based
on contracts in progress in the country, adjusted to site location. Costs
of refrigeration equipment and machinery are based on C6F Aden quotations
provided by equipment manufacturers. Prices for fishing gear, outboard
engines, vehicles and other miscellaneous equipment are based on prices
quoted by the local agents. The cost of GRP fishing boats is based on
production costs and margins of CFC, the local manufacturer. Costs of
borehole drilling investigation and testing are based on prices provided
by the Public Water Corporation. The cost of technical assistance and
overseas tours is based on actual contract experience. Since the
Government exempts import components of development projects from import
duties and taxes, these have been excluded.
4.03      The following physical contingency rates have been applied to
the base costs: 15 percent for civil works; and 10 percent for equipment,
machinery, vehicles, outboard engines, fishing gear, office equipment,
market promotion, training, technical assistance and recurrent expenses.
In estimating contingencies for future price increases, it is assumed that
changes in future exchange rates would maintain purchasing power parity;
the estimates assume an increase in local currency costs of 40 percent in
1991, 30 percent in 1992, 25 percent in 1993 and 20 percent p.a.
thereafter. For foreign exchange costs, the estimated average annual
international price escalation is 3.4 percent p.a. for 1991 onwards. The
total cost of the project is summarized below (Table 4.1):



* 29 -
Table 4.1: U =QC TO
Total
Foreign   Base
Local  Foreign  Ttal  Exhange  Colts
- (US$ M) ...-   ()-
A. Village and Fish Processing
Facilities                        2.6     5.7       8.3     69        26
B. Transport Facilities               0.1      1.3      1.4     95         5
C. Fishing Vessels and Gear           1.9    13.1      15.0     88        48
D. Fish Stock Management              0.1      1.0      1.1      91        3
E. Training                           0.2      0.3      0.5     57         2
F. Development of Women in
Fishing Communities               0.3     0.6       0.9     62         3
C. Technical Assistance and
Coordination                      1.2     3.2       4.4     73        14
Total Baseline Costs                6.4    25.2      31.6     80       100
Physical Contingencies                0.6      2.6      3.2     74        10
Price Contingencies                   1.0      4.0      5.0     80        16
ITo       Proialt Cs                8A               39.8 c            1o2ts6
Note:  Costs are exclusive of duties and taxes.  Totals may not add up
due to rounding.
B. ZFia¢nci Plan
4.04      The total project cost of US$39.8 million equivalent would be
financed as follows: I.A would provide a credit of SDR 9.4 milliu&i
(US$13.2 million equivalent), corresponding to 33 percent of total project
costs; EEC would provide a grant of US$16.3 million equivalent (ECU12.11
million); and IFAD a loan of SDR 5.0 million (US$6.5 million equivalent).
The Government would contribute from its own resources about US$3.8
million equivalent, which would cover all recurrent costs, 48 percent of
the local costs and 10 percent of total costs.
4.05      The IDA credit would be made on standard terms (40 years
maturity, including 10 years of grace, at a service charge of 0.75 percent
on the outstanding and disbursed balance). The Borrower of the IDA Credit
would be the Government of ROY which, through the Ministry of Fisheries,
would ensure the utilization of the funds in accordance with the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement. The proposed
financing plan is as follows (Table 4.2):



- 30 -
table 4, 2:  ROJECT FIANCING  LAN
Percent of
Financng Source           J f Ege           gfl ga al cgs
-^^--  (US8 M) .-...
Government                 3.8     0.0      3.8         10
IDA                        0.8    12.4    13.2          33
EEC                        2.9    13.4    16.3          41
IFAD                       Q         Q     6.516
Total                 LAQ                         IN. 39.8
4.06      IFAD participated in the appraisal of the project and has
already obtained approval of the proposed loan from its Executive Board in
Octaber ltO90. EEC co-financing would be by parallel arrangements. The
foreign cost of boat engines and gear would be jointly financed by IDA and
IFAD on a 55-45 basis respectively. An agreed financing plan by agency
and by component is shown in Annex 11. A condition of effectiveness of
the IDA credit will be the effectiveness of the EEC grant and IFAD loan
agreements (para 8.02(i)].
C. Progzemmsn
4.07      The procurement of all items financed under the project would be
carried out by MF, through the Project Implementation Unit. As detailed
in the sections below, procurement of the components to be financed by the
proposed IDA credit of SDR 9.4 million (US$13.2 million equivalent) would
be carried out in accordance with the procedures outlined in IDA's
Guidelines for Procurement (May 1985). The IDA-financed consultants would
be recruited according to the World Bank's Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants (August 1981). Procurement of components cofinanced by IFAD
(boat engines and fishing gear, market promotion, and development of women
in fishing communities) would also be in accordance with the procedures
outlined in IDA's Guidelines for Procurement (May 1986); components
cofinanced by the EEC (village and fish processing facilities,
intermediate technology vessels, fish stock management, and technical
assistance) would be procured in accordance with their regulations.
4.08      IDA-financed contracts and procurement arrangements are shown in
Table 4.3 below, which provides a procurement plan for the proposed
project elements (figures include physical and price contingencies).



- 31 -
Table 4.3: PROCUR=  pL&N
Pro1ect Element.  PErourement Method                        Total
IC       other/   Nt.        Cost
------- (US$ million) --------
Civil Works                         2.8        7.5               10.3
(2.1)                         (2.1)
Machinery and Equipment                        2.0                 2.0
(0.1)              (0. 1)
Fishing Vessels and Gear           14.5       4.0                18.5
(8.1)                         (8.1)
Vehicles                            1.8        0.1                 1.9
(1.8)                         (1.8)
Market Promotion                               0.3                 0.3
Training                                       0.7                0.7
(0.4)              (0.4)
Technical Assistance                           4.9                4.9
(0.7)              (0.7)
Operating Costs                                          1.2       1.2
TOTAL                         19.1      19.5        1.2     39.8
(12.0)     (1.2)              (13.2)
Note:   Figures presented in parenthesis are the respective amounts
financed by IDA. Costs include contingencies.
IDA-Financed Components
4.09      Fokut-Ras Imran_ oad. The contract for the construction of the
proposed road will be awarded through international competitive bidding
(ICB).
4.10       Oart oLjngd nga. The procurement of outboard engines for the
locally built small boats, including replacement engines for existing
boats, would be carried out on the basis of ICB; inter All&, customer
preference would be included as a criterion for bid evaluation and award
of contract. For resale to project beneficiaries, the engines would be
sold in accordance with price guidelines issued by MF, which would allow a
reasonable profit margin and would include the obligation to stock
essential spare parts.



* 32 -
4.11      Eishn g near. The procurement of fishing gear and material for
lobster traps would be undertaken using ICB procedures. The fishing gear
would be sold through local traders and cooperatives who would be
encouraged to establish small-scale and widely distributed trading
operations. The actual volume and types of annual procurement of fishing
gear would be ascertained by the PIU, through local advertising each year,
from the prospective traders and cooperatives who would sell the impcrted
gear to the fishermen.
4.12      Transport vehicles.  The procurement of both fish and passenger
transport vehicles would be on the basis of ICB. Sale of vehicles for
fish marketing to the traders would be done directly by the dealers of the
selected make/iodel.
4.13      Laboratorv and office equipment.  Costing between the equivalent
of US$10,000 and US$100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of
US$0.5 million, the equipment would be procured on the basis of prudent
shopping procedures. Rids for these items would be obtained from at least
three suppliers from at least two different countries. Miscellaneous
equipment costing the equivalent of less than US$10,000 per contract, up
to an aggregate amount of US$0.1 million, would be procured by obtaining
bids from at least three suppliers.
4.14      Training.  The selection of training institutes for placing
Yemeni trainees would be recommended by an internationally recruited
project adviser and would be approved by IDA. All training would be
local, except for the two naval architects, three scientists from MSRRI
and the study tours for the directors of the Aden and Mukalla
cooperatives, which would be overseas.
4.15      Revigw of nrocuremen=.  IDA would review documentation of all
contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more, prior to
tendering and award. Such a review would cover about 15 contracts and 88
percent of total IDA financing. Other contracts would be subject to
selective post-award review by IDA.
Go-financed Components
4.16      For the village fisheries development component (civil works,
equipment, service facilities, commissioning and maintenance), a single
contract would be awarded according to EEC procurement procedures. The
single-responsibility contract arrangement is appropriate, since it is
essential that one contractor takes overall responsibility for
synchronizing civil works, equipment and electrical facilities. The
construction or rehabilitation of the fishing community centers (financed
by IFAD), which are scattered throughout the country, would be realized
through force account by the Ministry of Construction up to an aggregate
value of US$0.7 million. The fully equipped intermediate technology off-
shore vessels, rigged for combination fishing for CFC, and the coastal
research vessel for MSRRI, would be procured in accordance with EEC
procurement procedures. The generic performance specifications for these
vessels would be prepared with the assistance of the naval architect and
would be subject to review by IDA, and prior approval of EEC. As in the
Third Fisheries Project (Cr. 1274-YDR), the naval architect would evaluate



- 33 -
the final designs proposed in the bids, and also evaluate the capabilities
of the (small) shipyards most likely to bid for the vessels. The EEC have
confirmed that under terms to be outlined in their project financing
agreement with the Government, the intermediate technology vessels would
be sold to CFC through a foreign currency denominated loan which would
carry the commercial international interest rate.
4.17      Consultants.  The employment of consultants financed by IDA and
IFAD would be in accordance with the Bank Guidelines; the other
consultants would be recruited in accordance with EEC procedures. Design
engineering services are estimated at 24 staffmonths and costing an
estimated US$0.36 million; construction supervision is estimated at 129
staff-months, costing US$1.45 million. Other consultants required for the
various project components total 263 staffmonths and are estimated to cost
US$3.03 million. The summary of technical assistance, expressed in staff
months and broken down by financing agency, is shown in Annex 8. The
terms of reference of the individually recruited consultants are
summarized in Annex 9.
D. Disbusements
4.18      The proposed IDA credit of SDR 9.4 million (US$13.2 million
equivalent) would be disbursed over eight years, in line with the sector
profile for the country. Disbursements would be made in accordance with
Guidelines for Withdrawal of Proceeds of IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
(November 1985), and as shown in Table 4.4 below.



- 34 -
Table 4.4: DISBURSEMN PLAN
X of Expenditures
CatAgory            Credit Allocation   to be financed
(SDR '000) --
1. Civil Works                    1,400        75Z of expenditures
2. Equipment (other than          2,300        100l   of foreign expenditures,
outboard engines and                        100l   of local expenditures
fishing gear), boat                         (ex-factory) and 85% of local
building materials,                         expenditures for other items
and vehicle                                 procured locally
3. Outboard Engines and          4,100         55X of foreign expenditures,
Fishing Gear                                55X of local expenditures
(ex-factory) and 502 of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally
4. Consultants' Services            500        1002 of foreign expenditures,
and Training                                902 of local expenditures
5. Refunding of Project            300
Preparation Facility
6. Unallocated                      800
Total               L240
The closing date of the proposed credit would be June 30, 1999. The
estimated project completion date would be December 31, 1998. The
estimated schedule of disbursements is summarized in table 4.5 below
(detailed in Annex 12).
Table 4.5: ESTIMATD DISBURSiMENTS SCULED
IDA Fiscal Year
m9 1993  m1          1222   19   1222
...............------ (US$ N) .....................
Annual          0.4U   1.5   2.7    2.4   2.3    2.3    1.4   0.2
Cumulative      0.4    1.9   4.6    7.0   9.3   11.6   13.0   13.2
1/ PPF advance of US$350,000.



- 35
4.19      Soecial Account: To enable MF to effectively implement the
project and to make prompt payments to contractors and consultants,
agreement was reached at negotiations that a Special Account would be
opened at a commercial bank chosen by the Central Bank of Yemen; IDA would
make an initial deposit in SDR of US$0.6 million equivalent, which is
expected to finance IDA's share of eligible expenditures over a period of
four months. The account would be denominated in U.S. dollars and
replenished against withdrawal applications aggregating at least
US$100,000 equivalent. All disbursements under the project would be made
against standard documentation, except for contracts below US$20,000
equivalent (i.e. purchase of office and laboratory equipment, foreign
training expenses), which would be claimed under Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs); disbursements against SOEs are estimated at about 4
percent of the Credit. Agreement was also reached during negotiations
that the Special Account and SOEs would be audited annually by an
independent auditor acceptable to IDA (para. 8.01(v)].
V. ORGANIZATION. NARAGEMENT AND INPLENENTATION
A. Prolect Implementation
5.01      Project implementation would be the responsibility of the
Ministry of Fisheries (HF): the executing agency within HF would be the
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) based in Aden, and attached to MF's
Planning Di4sion, which is headed by an Assistant Deputy Minister. MF
has recently appointed a Project Director. The PIU was established in
1974 and, since then, has developed into a capable and efficient
organization, having gained considerable experience in handling three IDA-
financed projects. Its accounting and management staff is competent and
familiar with all necessary requirements and procedures. Its present
staff of 12 includes an expatriate coordinator and a fisheries credit
adviser. The fisheries cooperatives would also play an important role
during project implementation. Agreement has been reached with Government
on the various measures which need to be taken, some of which have already
been initiated, in order to re-structure the activities of the
cooperatives and to put them on a firm financial footing (paras. 2.35 and
7.13). The project would provide extensive training (para. 3.27) to
improve their management capabilities.
5.02      MF presently oversees, guides and coordinates implementation  of
existing projects though a committee, which includes representatives from
MF, NCFM, CFC and MSRRI. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that this committee would continue to operate during the project
implementation period, that it would also include a representative from
CACB, and that it would ensure inter-agency coordination for the proposed
project (para. 8.01(vi)].
5.03      During the construction period of the project, the functions and
responsibilities of the PIU would consist mainly of: coordination and
supervision of construction of civil works, and the procurement and
installation of equipment. The PIU would be responsible for the
procurement of boats, engines, fishing gear and other equipment. In view



- 36 -
of the new arrangements for the sale of outboard engines and fishing gear
to fishermen (paras. 4.10-4.11), the PIU would closely monitor the
effectiveness of these arrangements in cooperation with CFC and the
cooperative division of MF. It is envisaged that MF, through the PIU,
would support GACB in assessing applications for credit from fishermen
under the targeted fisheries credit scheme (particularly in terms of
meeting eligibility criteria), and in ensuring that they subsequently meet
their financial obligations. PIU would also coordinate the activities of
the adult education, vocational training and women's development
component. PIU would, furthermore, arrange for training of cooperative
staff and fishermen, at the Cooperative Institute and the Fisheries
Manpower Development Center in Aden (Annex 6). In addition, the PIU would
be responsible for: maintaining all project accounts; progress reporting
to IDA, other financing institutions and other Government departments; and
arranging for auditing of all project accounts.
5.04      Since the tasks of PIU would increase considerably from those
under the previous fisheries projects, the international recruitment of an
expatriate project adviser would be of major importance for project
implementation; his/her appointment would be subject to approval by all
finarncing agencies. During negotiations, the Government assured IDA that
the contract of the present internationally recruited project adviser for
the Third Fisheries Development Project would be extended, so as to enable
him to provide assistance in the preparatory steps for implementation of
the proposed project (para. 8.0l(vii)]. In addition, the local staff of
the existing PIU would be strengthened with the recruitment of a civil
engineer, an accountant, and a procurement officer; the recruitment of
this additional staff is essential for a rapid start-up of project
implementation and should be undertaken within the next few months.
Furthermore, to ensure continued assistance to the cooperatives, and for
implementing the credit scheme under the project, assurances were obtained
during negotiations that the contract of the present internationally
recruited fisheries cooperative/credit expert assigned to the PIU would be
extended [para. 8.01(vii)]; he would be assisted by three staff from
either the cooperative or planning divisions of the MF, one of which would
be a woman who would also focus on designing and implementing a credit
scheme for women.
5.05      PIU's responsibility for the implementation of the development
program for women in the fisheries sector would be carried out through the
international recruitment of an extension coordinator who, together with a
local counterpart, would mainly concentrate on channeling to the fishing
villages in the project area some of the existing internationally and
nationally funded extension programs available in ROY. A task force,
consisting of representatives from the different ministries, institutions,
the General Union of Yemeni Women (GUYW) and technical assistance projects
would be established to facilitate institutional support for the program.
A woman extension worker would be locally recruited to implement the
program in the Hadramawt Governorate; additional extension workers would
be recruited for the other governorates as the program evolves
successfully. A female instructor or link worker would be recruited, on a
part time basis, in each village: her main task would be the organization
and implementation of the non-formal adult education program and the



- 37 -
facilitation of the vocational training and employment program. The link
workers would receive training and support from the extension workers.
5.06      A firm of consulting engineers would be retained by MF and
attached to the PIU to carry out any additional engineering
investigations; prepare detailed designs, tender and contract documents
for the project village facilities; and assist the Government in bid
evaluation and the selection of contractors. The engineering firm would
also be engaged to supervise the construction, installation, commissioning
and start-up of project facilities. The consulting engineers supervising
construction would certify bills of quantities and payments to
contractors, as well as commissioning and transfer of completed
facilities.
B. Project Operations
Village Fisheries Facilities
5.07      A difficulty experienced under the Third Fisheries Development
Project was the lack of full comprehension by the fisheries cooperatives
of the types of village facilities proposed and their cost recovery
implications. To avoid a recurrence of this in the proposed project, the
engineering design consultants would prepare small scale models of the
proposed facilities and investment cost estimates which would be reviewed
by the fisheries cooperatives. The Government would also obtain the
cooperatives' written agreement to proceed with the proposed investments
prior to the tendering of the construction contract. Assurances to this
effect were obtained from the Government during negotiations
[para. 8.01(viii)].
5.08      The cooperatives would take possession of the shore facilities
once they have been 'nstalled. The participating cooperatives would
recruit the necessary technicians to operate and maintain these facilities
and equipment; training for these technicians would be provided for under
the project. With the changes that have recently taken place,
cooperatives would essentially be involved in arranging auctions for the
sale of fish catch directly to traders, and in providing key services to
the fishing community. The cooperatives would receive training under the
project to improve their overall performance. Furthermore, they would
receive guidance from the proposed fisheries cooperative/credit adviser to
be financed under the project.
Fisheries Credit Scheme
5.09      The proposed fisheries credit scheme, with important social
objectives, is aimed at providing financial assistance to a target group
of fishermen (para. 5.10) who would, in all probability, not have ready
access to credit even if there were no distortions prevailing in the
financial sector. The scheme is proposed on an exceptional basis, despite
the obvious distortions affecting the financial sector. At present there
is no other way to reach the largest beneficiaries with financial
assistance. The terms and conditions that will govern the operations of
the credit scheme are detailed below.



- 38 -
5.10      Targnt GrgR. The proposed target groups would include the
following categories of fishermen: (i) members of the fishing community
presently working as crew members on boats owned by others; (ii) educated,
unemployed youth from the fishing community, and graduates from FMDC; and
(iiL) personnel laid off from work by cooperatives and MF corporations.
The guiding criteria in identifying caitable candidates for assistance
under the scheme would be the absence of any asset ownership or savings,
with the beneficiaries coming from the poorest segment of the fishing
community seeking employment in the sector.
5.11      Revolving Fun. MF will establish a revolving fund for
providing credit to the target group, which would be managed on its behalf
by CACB, and for which CACB would receive a management fee. Based on an
assessment carried out by MF, the total funds needed would total the
equivalent of US$3 million; these would come from the local currency
proceeds from the cash sale of project-procured fishing equipment, boats
and vehicles. The lending program under the scheme would be administered
through the existing branches of CACB in southern Yemen, as well as
through the proposed branch in the Al-Mahrah Governorate.  MF, jointly
with CACB, has already prepared an indicative credit plan (physical and
financial), which has been reviewed by IDA and is acceptable.
5.12      Since the scheme is aimed at assisting the poorest segment of
the fishing community, eligible Jtems to be financed under the scheme
would include: small fishing boats; fishing nets and other fishing gear;
and 15-25 HP outboard engines. Under the scheme, security for the loan
would be from: (i) hypothecation of assets purchased from the loan; and
(Li) guarantee from a minimum of two fishermen or group guarantee. As
borrower's contribution, a minimum of 10 percent of the cost of the
investment would be expected. The period of loan regayment would be fixed
depending upon the repayment capacity of the borrower and the value of the
loan, with a maximum of 60 months.
5.13      Rate of Interest. In line with the prevailing cabinet
resolutions, the rate of interest on the above loans would be 7 percent
p.a.; any future upward adjustment in GACB interest rates would also be
applicable to loans granted under the proposed scheme.  While this rate of
interest is presently negative in real terms, no substantial adjustment of
these rates appears imminent. During negotiations it was agreed with
Government that, in order to make transparent the financial subsidies
involved by pursuing existing interest rate policies, MF will annually
reimburse the fund through its budget, the loss suffered by the fund in
real terms, quantified each year by applying the difference between the
nominal interest rate and the rate of inflation (as measured by an index
acceptable to IDA) in percentage terms on the total amount disbursed and
outstanding.
5.14      Processing of Loan Agplications. CACB will use its normal
lending procedures for fisheries credit developed during the
implementation of the earlier IDA project (Credit 1025-YAR); in doing so,
it will coordinate its activities with the PIU and the respective
cooperative. For processing applications, CACB loan officers will
undertake field visits to the villages on pre-appointed days to obtain
loan applications from eligible fishermen. Assistance would be sought



- 39 .
from the cooperatives and other local sources for ascertaining
eligibility. To the extent possible, loan processing would be done on a
group basis. Once sanctioned, the loan amount will be directly disbursed
to the boat, engine or gear supplier after receiving the contribution from
the borrower. Post-sanction supervision of the loans up to the time of
full recovery would be carried out by CACB's loan officers. The PIU will
be responsible for monitoring the overall scheme.
5.15      Accounting and RepggtInU. Each CACB branch involved in the
scheme would maintain accounts, using acceptable accounting procedures,
which would be kept separate from the accounts of the rest of its lending
operations. CACB shall submit a quarterly report to IDA and to MF on the
number and geographical distribution of loans processed, disbursements
made from each branch, and the recovery performance of the loans granted
under the project.
5.16      The overall terms and conditione for the operations of the
special targeted credit scheme, as set out above, were agreed with
Government during negotiations. These will form part of the Special Fund
Agreement which the MF will enter into with CACB, and the execution of
which will be a condition of credit effectiveness [para. 8.02(ii)].
C. Iolemtatio  Schedul
5.17      The project would be implemented over a period of seven years.
The project's implementation schedule is shown in Annex 13. Under this
plan, the construction of facilities would be completed in Year 6; a
maintenance period of one year has been allowed after completion of
construction. Introduction of boats would start in Year 2 and continue
till Year 6. Given its importance, most of the training of cooperative
staff and fishermen would be carried out during the first four years, but
some refresher courses would be carried out throughout the project period.
D. Monitoring. Evaluation and RepoMtlnj
Monitoring and Evaluation
5.18      The PIU would have overall responsibility for monitoring,
evaluation and reporting. Monitoring and evaluation would focus on
project inputs and outputs, and on policy and institutional changes in the
fisheries sector.
5.19      Project Inputs requiring monitoring and evaluation would
include: civil works, procurement, staffing, training, boats constructed
and sold, and fisheries credit. The PIU would be assisted by: the
engineering consultants in the monitoring of civil construction and
procurement; CFC in the reporting of boat construction activities; and
CACB in the follow-up of utilization of the targeted fisheries credit.
5.20      Project Outputs to be monitored, and which would provide the
basis for subsequent project evaluation, would include: quantity of fish
caught and marketed from each of the cooperatives in the project area, by



- 40 -
species; t,e financial situation of the fishing cooperatives; quantities
and species of fish caught and costs and earnings of the existing CFC
vessels and the vessels to be financed under the project; the boat
building program of CFC; progress made in the assessment of fish resources
and monitoring of sea pollution; and human resource development in the
fishing communities, notably the cooperative training program and the
development of women component. The information for the monitoring and
evaluation of the project outputs would be supplied regularly to the PIU
by MF's cooperative department, NCFM, CFC, MSRRI and CACB.
5.21     The foreign lenders would supervise implementation of the
components which they finance; to the extent possible, IDA would
coordinate the overall supervision of the project by organizing joint
review missions with the other financiers. A tentative project
supervision plan for IDA is shown in Annex 14: it would require a total of
about 120 staff-weeks of supervision. There would be two supervision
missions per year, and the supervision specialties required at various
stages of project implementation would be: a procurement specialist,
fisheries specialists, a naval architect, an institutional specialist, a
financial analyst, a credit specialist, a civil engineer, a refrigeration
specialist, and a women-in-development specialist.
5.22      Policy and Institutional Changes monitored would include:
progress made in defining a role and strategy for NCFM's future
operations, and improvements in its operating autonomy, efficiency and
overall financial performance; progress in provision of credit to women in
fishing communities; and progress in the financial restructuring,
operating efficiency and financial performance of the fisheries
cooperatives.
^20orting ReXsairemLents
5.23      PIU would be responsible for submitting to both IDA and the
other financiers semi-annual progress reports on the project, focussed on
agreed key indicators, not later than two months following the end of each
reporting period. An interim review of all project activities would be
conducted jointly by MF, IDA and other co-financiers about two years after
project initiation. For this review, MF would prepare a detailed report
and submit it to IDA not later than June 30, 1994. This review would take
stock of progress and constraints and, if necessary, adjust components,
objectives and fund allocations. The review would also make suggestions
concerning the remainder of the work program and any further adjustments
that might be desirable in the context of the recent unification of
Yemen. Furthermore, not later than six months after the credit closing
date, HF would furnish to IDA a Project Completion Report. The completion
report would, inter alia, include: an analysis of the execution and
preliminary operations of the project; the benefits derived from it; the
performance of project management and IDA in fulfilling their respective
obligations under the Credit Agreement; and the accomplishments of the
proposed project in relation to its stated objectives. Assurances were
obtained from the Government at negotiations in respect to the above
mentioned reporting requirements [para. 8.01(ix)].



- 41 -
E. Apgagts and Audits
5.24      All organizations involved in project implementation would be
subject to the expenditure control procedures of the Government of ROY,
which are considered satisfactory. Project accounts would be maintained
separately, and in readily identifiable form, by the PIU, the
cooperatives, CFC, and MSRRI. Project accounts would be consolidated by
the PIU to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the
operations, resources and expenditures related to the project.
Furthermore, CFC would submit to IDA yearly audited reports of their
consolidated financial statements. At negotiations, assurances were
obtained from Government and MF on the above accounting procedures, and
that: (a) unaudited reports of CFC and the project would be submitted to
IDA and separately to the other financiers of the project, not later than
three months after the end of each fiscal year (December 31); (b) an
independent auditor, satisfactory to IDA, would be appointed to undertake
annual audits of the accounts of CFC and the project; (c) certified copies
of the audited accounts of CFC and the project, as well as the Special
Account and Statements of Expenditures for each fiscal year audited, and
of the auditor's report would be furnished to IDA and to the other
financiers of the project, not later than nine months after the end of
each fiscal year; and (d) the auditor's report would be of such scope and
in such detail as IDA shall reasonably request, including, inter alia, a
statement that the funds advanced by IDA for the Special Account and
disbursed against SOEs had been used for the purposes for which they were
provided [Para. 8.01(x)].
F. Environmental Imoact
5.25      The proposed project has been placed in environmental screening
category B, consistent with the provisions of Operational Directive 4.00,
Annex A, and did not require preparation of an environmental assessment.
Proposed developments in the fishing villages would not have any major
detrimental effects on the environment. There are no harmful substances
released into the marine environment and other legitimate users of the
marine environment would not be affected. Sites and layouts have been
chosen to minimize any environmental dangers. However, during the
detailed design stage of the project, the following environmental aspects
would be reviewed for incorporation in the design:
(i) any waste oil from boats and engine rooms would be collected
and incinerated;
(ii) exhaust fumes from diesel generators would be collected by a
manifold and ejected into the atmosphere at a suitable height
via a chimney;
(iii) noise from engine rooms at the ice and cold store plants
would be suppressed by baffle walls; and
(iv) hazardous waste like old batteries, paints, oil rags, etc.,
particularly at Mukalla and Musainah, would be collected and
transported to a disposal site.



* 42 -
5.26      As a result of investments in the village fisheries facilities
and in additional boats, the project would generate higher fish landings
which, in turn, would produce more refuse, such as, fish heads and guts,
which are normally left on the shore. The untreated refuse pollutes the
air of the surroundings and brings about maggot and fly infestation.
Under the project, arrangements would be made to collect the refuse in
bins and transport it to suitable areas for burial.
5.27      The increased fish production anticipated under the project
would not cause excessive exploitation of the fish resources. These
resources have been studied under a variety of technical assistance
programs, including recent assessments by UNESCO and FAO. These studies
indicate that the fish resources affected by the project are not heavily
exploited. However, tropical marine ecosystems, although rich and fast on
turnover, are delicate and can quickly be destroyed, unless carefully
monitored. Under the project, provisions have been made for NSRRI to
monitor very closely catch and fishing effort data over the life of the
project and to recommend management measures if such a situation arises.
Specifically, the project would actively promote the use of lobster traps,
which catch lobsters alive and facilitate release of gravid females, to
replace the use of gillnets, which kill lobsters indiscriminately. The
use of live lobsters would also improve product quality, and enable CFC to
obtain higher prices.
5.28      The above mentioned measures would be taken into account in the
design of the village facilities and the operating procedures for the
protection of the environment would be monitored by MSRRI, in conjunction
with the Government's environment committee. Assurances were obtained
from the Government at negotiations that the above measures to protect the
environment would be complied with [para. 8.01(xi)].
VI.  PRODUCTO. .NRRETING. AND PRICES
A. Production
6.01      The project would increase fish production from traditional
fisheries in southern Yemen through a series of interrelated improvements
affecting fish catch levels, preservation, marketing and export. Without
the project, fish landings from traditional fisheries would decrease from
their present level of about 23,000 mt to about 18,000 mt in Year 7: this
decrease is due to the projected deterioration of the existing fleet (on
average fishing boats are over 25 years old). In addition, the GRP boats
built in the early 1980s were of relatively low quality, and, hence, of
low efficiency, and would also gradually withdraw from operations. The
proposed project would increase production from the projected without
project level of 18,000 mt to 29,000 mt, or by about 11,000 mt by Year 7.
This increase would be the result of the project's impact on: (i) improved
efficiency of the existing fleet; (ii) improved design of the boats built
by CFC; and (iii) the additional 1,200 mt of fish which would be landed
annually by the four semi-industrial CFC vessels, to be procured under the
project. Catch rates for small boats are based on current levels of



* 43 *
production of existing boats under similar conditions and for larger boats
en results from pilot operations.
6.02      Previous price guidelines and marketing constraints have not
only limited the volume of fish landings by cooperative fishermen, but
have also adversely affected the composition of the awerage catch. A
major proportion of the catch has been constituted of low grade fish, such
as sardines. These do not pose a preservation problem, since they are
sun-dried and sold as camel feed or fertilizer. The lack of preservation
and of transport facilities has so far not allowed a significant change in
the average fish catch composition. Consequently, fishermen have been
largely unable to benefit from the price premiums paid for fresh fish.
The proposed project investments in handling, storage and marketing
facilities would: (i) favor a shift in domestic marketing from frozen to
iced fresh fish, which commands a price premium; and (ii) induce fishermen
to exploit higher value species, as indicated below.
Table 6.1: CATCH COMPOSITION
Future/
Category of Fish         Without Proiect     With Proiect
(Percent)         (Percent)
Super Grade                     9                  12
Category I                      8                  11
Category II                    15                  17
Category III                    5                  12
Lobsters                        2                   2
Sharks                         16                  20
Sardines                       45                  26
Total                      100                 100
As a result of the expected change in the catch composition, the average
value of the fish catch is expected to increase by 22 percent. This
increase is considered feasible, given the expected improvements in
marketing capacity and the recent increases An private sector prices in
southern Yemen for high grade fish (see para. 6.06).
B. Marketing and Prices
6.03      It is projected that most of the increase in the fish catch
would be sold in the domestic market. Under the recently liberalized
policies, some cooperatives may continue to purchase fish, while others
will shift primarily to providing auction facilities and ice. In either
case, fish availability in domestic local markets is expected to continue
to increase.
6.04      In the absence of reliable household consumption data, an
estimate cannot be made of present total domestic fish consumption. Along
the coast, people depend on fish as their main source of animal protein;



- 44 -
however, even there supplies are sometimes inadequate, as demonstrated by
the occasional shortages in Aden and other major coastal consumption
centers. Dried and canned fish are traditionally consumed in the interior
towns of the Hadramawt Governorate. A recent study by NCFH suggests that
in Seiyun, the major town in the Hadremawt area, only 25 percent of
current demand for fresh fish is presently satisfied. As in many places
in southern Yemen, relatively few fish retAil outlets exist, and it is
safe to assume that potential demand could be substantially above present
effective demand. Demand in northern Yemen is concentrated along the
coast and the major cities. Prior to unification, consumption was
moderate to low, reflecting limited infrastructure and low production in
the former YAR waters. Since unification, fish trade and distribution in
north Yemen has reportedly increased substantially, contributing to major
increases in prod'acer and consumer prices int the south. The recent
liberalization of price and marketing controls has also contributed to
increased producer prices in the south.
6.05      In the past southern Yemen's exports of frozen fish have mainly
been directed to Egypt and Saudi Arabia. With the proposed project,
exports of higher value species, frozen and fresh, may be extended to
Europe and the Gulf States. Highly priced shark fins will continue to be
exported to Hong Kong. Lobster and cuttle fish will continue to be
exported to Europe and Japan. However, the volume of exports will be
critically dependent on the level of private investments in fish exports.
6.06      Assumptions on prices received by fishermen under the project
are shown in Annex 15, Table 1. Because of the recent liberalization and
adjustments in the sector in southern Yemen, fish prices have increased
substantially from those previously faced by cooperatives. However,
benefits accruing to the sector as a result of these policy changes have
been incorporated into project analysis, with analyses (both with and
without project scenarios) having been carried out using projected post-
liberalization price levels.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIOI
A. Beneficiaries and Flnancial Beneflts
7.01      Beneficiaries.  With an estimated annual per capita income of
about US$220 (nearly a third of the national average for the unified
country), the artisanal fishermen belong to the country's poorer
population. About 3,500 fishermen, or more than fifty percent of the
estimated 6,400 fishermen in southern Yemen, would directly benefit from
the project. Depending on their location and size of fishing vessel,
their incomes are estimated to increase by between 60 percent and 100
percent. In addition, as a result of the project, approximately 2,100
fishermen would enjoy access to new boats and/or engines and fishing gear.
Furthermore, a significant number of the country's population would
benefit from a larger and more reliable supply of fish--including a
greater percentage of fresh fish.



- 45 -
7.02      Under the targeted credit scheme to be established by MP, funds
would be available for the poorer elements of the fishing population to
purchase boats, engines and gear. The cooperatives, CACB and MF will
ensure that these items reach the poorest fishermen. IFAD and IDA would
review the success in reaching this target group by periodically examining
sample data collected by the PIU in the course of monitoring credit
operations.
7.03      Financial Benefits.  Financial analysis has been -,arried out for
the different types of boats and vessels proposed under the project. To
estimate the impact of the project on fishermen's income, four activity
models were prepared. The main assumptions underlying these models are
shown in Annex 15, Table 2. The results are summarized below (Annex 15,
Tables 3-6).
Table 7.1: FINANCIAL RATES OF RETURN
Financial Rates of Retn (X)
Base    Catch or Sales    Investment
boat Type               Case    Prices Down 10Q  Cgsts- UlO
GRP 7.6 meters              46            19              36
GRp 9.4 meters              44            19              33
Sambuk                      56           42               47
Intermediate Technology     24           16               19
7.04      The sensitivity of financial rates of return for alternate boat
types is mainly caused by the particular share system utilized on the
boats which gives tbi crew a percentage of the catch value after other
operating costs have been deducted; and the fact that operating margins
increase rapidly after a certain level of production has been reached.
Although financial rates of return vary substantially among boat types,
the various types of vessels are complementary.  In order to ef&  v. -ely
exploit fish which cannot be caught by small scale boats, the country
requires intermediate technology vessels which are more efficient than the
industrial vessels currently operating in southern Yemen.
7.05      The financial analyses also indicates that the projected long-
term debt service coverage ratio is satisfactory for each type of boat or
vessel, and remains well above one during the years of highest debt
repayment. The average income per crew member is satisfactory in all
cases. It becomes substantial for the crew on the intermediate technology
vessel, as shown below.



- 46 -
Table 7.2: CREW INCOME AND LONG-TERM DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE
Average                Lowest
Yearly Income         Long-Term Debt
Boat  3^p                  per Crew Member    Service Coverage Ratio
(YD)
GRP 7.6 meters                   784                    1.4
GRP 9.4 meters                   764                    1.3
Sambuk                           687                    1.8
Intermediate Technology        1,805                    2.4
7.06      Analysis has also been carried out to estimate the impact of a
depreciation in the value of the local currency. If the Yemeni Rial were
to depreciate by 50 percent vis-a-vis the US dollar, the financial rates
of return (FRRs) for the different boats and vessels would remain at
acceptable levels, as shown below.
Table 7.3: FINAIAL RATES OF RETURN
(Assuming 50% Depreciation in Local Currency)
Beat imp                     FRR(%)
GRP 7.6 meters                19
GRP 9.4 meters                13
Sambuk                        31
Intermediate Technology       16
B. EconoMic Benefits
7.07      The project's primary economic benefit would be incremental fish
landings, estimated to reach some 11,000 mt/year at full development
(para. 6.01). The incremental fish production indicated above takes into
account the fish production foregone if there were to be no project. This
is justified, since at present about one-half of the sanbuks, almost 40
percent of wooden khadifas and 20 percent of the wooden hourls operating
in southern Yemen are old, inefficient and in need of replacement.
Substantial boat replacement has to date been constrained due to lack of
available foreign exchange.
7.08      Increased flsh production would lead to more abundant fish
supplies for the domestic market, resulting in lower imports of meat and
consequent savings in foreign exchange. It is assumed that some 750-
1,250 mt of additional fresh fish would be exported annually, generating
gross foreign exchange earnings estimated between US$0.5 million and
US$1.0 million per year at full development. An additional important
benefit would be an increase in the value of lobster exports gained from
the processing of live lobsters caught in lobster traps rather than dead
lobsters caught in nets. The new processing method would permit export of
the entlre lobster inotead of only the tail, with an estimated increase in
export value of US$0.5 million per year. Reduction of losses suffered



- 47 -
from spoilage and damage would generate further benefits. The facilities
provided under the project would permit improvad and more well-organized
fish collection and delivery to the main processing and consumer centers.
Benefits would also accrue to CFC in terms of increased business for boat
building. Furthermore, consumption of fresh fish would increase in areas
where supplies are low at present. Increased fish supply would help to
satisfy the nutritional needs of the poorer section of the population, as
fish is the cheapest available source of protein in the country.
7.09      Some of the above benefits, in particular from the social and
nutritional effects of the project, have not been quantified and are
therefore not incorporated in economic rate of return (ERR) calculations.
In calculating the ERR, the following assumptions were made:
(i)   Standard Conversion Factor (SCF).  An SCF of 0.67 hat bzeen
used to convert local financial costs of nontraded items into
border price terms, in order to reflect the prevailing
distortions in the economy.
(ii)   Investment Costs.  The imnvestment cost of all project
eomponents (expressed in border price terms), other than the
women development component whose direct economic benefits are
difficult to quantify, were included in the overall project
ERR calculation. These include the investment costs of the
Fokum-Ras Imran road component, which would complement
facilities and operations already introduced under the IDA-
supported Fisheries Is and III projects (Crs. 932- and 1274-
YDR).
(iii)   Prices.  Prior to liberalization, prices for fish in southern
Yemen were determined by 'grades' rather than by individual
fish species. While individual market prices now exist as
well, prices by grade are used for analysis purposes, as most
pricing continues to be done on this basis. For fresh fish,
which includes super grade fish and category I, II, III fish,
shark fins and lobster, the economic prices are based on FOB
Aden export prices of selected species for which export
markets exist. For sharks and sardines, which are not
tradable, current financial prices adjusted by the SCF of 0.67
have been used as economic prices. Details on the value of
fish prices in economic terms are given in Annex 16, Table 1.
For some species with export potential, it is uncertain in
which grade they belong. Therefore, to determine economic
prices, about four species from each grade (Super, I, II and
III) have been selected, for which demand exists in major
markets in Europe, the Middle East or Asia. Prices quoted for
frozen fish in those markets have been reduced by 15 percent,
to reflect the lack of experience in ROY in supplying those
areas, and averaged for each grade. For lobster and shark
fins, estimates of economic beach landing prices have been
based on current FOB Aden prices. Estimated costs have been
deducted as relevant, for sea transport and insurance, harbor
handling in Aden, freezing, storage and cleaning, and local



- 48 -
transport and icing, to arrive at an economic price for fish
landed on the beach (see Annex 16, Table 2).
(iv)   Oparating Costs.  Operating costs were derived by aggregating
the operating costs of village facilities and new equipment
from each of the five cooperatives.
(v)   labor.  It is estimated that, with the project, labor
requirements would not change significantly over the present
situation. The economic value of labor has been assumed at
YD 2.85 per fishing day. Fisheries in ROY are traditional, in
the sense that there is limited economic mobility, except for
young men, who used to seek work in the Gulf states, where
wage rates were much higher. Some fishermen work part time
for agriculture, where seasonal wage rates go up to
YD 5.0/day, while others, particularly in the villages in the
east, can only work in certain fishing activities with wage
rates of YD 2.5 to 3.0. Although wage rates on CFC vessels
are much higher and reflect a progressive incentive system, no
other company currently employs such a system. Wage rates in
fisheries in northern Yemen are about YD 5.0-7.0 per day.
Nevertheless, with the events in the Gulf causing a major
migration of Yemenis back to ROY, unemployment is high, and
wage rates, in absolute terms, have declined. A shadow wage
rate of YD 4.25/day has been assumed for all fishing
operations; this has been adjusted by the SCF of 0.67. Boat
maintenance and construction costs have been adjusted
accordingly.
7.10      Separate ERRs have been estimated for both the road (Annex 16,
Table 3) and intermediate technology vessel (Annex 16, Table 4)
components. They are 13 percent and 15 percent, respectively. Finally,
based on the above assumptions, the overall ERR for the project is
estimated at 31 percent over a 20-year period of analysis (Annex 16,
Table 5).
7.11      Setsitivity analyvis carried out generates the following ERR
values for deviatic'as from baseline project performance:
Base value                                        31X
Net Incremental benefits down 20X                 211
Investment costs up 201                           23X
Net Incremental benefits lagging two years        16X
The ERR is sensitive to a reduction in catches or prices.  A 20 percent
drop in catch value results in an ERR of 21 percent.  For the overall ERR
to drop to 12 percent, incremental project benefits (through lower prices
or catches) would need to drop by about 20 percent and total investment
costs increase by about 30 percent. The likelihood of any of these
scenarios actually materializing, and thereby threatening the overall
viabilLty of the proposed project, is extremely low. The analysis assumes
conservative catch levels--given that available fish resources in the Gulf
of Aden are presently under-exploited, and that overall efficiency of the
fishing fleet would be significantly Improved under the project. It is



- 49 -
likely that catch levels projected in the analysis would actually be
surpassed.
C. Cost Recove2r
7.12      Cost recovery arrangements for the proposed project would be
along the same lines as those agreed to with the Government under the
Third Fisheries Development Project (Cr. 1274-YDR). The investments
proposed for the five cooperatives are justified on the basis of increased
fish production, which directly benefits traditional fishermen in southern
Yemen. Investments which will eliminate the constraints that presently
limit fish landings and composition, like chill rooms, ice plants, etc.
are directly accountable for the projected increases in the fishermen's
income. Consequently, costs of such investments should be recovered from
those who directly benefit from them. Initial appraisal of this project,
prior to unification, indicated that cooperatives would be able to
generate sufficient income to cover debt service requirements. The recent
liberalization in fish marketing practices has, however, substantially
altered the role of cooperatives (see Chapter II) and affected the manner
in which they would now generate cash flow. Cash flow projections for the
five cooperatives that would benefit from the investments in the proposed
village facilities have been prepared (Annex 17, Tables 1-5), using the
following assumptions: (i) 70 percent of the total fish catch would flow
through the cooperatives, on which they would levy a fixed charge (3
percent of fish value for social security and a 5 percent service charge -
see para. 2.35); and (ii) revenues generated from services provided
(auction floors, ice, cold and chill stores, workshops, etc.), based on
clearly defined fee schedules, would equal at least 3 percent of the value
of the fish catch flowing through the cooperatives. Based on these
assumptions, the analysis shows that four of the five cooperatives would
be able to generate sufficient funds to meet the estimated cost recovery
obligations. Diss/Al Hami is the only cooperative that would be unable to
fully meet the cost recovery payments, as estimated in the analysis. This
is prircipally the result of very high administrative overhead costs for
its present and projected level of operations. A condition of credit
effectiveness would be the adoption of a financial restructuring plan for
the cooperatives that would include a reduction in administrative
overheads.
7.13      It is clear that cooperatives serve valuable functions in the
local communities (para. 2.36). It is thus important that they be
financially viable and sustainable over the long run, with net revenues
that are adequate to ensure debt service coverage by each cooperative.
The Government has already submitted a plan for the financial
restructuring of the cooperatives. Given the changes that have occurred
in the sector over the past few months, it is necessary that the plan be
reviewed and appropriate measures introduced. These are: (i) a reduction
in the administrative expenses of the cooperatives; and (ii) establishment
of an adequate and viable fee schedule on the basis of which cooperatives
would levy charges for services provided (such as auction floor, ice, cold
stores, repair facilities, services, etc.). Ratification by the
Government of a restructuring plan for fisheries cooperatives,
satisfactory to IDA, which includes both a reduction in cooperatives'



- so 5
administrative expenses and institution of an agreed fee schedule for
services provided by cooperatives, would be a condition of credit
effectiveness [para 8.02 (iii)I.
7.14     Assuming that administrative costs of the cooperatives are
reduced and the scheduled service fees are lmplemented, analysis shows
that the costs of directly productive investment facilities can be
recovered by the cooperatives. In some of the villages, certain
improvements and additions to the fisheries related infrastructure, such
as causeways, access roads, etc., need to be made to assure full benefit
from the investment. No quantifiable benefits can be directly attributed
to such infrastructure improvements. The costs involved, however, would
be recovered indirectly through the incremental tax revenues generated by
the project.
7.15     The direct recovery of project costs from the cooperatives would
be organized as follows. Once the MP general contractor has erected the
facilities, bank accour.ts of the beneficiary cooperatives would be debited
with an amount equivalent to the costs of these facilities. The
cooperatives would then be required to authorize the bank to automatically
deduct monthly debt service installments from their current account. Over
a ten-year period, includlng one-year grace, the entire amount would be
recovered, with interest equivalent to the long-term interest rate for
lending to fisheries. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that a
cost recovery scheme would be made mandatory for the participating
beneficiaries and that any future interest rate adjustments resulting,
inter alia, from a joint Government-IDA review of the interest rate
structure would be applied to this project [para. 8.01(xii)I.
D. froje1a RLUak
7.16     Unification of the Two Yemen RepublIcs. The recent unification
of the two Yemen Republics and the resulting reorganization of various
institutions could slow down project implementation. However, the
existence of the PIU with many years of experience in supporting the
implementation of IDA projects should minimize this risk.
7.17     Sector Adljutment Process. The process of economic reform in
southern Yemen--price liberalization, increased private sector
involvement, credit expansion and focus on efficiency of sectoral
operations--may be slowed down by the political and social difficulties
experienced in transition. However, it is already clear that tb
Government has become increasingly willing to adjust, and that unification
has significantly accelerated the process of liberalization of the
fisheries sector.
7.18     Technical Assistance. An important risk concerns the
offectiveness of tochnical assistance in improving the management and
financial performance of fisherios cooperatives. This risk would be
minimized by ensuring that ROY selects high caliber specialists, and that
poorly performing individuals be replaced quickly. Southern Yemen has a
good record in handling technical assistance and has been assertive in
handling ineffective technical assistance personnel.



- 51 -
7.19      Delays in Project ImRlementation.  Delays in construction and
Inadequate staffing could result in project cost overruns and shortages in
funding. To reduce these risks, the project would provide for substantial
technical assistance, both during construction and the initial phase of
the facility's operations. IDA has provided to the Government a Project
Preparation Facility advance of US$350,000 to meet pro-project start-up
expenses.
7.20      Onerating Efficiegny of Fisheries Cooperstives.  The arrears on
the cooperatives' portfolio are substantial and perhaps not fully
supported by valuable assets. There are indications that many of these
arrears are symptons of more fundamental operating and management
problems. Furthermore, all cooperatives were set up with limited equity
and were mostly debt financed.  IDA has requested the Government to take
the steps necessary to (i) recapitalize and (ii) improve the operating
efficiency of the cooperatives, in order to make them eligible for loans
under the project. Recent sector liberalizations that may substantially
affect cooperative cash flows accentuate the need for ameliorating the
operating efficiency of cooperatives. The Government has proposed a plan,
acceptable to IDA, for the financial improvement of the fisheries
cooperatives, but there may be delays in its actual implementation.
Government ratification of this plan would be a condition of credit
effectiveness [para. 8.02(iii)J.
VIII.  £gNR      U&Q  MANDIL UQMDNDATION
A.  Aancesa
8.01      During negotiations, the following assurances were obtained from
the Government:
(i)   Details of arrangements to adjust the role of the
cooperatives and measures to be taken to implement (a) owning
of new boats, nets and engines by individual cooperative
fishermen, (b) purchase by fishermen of their existing
cooperative fishing boats through a hire-purchase scheme, and
(c) financial arrangements for each cooperative to be put on
a healthy financial footing, would be finalized and executed
with IDA approval (para. 2.35);
(ii) Government agreement to the detailed training program (para.
3.27);
(iii) Government agreement on the terms of reference for specialist
consultants (para. 3.30);
(iv)   The PIU would continue to be located in Aden and would be
strengthened through the local recruitment, by September 30,
1991, of an accountant, a civil engineer and a procurement
officer (para. 3.32);



- 52 -
(v) The Special Account for project operations would be opened
and maintained on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA,
and that the Special Account and SOEs would be audited
annually by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA
(para. 4.19);
(vi)   The existing interagency coordination committee under MF
overseeing the implementation of existing projects would
continue to operate during the project period, and that it
would also include a representative from CACB for the
proposed project (para. 5.02);
(vii)   The contracts of the present project adviser and fisheries
cooperative/credit expert recruited under the ongoing
Fisheries III project would be extended, and they would be
assigned to the PIJ (para. 5.04);
(viii)   Prior to the tendering of the construction contract,
agreement would be obtained from the fisheries cooperatives
on the village facilities to be financed under the project
and on their cost recovery arrangements (para. 5.07);
(ix) Semi-annual progress reports would be submitted by PIU to IDA
not later than two months following the end of each reporting
period. For the interim review, MF would prepare a detailed
report and submit it to IDA not later than June 30, 1994.
The Project Completion Report would be submitted to IDA not
later than six months after the credit closing date
(para. 5.23);
(x)   The accounting and audit procedures stipulated in para. 5.24
would be followed, notably: (a) unaudited reports of CFC and
the project would be submitted to IDA not later than three
months after the end of each fiscal year (December 31),
(b) audited financial statement for CFC and the project from
independent auditors would be submitted to IDA not later than
nine months after the end of the fiscal year. Audits would
include the Special Account and Statements of Expenditures
(para. 5.24);
(xi) Government to ensure compliance with measures to protect the
environment, as indicated in paras. 5.25-5.28; and
(xii) The Borrower shall ensure that the village facilities,
including equipment and plastic boxes, shall be made
available to the participating fisheries cooperatives under
arrangements satisfactory to IDA. These arrangoments would
include the repayment of the cost of the above mentioned
facilities by these beneficiaries to the Borrower over a
period of ten years, including one-year grace, and with the
long-term interest rate for lending to fisheries (presently
7.0 percent p.a.). Any future interest rate adjustments
resulting inter alia, from a joint Government-IDA review of



. 53 -
the interest rate structure would be applied to this project
as well (para. 7.15).
S. Condltions
8.02      Prior to IDA Credit effectiveness, the following would be
required:
(i)   Effectiveness of formal grant/loan agreements for the project
respectively with EEC and IFAD (para. 4.06);
(ii)   Execution of a Special Fund Agreement between MF and CACB,
satisfactory to IDA, outlining the obligations and
responsibilities of the relevant institutions, and the terms
and conditions for the proposed Targeted Credit Scheme
(para. 5.16); and
(iii)   Government ratification of restructuring plan for fisheries
cooperatives, including reduction in their administrative
expenses and the institution of an agreed fee schedule for
the productive services now being provided to fishermen and
traders, by cooperatives, satisfactory to IDA (paras. 7.13
and 7.20).
C. Rscommendat&U
8.03      Subject to the conditions set out above being met, the proposed
project would be suitable for an IDA Credit of SDRs 9.4 million (US$13.2
million equivalent) on standard terms with 40 years maturity. The
Borrower would be the Government of the Republic of Yemen.



* 54 -
Table 1
EPUBLIC OF YIEMEN
FMOI= FPSHKRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJMCT
Total Eish landings in ex-PDRY
1984     1965     1986    198?    1988       1989
....     ....  .    ....   ....  .    ....   ..... ..... ..... ..
Nunber of Vossets
.............
Cooperatives                             915      848      794      851      84a"     84
Sovfet/PORY Joint Venture                  9        9       14       IS       15        6
Coastal Fishing Corporation (CFC)        134      136      140      140      140      140
Licenced Vessels                           5        S        5        5        5        s
Yeweni Fish Corporation                   13       12       12       10       10        S
Private Fishen  1_J                       88      788      78    1,1SO    1,1SO    1,1SO
Fish Landings (Tons)
Cooperatives                          22,766   24,290   19,5S7   26,9fO   28,107   29,596
Soviet/PORY Joint Venture              3,191    3,612    S,160    4,406   2,210    3,083
Coastal Fishing Corporation tCFC)      1.058    1,424    1,378    1,500    1,575    1,397
Lfcenced Vessels                      36,587   33,297  43,557   35,936  29,292   27,993
Yemeni Fish Corporation                5,S2S    7,495    6,5d4   5,700   4,390    4,109
Private Fishermn Ij                   15,000   1S,000   1S,000   15,000   11,400   15,000
, ................. ... .......... ....... ........... ....... ........... .......
Total Production                      84,127   85,118   91,216  69,492  76,974   81,178
Fish Landings (2)
cooperatives                              27       29       21       30       37       36
SovietiPORY Joint Venture                  4        4        6        S        3        4
Coastal Fishing Corporation (CFC)          1        2        2        2        2        2
Licenced Vessels                          43       39       48       40       38       34
Ymmeni Fish Corporation                    7        9        7        6        6        S
Private Fishermen 1/                      18       18       16        17       1S      18
.....     .......... .......     ........... ...... ........ ....... ...... ...............
Total Production                         100      100      100      100      100      100
fish Landings/Vessel (Tons)
...........................
Cooperatives                              25       29        25       32      33        35
Soviet/PokY Joint venture                355      401      369       294      147      514
Coastal Fishing Corporation (CFC)          8        10       10       11       11       10
Licenced Vessels                       7,317    6, 69    8,711    7,18?   5,858    5,599
Ye eni Fish Corporation                  425      625       547      570      439      822
Private Fishrimen t/                       19       19       19       13       10       13
...... ...........  ....   .....
1/ Estimte.
Source: Ninistry of Fish Wealth
FILE MNE: TOTLANlI
03/29/91



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOURTH FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fish Landings in ex-YAR
(Mt)
Species             1983     1984    1985    1986    1987        1988
Freshwater fishes nei            Osteichthyes           0        0        0       0        0        0
Indian halibut                   Psettodes erumei               339               329     223     223F
Sea Catfishes nei                Ariidae                79                57      548     486     486F
Demersai Percomporphs nei        Perciformes          1956    2840    1890    1543    2330   2330F
Groupers Seabasses nei           Serranidae            951      550    1239       811     974     974F
Snappers Jobfishes nae           Lubandae                       678      903     876      849     849F
Threadfin monocie dwartbreams   Nemipteridae           380              1286    1336      936     936F
Grunts Sweetlips etc. nei        Naemulidae                              168      153      39      39F
(-Pomadasyidae)
Emperors(-Scavengers)            Lethrinidae          1902    1759    2268    2454    3008    3008F
Barracudas                       Sphyraena spp         519    1173      1386    1052    1245   124SF
Mullets nei                      Mugllidae             193      440       42     416      118     118F
Pelagic percomorphs nei          Perciformes            43      183      966     570      362     362F
Jack and horse mackerels nei    Trachurus spp         1227      672    1365    1424       823    823F
Jack Cravalles nei               Caranx spp            973      476      420     920      175     175F
Clupeoids nei                    Clupeodel            3013       -        -        -        -       -
Narrow barred Spanish Mackerei  Scomberomorus         2788     3115    2351    2673    2782    2273
commerson
Kawakawa                         Euthynnus affinins  272        366      378     438      301     272
Longrail tuna                    Thunnus tonggol       724      678      840     307      420    414
Indlan mackerei                  Rastrelliger         3094    4214    2246    4829    5848    5848F
Kangurta
Skates and rys.nei               Rajlformes             19              126       -        -
Sharks rays. skates etc.         Elasmobranchu        779      448     1281    1030       973     973F
Penaeus shrimps nei              Penaeus spp            17     239      320      432      361     361F
Total                                          18939   18170   18532   22241   22253  21709F
F - Forecast
Source: FAO
>'"
_ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 56 *
Table 3
REPJ!LTC
'OTURTH 7TSHzIK  DDELPIf'?4   1OI=
Zimb.r{es C~ogperattvel Zroduction Ani gx.PDR.Y
Name of Cooperative                   1983     1984     1985     ¶986     I98?     1988
...................                   ..........                         .....    ........ ....  .... .    .... ........ ..... ..... ..... ..
. ...... ........ Tonm .........'.'
Aden Gulf                         1,861    1,395   1,if.       983      902      762
Socotra                             432      665      S23      853      621    1,001
Ras Al Ara                        1,185      981    1,749      782    1.009      SOS
SIuqre                              520      494      631      421      559      924
A t 8andar                          329      298      292      17n      204      435
Sir ALl                           1,012    1,490    1,746    1,814    2,127    1.439
Mukatta                           1,854    1,674    1,669    1,829    1,86S    1,697
Shihr                             7,079    7,81S    8,S32    5,665    8,500    7,092
Diss/Al Hii                       1,200    1,260      941    1,420    2,783    2,412
Queseyr                           1,973    1,933    2,067    2,060    2,672    2,566
Sayhut                              806    1,622    1,290      644    1,573    1,374
Qishin                              907      829    1,S84    1,110    1,461    1,318
Al Gheida                         1,996    2,310    1,771    1,804    2,676    6,582
Total                          21,154   22,766   24,290   19,5S7   26,952   28,107
an**    02*2        .$-t-.- n|w-x   *"*-. 
Notes: (1) Ooes not fnclude private fishermen's prodaction.
(2) Drop in 1986 due to temporary civil disturbnces.
(3) Oreakdown of production by cooperatives is not wailabto for 1989 nd 1990.
Total production by the cooperatives for 1989 Is estimated at 296400 tons,
wnd at 27300 tons for 1990.
Source: Ministry of Fish Wealth
FILE ANME: COOPPROD
03/29/91



* 57 *
Table 4
POURS1I FtSEtSD VE ,«                    6
vommw;xa   _IPK mo c'
Wumber ge gpgreati3M and PrIVae. Ltah$riuan
Fish Landis             PDRY  i- 
mumber of Fisherman              Istimted Fish Landings (tns)
................,  .......0............  ...........................
Coop.                               Coop.
Governorace     Cooperative    Fishfing Vitlages    eme"ers Privsta   Total              mbers Private    TotWl
........               ...   ...                          .........   ...
t. AO..    Adbn ¢ulf           Se rS/fokum             Z87      881    1,168               762    3,100    3.8UZ
Imran/Ras Iwan
Kawe
Socotra l/    Hadifba                   114              114              1,001             1,001
Katlansie
St. LANIJ       Ras At Ara     Kher Umeira             268       21      289                505       70      5t7
ItIl  ABYAN     Shoura         Sheikh Abdulta           183      45      228               924       340    1,264
Ansahata
maquatin
Ahwar          MaqutAin Zogir           85                 85               435               435
(At Bandar)  Masan Setaid
-/. SNASWAR     Sir Atl        Azqa/Nawra               236      29      265              1,439      170    1,609
Getbed/libeta
Atnechne/Atayn
Cuata/B*tthaf
V. NADRAMAUT    NuIcL&a        Surun/Rukeb              247      500      747             1,69?    2,251    3,908
Shuhelv
Shihr          Shihr                   450      m       1,222            .C92    3,360   10,452
Of s/AL Nami   Al Hamu/Al Gam           349     191       540             2,412      456    2.84
uasesyr        Reida                    369     224       593             2,566      786   3.352
Muse inah
VI. AL KUAMMA   Ssehut         Algarbi a/atr            280       SO      360             1,374      225    1,599
Shargi a/Runut
Olshin         Litbu/Maklb              279               279             1,318             1,318
Maswe1un
Al Gheidr      N 1SNhtwuTwtu            36       111      473             6,5S2      600   7.182
Narut/ahaifif
Noak/Yerub
Narse/AL faidami
AL FatkOnw*ut
TOTAL                 3,511    2,854     ,5              28,10?   11,358      .465
1J   f ogratory fishermen landing fish In Gov rnorates IV, V and Vt.
Source: Ninistry of Fish Wedt%h for Cooperative Sector; nfSsion estiates f.'r private sector.
fILE WAMEs LANOStAT
03/31/91



* 56 .
Tabu S
!KITleC  0  VUI
0~~~~~~~~~V~~1  n_vihmTMSC
1962    1913    1986    198        18      17    1966    19"
*...                   ...          ..  . ...C *e   .e..    ....    C...    ...e    C....
............... ... ..... .... ................... ...... ....  ..... ....o ...... .... ...... .... .. ..
.,,,. ----CC                   *****                  *-*-*-'''''
Cuttt*fsh                1.655    1,397   2."0    3,956   4.192    1,7r      1,7'"    29
Sqwid                      465       43      270      32        6     '4?                32
Deep See I.str              4        66       2      116M    136       3       1V        71
Rock Lobser                 60      116      10      221      270     313      m        154
shrilp                     242      44       34      236      29      24        6       216
Shark l1s                  105       5       33       5        40      64       7        31
se cucumber                  2        2                a        5       6        S
Other fPth               1.206      672    1,13   1,032       946   2.605    1,494    1,613
Cwad fIsh                                                               7       14      370
............ ................ ....... .... ....... .....   ........  ..... ........ ......   .......... .......
TtotL                 3,981    2,65    *,UO    5638   5,."       5576   3.,62    5,440
Cuttef sh                3,3206   a.l9    4.4?   7,462   Slam1   2.n9    3.652   10,55
Sqid                       29        3       167      20        7     166       39       25
Owp S  LobsIer             27n      525      206     414      410     931      663      659
Rock Lotbstr               688    1.419    1,262   2,696   3,62   5.141   4.004   2,64
Shrfop                     278    s5         644     25       73      954      "5     1235
Shark fIn               1t,02       449      260     "0       340   1,065    1,096      5Jr
se  CuAsr          t     t           13        0      1s       35      46       43
Other Fish                 219      116   2,412      167      230    5s0       34       69
Csd flsh                     0        0       0        a        0      15       26   1,619
......._.......................  .....   ..........   .... .......... ....... .......... ....... .......... .......
TotaL                 6,076   5.578    9,438  11,431   10.513  11.436   10,64   16.056
---0A--    M-        ma mmm"M se-    wsm                  -
.......'-'-*'''''.''''''''''....... U$W T  ............. ...............
Cuttt*fIsh               1,7      1,696    1,5M    1,94    1,207   1,601   2.14    3.571
Spid                       63       860      619     6        67    1,204               71
eo  See Lobste           5,970   6,105   6.436   3,0    2            3,983   6.795   9.2U
Rock tdLte              11,"6   12,233   11,670  12,206  13,610  16,415  14,50?  17,429
Shcri                    1,149    1,267    1,M      1,06?   2,793   3.614   6,35      S,716
Sr fis                  10,495    5,164    7.69   6,17   9,000  12,97 15,        6   18.935
Se COwtr                 5,50O   6,500             7.500    7,000   7.46?   $,o0
Othsr fsh                  1n       20    2,074       142     243      19      25?      42
Cww  fshI                                                            2,143   *1,6     4,37
.......  ;. ... .......  ....              .......  ...... .* .....
AVer                   ,526    1,96     1,"0    2.0a    1,92   2,0        2.613   3,319
..............     ... ... .................e
Surces fnlestay of Fish WaWb
ft  Ns WA: ITATI
03/31/91



-  59  -
Table 1
REPUBLIC OF MEN
FOU=  F! SERIES DEVELPMENT PROEC
Nationial Corigorati2n for Fish Marketinit
Historical Income Statements
(YD ?.000)
Year:                                     1981      1982      1983      1984      1985      1986      1987     1988      1989
....      ....  .      ....  ....   . .... . ....  .... . .... ....  ....  .  .... .... ...... ................... ..
Quantity of Fish Sold (Tons)             8,882    8,42?    8,170    7,490    8,754    8.161    9,525    9.926    8,661
Fish Sates                               5,409    6,343    6,103    6,n1    6,681    6,966   10,356    8,890    6.503
Other Income                               405       180       ¶8S       342   '1,148       291       216       271       233
.......  .......... .......  ........... .......  ........... .......  ........... ....... ...... ...................... ...............
Totat Income                             5,814    6,523    6,268    7,063    7,829    7,277   10,572    9,161    6,736
,.......... .......    ........... .......    ........... .......    ........... .......    ........... ... .................. ... ........... .
Cost of Fish Sold                        3,599    3,914    3,812    4,97S    4,985    5,758    7,829    6,371    4,22S
Trade Margin                             2,215    2,609    2,476    2,088    2.844    1,S19    2,743    2,790    2.511
Operating Expenses
Personnel Costs                            988    1.001    1,049         982    1,005       939       988    1,216        886
Generat & Ackinistrative Expenses          625       724       606       662      781       879    1,070        706       77S
Purchase Costs                             143       176       215       202      243       263       293       284       233
Sates & Distribution Expenses               98        76        71        82       66
Sales Discounts                            164       198       192       289      340       242       525         1
uaste, Spoilege                             54        13         4                                              439       288
Other Expenses                                        11         3        38    1,205        125       96        96        92
.....   .....   .......  .......  .....  ......   .........
Total Operating Expenses                 2,077    2,199    2,140    2,275    3,640    2,448    2,972    2,742    2,274
Previous Year's Income                        5                  2        71         6                           85
Previous Year's Expenses                   278                  37       102        36        14
,.......... .......  ........... .......    ........... .......  ........... .......  .......... ...................... ...............
Cash FLoW                                 (135)      410       301      (218)    (826)    (943)    (229)        133       237
Depreciation                               667       731       602       535      653       739       884       871       900
.......    .......... .......    ........... .......    ........... .......    ........... ..... ...... ...... ... .................. ...
Income (Loss) Before Taxes                (802)    (321)    (301)    (753)  (1,479)  (1,682)  (1,113)    (738)    (663)
33umn   V=jM swa ma  uns,s   sUzaa= un suum    naU"Us   0=U = u sa  aun*==   usuagau
.----------------------------YD/Ton .............
Average Sates Price                        609       753       747       897       763      856    1,087        896       751
Average Cost of Sates                      405       464       467       664       569      706       822       642       488
.......    ..........  .. .........    .......    ........... .......    ........... .......    .......... ...................... ......... ....
Gross margin                               204       288       280       233       194      1S0       265       254       263
Operating Expenses                         234       261       262       304      416       300       312       276       263
Depreciation                                75        8?        74        71        75       91        93        88       104
Income (Loss) 8efore Taxes                 (90)      (38)      (37)    (101)    (169)    (206)    (117)         (74)      (77)
FILE NANE: NCFM1
05/20/91



- 60 -
AMNEX2
Table 2
REPUMLIC OF X=4E
FOURT FISHERIES MEEOPMEN PROJEC
Naional Ggorgation for Hsh IMarketinu
Historical Balance Sheets
(YD '000)
Year:                                               19l5     19       1967      98      190
,..... ._.   ....  ....       ..... ....
ASSETS
Cumnt Assets
..............                      ............... 
Cash ad Sewrities                                    35       49        75 2i s
swk AccoUnts                                         16       122      508      242      392
Acc4mts ReceIvabte                                 1,31S    1.2l   1821    1,089    1.123
Nfsellteos Acconts Recivable                          33       9?      111
other Recelvabtes                                  1,09      a4        T41      107      104
Accrued Receivables 
Goods in Transit                                     174     205       U84      654      642
Materilts                                           855       758      767    1,171    1,113
fish Inventory                                      551      5S2       567      738      932
.....     ......... .......     .......... ....... .....................
Totat Current Assets                                176   3,908    4,779    4,29?   4,S99
.....:  .......  ....... ....... .......
Fixed A8ses
............
gros  fixed Assets                                9,876   10,028   14,623   15.277   15,292
Less: Acctmuated DepWeciation                     3,017    3,579    4,028    4,942    5,83
=........................ .......... ....... ............  
Not fixed Assts                                   6,859    6,449   10.595   10,335    9,46
Total Asets                                      11,03   1tO,357   1534   14,62   14,05
LIABILITIES AD EQUITY
,......................
Current Liablities
,...................
Asuets Payanbe                                    2,73    2,909   3,825    2,317    1,837
rt-term Lt a8s                                      697    1,069    1,1S3    1,46      1,89
oeposits/uareantees                                             I       Be
Digcwts/1oeution  Staf Satlries                                20       1B
COt   Accourns P*abte                                15?     s8       5S4       665      749
Accrwd Accuwts Pyable                               35S      295
.. * ........          .......   ....................... ..........
total Cret Liabiitfs                              3,942    4,830 5,60    4,446    4,478
......... .. ........... ..........  ....... .......... .......
Equity
Capitat ad Reserves                               11,320   1,447   16,756   18,326   18,326
R1etined Earninp                                  (4,22?) (5,9"0)  (7,012) (8,136) (6,748)
....... .......          .         . ..... ...... ............... ...... ...
otl Equty                                          7093    5,477   9.744   10,168   9.578
...... ....... .......    .......... ....... .....................
Toul Libftitn  nd E ty                            11,0I5   10,3S?   15.37    14,634   14,06
Current Ratio                                        1.1     0.8       0.8      1.0      1.0
lack Rtio                                            0.7      0.5      0.6      0.4      0.4
Acoenws Reeivable (Days)                             79      7?         64       30       32
Acsot Payablate(a                                   238 o)             209      171      223
Fish lawentry too")                                  40       35        26      43       81
FIL  I: 
os/W91



- 61 *
Table 1
REPUL   O 
M=  FIj&t5BE-
Coogaratin and Agriculeure CrAdit Bank
Historical tngm   Seatm=na
(YR1s 'I000)
1985    196      19T8     1988    1989
..*... ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ..       ..      ...      ...      ..
SanIcing                                  54,756   63,046  88831   7.321   L,396
Tradfig                                    t,54    7,530      654   ,.668   8,424
Total tncom                                72,296   70,576   89.485   80,989  72,820
........ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ .. ;    ....  . ;; Wi
Eipet noms
aanking                                   40,n7   52.669  61,192   67,031   ?1,761
trading                                    2,M        In       269   6.992    1,763
.... ...... ............ ....... ...........  ....... .......... .
total 5xPmes                               43,016  52,8L4  61,461   74,023  73,524
Prof ftCLoss) B*for* Provisions
........................
Banking                                   14,032  10.37?  27,639   5,290   (7.365)
Trairng                                   15,24S   7.355       385    1,676   6,661
Total Prof it Bft  Prov iOons              29,280   ii;n    28.024    6,96       (704)
Provisions
..........
Doubtul Accounts                                    9.947   20,061    7,802        0
Oporecitfan                                         2,153    3,518    3.633   3,4?8
Other                                               2.677      689      689      689
Total Provisinm                            19,18    1        24,268   12,124   4,16
N*t tincom  (LOSS)                          10,096  2,.55    3.736   (5,1s5) (4,871)
FILS VWME: CACt3



*62
AM= 
Tabl* 2
REPIILc OF
POUfTh  !RUER  DVKIIWEqT PRoJrc?
Cooareta  i= Au =teuTur  Cr1eAi13*
(ills '000)
As of ofter 31S                               1985    196       1967    198      1989
.... ....        .........        ....
AISSETS
Cub In land and at Sank                    129.150 254,202 255.677 24,820  184,368
LOI an Advances
..................
wrt-tter Loan                             40,11?  41,996  49.7,   52,336  S3,635
edhulmtwre Loao                          307,013 331.949 310.289 312.669  330.,
Long-ta  LoM                                  4   12.017  14.005   t5,000   20,9-8
Loans to Coaaewtivs                        4,947   2,300  11.321   12,168   7,64
Ote Advanues                                        3.713   3,431    2.766   2,031
Toutl Loan                              352,121  39 ',97  3U,.974 394,93     415,004
Less: Ptovtsiam                           33,486  43,42   63,493   71,295   71,m
.... ......... ..... -*..... ....... .......... .......
tet Loom *nd AdvawaS                    3186,35 348,545  325,481  323,6LC  343,709
GtU   R oivsblee                            58,286  J,On  101.819  121.641  125,59
intentorite                                 25,350   5.1a3   3,63  66,58   51.054
investments                                 24,523  24,507  24.507  24,507  27.975
fixed Assts                                  9,692  25,160  2V,796   26.153   25.479
Projects tndert ptelematatian                2.4L7   2,403    1.534    3.406   5,265
6faremd LaTpsa"                                354             1,379      690     266
Totat Assets                              598,437 747,073  741,866 811,409  763,574
UZASILITS AND MStrl
_.................................. 
Depoits
Curr.tt Accouts                            21,M0  120,784  30,432  37.72    51,516
Current Accounts of CsOWatt ves           89,502  52,484  113,105  145,319  91.275
Sav4ing Accounts                             585      623    5so        32S     330
Totat De"osits                           111,967 17,891  144,245  183.368  143,121
Acxwints and giltt Pavabte                  41,072  46,72  40,672  63.92t  109,250
Current Natwities of  oreung                     0        0   3,951    4,"6   0,147
Psmwiu I duities                             7,045      538   1.451    2.410    1,744
Oth  PrfvsIas                                    0        0        0   5,219   6,7M
......... ....... 
Local Loa                                 9l,75   173,43   1U¶9O  156,075  100,000
foesn Loan                                114,784  118,755  129,56   149,315  163,745
Governt f frwi*L Svpwt                      3.943  1S,432  20,64   47,58?  12.21.?
Os ....... ..........* ......... ..... .....-..- 
Total l    toe "m                        217,48  3,60  333,391  35,97   25,991
Loss C41et Nestrtt                                           3,f5l   4,96   8,147
... .... .......  ......  ... ...* .......
Tot  Nt 1e  rorws                        217,488 307,0 329,140 347.961 287.8
Tott LiIftfes                            377,57   52.21 519,759   07,900  3,661
Wtty
o" Captlt                                 1W,802  19,802 196,0  198,602   a,hlV
*a bves                                     9,490   9.40    9,"8      9,66    9,
1afed Earns                                12.575  10,060   13,439  (5,19) (10,030)
..   ... ..... .......0 .......0 .... ...
Toalt Wity                               2 ,? 216,35  t22,1?   s,5            4,712
Tofta Lfabi11ftf5 VW W   ty              5" t43  747,073 741,64  811,409  743.574
Comtf t Lfabtitfe                             7,830  26,75    5,250    8,73   36,
FIL VMIIS CA S3



-63                                                   4
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOURTM  El1RR          DEELPMnT PROJECT
Financial Results of geh  CooiperativeA
Financial Ratios 2_/
gstimated Cash Flow 1J                    Prof it (LOSS)               ...
................................,..,...-....-.......................            C    urrent     Quick LT Debt/
1986     1987  t988         1989      t1       1987      1988      1989       Ratio    Ratio   tquity
....~~~~~- -                    ....  .     ....  ....   . . ....    .......  ....   .....  .... ........ ... ........ ... ... .................. ...
Coopwatives         ............ YO #ODQ ............  ............. o '          ............
Located
In Project Area:
.................
Mukalla               40.5      39.5    60.0       59.0        3.1   (11.0)      8.2      24.S         1.4       0.8       0.0
Shfhr                 51.3      89.2   132.8       88.1       14.1    39.7      78.5      23.5         2.4       1.5       0.2
Diss/Al Mai                    48.0   103.8       71.6                 4.8     58.7      36.5         1.9       1.3      10.2
Ouas.r                61.3    8S.2   171.0    140.4           (4.2)   25.7    102.1       S9.S         3.2       2.0       0.5
saybut                13.8      38.6      2.8      67.8       (5.7)   16.0    (19.7)    11.4           1.2       1.0       2.5
cooperatives
located in Rest
of the Country:
Al Sande               (3.1)    15.7    14.2                  (6.8)   12.0       8.6                   0.5       0.3       0.0
Al GCidha                       56.3    14.7       41.S                23.0    (17.9)      7.5         1.0       0.6       0.0
Sir Alf               18.0      29.3      2.4                 13.9    24.7      (1.2)                  2.?       2.2       0.4
Gulf of Aden           8.5      10.5    62.4                 (37.8)  (33.1)   (42.1)                   2.3       1.7       0.2
Ras Al Arm             N/A       N/A      N/A                 (2.6)   (0.3)    (0.6)                   3.6       2.8       0.0
Of sn                  (8.8)     2.4      3.7                (22.6)   (8.7)    (6.?)                   0.5       0.4       0.0
Socotre               23.5    (20.2)   47.0                    8.8   (32.1)   (28.7)                   1.1       1.0       1.1
Sbuqr                 12.2      (1.4)   16.8       15.4      (¶.t1)   (9.3)      5.6       4.6         1.2       1.0 M"e. Eq.
..... ......... ....... ....... .     ... ....... .......... ..... ........ ..................
TOTAL                217.2    393.1   631.6                  (57.9)   51.4    144.8
...................
IJ Cah ftow 8 Profit (Lo") # Oeprefatf on. Deprecfation Includes onl' boats, eVines end gears.
Deprecfatfon for bufldfngs and vehicles, a relatively smller cost,  s not roWted as a  erate espn. item.
2J   For virtuatly all th  coopatives, ratios aer  based on 1968 finmnct accounts.
Sam: Ministry of Ffsh lith
FILE KMEs COOPSUI
03/29/9t



- 64 -
EMR= FSIRISDRRONN  PROJCTW
Proposod F       eria  Factiftaa t     Sumiasy)
Unit of
Measure-                        Oiss/
Location:                   ment   Mukalta      Shihr   At Rami  Al CGrn    Guaseyr   Musainah    Sayhut         Aden
CIVIL WORKS
...............
Fish teceiving Shed           m2       200        225       114       1S0                  S32
Cooperative Office            .2                                      106                    100
Engine Uorkshop               m2        40         25                 110                    110         25
Boat Repair Area              m2        160       120                  160                   160        160
Vehicle Shade                 m2        207
Staff mousing '2                                                                             110
Access Road                   Ka                                      4.5 1/                1.75
Surfacing                     .2     4,800
Fencing                        s       370
enerator House                                                          X            X         X          X
Electrical Installation                   X         X         X         X                      X          X
Fresh Water Supply                        X         X         X                                X          X
Sea Water Supply                                                        X                      X
Sewerage                                  X         X         X         X                      X          X
Fish Market Rehabilitation               X
Rousing for Fishermen       Unit                                                               6 3J
Soat Repair Facilities
and Workshop                                                                      X
Fiberglass Con-
struction Yard CCFC)       .                                                                                    600
EGUMPMENT
lee Plant                   Tons                                                              15
Ice Store                   Tons                              5         5                     30         10
Chilt Store                 Tons          5        10         5          5                    20
Generator                    KVA                                   2x50 Xo 2_   x 90                      X2_
............... 4.............................. 
IJ   t nrovamnt Is only for 4.5 K, stutfng trfm Al  ent towads  ew min Wukallt-Ss$w nred
total lenth of this road to about .8 Kmu.
2J  Capacfty to be determined by am conutants.
3/  Six hewing blocs, each for about 65 fltterwn.
FILE  Ms  VILISMI
04/01/91



RUgLgC OF YEKE1N
FOURTH FISHERIES DEVEWPIEN  PRJC
Proposed Training Program
No. of  No. of
Nber         No. of              Cote   Trile                                 toCos.
of Coope      People/     No. of  owing  During               wbere Courses   Duratlon
core Course ContenA          ratives   Cooperatfve  Trainees  ProJect ProJect            Vould be Given      Days
Training for Coopetative   ................................ ..... .                      ... ....... ..    -.-.-.-..  ........
... ..._..........
1. InItial Training
...............
Senior    _ agmnt         coop. Orgmnization &  atnagpent          13            2         26        2       52    Coop. Institute, Adbn         30
Stat. *nd Plan. OffiCe"s Statistics nd Pmnning Acounts             13            2         26        2       52    Coqp. institute, Aden         60
Accounts Office#          Accounting                               13            2         26        2       52    Coop. Institute. Aden         60
Cooperative II trs        Principles of Cooperation & Credit                    S0         50       30    1,500    Locnt Coop. office             7
2. Refresher Curses
.................
Drivers                   Fish Nandhrig and Trasnport                           10         10        13      130    Local Coop. Office            3
Stt. t,nd Plan. Off1cers Statistics  tnd  olaming Ae'tt            13            2         26        2       52    Coop. Institute, Adn          14
Accouts Officers          Accounting                               13            2         26        2       S2    Coop. Institute, den          14
Training for PocessIng
Facilitfes Staff:
.......................
1. Initiat Training
...............
lef riggratimn Nech i-es   Refrigeratfon                                        20         20        1       20   fMSC Aden                      30
Vebicle tendbfnes         Rotor Vehicle Repairs                                 20         20        1       20    FDtC, Aden                    30
farine Engine sehanica   I6oard and Outboard Eng.Repefrs                        20         20         1      20    FNDC, Aden                    30
Cold tes supervisors      fieb Nandling and Storag                              10         10        1       10    fDC, Aden                     30
Skippsrs, fidham.         Post-barvest Care of Cotch                            50         S0       20    1,000    Louct Coop. Office             3
2. Refnrea    Coses
.................
Orives                    Fisb handinlg end Trasport                            10         10        6       60    Local Coop. Off ice            2
Refetion  e         ics   Refritin                                              20         20        1       20   fROC, Aden                      3
Vehiceo N11_niCs          Ro to       r V ehicle Repairs                        20         20        1       20    MC, Ade                        3
lrin  Enbwin 0echwfcs   Ished and   t            Eng.1epeis                     20         20        1        20    VISC, Aden                   .3
Cold Row S*ervisors       fish  Ndling ad Storgte                               10         10        1       10    fISC, Aden                     3
Trainine   of  l  Achitects  Training In Navat Architecture                          2          2        1        2    Naval Architecture       4 yrs
..........................S Schools Abroad
NM   Scientists               Iraining In mlrin  resource _sessment                  3          3        3        3    Schools Abroad           I vest
................
Stud  Tows                    Cooperatives in Other Countries                        2          2        1        2    Relevnt Countries        1 sonth
TOTAL                                                                                                92    309
FILE NAI: TRtAINING
03/2091/



* 66 -
AMU7
Page 1 of 3
RK?UJI=C OF YEMEN
FOUw uII       ; IMUY  D UmEN PROmICT
Develonment o   omen in Fishing Communities
Kev Issues
1.      To alleviate the social, cultural and economic constraints
encountered by women in ROY, the Government's existing development plans
and programs should be expanded and adjusted in their design and
implementation, to enable women to become self reliant participants in the
development process. Furthermore, it is important to involve the
concerned ministries and institutions, training agencies and women's
organizations throughout the planning and implementation of the program;
without this involvement, the proposed program could suffer from lack of
technical assistance and institutional support.
2.      The low educational standards of women in ROY's fishing
communities have a negative effect on information transfer and acceptance
of new technologies. Women in ROY's fishing communities, however, do not
perceive basic education (literacy) as a basic need. Labor saving devices
and practical vocational training are considered more desirable, since
they render immediate results. Hence, to obtain a substantial
participation of women in the proposed program, it is imperative to tailor
adult education courses to women's immediate needs.
3.      Social and educational programs targeted at women in fishing
communities should be flexible in time and location. Women are often
unable to attend courses outside their home villages, not only because of
socio-cultural constraints against traveling outside their communities,
but also duc. to their commitment to agricultural and household duties,
which cannot be left unattended. Hence, community development centers or
schools seem to be acceptable and sultable locations for women's meetings.
PROPOSED WOMEN' S DEVELOPMEN PROGRAM
Objective
4.        The main objective of the program would be to improve the
potentlal of women in fishing villages in the Hadrasawt Governorate, to
enable them to participate in the overall development of their community.
Scone of the Program
S.      The pr9gram's objective would be achieved through the
implementation of a comprehenslve, needs orionted program. The program
would be carried out in additLon to and in cooperation with exlstlng
extenilon activities and ongoLng programs, ln tho fields of: fisheries
development, child care, primary health, home economics, home industries,
animal husbandry and farming.



* 67 -
ANNZ 7
Pasge 2 of 3
Outli1n of th  Progrm
6.      The program would consist of:
(a)   A functional literacy/numeracy and non-formal adult
educatlon program:
(i)   literacy/numeracy;
(iL) child care, primary health, home economics;
($ii) basics of fish processlng, farming, animal husbandry;
(iv) social topics (analysis of problems, needs,
priorities, activities)
(b)   Vocational training:
(i)   fish processing (fish filleting, packing, storage,)and
marketing;
(ii) animal husbandry;
(iii) farming;
(iv) small scale enterprises/marketlng;
(v)   clothing production;
(vi) administrative services;
(c)   Rehabilitation/construction of community development
centers;
(d)   Pilot credit scheme for women.
Dfetailed Description of the Program
7.      The main aim of the program is to uplift the educational level of
rural women and to create opportunlties for women to acquire the necessary
knowledge and skills. The existing communities development centers in the
villages would be improved and some new facilities constructed. The
instructors, selected preferably from the villages, would receive
orientation training to: develop need oriented curricula; improve their
teaching skills; acquaint them with a participatory approach in the
courses; and organize the community development centers.
8.      Assistance would also be provided to the expansion of the sewing
cooperative of Mukalla, which was established in 1974. Membership in the
cooperative is principally open to women, whether they prefer to work at
home or in the cooperative's two shops. Under the proposed program,
improvements would be made to the cooperatlve's facilities and sewing
machines would be imported to help create employment opportunities for
women ln the project area. The management of the cooperative is also
willing to open branches in the Hadramawt governorate.
9.      The proposed program would also encourage women's participation in
flsh processing. There is a lack of skills and knowledge within the
fLsheries cooperatives and the NatLonal Corporation for Fish Marketing
(NCF)) on matters such as: fLsh handling, processing, quality control,



* 68 -
ANEX 7
Page 3 of 3
packaging. Training of women in fish processing skills, through pilot
activities in the fishing villages, would improve the fish processing and
marketing capacity of the fisheries cooperatives.
10. Income earning activities for women would require in most instances
some initial start-up capital. A pilot credit program for women would be
introduced by the CACB, from its own resources. The pilot credit would be
introduced by CACB with the help of the Credit Adviser, assisted by a
female National Extension Coordinator, both attached to the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU). The loans to women would be mainly channeled
through the fisheries cooperatives and guaranteed by the Ministry of
Fisheries. L ans to women not belonging to the fisheries cooperatives
would be secured through group guarantees. Sessions would be organized by
CACB, with the assistance of PIU, in fishing villages to acquaint women on
the nature of credit available and the responsibilities of the borrowers
of such credit. Training would also be provided by the Credit Advisor to
the female extension workers of the PIU on: loan processing; credit risk
assessment; and loan collection.



- 69 -
AUL
Suimarv  oe fo,     eal ongtaeane.
total        tWA        tFA          tiC
......... * ......   .............   ........   .............
--.........   *6vS:affi               : . h.-. . '.'''
INItSTRY OF FISHERIES
......... ............... .....
fisheries Sector Advisor                    24                                  24
Marine Fisheries Consultants                 18                                 18
Subtotal                                42                                  42
SUPPOlT FOR FISHERY COOtPtATIVES/CEOtT
.......................................
fisheries Cooperative/Credit Expert         30           30
FISH STOCK MANAGEMENT
.....................
Stock Assessmnet Specialist                  so                                 30
Consultants                                  12                                 12
Envirorewntal Scientists                      8                                  a
........                          ......
SubtOtat                                50                                  so
4£VELOPYFNT OF WOMEN IN FtSHERltS
..............................
Expatrfate Coordinator                       24                      24
PROJECT OESIGN, TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Project Coordinator                          60          12                     48
Navat Archftect: Soat Design                 12                                 12
Navel Architect: goat Procurement             3                                  3
Fishing Gear Consultant                       6                                  6
ConsuLting Engineers: Design                 24                                 24
Consulting Enginers: Contr. Supe¶.          129                                129
NCfP: Mnagement Advisor                      18                                 18
Auditors for NCFM, CFC and PIU               18          18
............  ......               ......
Subtotal                               270           30                    240
TOTAL                                 416           60         24         332
FILE MAKE: TECHASSI
03/31/91



- 70 -
ANEX 9
Page 1 of 5
FOURTH FIS6RIKS =I&P2NENT nPR=JXCT
Terms of Reference for Project's MULn Tecbnical Advisers
Project Adviser (6Q staffmonths
(1)   Monitor the construction of civil works and the procurement and
installation of equipment.
(2)   Coordinate the procurement of material for building boats,
engines, fishing gear, trucks and other equipment, in
cooperation with Coastal Fisheries Corporation (CFC), and the
Ministry of Fisheries (MF).
(3)   Together with the fisheries cooperative/credit consultant,
monitor closely the selling arrangements agreed to with regard
to sale of outboard engines and fishing gear to fishermen.
(4)   Supervise the work of the fisheries credit consultant in: (i)
the assessment of applications for credit from fishermen; and
(ii) in ensuring that they subsequently meet their financial
obligatiens.
(5)   Oversee PIU's work in the coordination of the activities of the
adult education, vocational training and women development
component.
(6)   Supervise the implementation of the training program proposed
under the project.
(7)   Supervise: (i) the maintenance of the project's accounts; (ii)
the preparation of progress reports to IDA , other financing
institutions and relevant Government departments; (iii) arrange
for auditing of all project accounts.
Flsheries Coogerative/Credit Consultant (30 staffmonthbs
(1)   Review the financial accounts and operations of each
cooperative and prepare a detailed restructuring plan,
including projected cash flows, with a view to ensuring
financially sound operations.
(2)   Within the context of the above, review the bases used in
determining the prices for the services (such as sale of ice,
cold store space, chilled store space, workshop services,
anchor fees, etc.) which the cooperatives offer, and for which
fishermen/traders pay a price. Make necessary recommendations,



- 71 -
Page 2 of 5
to ensure that prices charged fully cover operating and
overhead costs and provide the cooperatives with a reasonable
margin.
(3)   Analyze and make proposals on how CACB, MF, individual
fisheries cooperatives, private fishermen and women engaged in
the fisheries sector would work together to ensure partnership
and more active coordination in fishery lending.
(4)   Advise and assist MF and CACB in preparing the detailed terms
and conditions and guidelines for operations of the proposed
fishery credit scheme, in the form of a loan manual, that
specifies in detail, among other things, the loan application,
appraisal, approval, disbursement supervision and collection
procedures.
(5)   Monitor the implementation of the proposed fisheries credit
scheme.
(6)   Assist the Project Adviser in supervising the implementation of
the training program for cooperatives.
Management Adviser (INCFM) (18 staffmonthsb
(1)   Assist NCPL in revising their business plan and operating
schedules, taking account of the changes which have taken place
in the sector, and in initiating its implementation and
subsequent monitoring. In this context, review existing
planning and martagement information systems, suggest
improvements and design reports for management's use.
(2)   Analyze and advise NCFW management on proposals for joint
venture and joint marketing arrangements.
Women Develogent. Extension Coordinator (PEl) (24 staffmonths)
(1)   Guide, coordinate and facilitate the implementation of the
women development program in the fisheries village communities,
in close cooperation with the national extension coordinator
and the different parties involved.
(2)   Provide training and support to the national extension
coordinator and to the extension workers in: (i) the collection
of baseline data; and (ii) establishment of monitoring and
evaluation system for the women development program.
(3)   Assist the national extension coordinator and the extension
workers in the organization of the training and support of the
link workers and of the vocational training program.
(4)   Upgrade the curricula for adult education, in close cooperation
with the different parties involved.



- 72 -
NNEX9
Page 3 of 5
Boat Procurement Short-term Consultant ( 3 staffmonthbs
(1)   Review technical and economic performance of existing CFC
intermediate technology vessels.
(2)   Evaluate the suitability of present intermediate technology
boat design of CFC owned vessels in the changing technical and
economic environment in Republic of Yemen (ROY).
(3)   Assist CFC in preparing tender documents and generic
performance specifications for procurement of intermediate
technology vessels.
Naval Architect for GRP Boats (12 staffmonths)
(1)   Review existing design of boats built by CFC and their use, as
well as the boat construction process.
(2)   In close cooperation with CFC, suggest improvements to the
present designs and production methods, including the cost
effectiveness of the production process.
(3)   Evaluate the performance of the improved designs after their
introduction.
Fisheries Resource Assessment and Management S2ecialist (30 staffmonths)
(1)   Guide and coordinate MSRRI in the collection and interpretation
of data needed for the assessment of the state of exploitation
of fish stocks in ROY.
(2)   Assess the need for measures to manage exploitation of specific
fish stocks, analyze which management measures would be most
appropriate and assess the likely implications of such measures
in terms of biological, economic and social aspects.
(3)   Prepare detailed training manuals which specify stock
assessment methods relevant to ROY, which would help staff of
MSRRI applying those techniques in the future.
(4)   Assist management of MSRRI in annually updating its assessment
of the state of exploitation of fish stocks.
(5)   Help MSRRI identify computer programmes which could help in
making fish resource assessments, and train staff of MSRRI in
the use of these programmes.
Fisheries Statistician ( 12 staffmonths)
(1)   Advise MSRRI in what way it should collect fish catch and
fishing effort data from traditional and industrial fisheries



- 73 -
ANE
Page 4 of 5
in ROY, relevant for the assessment of the state of
exploitation of fish stocks.
(2)   Advise MSRRI and MF what method should be used to estimate fish
catches and vessel operations, and how such data should be
processed.
(3)   Specify what data should be collected, and prepare all forms,
manuals and guidelines necessary for the continuous collection,
processing and publication of data by staff of NF and MSRRI.
(4)   Assist MSRRI in obtaining computer programmes for processing of
data, and train staff of MSRRI in the use of these programmes.
Marine Scientist (8 staffmonths)
(1)   prepare a qualitative ecological description of the coastal
habitats of ROY, including Perim and Socotra, extending from
the upper shore to 10 m depth.
(2)   Prepare an ecological classification of the types of marine
habitat, and a coastal map showing the locations of each site.
(3)   Prepare a detailed ecological description of proselected sites,
which would include a sketch plan and sufficient quantitative
and distributional data to allow subsequent re-survey to
identify change.
(4)   List the location of sites with special interest to be
considered for protection within the National Plan for
Management of the Coastal Zone.
Fisheries Sector Adviser for HF (24 manmonthsa
(1)   Analyze the traditional and industrial fishing operations, fish
marketing, sector support services and fishery policies, and
assist MF to develop a sector development strategy for the
1990's. Assist MF in the preparation of annual development
plans to implement the above strategy.
(2)   Assist MF in putting into effect a program for monitoring the
effects of the ongoing liberalization process, and advise on
measures necessary to address identified problems.
(3)   Assist MF in reaching a consensus on further adjustment of
fishery sector policies, notably concerning industrial fishing,
fish imports, and the future role of NCFR.
(4)   Assist MF in strengthening fisheries resource management
policies and their implementation.



- 74 -
ANNM9
Page 5 of 5
(5)   Analyze and make proposals for the future role of MP, and
assist in designing and implementing institutional adjustment.
(6)   Develop a clearly defined training program for medium and top
level managers of MF.
Consultants for greparing Investment Program for-the Industrial Fisheries
Sector (l8 manmgnths)
(1)   Assess, with the Fisheries Sector Adviser, the future role of
the industrial fishing sub-sector, taking into account existing
joint-venture arrangements, and the nature of current
industrial fishing and processing operations, market
requirements, and resource constraints.
(2)   With MSRRI determine the nattre of the fish resource management
systems likely to prevail i. the future.
(3)  Assess the iRterest of private parties to invest in the sub-
sector, their experience in industrial fishing, capital
resources and overseas marketing contacts.
(4)   Review the current availability in the country to handle larger
fishing vessels, maintenance and supply arrangements, and port
entry and departure regulations.
(5) Assess the availability of foreign exchange and procedures for
financing construction or acquisition of foreign vessels, and
assess whether current procedures are adequate to provide such
financial service.
(6) Determine whether the Government should remain involved in
industrial fishing operations, and if so, how current
arrangements should be adjusted to achieve efficient
operations.
(7)   Develop an investment program for the industrial sector, which
would detail the participation of the private and publlc sector
in the inlvestment program, the public support for the program,
including financial, credit and resource management policies,
and the need for and nature of future foreign assistance.



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOUtTH FISHERIES DEV PMENT PROJECT
Summary Accounts - Cost Summary
.... .... ........ ............. .............................. ........................................................... ... ....................................
I total &                                                          total
2 foreign  Base                                                              e Ira se ba
1ocal        oreign         total       fuchange   Costs        tocal       Ifoisn           lotal       ltctang     Costs
ss:X::s:ns: *tts:n:nn :ntz::::sn:: 2::S::::: 22:2:2 : e::::s::::: :s:;,4t:f:::s::sSs:5:S:; ::sss::5: 5fl55fl
1. iuSsiElm costs
._.,...........
c     ativas                                 ?87.3n6.2 7 . 443. 3n. 4  2.230. 681.6           65        IS  1. 70. SW6. 9  3. t30. 92. 8  4 8 734. 7.7         6S        IS
tSMRR                                          17.085.0      3S. 386.8      52.471 8          67         0     31.760S.       76.760.9      113.UI2.6         6S          0
tisbing C_mnlItes                            110.081.0      113.023.2    273. 104. 2          St        2    238.187 4    245.169.6    483.917.0               St         2
CIC                                           80.400.0       85.t86.1    166.18t. t           S2         1    174.403 S    116.081.0    360.490. 4             S2         t
... -------  -------  --------  -------................. .. .. .. .... .. ........ .... ..... I... ........ ..... ...... ....... .
Sub-total MIeIt  OUNS                           "4.89?.2  t.677.511   4  2.672.443.6              63       IS  2.1# .111.5  3.638.940 2  51797,051.1               63       is
8. 30O8  CIWSIIRCIIOU                            313.41S. 3    690.132.4  1,034.441.1             6S        t    810.662.2  1.498133510  2.38.97.2 62                        7
torasti¶es                                    23.811.4    482.724 S    106.,35.9              95         3      1. 61. 6  1.0417124.6   .o,i8.t76.3            95         3
Otlh   fquitent                                11.025.2     184 101.3    191.132.             94         t     23191S.8       M9.361. S    423.260.9           94         t                            t
.. __. .... ... _. __..... _....... ......... _..__. ......... .__. __.._. ... ............. ..._____. ... ._. _.... ._. . ___......... ._. _. ...... .......
st4-total  LoVtPUINI                              34.836.6    65ti6831.8    701,668.4            95         S      71.167.4  1.446,469.1  t.S22.05r.2              95        S
0.  ...1.51                                                                                                                                                                                              U'
for "arbtlltng                               30,284.0    613.942.4    644.226.4              9f        4      65,697.0  1.331,762.3  1.M.41S4.3               9S        4
11stis, ScIenoe                                   991.6      20.102.s       21.094.1          91         0       2, 11.0      43.,6.4        45.751.4          95         0
othetr Vehicles                               3,966.4       80.410.2       84.378.6          9S           t      .603.9     114.421.S      183.029.4          95         I
................ ............ ................... ...........  . .. ........ ...... ...... ...   ,..... ..... ...... .,..... .. ........., .,,,,_......
St&-total VItRiCtS                                35.242.0    114.455.1    149697 I               n         s      76.446.9  1.549.194.2  1.621.241.1              95        S-
t. tishing Vessels nd Gsars
Uoats                                        423.S07.0    671.81t.3  1,101.324.3              62        8    918.610.3  I.470.319.6  2.388.99i.a               62         t
tqisms                                        91.346.0  1.973.4tt.1  2.010,624.S              91        14    211 162.6  4,260,864.1  4,492.02t.2              95        14      -.
thasigq  f"rs                                 181.372.9  1.966.820.5  2.1 2.193.4             9I       Is    402, 110.5  4.266.421.9  4.668.532.3              91       5I
Inteidlto tlack. Vessels                      67.000.0  1,358.2t9.t  1. 42  279.7             95       tO     14S.336.2  2.946.376.8  3.091.7113.0             91       10
toastal Isaercb vessel                         2.010.0       40. 7484       42,718.           91        0       4.360. I      o. 391. 3      9. 751. 4         9S        0
. ..................... ....... .... ......  .................. . ........... .......  ....... ....... . . .............. ..... ....... .. ..  ......... .......................
Su-16total1 isIing Vessels and Gears             771.231.9  tILOt. 144. 4  6.792.380.3            9       47  1.6S1.639.1 13.052.314.1 14.734,013.8                89       47
I. "*Uw1ells6 PIlI ION                                          98. 614.0      98, 64.0         100         I                   214.000.0    214, "0.0            too        I
6. 78itItIG PROGRltS
..          ~~....................
Cooperattesa-intiaI Itrsintg                  61.037.0                      61 03t.0           -        0      3240t.3                      132.401.3                    0
Coeeralis-fIaresbr Courses                    34, 11.6               -       4.558 6           -        0      74,964.4               -      14,964.4                    0
trainIgq Naval Architects                             -    114.381.4    114.381.4            100         I                   24111 S.9    248.   . .9         to00        I
tratning  in Marine Sciene                     3.216.0       28.023.15      31.239.5          90        0       6,976. 1      60.188 .4      67. 764.1         90        0
........... .... ........ ............ ......... .......  .... .... ... . ....... .... ..... ....... . ..... ... .... ....
Sub-total  tIlAIlCN  PIOGRIII  S                  98.11.6    142404.9        241.216.1 S9                  2    214.341.9    308.904 3    123.246.2              S9         2
U. ItWalCAt ASSISiSlI                           201.206.t  1.1V.27I. I  1.8t6.481.2             89        12    436.4SS.   3.S03.860.S  3.940.306.3               89       12
lotat INVISINEXI COStS                             . S13.939.6  ll.623.049.2  14. 136.988.8          82       97  S.453.231.3 2. 212 688.0 30.661.919.3               62       97                'd      1
hytela  contingelc is                           218.091.1  1.164t 2t4.6  1422.36S.S             82        10    559.810.5  tS25.54t.S  3.081.392.0                U2       10                03 
Pres  tontiongenies                           4. 192,01 2 22. 632. 324. 5 27.224,381.?           83      18t    829 22ti 0  4.044.t4t.S  4.833.9S7.1              83        iS               °   0 
tetal IlCIUOIUG CCUIlIU PIICES          . t        364.086.9 35.419.046.4 42,783.736.3              83      294  6.842.30t.8 31.182.911.1 38.621.278.9                82      122       _
_- . ....  .  . __ _ ..........5s*s:Xssts:   s:sss:sss*:s ssas2*:SS*3s: u5s2:a55:5 :sss ass:s5z ::ssWszssssas s,:ss:sssassT asts:,    s::sSea                        s0                  C)
0   0



REP-UBLIC OF YEME
FURTH FISR   DEVEL,OPMENT PROJECT
SUM111ary Accounts - Cost Summary (contd.)
II. Ios iit costs
"I SAtS
Ink  StUt                                 243.853.2*    243.083.2                                   2    528.965.?              -      28.9S5.?                   2
SW-toat SImitS                                243.851.s2,                 243. 653. 2         -        2    S28. 9S. 7                   58 9S5.t           -       2
IL anol"UtSEiS                                 16.4110                     176.411.0          -        1    302.6.2                 -    382.670.3           -
._.................   ....... .... ...........  ............ ............... ......... .......  ........... ... ... ......  ......... ... ..... .... ..... ... . ...
lat 91ttUiN l tIISiS                              420.t64.2                    420.264.2           *             911.636.0                   911.636.0                    3
yIb    l Cota iIupmci                           42.026.4                    42.026.4                    0     91. 163.6                    91. 163. 6                 0
friCa toiaStein                                9M3.62a.               -    953.628             -        1    163. 613.3                   163.613.3           -        I
total  KUtisUM S tilwauttits                    1. 41S.918SM I              1. 41s.91ta1                  16  1.16S.412.9                 . .l66.4t2.9           -        4
blet  "sMilo  SoStS                              2.934.203.0 tt. 673.049?  14.S5?.253 0           80      tOO  6.3F4.8t 13 25.212. '8. 011 $?1".555.4           tO       100
4lqts1 t wt4er_                                 200. M1.1  1. 164.,M4.6S  1. 4.39. I           Be       10    S5.0 14.   2.%25.54t.5  3. M75.56               B0      tO
Ut kg   t ti I   iss 5. 54S.685.3 22. 6".324.5 28. 118 009.0                                  60      194    992.639.3  4.044.141. 5.031S,500.                        is 16
* ...                               ....... .......... ................ ...... .........  ............  ........... ............... ... ............... .......... .............. .. 
.tot  PRJEc; t4SIS                                         S 080.000.6 3     .9 S48.4 44. 1    65. 0  60  304  8 00.720. 131.762.911 I 39.191.691.8              60      126
22*4usslass t%:t$tzsttXtt  94212tettett  :MS22138 X*t S*lf    ItSasatt::   ::S:s: %3:t:a*324:X  t8**2VV0 823:*:2
I~
ftf6 IS. 11  If: t'3                                                                                                                                                                                    °
00 
.W 
0



ea ma lowIs"
11366,' la6.2)4'lt#1162 3101's4.4446008M  SI'm1 4019181 Ii *u.*    VU'i ''s ,'ar  gMI 11141110$31's 458248     eve                        $1111 Isam   PM.6
21288 S* *120 6628*0 2141se 4645as **#sit02        48       6 .*'86*2 4 .0.. 829.444 2o* 4'8810298   08622 * 00                         868.i u
sinesit44 22832681142 4166  11'pS   *'0049   2128   412442,0                 ll 12400'16'4 SW62'   lit~ 612 '0 aug    ergo            s        g smmu
610 on  -91Si    l 640In4 KI 0301 CA 6125   282             Ite6  -10   401i   48t1  £421   2'11  4gig   6l06                         "mm 16211411
6 Ws  II$  W$  9,    414   2,44    Al'a    li      0'91t     'o    iI -   -      Vol   Is              aloem.q                     Am*4    bq
m in   sum    Is
8                 2428~        ~~~~              ~ --- ---- ---- ------  ----------------- -  08 -------------  ------- ---- -06-----assq-----
Is  '2   it    'e.s *£0 KScot422      ,1     1"1 48661 -  S'46 6's  -     22,05 21541  eve S  Ise Is- 9    S's"'06   ns4    W1111111311
61600   .     11    22l4  2140    4211    220   9'84    *'851   -         2'8S44   t 41461 0 0 16`  8664  922                          5325818665
6,00  114    91    I's   ft it    '11    el"1   0,121          Ol     I1060                  6 lit  0                        6*8653p4 *8-MS-0M
owl c w                 wi~  swami 
It85-      032 16    566         S120    66     0'4     61160'4I        lu's4  42    2422  0633. 2408  0410   V420 uS 41                      2410110
I1C416        I 111 -    -  L'S9 2204   262    206 0U'41    8216I  Gu- U'  ' ' 848 I24     I 412    6188i 02                       8WMI3 *2I
114SAS t'l9s    G  Itel4      m I64    266401      '      ISN't1  -       1149 8 'goItCal2  4168   31014  Wits 
unsP-  tem  uSa4  'a
S'13410    -  'S   .'       -'l    43634   20' 'K         4'4'`S1 t      .  -       0'Is9K si I2    416I2'S9S                         slows          '2elV
is  ~   ~     *664                    '1   '        14 Os'                                                                            Os214    661   '3*
eti' 01      -,3    1001   0041   SO '1626*11  4'tg912                                   *'SJ  445 -n                                 68 VW3s
2928    -    -  '  '  2128    '  -  1428    *  '  .  .      4434   -       -                                 862~~~~~$33"  
40,641       24081  4442'8 4404S  'S0'2  I62'              60091o IM  -   6260s  4,0'2' 414'S 4121'Sli '04' .                             2065)*3  *03
... ..    .. ..     ... ........   .....     .. ...   . ... ..   ... ..    .....     .....   .....     .... .   . ... .   ...
I's   1144   10'  Slit  6al    I'S  I go   VT"   Ct  fill  O's                       Pskezassm 
333330 33  33333333  333 333333331141OS    o3u3t83*333333  *33  3*3333   33333  3*1*33 $333IM333$33
5680    4             6           CH      0419   5          86808t    £                                ,6M2'   8                       iiu  
O'M                  oloo                                                 ! 'IO   tig"O   YIUIh



REPnTLI OF YEME
FOURTH FISWERIES DEVELPMT PROJECT
Project Components by Year
toats lnclud" tst >        mi's
. ........ ................. ..................................................
I          2             3            4            5                         I 7        total
:    22:f 2t :::textal :s%92vvrS9g  l:::*  :rtitst:t*2:  wSss tal: t::agotto 2*21t2tr:St
A. Vtitx    inS tlStt tUlSSIS 1MCIlIIIES                                   2. 70.463.0 3.046.009. 1 2.132.393.8  2392.949.8   336. 14.S                 - 10.111.964.1
IL 11i1tNS  t511 111-3  194.164.1  t40.023,9   13S. 5G.6   360. 293.9   231. 32.6                                                                       -  2.002. ?     3
t  IISltl0 VtSStIS AS 6E1- 2.069.06615 3.M  2.774. t 4.305.0D 0 5.359 253.0  .333.315. 3                                                       857.404.? 22.7, 6    116 8
0. 1i1s3  55016 U86LI1                                            t. 63 0   280.030 A   53.882 S   2M9523. 4                  *            -                1.- 43..0  .
L  1it861336                                                     llt.9811   114.418.  7         6.678.3   120.837. S    31. 1974    20.697.65                531.810 ai
1.    41Yt1tt1 3t1 Ito flsNtS       fllS    lilts                        -   tO.li.   St . 5t658.a   410.251.3    2t. t30.8    32.632.7    47.861.3  I.M16 2.5
6. 90n1  86I5      .  t iicm,cA  8Assisi581  . WUnl i3AfiU    105. 28?. 1 1.01.432.1 9. 149. 701.? 7   13. ItS.0   915.434.1 1   83. 155.  3160. 019.2  S.fA1.26 1.9
.....    ........... ...........    .......  ...........    ............... ...........    ............... ...........    ............... ............... ............. .
bId  UWdICI 11UtS                                                 91S.212 2 6.661.901.t  9. 831.191.36.801.634 5 9,080.I)    7 1.631.353.3 S125. 3". 2 44. it99.s5. 0
tsn:zn:t st3i.flst%: :tnS$t.zsts ,..hmnh:gg tscssss.2#: u:.ztt:.t*t SS*atI:*:Su IR*It:ShhZtS
b   25. t9t  It: t9
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
totals Includetq Cont i gocls$
JutS
..............................................................................................
I           2             3             4            5            6           t         total
DSSStg*ttts . R   .....*tst    :.S:S.ss  2t.t*tt.t: z*tt.T.y*s   %St::...    :tu.   .2.,,w.cr2s
3.470.934.1  3.114.526.7 1.868.116.0 t.8t6.570.29221            5.            1 t501 t7.82
-   235.305.?    490.122.0   648.IS. 3   273.511.?   t 3.425.                - S   t.9.4186.3
- 2. S01. 894. 2   M. 1t9. 2 3.793. 656. 4 4. O9. 290. 1 4. 144.813.3 464. 400.35  gt 9t3.0. 7
1 "I.S1   3281 St.4    59t.01S.9   23S.0865.                  -            -.319.505.5
169 520.3   135 M.9  It2. S2. 9   t06. 460 4    23. U6.     13. 545.5                      58M1. O6 7
.   123.011.9    35.097.9   351,434.9    16.059.8    21.356.5  27.040.3  1.114.021.3
1011.S53.9  .724t.19.O2   . It75.5tO.2      ILf453.8   695.010.9   4471.es.2 203.434.6  S.502.492.5
.............. ........  .......... .... ..... ....... ........... ......... ...  .. ... ,............... ... ....... ....... . . ..... ...._
1.3t5.96S.8 6.03.509.9 10.05t.342.8 1.760.030.4 6.894.611.0 4.99,261. 5 t14.U4. 3 39,191.691.8
ttSS.R3DltR  I::sg2asss2 $a$t*2882t2"32V    3s2t12u2t2  hsWltl2st Z83*22t 222 *22I%$tS *Xs *2tmtgt
......................................... ................................................................ ,,__
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
I.1



REPBLIC OP YEMlEN
MIURM FIURUES DEVRLOPKW1 PROJEC
Sammary Accounts by ?roj act Componexnt
(YD I000)
ruso     r,srn66                        Df~~~~~~~~~VtIOFzNI 1i  . IscilICAt     C.ignI
Peoasssbo   13a8601   wssuss asp  tug stag.  S uossiraus  ISSISlhOUt ........
IMCIItIlIts  11101SIIES   09        MAU69KNI TRAINING           0 MlSSUS lilts  1*ttUO   total     I   um
..t**f..  f.........  ....ff    *tllf    .#.4alftall...tf~..   ttsz o    St
A. camt uNs
C4w.5sw                                 2.v"?                                                                               2.230.?  IS 0   334. 6
NMI3                                         .                                 2.                                               2.S  IS. 0    3.9
51gh14  Comuities                                                                                    22. I                    223. I   S. 0    33.9S
426           .                                  .                                             166.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~It2   69. 0   24.9
Mbt-hea l 025 mm3                         I.3.                      166 2        92.9S                  223. 5                 2.612.4  Is. 0  400.9
SL.m   0StCW500I                          s.064.4                                   .                       -1.064 4   10.0  108.4
C61.s55ha                                S06, S                                                                               So. S   to.    s0. I
olbu 1qa5pmtm                                         I2.0a                  i3n.'                     24 4           29. 3    "S9. I   0.0   Is9
Mt-loul 196101              106.9   *   5.8                             -        32.6                    24.4           29. 3    T05.2 I   0.0   10.2
for 0g8454                                          644.2                                                                    s 44.2  50.0   64.4
baSi s 1.6mg                                                                  21.1        -              -21.    0.0    0.
otkw fthiolft  ~ ~ ~    ~       ~      ~     ~                 -     12.3           21 I            SI.*     64.4   0.0    0,0
"-fate$ VMCIfs                     2- 44.2-                         ).1       52.3           21.1           Si.*    142.?   8,6   64.4
1. Pishime s 0n*g sd Ose
9et10                                                           1.I6l.3                   .-                                  ,01.3   0.0    0.0
&Vagms                                                   .      .010.6I.                                                    2.010.6  10.0  20  I  "t
Ink$"q GM$                                                     2. 592.2                                                     2. 192. 2    0. 0  219S. 2
lat Ka te. 11mif Ilane                                   -       429. 3                   -1.429.3  10.0  142.9S
------     mbasS                                                     -       42.8                                              42.0   0.0    0.0
Is-ush) FIsATV1"ems mo Ge                                         6149.6        42.8                                           6,19.M.    G. 3  S64.08
WINmSTON maim.                                                                                                         U  -9.?   98.,  10.0    9.9
bepralus-Iiftla  Trafftisg                                                                                                 GI6.0650   56.  A, S
Ipa s 5g-111slme 40110twn                                                          346                                     34.6  50.,   3.9
Inol,tea bmu15mgls                                                                 IM44                                   114.4  50.4   11.4
lsula, 11WHOu 1.54mg.-                                                   31.2         -                                    31.2  10.0    &.I
9*104,1111luaus NIISSES                                                         It312    21.0                              .    245.2  to 0   24.3
IL SIUSCOIt misSS                               -                              253.6                    502.6         1,900.1  5,16.81   50.0        t 65.
Iml  t) whIsIUU  UOIS                        3. 601.?      661.5     691.0ss      493.9    222.2           ill.?         5,6S"..I 54,i3.0  t50.0422.4
U4M  64695         .          -            .                    .          ~~~~     ~    ~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~32,5  255.3    243,9  50.0   24.4
11*-61oe  sullIES                              -                                                          .6          211.3    243.9:  to.0   24.4
IL 0101 SiIUSE1  .1 ,                                                           S.0                                    560. 4   316.   50.0   511.6
Total 01000155 COMT                                                                 S.0                     32.6          3  191  14420.32  50.0   42.0
lout1 "atilt1 406TS                           3,601.1        061.1    6,190.8      510.9      2.             0 2.20914 1   54.953   It10.1546C44
ubsil gaS      bap "g4                      4"S.I       06.?       189.6.       48.4     25.0            49.4          200. 4   1,464.4   0.0    0.0                                 _
PikeCmtisip.ois                            6.484.6    5.219 4     15.355.6      604.?    266.01          213.5        3.406.2  20l8, I*0,11 2.5211,6
lout5 pluma 081051                           5010    2. 002. 6    22,65.5I    I.243.I    935.01           5,0.fe.3       9,661.2  44. M9.1I   9.0 3.001 2
..   .t*........ .. 0C. ..... I...C.........   ...#.. .                              .......... S.. *.3 en
losip b*ANP                                110.1    5,96.         2. 51. 0     5. Is.2    29.61          69.5I        2,82M.0  35.419.6   9.0 2.093.?



RUPU8LIC OF TIM
FUM I FISHSIERTES DEVLOPMUN   PROJECT
Prolect FinanMtin Plan (USS milltln) I/
total  ao Oct cost
t_nwmt/spedituro Catewoy                 tocal  FerValn   total  FICtIER          IDA     ItA       [EC     COAt.   tOItA
A. witt,.e & Fish Prj.acilitles
II Civil IMke                         2.5       4.3      6.8     EEC                            6.S      0.3  o .0
Ii Equlpmet                           0.1       1.3      1.4    EEC                             I.4               1.4
{lii 8odcmstntlee                       1.0       1.8      2.8    IDA           2.1                        0.?      2.8
Ssstael                           3.5      7.S      11.0                 2.1               t.9      0.9      11.0
. Inr_mt fecilitlee                                                   IDA
Is Efqa1ht for IbAhop                  0.0       0.0      0.0                  0.0                        0.0      0.0
ill Veicles for ROketing                0.1        .       1.8                  1.7                        0.1      1.8
SMtolsI                           0.1      1.7      1.8                   1.?                       0.1      l.a
C. fisbla Vesses  d Beer
I) muets                              1.1       1.7      2.8     IA           1.7                     .  1A1      2.8
II) tElngin                            0.3       S.S      5.8   IDA/lfA0       3.1      2.6               0.0      S5.
iIG) fisi  Leer                         0.S       S.4      s.9   IDA/EFAD       3.3      2.7               0.0      S.9
Iv) Int. Tom*. Vetsels                 0.2       3.8      4.0    (EC                             l.8      0.2      4.0
skhtotat                          2.0     tt.S     I8.S                  8.1      5.1      3.8       1.3     1.S
O. fish sttel  m1__                                                   FEC
ii civil bet                          0.0       0.1      0.1                                    0.1      0.0      0.1
III Eq.IpoMtlVhIclee                   0.0       0.4      0.4                                    0.4               0.4
1 1) Vessl Iw -I                        0.0       0.1      0.1                                    ).I               0.1
IV) relal                            0.0       0.1      0.1                                    0.1               0.1
Vs fohicl As"etmBe                    0.0       O.S      0.6                                    0.6               0.6              c
Xttelt                            0.1      1.2      1.3                                    1.3    * 0.0      1.1
is VsAIles                             0.0       0.0      0.0                  0.0                        0.0      0.0
11) Training Cet*                       0.3      0.3      0.6                   0.4                        0.2     0.0
*hmMett                           0.3      0.3      0.6                  0.4                        0.2      0.6
f. 1es h        Zim                        0.0    , 0.3       0.3    IfM                   0.3                        0.3
I) Clvit a                            0.3       0.3      0.6                           0.5               0.1      0.6
Il) EqdaltIVehleles                    0.0      0.1       0.1                           0.1                        0.1
off) twiticsl Asi ts                    0.0      0.3      0.3                          O0.                         0.3
stlote                            0.3      0.7      1.0                           0.9               0.1      1.0
U.  0t  Tedhnel Aseletee         ,                                   CS
It uginerl  *bS        .              0.4      1.4       1.8                                   1.8                1.8
ii) IorAUieers                         0.1       1.8      1.9        O        0.4               1.S                1.9
i;;; bdlifokdwis not.                   0.0      0.3      0.3                  0.3                                 0.3
Sbsotal                           0.5      3.S      4.0                  0.r               3.3               4.0
1. Ptojct codldttion                                                  IOA
I) Ea. ipmt                            0.0      0.1      0.1                  0.1                        0.0      0.1
ii=eICles                             0.0      0.1       0.1                  D. I                      0.0      0.1
%ftahts.A                         0.0      0.2      0.1                  0.2                        0.0      0.2
J.  saweeat Costs                          1.2      0.0      1.2     GOVT.                                   1.2      1.2             -
lotot PrIoeect Costs                 0.0      31.8     39.8                 13.2     6.S    16.3       3.0      39.8
t/ Totals msy dt u  tu de to rounding.
1mo: AUmds less thee USSO,000 are sho  as 0.0



- 81 -
REPUELIG OFVKN
W6Qj=   FIS1 ZE~S DEVKL6PHKN? P19.1C?
&gLMn&ea. Schedule of RthiUgsemati gf rDA Cradit
Prof I to
IDA Fiscat               0During                            ............
Year and Semster    .    Seter             CJat;ve                           Southern Yemen
Endfngs                  Of sbusmrnts    Oisbursements       Project         Agrfculturo
..,.........................  ., ...... w...... .   .............  ......... . ........ ......... ...............
*US Millio  .......         ........... - ..............
1992 
Decembe 31. 1991              0.0               0.0              0.0                0.0
June 30, 1992                 0.4  1_J          0.4              3.0                1.0
1993
Oecember 3t, 1992             0.3               0.7              5.3                4.0
June 30, 1993                 1.2               1.9             14.4                9.0
1994
December 31, 1993             1.4               3.3             25.0               15.0
June 30, 1994                 1.3               4.6             34.8               21.0
1995
Oeceaber 31, 1994             1.3               5.9             4.                 29.0
June 30, 1995                 1.1               7.0             S3.0               39.0
1996
Decembe 31, 1995              1.1               8.1             61.4               48.0
June 30, 1996                 1.2               9.3             70.5               57.0
1997
0ec@mbr 31, 1996              1.2              10.5             79.S               66.0
June 30. 199?                 1.1              11.6             87.9               74.0
19"
Oecember 31, 1997              1.0             12.6             95.5               84.0
June s0, 1998                 0.4              13.0             98.5               91.0
19"
Oecembo 31, 1998              0.2              13.2            100.0               ff.0
June 30, 19"9                 0.0              13.2            100.0               98.0
Closing Det*$ Dme4r 31, 1998
101 ProJect PtWmetf  V.fl         w
04/02/91



AR!WIC 07 AMR
Summay of Implemntation Schedule
................................ ................................. ............ .........................,.... ,,,........................ 
1Tw      11            1992          1993         199          1S           199          19
eti-0 tY                                ............ ............ ............ ............ ............ ............ ............ ............
er r   I2 I  3  4   1 2  3                    4 1 2  3 4                    t 2 3  4   1 2 3  4   1 2  3  4   i  2 3 4   i a  3  4
...................... ................. ............ ............ ..........  ............ ............ ............ ............ ............
1. IVA CUIT AI       .
2. On OF AM APgMU PCEtf* 
3. PROJECT  USILIZAIM
Etsitlzo of IE  Stoff
P_w. Off lee "ip. & V*bl t.s
4. 5185  !IEIRNS VTAh          TS
Pswu.tomn  of TO  , Short List
sdtotest    of cuwultaits 
Pr_. of Oesgns a Tdo  EDo"
S. 8031. SPM938            me. C1SRTAUTE
Prsctlan of TO & SMrt List
Setectils of t uutut
bmtimu 8i.rI.m                                                      ***" b*****  ~*****_ b**** _                     **-***
Ct%IL Ct 9 FM  VILLAK FACIIIIES                                                                                                                                  S
Tuuhrlms of Cootn.tra                                                                                                                                       0
CtratorwlIl:tut  oIb
htiSWIhilfl,:Civfi Works 
wimswJ     s latoft. of Eip                                                  *
muswlb_hwns 8twt-su of Fcl.
sbWt: Civift  or"
6_t IMtotttion of lSWPuijam
85)55_: 3ti rtt  of Itlltles
DiIA  imi: Civil iL*.Sw''.55
s*oAt Rid: trtaw. of EePl t
bIs/At UNOS Start-up of PeelS.
Al eam  Civil                                      *_,
At 0Wm lintltien of  pulmt                                                                   *
Al gO       Stw t    of fPcltities
m*stUe civil wb                                                                                  _
llb:, Ileteltation of EePWAt
111tal: Strt-up of facilities
Obib" Civit VW4s'5*,  **
Shihi Imttllstimn of EWpmt
Shibors strtt-u of fvcltitIes
7.      - RA  law  amD
Po_r. of onion NW Tod" Sees
Tuuhrie  of tamret                                         ".t  *5.5                                                                                    f
Cmeractor "Uelh atm                                                                                                                                       _
_ed Centnetiain
_tn  bIntnw   Peelediod
..........., ,.                                                              .........................,............. ............



- 83 -
ANNBl 13
Psge 2 of 2
* _ *-
. *4 
,'* ,   S             i                                                a     
.  2   . ~*   *         | S                                
!1g   ,.§,^,~~*S *            !                    lS }s!
X -,    l ' .         it 1       2ii        il-i|,ig,
.      . .      4 dt           Y     a                                 a 



NVlddfS t1_  Wil
4s911apds uclaa S&qw   'amappJe Jssu 1.s«lepds ljps:oP  's'"p@ Suass utwvaul /1
O'QZ       0 9t        0'02       0'l1           O'S            O1LL          0-1             rolt          O'S&                                           l
.. ................................ . ............................................................................I_.........
0't%       OI          Ol         weS            Ol 0t          Olt           Olt             Olt           0-2                               lllP 
.....      .....    .    .....    .....     .   . ..... ............................................ ..
0-6                               Ol             0lt            Ol            012            0CIL           Ole            96/1   (d) UoISsbgIMJ
O'S        0I        0l        0al                                                                                       06(10           41W6U0   J@I1t     66
....................................................................................................................I..........
O.t      Ot          012       0I             0IL            O'Z          0l              0l           0l                               1S0s4P1 S    e6
.....            ......                                                  .....          .....     .   . ..... ............................................ ..
0l1          lt        OtOltZ                    Olt01I0L                                                   0lt            96/10           UOI1SIAJ5df5    £6
.................................................... ............................................................................................._
01         0 0-2       Olt        Olt           0                      0l      Ol             0l            Olt Z                                401-1S    96
I.. ... . .. .....     ....... .....                                                          ...................... ....... ..........
Olt                                                                          0't            0 I                            6WO            uo@5$Ajsdfs
O's        02          01         01 Ol OOt 0o. 'Z6/10                                                                                     UoSIAJdns    96
012        0le         Olt        Olt            OILOI                        012             01            01 33LS                                          5
,..         .....      ....                      .....           .....         .....           .....         .....
0lt                                                                           012                           01.            56/10           WOISIAJadnI
011        01          Ol         01 00                          01. t                        0I0                           £6/            uoiwIAjadlnS    96
, .........I............. ..... ........ ..... ........ ..... ..... ........ ..... ........ ..... ........ ..... ........ .....
o06        0O           01        Ol            0l0                            Olt           O1            Olt                               1WZOL#S   6
0o         O                             0OIL                                                 0I0                          £60  '          uosIAJdns
06Z   O1             Olt        Ot             0lt            01t           00 0-/20 0'O£  J6nS  S6
..... ....... ..... .................... ..... ........ ..... ........ ..... ........ ..... ........ ..... ........ ..... ........ .....I
0't    0'1             0'7 .7 07t                                                                                                             iew qs 
019&       012         01l         O             OIL            012            01Z O1                        Olt              Iso3  *f l                      So
,.....       ...       .....      .....          .....                        .....           .....         ..... .
019                    O'e Ot                                                Ot  0t                                      16/00 *.4  lAJu OdsJ
,.. ..... ......... ..... ........ ..... ........ ..... ......... ..... ........ ..... ........ ..... ........ .................I
0'69       Ot            lt        0'20                         0'L;l          OltZl                        Olt                               1940-C0 QAlJ
ovs       oz          o          Ole           0'1                                           Ol 0t         Olt            f6/LO           wysDI dAJ         7O
'ol        0'2 Olt     O'Z        0'8            0'             O-tl0-2                              O        le-Z61                   pU S 0l aJ S    £o
,  . .. ...........................................................................................................I
u' St      Ole         Olt                                      0'47           Olt                                                            1w1°1 qnS    Zo
..... ......                                            .       .....          ........ ..... . ....... .          . ...                           s... ..
O's        O's         Olt                                       Olt           Ol Z                                            zt  9"44P3 'JM*Oid
f*J°d OZIp863 Zo
pI3 R         p"I3  Z6
......    ......... .......  .........  ............. .........   ..........  .........  .............. .............................................................  ....... ........ 
3uRc"ooloord                        u*13*jsfd   d  zod" Gui"pnj*uj 's49} n l  uo;191Adnt
PM MI" ft")                                                       1                                                                       r
ut,l uo;ss*adrS
JIU6 mNlzOI(_ 93IM1317N1U=
E3NIL 10 SlK16



* 85 .
Table 1
RPALIC OF UKI
Wtt! SE1 !TDaTh  BtIfltEar MdPCT
(YD/ct)
I                          I   W~~~~~~      ~     ~~ITHOU  WITH
Fish Catgoey          UXhsViWo         POJCT           PROCT
PRClts 1/         Wlen            PtC11
....................  ......*......     ......           ...........
$C"r Go,0                     1,000           1,000           1.000
Cateoory I                      600             450             450
Catetgry it                     300             300             300
catgory It I                     75       X                      75
shr    (Frosh)          *        0 M0     300
|5harks (Gutted)         r       oo              450       .     .450 . 
Sharks (fins)                 3,       " ,     .00            3.0,
iLd0"ters                      1,000           1.000            I I00
tSriane                       -      S51. 50
I/ It fs  usimud that  "Ont  rices ore srt1fhalttV high, given the il. diete effects
of liteortitioA, partiplefly with regrd to th  high guds of fish.
Sources Ministry of fish waLth
FtI  NAME: P?IAUPIS
02/21/91    15:09



- 86 -
Table 2
Asuzmen  for mm   Ndgls
Intermediate
GRU          Ga?                Technology
7.6 Mearm  ,2.4  t"            Sdllc    Vessel
Landings (Tons/Year)                     28           38         47         292
DtribUtion of Landings (1)
Super Grade                            12.0         14.0         4.3        6.0
Category I                             10.0         12.0         6.4        23.0
Category ll                            19.4         18.0       10.6         69.0
Category III                           16.0         15.0        0.0          1.0
Sharks (Fresh)                          8.0         18.0       12.8          1.0
Sharks (Gutted)                         3.S           3.0       63.8
Sharks (Fins)                           1.0          0.5        2.1
Lobsters                                1.0          0.0         0.0
Sardines                               29.1          19.5       0.0
Total                              Qf l10                              100 0
Fish Sales P aices (YDepn
Super Grade                            1000          1000       1000        1000
Category I                              450           450        450         450
Category Il                             300           300        300         300
Category III                              75           75         75          75
Sharks (Fresh)                          300           300        300         300
Sharks (Gutted)                         450           450        450         450
Sharks (Fins)                          3000          3000       3000        3000
Lobsters                               1000          1000       1000        1000
Sardines                                 So            50         S0          50
Lobster Transport Benfit (YD/Ton)                                           1150
Governent Tax ()                          10           10         10
Cooperativ Service Charge
(X of Sale)                             S             5          S
Cooperative Social Security
Cargo (I of sales)                       3            3          3
Maintenance and laspai as % of
* testment ecst                          .10           10         10           8
Sar. of lneou to  at Crew ()              50           60         40          1S
Iquity (1)                                20           20         20          40
Los (S)                                   80           80         80          60
interet Rate (M)                           7            7          7           7
Tem (years)                                8            8          8          10
us%sus1svIs.v1esu15t



*                                           6UU-t  1
Table 3
twa     e01 t
VOIIWYR FIRiIlTRES DEVELO                W P0J!6T
WIrN PQ0JIC?U
............  ......  Bost Itodol  0IIP 7    -
........................;...............................................
nSA:                                          1      2       3      4      S       6      r,     8       9     10     11      *2
* - - -- ~~~~..........  .....................
Lndinp  (onlt/ Yetr)                       2.0    5.0   25.0            W.0 50    .0   25.0   2.0   25.0   2.0   25.0   25.3
*talt Sates Revewe                       9,226  9,226  9.226  9.,6         6  9,226  9,26  9.226  9,226  9,226  9,226  9,226
oPeZrting costs (TO)
FueT  : zt.btranta                       4.460  4.650  4.60  4,680  4,650  4,4    4,6   4,660  4,680  4,650  4,660  4,680
ovtrtwsnt tax                               92     92      923    93    92       92     92     92      923    9       923    98
coo tisve Serice Cherg                      461    461    "I    46       46      461    46     41    41    461         1    461
Coopratfiv's ociat Security Charso         277            277    m7    27       V7     27     VT    V7       27 2m          277
Nainteemnce aR pile                         m7     2       2      27      2             272    272m   an       27     m      272
or                                        166  1,568  1,541  1,545  1.66  1a I,  1,5 1.6 5 t ,5"   1.56   1,4S8  1,4   1,4S6
Total oerating costa                      8,161  5,181  5,181  $.I81  6,151  5,181  5,1U   5,1J 1           t 511  5,151  5,151
C"h Ftow fre  operation                   1.04S  1,04.5  1,045  1,045  1,045  1,01S  1,045  1,04S  1,04S  1.04S  1t,05  1,0S
.................................................. ..................................
.............
out                                       1,533
nirnea                                      677                   67                    677                    677
Sr                                          513                   513                   S13                    S13
,................. ..........................;................ ......................
Totanvst s                                2,          0      0 1190         0      0a1190         0      0  1,90        0      Q
Set Cah Floe                             (1,676) 1,045  1,045   (145) 1,04S  1,04S5   145) 1."S  1.045   (04) 1.05  1,0M5
,....................................................................................
pi W   fat late of ReStu                     46
tocom  for Distribution (bef ore lao)  2.613  2,613  2,613  2,613  2,613  2.613  2,613  2.613  2,613  2,613  2,613  2,613
Uware for Sat Cr                          1,56  1,5   ,5    1,566  1,6   1,5I m5    1.565  1,56I   1,8  1565  1,54
V *ae for  oat Owe                        1,045  1,045  1,045  1.04   1,045  1.0       1.04    .4,5  1,045  1,045  1,O45  1.045
Caw C  seition:
oat 0Omer                                      I
Cra                                           2
.AWr*   tmoo   per Crmw  Ne                  74    7        754    74    74    74    74    7            74    7        7 
Finwlnifng
545   0   0   5   0   0 O   S                               52   0 235
SeI SevCe Covrg
1moon  to I"%t  0e
befor Oat Sevice                        1,065  1,045  1,04S1  1,05  10S  1,05   ,5   ,045  1.45 1,,0455   1,04S  1,045
Oibt Sevice                                   31    531    531    7a       7        2    464    464       2    4a      4       232
.......................................................................
£nsw to Seat amer
otter Odt leice                           514    514    514    2         n      513   5W       551    513    51    51    513
Debt Sevice CoWre Ratio                      2.0    2.0    2.0    1.4    1.4    4.5    2.3    2.3    4.5   2L           2.3    4.5
FILE EMS MM"
02    9   09:0
...................................



* 87.*aN1
TAl0 3
YPR:                           1       2      3       4~~~~~~~~um  5P6      7      S       9      0 C           ¶
A.t
WITtZ                                                        JlA l
............                                                                       7.. A
.....................................................................
nu:                       1      2       s      *      s       *      r       o      9      lO~~~~~~~~~~~ a  12
...................................;.................................
lndIngp (Toa Year)                          253.0   2.0   230   25.0   2.0   2.0   20.0   25.0   25.0    .0   25.3
toW  Satl  Revenule                        9,226  9,22U  9,22 9 9,22U          9,226  9,226  9,226  9,226  9.226  9,226  9,224
Opretirn Costs (YO)
...................
tugt  I  Ubtrtconts                       4,4    4.610  4,61  4,60  4,46,  4.40  4,410  4,410  4,0  4.,40  4,680  4,680
Covewt tea                                   923    923    9       92     9o      923    93    93    923    923    923    923
Cooperative Service Charge                  461    461    "        4      461   4"1    46        41    41    461    461    461
Cooperative's Sciat sSecurity Charge         2?     27m    2r      2rr   27 m             m7  2  277 2m         2      277   27
WaInft .e s  an   emp2r    22r 27                                      272 27 a  27  27   i7     2       27     2n      272    272
Labor                                      1.4   1,55"               1,545  1.55  1.56   1.556 1.1    1.54   1,5S   1,565  15    1,545
Total Operating Costs                      5.1 8,18t 511  3.5l  5151  8,151  1,151  8,151  5,t11  8.181  5,151  5,151  8,181
Cub flow frau Operations                   1,045  1 5 ,05  104m   1,045  1,045  1,045  1,045  1,045  1,045  1,045  1,04S
....................................................................................
.............
- at                                       1.533
nglewa                                      677                    67?                   677                    6?7
-er                                          513                     13                   513                   513
,...................      .......................   ......................
Totlt tnVestot                             2.723      0       01,19          0      01,190         0       0 1.10         0      0
et: Cash Ftow                              1,675) 1.045  1,041   (145) 1.4S  1,04S   C14s) 1,045  1,045   (145) 1,04   1,0451
fiaemntot ltate of Iteturn                    462
I ean, for Distribution' (before labor)  2.613  2.613  2.613  2,613  2,613  2,613  2.613  2,613  2,613  2,613  2,613  2,613
"~are for gost Crew                        1.565  1I5"   1,545  1.54   1,56.5  1,545 -1,565IJ 1.551,4   1,565  1.568  1,545
share for Soot Owne                        1.045  1,045  1,04   1,045  1,045  1,045  1.04   1,045  1,045  1,045  1.045  1.045
cme Caipasition:-
raww    2to     o  Cwmd
finmnirig
guity                                        545       0       0    us       0       023s           0       0    238       0      0
Lwa                                         21i5       0       0093           0      0        952   0       0    952       0      0
oabt Servfee Coverag
tam to See: Ommer
betfor Odea Service                      1,04)  1.05   ,451.4 1,04         5 1,04  5 1,0 45i'   1,0 4 105  1,045  1.045  1.045  1,045
Debt Servi ce                                531    537    531    76        74     82    464    464        2     464    46       232
.......................*.... .......*fl..............
Flia  Rtt Oet R*mw
aft     Debt $   Clrc                      514    51      514    22 2513 21 6M13    5          ,t 5     513    551   Sol    513
Dewt Serve Cowsg  fatio                      2.0    2.0    2.0    1.4    1.4    4.5    2.3    IS          4.5    2.3    2.3    4.5
02/69   09:01         t
.......... ...



* 88 *
Table 4
............
2RP1MLT^;_ 9.b Th
(YD)
...................................................................
YtAR:                                     1      2       3      4      5      6       t      6      9     10      11     12
~~~~~~~~~~;. .*; .... T...... ;. ..i    .................... 
tl"ngs (Tonsl / ar)                    3.0   3.0   38.0   3.0   38.0    .0          .0   38.0  38.0    .0   38.0   8.0
Total Sales Revenue                  13,35? 13,35? 13,35? 13,35? 13,35  1335  13,3   13,337 13,357 13,35  13,357 13,357
rFating Costs (YO)
Fuel & LubrfctS                       6,240  6 240  6,240  6.240  6.V40  6,240  6,340  6,340  6,240 6,240  6,240  6,240
Govermet Tom                          1,336  1,336  1,336  1,336  1.336 t   ,336  1,536  1,336  1,336  1,336  1,336  1,336
Coqparstive service Charge              066    "66     "A8    66    668    661    668    668   468    6AS    668    6St
Cooperatives Socil S ecrity Charge   401    401    401    401    401    401    401    401    401    401    401    401
maintenancoe aRepair                    345    345    345    345    345    345    345    34S    34        3 5    345    345
Labor                                 3,058  3,058  3,058  3,056  3,058  3,058  3,058  3.058  3.058  3.058  .S056  3,058
Tott  poeratir-g Costs               13.047 12,04? 13,04? 12,04? 13,047 13,04? 12,04? 13,04? 13,04? 12,047 13.04? 12,04?
Cash FLOw from Operatio4              1,310  1,310  1,310  1,310  1,310  1,310  1,310  1,310  1,310  1,310  1,310  1,310
,....................................................................................
Itnvegtuunta
.............
soot                                  1,?
Engie                                   834                   634                    34                   834
Geer                                    834                    34                   83                    834
,....................................................................................
Totat Investmts                       3,4S        0      a  1,6         0      @1,68          0      0  1,166      0       0
Net Camh Flow                        (,135) 1,310  1,310   (358) 1,310  t,310   (358) 1.310  1,310   (358) 1,310  1,310
financiai  Rate of Return                44X
Incoae for Distribution
(before Labor)                      4,36   4,36 8  4,368 4*,38 4,36  438  4,438  4,386  4.368  4,36   4,368
Shere for 80at Crew                   3.,0   3  3,01   3,05   3,058  3,08  3.058  t,05   3,058  3,0   31,058  3,0   3,08
Shae for oe:t  Or                     1,310  1,310  1,310  1,310  1,310  1,310  1,310  1,30  1,3o1  1,310  1,310  1,310
Crow Cepoaltf on:
Best Owr                                   I
Crew                                       4
Average,  I   pe   Crew   hr             7      74         7667       766    76      7      764    766    76"    76      7
Financing
go1 ty                                   669      0       0    334      0       0    334      0       0    334      0       0
Lown                                  2,75        0      0  1,334       0          1,334      a      0  1,334       0       0
Oebt service Covrag
.....................
Irc   to  Uat Owne
beforeODebt Service                  1,310  1,310  1,310  1,310  1,310  1,310  1,310  1,310  1,310  1,310  1,310  1,310
Debt trvfce                             n67     63    672    9a    "I    35           61   461    35    661    651    35
....................................................................................
Incas to Soot iner
aie  Owt Srwvice                       638    68U   4UI    313    313    95    660    660    96    660    68O   35
Oet Sewvice Cowsrage Ratio               1.9    1.9    1.9    1.3    1.3    4.0    2.0    2.0    4.0    2.0    3.0    4.0
FILE NAKt /p9VMV
02//91 09t IS
...........................................



* 69 *
Table *
vIle PROJECT                                             1A 1Lan            Uaa
(I)
.................. ............ ...... ............. .................. ......
YsM:                                      t      2      3      *6                   7      8      9     10    11       *2
...... ..............................           ............ 
Larifts (Tom    e)                       4?    4       47     4?    4       47  4?            47 47    47       7     4?
Total Uae  lv"w                      23,129 2.1i9 3329 2n,129 2,129 25,1t9 23,129 n,129 2n,129 non29 n1,t2 23,12
Oeratiqn Costs (TO)
...................
not S Lri@ants                          9    4,992  4,99   4,99   4,992  4,991 4,92  4,°         9       2 4,99   4,99    4,992  4.992
oot tr                                2.313  2,313  2,313  2,313  2,313  2,313 2,313  2,313  2,313  2,313  2,313  2,313
Cooperatiwe tervice Charge            1,156  1,15   l,6 1.    1,16  11t6  1,156  1 ,6  1 ,156  1,156  1156 1, 16  1,156
Neintonas  nAd Repair                 1,4   1,954  1,954  I,954  1,954  1,954  1,956  1t4  19S4  1,9S4  1.954  1,95
Cooprativ*es social Secuity Charge   694    694    694   694    694    644    64   694   694   694   69               6%9
Labor                                 4,66  45,806  4,60t 4,806  4,66t  4,606  4,606  4,606  4.SW  4.606  4,606  4,60
....... .............                 ...........................................................
rotat oerating costs                 15,917 15,917 15,917 15,91? 15,91? 1S,917  15.917 15.91  1n,91? 15,91? 1S,917 15,91?
Csh Ptow fIr  Operations              r1,u2  7,212  7.212  7,212  7,212  7,212 7,212  7,212  7,212  7,212  r,212  7,u 2
......... .............................................................................
irvestments
Beet                                  12,196
Enrines                               6,271                                                           6,371
fe                                     1,004                1,069                1,069                1,069
.;.... ........ .....W........ ...................                     .............._
Total Investwts                      19,536      0      0  1,069       0      0  1,069      0      0  7,360      0      0
"et Cash Flow                       (13324) 7,212  t,212 6,143  7,3212  7,12 6,143  7,132  ?,12t   (131  7,212   .1213
FfnavisL Rate of R*turn                   ;S
trna foer Oistribwtlon
(bofore Lbor)                      12,020 12,020 12,020 12,020 12,020 13,020 12,020 13,020 12.00 13,00 12,08  12,020
uWr for Boat Cre"                     4,66 4,606 46,06 4,806  4,606  4,606  *,06  4.606  4,606  4606  4.m   4.506
here for *at   er                     7,212  7,212  ?,2t2 7 1212 7 1312  7,312  7,212  7,212  7,212  7,212  7,212  7.r12
Crew C4position:
Soet 0e                                    I
crew                                      ? 
Average tmo   Wp erw mur ti eUr 667    67    667                ? 6   6     637  466      637   6W7   667   "67   6G7
financIng
quity                                  3,90       0      0    214      0      0   214        a      @1,46         0      0
Loon                                  15,629      0      0    855      0      0    W3       0       0 $,67        0      0
Debt  eice Covera
.....................
mom to SNot eier
beof  3a svc                      .12  7 Ot2 ? 212 tnO1  tall  rtt1  7.n2  7,2nt 7,n2  r n12  mll ?2t22
after Oebt Semvice                   3.400  3,410  t,'40   3,192 3,193  7,085  67,M   6,M99  7,00   5,51   57   5,70
Debt Service co_e age*tl@                1.9    1.9   1.9    1.6    1.6  34.6  17.3   17.3  34.6    4.4    4.4    5.0
PILEI UWs $AlIM"
0226/91  0W:S
............ .......................



* 90 '
Tab" 6
............                                                     YD)
I....   .... ;;;                                                        ....ss** o¢ vv ^* *h * 66ss @* e ** v^*v *...  .........
VIM:                                t       3      3               5       6      7 r        8           0 lO   tt      2
Lanfrns (?s/ Yeor)                192    292    392    292        9      29     m2       2      2      292    29*       2
Lobster TrafCport croft/year)      50      50             50      so      so     50      so      so     so      so      la
total Stes Reveo               1 ,66.65 16,65 166,56 1t.6  16,456 16.6          6   146.656   146,66 "AS66    16.6156 16,656
Lowter Team. enef It CYo/Ton)  1.15 ISO I5 1t150  1.150  1,150             O 1150  1.150  1150  1.150  1.150  1.15t  1,150
operating Coss (Y0)
......se.*.*........
Putt & Lricants                26.130 26.130 26.130 26.130  26,130 26.130 26,130 26,130 26,130 26,130 26.130 26.130
Ic*                             7,500  r,5s0         7,500 7.5OO 7,50.0  7,50   ,s0o   7.500  7.5  7,5o0  7r,500  7,50
Salaries                        5,000  5.000 5.000   5.000  'S.00    5.00  5 000  5,0    5.000  S.0   S              5,000
Social Altowaces                3,000  3,00   3.000 3,000  3.000  3.000  3.000  3.000  3,000  3.00   3,000  3,000
VeeL$s Iwrc                      2,000   2,000  2.000   2,000  a0   3,000  2.00    000 3,       000 3.000  *. 000 0    ,000
Overheads                        7,50   ?,50O    o0  7.so   ?:soo  7,500   ?.S0o  7.500   7,00  ?7.50i  ?.0oo  7,Soo
naiftesfe an  Ssisf             28.506  25.506 2.506  2.506 28s506  2",506  26.0   2.50"   3.506 28.506 2.506 28,506
Labw  Inenives                  13,053  13,053  13,053 13,053  13.05  13.053  13,053  13.053  13,053  13,053  13,03  13.053
....... .i.;;.... .... ................. ..........  .....  .......... .... W .......  ...... ........ .... ........ ..... ........  ..... ........ .....  ........ ......
total Owating Costs            92,639  96,       ,    92.669  92,69 n6,     "I9 9 9 92.639,93.689 92,- 92.6
Cash Flow from OatfS            n,96  n73.9    n3.9    13,9"   75,966  3139   73,95  73.9"  n,965  Mm   n3,9   n73,9
Invetnts
.............
Seta, Unines, Gear             356,30
Total~~~~~~~~~ ~     ~~~~~~~~~~... ........ . . .......   ........... ....... .......... ....... .......a... ....... a...... .......4 .......... ....... ........... ....... ...................... ...... ... ...... ...
Tatalmvosists                  35,320       0       0       0      0       0       0       0      0       0       0      0
Net COa   l                   (282.352     6 M =   n,98  3.     73.9     n,     73.90  73,95  MM   n,     MM96     n9.9    ns.9
Finencial tate of Raturn            24
I     for 0fstrlbition
(bfore Lo)                    87,021  07,02   87,01  67,1  6702   37021  87,021  87,021 87,031  87,021  5702   67.021
Sh*  for Sost Crew              13,053  13,053  1,053  1303  13.OS0   13.053  13.053  13,03  13.03  13,013  13.053  13.053
Sha  for Sat Oww                73.9   73.90  75.90  73.95  73.90  73.9   73.906 73.90  73.96 73.90  73.90  73.960
crew caps1tion:
Cewt                                10
crew ihae  1/                 l8 1n     0    1,6105 I 1* 8    1.855   1.o    1605   1,805  1,0=   1,005 1,= 105  1,05
~~~~~4.26X                           0       0      0       0       0       0       0      0       0       0      0
Oat tav@  Covrg
.....................
I an to Seat oawe
beftOd SoboSevies              3.90  73.9"  ?S,%0  1396  73,to  73,90  73.90  73,90  73.90 n,.o0  73.90  736,"
edit Service                    30.930 30,439  30,439          30,63 9 30,649 30,439 30.63  304.43  30t,4M         0      0
1er to Sea or.   ....... ......                        ... 0 0 .. ....... .
afterO d NW  Serwio           43.53  63,52 4 3.3   63.56 43.5,  43,53,$U  4s.m  43,m  63*Si  73.96,  n3960
0D    Se1vice Cowva  Ratio         3.4    2.4    2.4    2.4    2.4    2.4    2.4    3.A           2.4    1.4
1/ CBatAated as Satarie  pus Labor tZnuiwS divided bY  mr Of crM  _nIS.
MI ESAIN IMTTIUU
0000.     ................



* 91. .
Table 1
nMIIpC or KIK
POtfTH IT S V! SA     DEVE .OP!4KET PROJPCT
for Traded Fiph
I  --- - --  --- --- - T-    COSTS TO  eOVeI     ECONOMIC
fISH FROM P OY       PRICES
l   l                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~MARltET PRIC8  TO WRltJ MhRIET......
[CATEGCRY             SPECIES/EXPORTA8LE          (Frozen) CUSS/ton)         (Table 2)    US WSton  YO/ton
Yellow tin Tuna       USs 1,075        (France)
Supergrade               Grey MuLlet          USS, 1,800       (UK)
Spanish Mackeret       USS 2,000        (Qatar)
......................... .........................*
Average                   US#  1,625            USS   280        1345      620
......................... ......................... ............... ......... ........
Emperor           US$   720      (Spain)
First Grade                tonito            USS   no.    (Spain)
Jack Mackerel        US,   8S0      (Egypt)
Grouper          IUSS 1,200      (Portugal)
......................... .........................
Average          I         US  8                 USS   280        600      276
l .~~~.............. ...... :.....I-;...... ......;........ ........ ,,  - ........
Sols            USS   750      (France)
Sailfish           USS   975      (USA)
Second Grade              Barracuda           USS   8SO      (France)
Rainboi rurwwr        US$   78M      (Srngapore)
......................... .........................
Averag                    USS  840               USS   280        560      258
{ ~~~~............."T........... ......................... ............ ... ........... ...... ...... . 
Rock Cod           US$   450      (Spain)
jThird Grade                  Ray             USS   350       (France)
Croaker           US$   550      (China)
Average                   US$  450               USS   2801    170           781
t 0Avrg US 40  #.................... 20..... ............... 10...........7
Shark Fins               Euro -arket                 USS 30,000              US#  8,000      22.000   10,142
......................... ............. ................... ........ ?!.........!...  ......... ... ...... . 
Lobster                  Euro-Market                 USS 15,000              USS 2,000       13,000    5,993
Economic Fish Pgriem fir, Won-Traded Fish~
LOCAL PRICE           COWVERSION       PRICE
CATEGORY                             (Y0/ton)               FACTOR      |(Y0/ton)
.                                                        .  .........
Shark:
fresh                                300                    .67          201
Gutted                               450                    .67          302
Sardines                                                      .67            34
FILE OANE: ECFISHRV
04/02/91                       17:23



* 92 -
bNZL16
Table 2
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOURTH FISHERIES DEVELOPMENTR gRJECT
Calculation of Economic Beach Landing Prices for Fish
SuDer. First. Second and Thigd Grades
Projected World Market Price (See Table 1)      US$     X
(Average, US$/ton, for frozen products)
Ocean Freight and Insurance                     US$      90
F.Q.B. Aden                                     US$    X-90
Port Charges, Aden                              US$      20
Freezing and Storage, Aden                      US$     100
Transport to Acten                              US$      40
Receptor and Icing                              US$      30
Total ROY Costs                         US$      1
Beach Landing Price                          US$   X-280
Lobster and Shark Fins
Shark Fins (All calculations per ton):
Whole, F.O.B. Aden                              US$   30,000
Collection, Drying 1/, Transport from Beach    US$    8°.Q°°
Beach Landing Price (wet weight)              US$   22.000
Lobster (All calculations per ton):
Whole, F.O.B. Aden                              US$   15,000
Colleetion, Freezing, Transport from Beach      US$   2.00Q0
Beach Landing Price                           US$   13.0CO
;.,' Includes weight lost in drying.



ANNEX 16
Table3
*   a,
_   .
a' -
I. ~.
X ~~~ ,  i   0^t-gsssss1
AS~~~                                         N 
ig - X~~0
gij  ' !5*   ', 8l85s8,   5|128:
* .



,5$t,  I4IWIUI  f -II                          *om
aa    t   ati   at    *12   *,   int   *3    at   ta    at                                                                                 sunP(3.6    "UNs* LUi
Z~~ ~~~S it t  s a _            i        it                 t         is1"Was"  pu
O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ O5' Ouq uub  suu**                 *su*"l 
.......  .......  .. ....  .......  ..... .  .......  .......   ......  .......  ... ...  .......   ......
torns.  oIIilsU
§ " t ~~~~~~~~~............
......  ... ,....  ......  .......                .,.  ..,..., .....  .....    ...,....  ..,,.....,, .......    ... .,,,,,,..,.,|
2         It    et    63                        A         J  s               *2 nz                I                                   (U_. S  SU     W1
4
0          ILL       UL        ILL       IL       U!t       U2        1*t   t2 IL!       IL        ILL       ia                                              )1             J~*
....... ....... ....... .......  ....... ....... ....... ...... ......................      .
U        U         9 wi               92 Zs               U         U         wu ni    "u    t1-amb-p 
OW    U1            1        3|    *e    ng    g1                     *W                                                                               mmjsm e1 t  1--i$
n5       21        Z8        21                 ZR        25        21        21        2        21                                                  -in"W   PI
LI       II        tl        LI       fl        LI        II        {L        LI        LI       L i^
1        ot        3t        01       3s        01        3s        3s        0        01        3s                                                                 b'
262      262       26        26        26       26        262       262       26        26        2                                             (-Oe  /Ml3J          1S
21       II        01        6        I         *         *         S         9         £        2            £
51211Oww    AV
=nMO 43                  IbNO_
. ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ jW' .U~4~3.  ~IW
DIFOU- iuwTUR   5~I1UBIQ
*                                                1WUL~~~~~~~~~o   au ;PJfLU&mUU



wmrn E1MKHRR DSVVL,imTnm=3R
8goo.e RaUe of Return
lest                             1      2       3      4       5      6       7      a       9     10      11     12     13      14     is     16      If     Is     19       20
......  ........ ......  ......... ......  ......... ......  ......... ......  .........  ..  ......  ......  ........  .......-...  ......  ......... ......  ......... ......    ........ .. -............ ............ ..... ...... ..........
_Urlls  (U '066)
..................
euwf. rtam moatt  1                 307  2,0U   2,402  2,422  2,17?  1.633  `1461  1,341  1,211  1.076    94S    945    94s    945    945    945    94S    95             94s
Fmb.U- to loran       d                       10?    135   U12    184    206    227    243    263    261    299    316    K34    35s    372             0    46    429       46
*                    ~~~~~                                                                            ~~~. ..   ......a...  ..........  ...   ...... . ... ...
toutl  m fIt                 0    3    2,1n  2,37  2.5    2,361  1 69  1.6   1,S4  1,474  1,357  1,24   1,2$A  1,279  1,296  1,317  1,3     1,353  1,374   1,391
............ ..... ............ ..... ............ ..... ...... ...........  ........ ......  ........ ......  ........ ......  ........ ......  ........ ......  ........ ......  ........ ......  ........ ...... ...... ......  ......
tm lla   PSt i11a ta  11
.........................
blwtsmc  of
viiop uaeilltlos                      2      27     70     90      93     9       96     96      96     96     96      96     97     97      9      96     99      9       99
amu f6qd                                     9g    lei    19    129    130    130    130    130    130    130    130    130    130    130    130    130    130            130
loS  qoiw          as        0       2    12S      7      199    222    223    226    226    226    226    22        22     2      227    228       6    229    229      229
............ ..... ............ ..... ............ ........ ........... ......  ........ .....  ...... ......  ........ ......  ........ ......  ........ ......  ........ ......  ........ ......  ........ ...... ...... ......  ......
..........................
wills"  aeiitios                     S5551.3   I676  3631 9                   0      0     67       0      0       S      0   30        5?      0              0     la     329
ob. * a"oa        u           7561 2w6                60     60      6       0      40     60    216       0     40      60     60     60      60     60     G0      60      60
ituamt fualltiss                     1no    262    256    15         'A      4
fUS  LSAo  1muom_              51S  U2    234         99
Irolas                          6      5o    )4        9       6      3
Tet  AssIt. a Cood            420    499    449    22    2S    136          S4
Iot.13.   at_ t      t.299196257I 2971 1.                769    367    116  .0    127    216            0     6      60    340    117    60        65     40      70     389
,........ .................. .................. ........ ........ ...........  ........ ......  ........ ......  ........ ......  ........ ......  ........ ......  ........ ......  ........ ......  ........ ...... ...... ......  ......
mi uuuit fno               .12991.320     (251)  962  1.616  1m     1496  1,402  1,231  1,032  1.131    953    95    712    952  1.029  1.042  1,064  1.07S                m
............        smm   uuu   uss.  assau...   au  as. .53.am,.£333  333   85353582  528  £3333332  sum U&Smsana    ugg
ECOUIWIC "toor OKim             312
............... ...........
1/  lnr_mtt Project  oit* tfrofm Sbts a totat ewt comb benf Its of the boat fleet In souther 0  (foint PA) with the poject - witheut the project.
fet casr  brtits of twe bat fleet n  satl  revew   -  prating costs - investments in boats  egines and  ear.
fIlu  SPis gum91
03/04/91  IsBI



RIuPulJtC OF Y1MEN
hI     FtSINEUES O ELOI               PROJECT
Cash Flow Pro lations: Kukalla C&qRjAtUe 1/
(YD '000)
1                                                         2        3       *       5       4        7       9      II      13      IS      37       19      20
(I)  ied (S) Sege  21                            14?     147      150     154     "5a      361     160    SS      15S   t55    1SS        155     lSS      15S
N"  tres     o   ragIon 3I                    4?      4?      49       S0      51      S2      S2      50       S0      50      50      50      SO      50
(2) lQeretim St
...............
uwet sesulep                                  4?      4?      49      50       5t      52      52      50      S0       50      S0      S0      50      S0
ask* Vilag  fcilltle                                                          2       2       2       2        2       2       3       3       3       3
IS am qplpmt                                                                    ?       a       a       a        S       a       a       S       a       a
....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... .... ...
tow  qmatgt cests                           1U5      33       33      136     S4      I50     149     I"       146     14      14g     149     149     149
4) tC      Pico tfem q rtla59 59                                  62               62      63      62       S?      SY      5?      56      56      56      56
(4) iw Iat Cat
tlied Summed.: Cli   i*. (Ped  Vatitl.)                              43       43
flied imet.s fAim. o    EmOrj e                                                29
fied It.s SoI1_Mt                                                              54                      54                      f4
1t1  I__t O  O  O S  t                                 0       0      43      3         0       0               0       0
ff   et C"  ePtu)-44                              5       5       42       24     (64      63      62       2      5?       5i       a      56      56      56
......................                   .......  .......... ... ....    , .......  .......... .......  .......... .......  .......... .......  .......... .......    ......... ....... ...... ... ...... ... ................ . ..*... ... ..... ...
.                    *5*      . . ._t t            I       I       I        I       I       1      2.       4      34      3        3        a       0       N
C) UL 1ftf  wke o__o ftto 0J110l 11I W.}  .-0  lt6*  1.B0  lU11.O  2J   l.t  l.t  1.7  t.A  6.r 
.....................................
1/ Ow ult t_le am   mubd fum  thi  inhale. as the  era Mot retafned as trewm
by toe        -owe bl e   trmfwnd to  h Iawbmt toee pa  Y.  4s.
2/  t  a    m "  m    h    Md t   full atch f 1m   tr* te cospenelve.   vemme fr  both th     socist all             itry .d
St 8ra1. Sargew pet 2.35) we  atited an a    t .7ofM   futl catch value.
SI It is  _ed tht Ido too wbeA. to be estlle             d wiltt r_dt In nvem  etuivmlaot to 32 of 70M  of fult catth value.
flu  110110111 Ms
Owl"     46s2* 
I 



imUIrrl FtsuuhIR   DISVEWIDI  FIJCT
Cash flow  Ptojo1etitoa  Ehihe  fgssoattVO  I/
on.  t                                                                    (ID '000)
...... ......... *.....................................................................................................................................................
lOU:                                              1       2       3        *       5               1 7     9      tl     1i       IS      1       19      20
(1) fMSmw tap U32i                             1u4       US      141     143     14      I"      I"      138     138    138    138    138  - 138          3
Ot rew     frIn sP-l zo   3I                 a       St2      53      S4      54      5S      S4      52      S2      S2      S2      S2      S2      52
........................
...............
slat s_ t S                                  53      S       53       S4      54      Ss      S4      5       52      S    2          52 S 2          52
kiM  W Vitl   lesiSlIt                                                                I       I       I       A       I       I       I       1       I
guamIqAfmm                                                                            16      16      16      16      16      16      t6      16      16
ea_ nf                                               n   n   n   n   n  n  n  n  n  n   n  n  n
6". A        m  on"                                 15      I2n      12      IV      145 1n          14?    142 1t42         142    142    142    142
3 )Cmb Utl v.  9_ oE sms                                                  is l t  n       56      54      47      47      47      4?      4?      47      47
.................
44  sI  -I Cast
............... .
Plad    1.g clvii  1   (Fred  fesll.)                                        32       SI
fl.   sInt.s $Al1.a.  d40a                                                            21
IbM         11.s Godmml                                                                                        SS
lo s  aszumM    t                             0       O       0       0      32      9         0       0       5       0      0       0        0       S
(st 006 ftW 431-44)                          a       6?              is       30     (39)    54       4?      4       4?      47      4?      4?       2
......................                   ....... .......................... ....... .......... ....... .......... ....... .......... ....... .......... ....... .......... ....... .............. ........................... ....... ...........
(6        l_U 0t   swwl                           I       I       1       1       6      *5      25       24      24      24      20      0       0       *
chL  uthrvl.sCewapsU.(SM(6) *6.4   45.0    06.6    4.9    12.5    2.2    2.1                             1.9     1.9    1.9    2.4
..................*...............
b _   lbs   coel_me      b*      kwm O . lb        s srn wa     e mtCs    ars.14).
V it  bssinid _bM    a o lbs           "S* flowS ltse  l_ ew co_p lrs. 4_vawe trf  botb lhe 33 Social sew4ty an
53 bevIes    g  (as pw   2.35) wre e*gts_d m  a ba et Mf N1B           catcs  vow.
36 It Is  _usd Ib  lb  fee    A     ts be   11i _d  will rU  m         in ee _v  "e valt  to 32 of         e ot hAIl cadt  valve.
Flu  Ml  t mmt
5119       1:5                                                                                                                                    I



EFJLc or   iI
vlim mmmm                             Cash Pla  Pr~~~o1octi n Ding/Al Newt ITwtel. Al Oaru               1111kielmve I/
(ID 000)
smt                                               1       2       3       4       S       6       7       9      11      13     1S      I?      19      20
t1) 11d (E COMO2/                                81 V            93     100    105      10t S   l0      107    10       10?    10?    107      10?    10? 
fer 3/                                       30      32      35      36      39      40      41      39     35      33      33      Si      2J      2n
........ .........*
2) qsti Cast
...................... 
Sato llss t                                  30      32      35      36      39      40      41      S9     3S      33      33      31      28      27
f       Iist  fcilitie                                        I       4       4       4       4       4       4      4       4       4       4       4
id sm                                                                        20      21      21      21      21      21     21      21      21      21
ol_ehssA                                    7i       is      is       7678           76      is      7s      is      78      78     78      is      78
Tots qipretir. Cests                        1       110     1       119    141      143     143    141    013    136    136        134    131    1SO
(3) Crltfofrom "at lmw                            3       8      14      to       4       5       6       4      4       4       4       4       4       4
.........................
(4) t    t     Cast
Utasi Ismet., CivIl Ihibs (Oed. tait.)                       s       eS
Fxed I_t.s Jk<l. of  u.                                              S0.
#Sla  I_t.s Euiu                                                    U2                               to                                     10
Tats lawasmmagast                             00                                      0       0                      0       0       0      1        0
S) 0s tab flew0)*(4)                                            (11)  (25)        4       5       6      (6)     4       4       4       4      (6)      4
....... ........... .........            .................. ....... .......... ....... .......... ....... .......... ....... .......... ....... .......... ....... .......... ....... ...... ... . ...... .....  .... ...... ... ...
to  towntai ltSsevice                             2       a       a       a       a       2      5       7 St   5       Sr      St       2       0       0
(7) L Dt srko h       ae as (3/6) 4/            1.1     3.2    5.6    7.6    1.5       2.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1          2.6
.....................................
V Sesemu ton  Wr   rnlub  ter  this   el_ysie. as they we Mt retlaed a  rms
by the  eosstw Iva   trantsfered to toe Swarn   (see paso 7.14).
2  It is as_md tWt M1 of th  futt ctoe  fluA through the coative. Stveme from both thew 3X socxelt sm ty wi
52 Sevic  Charg  (ss pwn  2.35) are  sti_ti an a bsen of 70  full catch valut.
V  It is _atm  tdot the fee sdmse  to be etaidwd wilt rsult In ravems opIvatent to 32 of 70X ' full catch wlue.
4/ Ibb amlysis d_m   lnility of the coaperotiw, mab  present  sasqztins, to uset debt seice obligeien. this is
pinclpelly 6   to bich overhed costs d ich  re oA of line with te scale of protlon.  b  ppopd osed
rstr_stualu  #plw, ratlficatli  of which is a coditlao of credit effectlvenss, wiii uilem  thi Issue.m
flua _s                                                                                                                                                       "U_w



WVUQR EIIN UR bRvaNnmU
us"u "on"                        CA2h VIeW Preiae%$2=! WmaSew  (tea. Musa1nahl fMoeerstt    V/
a-w                                                               (TOD '0)
..............................................................................................................
16                                         ,,,,,,!,,,,,,2,,,,,,S,.,,.S,,.,,.s,,,.,,*,,,1  2  3  4  £  6  7  9   I1      13      IS      1?              20
MI  fi   (on    ues 2II                        MR      474     446     420    31       MG      340    308    36        305         306    3     06  3 
wsom    frmt_rt1um31                        74     116     161      15      146     136     128    116    116    16    11t6        116     116    116
so"it l       4s a4                                                          40     40 1            40      40 *                            a
,.................... ..
42) toebt t- sts
ksIstmmw1t~                                 14    1S6       1?      1S?     14U    136    128    116    116    116    116    116    116    116
lbAvtUhg  Isliee                                     3       1       1      10       10     10      13      13 t1           16      16      14      14
go am GOOPMA                                                56      56      S6      S6      56      56      56      56      S6      56      56      56
OWN%"&                                      d4      54      S4      5S4     54        4     54      54      S4      54      54      54      S4      S4
few  *ewsl cuw                             IN       3        3    2731    263      254     243    234    234    23         23?    23?    23?    237
13) tub flow tfe spest1as                      14      41      330    329    3n        293     26      20    230        30    227    22?    2          22?
.........................
z }  l  _     unt                                                                                                                                                 I
............... 
lItd huem.2 Civil Vts (fed. rusiL)                 33      333
find 1_t.t AlltWia   of F                                   94                                                                                                 a
Isleluestinusctes                                   3       9        0       0       0       a       0           0       0              00  0       0
5  Rt Ceth n     a")                           V4A            (31n    3V       31      M       25    230    230    210    22?    22?    22?    22r
(6) tLmit am    SW""                             I       7       7       7     to      W        165    a0e  r       r    0      41      41      0       0
(1n   Uf Svo_ Q1 zos eV. stti   s/              204       5r.  XI* 4SX          .9  l-t   l.6    1.1    1.1    1.1    SAf  S.Av 
..*...................................
1/  ss  are   ltuu   lene this salyss, taews  we no retaed    r                        s
Am a&&      sIs  b*  reut er    to dw Smen*e          tse  Wu  7.14).
at itisaaummd t _         St the full esock fiee  d*'im    die .est  (us. Seemxs frew boto. 31 soc ilt  sulsd
is sservk Oa ( am pre .)LM ws estiuted an  buer of Y0U full esteb waive.
St It Is  -eed   th       #so f dueA. to be   tAllAed mitt tedt In reveNe equvent to 3 of 70 of full catchb vue.
4, *semdatiem rt r  o* 40  1 NOe-us   ssAmed  srsmp esooaM  of 2  dws, wtith a  er  of V00.5 per dn. put fiidtnl.
fite No   t                                                                                                                                                     aOMk
66/       1t2519166:55



EPIJBLIC OF YEM
FORhn FiSHERis DFVRLPN                 ,QW! =
Cash  nlow Pgactions  Savtt s          Cooerative 1/
Vilepe       _                                                                             (YD I 00O)
.E.R..1       2       3       4        5       6       7       9       1t  1 3         1S      17      19      20
(1) fixedS) 0  Cares 2/                          49       51      55      61      6        71       2      71      TI       71 n    1 n         n        t  7n
tens I                                       18       19      21      23       a5      27     2n       26      24      23      22       20       a      17
.........
(2) Operating costs
...............
Social Sawitv                                18       19      21      23       25      27      27      26      24      23       22      20      is      17
fisnt Villa"  facilitis                       0        0       1       1        1       1       1       1       1        1       1       1       1       1
* sintanu e Sek  Eq npast                                      8a      8        8       8       a       8       a       a       a        a       a       8
o0verhe                                      38      38       S8      38      38       38      38      38      38      38      38       38      38      36
Total opersting Cots                         S6      S?       6       70       2       14      74      is      12       0      69      67       6S      6
(3) Cash ftem frm  pst§ien                       11       12       8      13       19      24      25      24      24      24      R        24      24      24
......... .............................. 
(4) Irtsnt Cast                                                                                                                                                         a
...............O
Fised lwst.s Civitl {h    (Prd. Vsfol.)              38       38
fixud lnest.: AIloctlen of lna.                              19
fixeud tawast.: EqipdpaM                                      41                                        3                       3
tot  tInvstmnt cst                            0      38                0       0       0        0       3       03                              0        0
(s5 ) t eashFlte( M))                            I4       ^ (26)    (90   Is              24       25      21      24      24      21      24       24      24
.....................         .         ..................... ....... .......... ....... .......... ....... .......... ....... .......... ....... .......... . .......... ....... .......... ....... ....................................   . 
(6) Lowtekbt Service                              1       I        I       1      22      22      22       21      21      21       0       0       0        0
(7) LT Debt service Cmwsg  Ratio (3)1(6)    13.8   1S.7    10.0   17.1           0.9     1.1      1.1     1.1     1.1     1.M   51.2    S1.2
........ ......................
I/  oswnmat taxes ae ectuied fra  this analsis, as they  re not retained as u
by th  coeperst iwo but tranfeorrd to the Goverment (see par 7.14).
2/ It Is asami t"St M   of th  futs tchem1   thmom  the cooperative. Rewma  from both the 31 Social Secwity ad
St Sevice chal  (see pa   2.315) ar estimted on a base of 7M  futl cattA vale.
3/ It is assued tOat te fee sbeo*eA  to be estebliAd will result in revems eaptvaent to 31 of ?QS of fuut catch value.
VIE iE: _s    1W13           090



* 101 e
ANEEX 18
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
1.   Working Paper:    Number of Cooperative and Private Fishing Boats in
PDRY - 1988
Estimated per Capita Fish Consumption
2.   Working Paper:    Project Preparation Report by FAO/CP, March 9, 1989
3.   Working Paper:    Assistance to the Development ot the Artisanal
Fisheries Sector, by MacAlister Elliott and
Partners, November 1988 (TCP/PDY/8852-lDDCB).
4.   Working Paper:    Vessel Consultant's Report, by Cyrus Hamlin, N.A.,
December 12, 1989
S.   Working Paper:    Short Term Consultancy Service for Civil Works, by
Niels E.A. Bryanne, Porteonsult Consulting
Engineers, February 1990
6.  Working Paper:    Land Transport Appraisal Report, by Stewart
Waddell, Halcrow Fox and Associates, December 1989
7.   Working Paper:    Contribution of the IFAD Women/Fisheries Consultant:
to the Fourth Fisheries Development Project, by
P.C. Spliethoff, International Agrarisch Centrum,
December 1989
8.   Working Paper:    Consultant Anmex, IFAD Institution/Fisheries
Consultant, by Nicholas Janman, December 12, 1989
9.  Working Paper:      Pro4ect Cost Estimates
10.  Working Paper:     Financial Statements of Fisheries Cooperatives
1986-88
11.  Working Paper:     Projected Cash Flows for Fisheries Cooperatives
12.  Working Paper:     Financial and Economic Projections for Different
Boat Models
13.  Working Paper:     Project Economic Analysis



IBRD 22548
45-                                                                                                                              LOCATION oF VILLAGE FACIlITIES
48                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CURRENT PROJECT
REPUBLIC  OF YEMEN                                                                                                               m0 SLJIvIoWPRUSKI l
-~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h-                                                                                      GOVER * NTORATE CAPITALS
FOURTH FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                     NO,oe,e             ®   OOERNORATE CAPITALS
P, SRTS
ToZol. n                                                                                                       -$                                     PRI.SARY ROADS
\  Thorno     f                                 _    SECONDARY ROADS
TRACKS
S h                                                                        j  ._ -                            )                                 __  VWADIS
GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES
' ,                                                                                                                                                        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Z,eeokh   .-                                                    a v
|  4 )   >    1              <            \     -                                          /      |    G"wA   -                                 N    Gh  F  -
Gh..f                                                       ThTf  / hee e,   h    '"  peee by
Safi, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fe te ei  etV-. 9-
B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ils <fiha                                                                                                                                              t Xbz[of n- 1
i=~~~~~~~~~f 
-Ti-l.  o                                                             2,5 ,S   ,   1,00, t50~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nehv  Z. e,eknan eete.e,eo~fe,te
<                          \Qt    Ror./U-hn   Rrn   Imror  1llz  .  /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tten~Itteee he  SR, dn
AJIoi<Jl Moh.d4                Ai ;                       ,        -                 he lnteeei           j    tr-
RED SEA   A,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e hA 'o i ,etiei nte
Q-to~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a'ef h'FE/ aeeadte
T,                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GULF OF ADEN
Ah-,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
a-PI'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MRH49



