Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 20015-YEM
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOURTH FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2265-YEM)
March 6, 2000
Rural Development, Water and Environment Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Yemeni Rial (YR)
Official Rate        Market Rate
April 1991         US$1 =YR  12         US$1 =YR  29
October 1994       US$ 1 = YR  50        US$ 1 = YR 103
October 1995       US$ I= YR  90         US$ I = YR 112
December 1996      US$ 1 = YR 100        US$ 1 = YR 126
December 1997      US$ 1 = YR 131        US$ 1 = YR 131
June 1998          US$ 1 = YR 135        US$ 1 = YR 135
December 1999      US$ 1 = YR 150        US$ 1 = YR 155
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CACB         Cooperative and Agriculture Credit Bank
CFC          Coastal Fisheries Corporation
EER          Economic Rate of Return
FACP         Food Aid Counterpart Fund
FAO/CP       Food and Agriculture Organization/World Bank Cooperative Programme
FFDP         Fourth Fisheries Development Project
FSAC         Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
GOY          Government of Yemen
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDA          International Development Association
IFAD         International Fund for Agricultural Development
MFW          Ministry of Fish Wealth
MSRRI        Marine Science and Resources Research Institute
MSY          Maximum Sustainable Yield
MTR          Mid-Term Review
NCSFM        National Corporation for Services and Fish Marketing
O&M          Operation and Maintenance
PDRY         People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
PIPER        Portfolio Implementation Performance Review
PIU          Project Implementation Unit
PSC          Project SteeTing Committee
QCL          Quality Control Laboratory
ROY          Republic of Yemen
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
SCF          Standard Conversion Factor
WB           World Bank
WID          Women in Development
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
Vice President:           Kemal Dervi§
Country Director:         Inder Sud
Sector Director:          Doris Koehn
Sector Manager:           Petros A;lilu
Team Leader:              Tijan M. Sallah



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOURTH FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2265-YEM)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..............................................  i-vii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ...............................................1
A. Introduction .1
B. Project Objectives and Design .1
C. Achievement of Objectives                       .2
D. Project Implementation                         .6
E. Project Sustainability                        .7
F. IDA Performance                             .7
G. Borrower Performance                          .7
H. Assessment of Outcome                          .8
I. Future Operation                            .8
J. Key Lessons Leamed                            .8
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES ..........................                            10
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments .11
Table 2: Related IDA Credits .13
Table 3: Project Timetable .14
Table 4:   IDA Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual .    14
Table 4A:   Disbursements from the European Union (EU) Grant       .15
Table 4B   Disbursements from the IFAD Loan                 .15
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation .16
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation .18
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project .18
Table 8A: Project Costs.                                                   20
Table 8B: Project Financing .20
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits .21
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants .22
Table 11:   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .23
Table 12:  IDA Resources: Staff Inputs .23
Table 13:  IDA Resources: Missions .                                       24
ANNEXES
A. Mission's Memorandum of Understanding
B. Financial and Economic Re-Evaluation
C. Project Review From Borrower's Perspective
D. Comments from Govemment
MAP: IBRD 30309
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOURTH FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2265-YEM)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Fourth Fisheries Development
Project (FFDP), for which IDA Credit 2265-YEM in the amount of SDR 9.4 million (US$13.2 million
equivalent) was approved on June 13, 1991 and became effective on July 30, 1992.
The Credit was closed on June 30, 1999, and the IFAD and IDA special account balances are
being recovered. Upon recovery of the special account balances, it is estimated that total disbursement
from the IDA Credit will be about SDR 5.8 million (US$8.0 million equivalent). A total of about
SDR 3.6 million (US$5.2 million equivalent) will be cancelled from the IDA Credit. Cofinancing for
the project in the amount of US$26.6 million included an IFAD loan of US$6.5 million, a grant of
US$16.3 million from the EU and a Government of Yemen (GOY) contribution of US$3.8 million.
The draft ICR was prepared by an FAO/CP mission', on behalf of MNSRE Department of the
Middle East and North Africa Region, on the basis of initial discussions in Washington with Mr. T.
Sallah (Senior Economist, MNSRE), the Task Team Leader, and with GOY authorities and related
implementing agencies during a mission from June 24 to July 7, 1999. The report is also based on
material gathered from project files, supervision reports, various project related studies, findings from
field investigations and discussions with Bank staff, project consultants, contractors and beneficiaries.
The ICR was reviewed by Messrs./Mmes. T. Sallah (TTL), G. Van Santen (Senior Fisheries
Specialist-Consultant), T. Sinha (Yemen Cluster Coordinator), T. Kolan (Portfolio Manager), P. Aklilu
(Sector Manager) and S. Darghouth (Sector Manager) who provided helpful comments which are
reflected in this report. The Borrower, through the PIU, contributed to the preparation of the ICR by:
(i) participating in the ICR mission; (ii) preparing "Borrowers Contribution to the ICR;" (iii) providing
data and substantive comments on the ICR mission's Memorandum of Understanding (Annex A); and
(iv) contributing to the statistical information and recalculation of the ERR.
Food and Agriculture Organization and World Bank Cooperative Programrnme. Mr. R. Suppa was the leader
of the ICR mission.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOURTH FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2265-YEM)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The project was designed to address constraints defined in the 1989 Fisheries Sector Survey of
Yemen, i.e., in particular, to increase the role of the private sector in fisheries, including marketing, while
encouraging privatization of cooperatively owned small-scale fishing boats and village fishing facilities.
The project was to help reduce the role of the public corporations in fish production and marketing,
expand the local distribution of fish, and promote high-value fish exports. IDA had previously supported
four fisheries projects in Yemen (three in the South and one in the North). The Fourth Fisheries
Development Project (FFDP) was the fifth project in the fisheries sector, and IDA appraised it in
November 1989 in response to GOY's request. The project was appraised at a total cost of US$39.8
million, and a foreign exchange component of US$31.8 million. The cofinancing included an IDA credit
of US$13.2 million, an IFAD loan of US$6.5 million, an EU grant of US$16.3 million, and GOY's
contribution of US$3.8 million.
2.    After unification of North (capitalist) and South Yemen (socialist), the economy of South Yemen
still contained elements of a directed economy. In that environment of state control, the project made
determined efforts to help liberalize fish marketing and promote the development of small-scale fisheries
and private cooperatives.
Project Objectives and Design
3.    The main objectives of the project were to: (i) expand fish catches and improve processing, for
both local consumption and export; (ii) improve the efficiency of the domestic and export marketing of
fish, notably through investments, policy changes and adjustments in the institutional performance of
cooperatives; (iii) improve the assessment and management of the fish resources; and (iv) help improve
the position of women in fishing communities. Project objectives were quite realistic, except for the
Women in Development (WID) component, which was ambitious and therefore had to be scaled down to a
few pilot villages.
4.    To achieve these objectives, the project was designed to provide for: (i) construction of basic
facilities for fish handling in seven villages to improve fish processing and construction of roads to
improve access and the efficiency of domestic and export marketing; (ii) inputs and equipment in the form
of intermediate technology vessels, construction material for fishing boats, outboard engines, fishing gear,
and a fleet of insulated and refrigerated trucks and plastic boxes to help increase fish catches and improve
fish processing; (iii) technical assistance for the Coastal Fisheries Corporation (CFC) and cooperatives of
the Ministry of Fish Wealth (MFW) to improve the management of fish resources; (iv) strengthening of
the Marine Science and Resources Research Institute (MSRRI) in fish stock assessment to improve the



ii
management of fish resources; and (v) services for women in fishing communities to help improve their
economic status.
5.     Overall, the project outcome was satisfactory. One could argue for a different rating in view of
the partial achievements under some components. However, the project's impact on beneficiary incomes
and on privatization of the sector are a better measure of its success. At the time of Credit closure, the
project had contributed to growth in the size of the artisanal fleet and the number of fishermen, which
tripled since 1992, and to growth in catches which have at least doubled (from 11,524 tons to 20,736 tons
annually in just the six cooperatives/societies participating in the project). This rapid expansion is the
result of two major project-related factors: (i) project investments in infrastructure and a successful, albeit
subsidized, fisheries credit program operated by CACB; and (ii) a number of policy changes since
unification, creating private boat ownership, liberalized fish marketing, and privatization of public fish
preservation services. A non-project related factor, however, was the influx of retumees after the Gulf
War, who also fuelled investment in fisheries.
Implementation Experience and Results
6.     The project and credit agreements for the FFDP were approved by IDA's Board on June 13, 1991,
became effective on July 30, 1992, and the IDA Credit closed on June 30, 1999. A PIU, under MFW,
established under earlier IDA-financed projects had overall responsibility for project implementation.
Except for a hiatus in 1995 -1996, when the entire PIUi staff was replaced by the top management from
MFW (see implementation details in paras. 21-23), achievement of development objectives and
implementation progress was satisfactory.  By credit closure, the project had several significant
achievements on many fronts (see paras. 5, 20), benefiting many artisanal fisherfolk. Summaries of the
implementation experience by project component, are described below.
7.     Village Fisheries Facilities (EU Financed).  The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) envisaged
provision of specific village facilities (fish receiving sheds, iceplants, ice stores, chilled stores, generator
houses and generators) to seven fishing villages: Mukalla, Shihr, Diss/Al Hami, Al-Qarn, Qusaeyr,
Musainah and Sayhut, all in Hadramaut and Al-Mahrah govemorates. These facilities would comprise a
minimum package of one ice maker, one ice store, and one chill store per village. The project substantially
achieved the appraisal targets under this component (see Part II, Table 5, and Annex B, Table 1). Six
facilities were constructed in six villages (against the SAR target of seven facilities in seven villages), and
all were completed by mid-1997 and at a high standard of construction. The village of Qusaeyr was
excluded as construction of the facilities there was discovered to be prohibitively costly, given its remote
location and its relatively lower fish landings.
8.     To ensure cost recovery and sustainability, the project rented the facilities to the cooperatives/
societies over a trial period to ensure that they had the required capabilities to manage them. The facilities
were thereafter sold to them. At the time of Credit closure, only two (Mukalla and Shihr) out of the six
cooperatives/societies had satisfactorily met the requirements, and the PIU sold the facilities to them in
September 1999. For the remaining four facilities rented to Musainah, Al-Diss, Sayhut, and Al-Qam
cooperatives/societies, plans are underway to sell the facilities after the cooperatives/societies have
fulfilled the preconditions for sale. These facilities, whether rented or owned, are contributing to reducing
losses in fish catch and improving fish processing.
9.     Fokum-Ras Imran Road (IDA Financed). The SAR envisaged the construction of a 14.2 km
asphalt road between the fisheries facilities of Fokum and Ras Irnran to facilitate transport of fish to Aden.
This component was fully achieved, despite delays in implementation. The construction of the road (14.2
km) and its extension (2.5 km) wvas completed. The extension enabled the road to reach the existing
fisheries facilities, including the iceplants, which were built under the IDA-assisted Third Fisheries Project



iii
(Cr. 1274-YDR). Following disagreement between GOY and IDA on contract award recommendation
and expiration of bid validity, IDA agreed to a rebidding with final contract award to the lowest evaluated
responsive bidder. The road has now been completed with about 27 percent increase in cost, due to
redesign, extension and widening. This road is helping improve the efficiency of domestic marketing of
fish, by facilitating fish traders' access to village fish auctions and fishermen access to markets in Aden
10.   Outboard Engines and Gear (IDA and IFAD Financed). The SAR envisaged the provision of
320 glass reinforced plastic boats, 50 wooden sambuks, 4 intermediate technology vessels, 2,400 outboard
engines and fishing gear to the fishing community. The project partially achieved its appraisal targets in
this regard. Most of the fishing equipment and inputs were cancelled because macroeconomic reforms
enabled the private sector to supply them. Only the outboard and inboard engines and fishing gear were
procured because their procurement had started prior to the reforms. Seventeen hundred outboard engines
were procured ( less than the 2,400 units envisaged in the SAR, due to an increase in unit costs), of which
79 percent (all the Yamaha engines), were successfully purchased by fishermen due to large demand,. The
only units that remained unsold were the 340 Selva engines (against the 350 units procured) for which
there was little demand. The PTIU, which is still operating with EU financing, is making arrangements for
CACB to take possession and sell them at a discount. For the inboard engines, 20 were procured: one was
sold to a fisherman and 19 were issued to the army under the instruction of the top management of MFW.
As for the fishing gear of US$2.1 million procured in 1994, except for US$0.9 million worth of gear stolen
during the Civil War, all was immediately sold. The inboard and outboard engines and fishing gear
distributed to the fishermen have been contributing to expanding fish catches for both local consumption
and exports.
11.   Fisheries Credit Component (IDA and IFAD Indirectly Financed). The SAR envisaged the
establishment of a revolving fund in CACB totaling US$3 million equivalent, using local currency
generated from the sale, on cash terms, of project procured equipment/items, e.g., outboard engines.
CACB was to manage this credit scheme on behalf of the MFW for a fee. An international expert was to
help with implementation of the credit scheme. This component was partially achieved. In September
1999, the revolving fund in CACB received a deposit of YR 203 million (or about US$ 2.7 million
equivalent, converted at the prevailing exchange rate at the time of the deposit), corning from proceeds of
the sale of procured equipment. All of these funds were utilized as credit to over 1,873 fishermen. The
fisheries credit component continues to provide needed finances for the purchase of equipment by
fishermen, and has therefore contributed to increased fish catches. Its implementation was rated successful
in the early years with high average recovery rates (above 90 percent) for credit extended. In recent years
though, the average recovery rate has fallen to 68 percent owing to poor follow up. This has been due to
lack of agreement between the top management of MFW and the CACB on recommended follow-up
actions. The new management at CACB is continuing the credit scheme and evaluating options on how
best to improve recovery.
12.   Women Development Centers (IFAD Financed). The SAR envisaged construction of a small
clothing factory to be run by an existing sewing cooperative, and rehabilitation or construction of a total of
20 community development centers. It was also envisaged that education and extension experts, both
internationally recruited, would be hired to design adult and vocational education programs to benefit
women in fishing villages. This component was partially achieved as it was considered too ambitious
and complex, and on the basis of advice from a Women in Development (WID) consultant and IDA's
agreement, GOY decided to concentrate on a pilot in three fishing villages: Fokum, Imran and Shuqra
were identified to build the women's training centers. The three centers were completed at a modest cost,
using mostly local building materials. Contractors handed them over to the PIU in June 1999, and PIU is
working out cost-sharing arrangements with the female beneficiaries in these villages to ensure that the
facilities are equipped and utilized. These facilities will help uplift the knowledge and skills of women



iv
in these fishing villages, thereby improving their positions and creating opportunities for gainful
employment.
13.   Al-Qarn Asphalt Road and Electrical Distribution Network in Al-Qarn and Musainah (EU
Financed). The SAR envisaged improvements under the project of the 4.5 km of the existing 8.8 km Al-
Qam Road and 1.75 km Musainah Road connecting them to the Mukalla-Sayhut main road. This was fully
achieved. Additional funds were made available under the EU's Food Aid Counterpart Funds (FACF) to
finance the construction of the entire 9.0 km access road with asphalt, linking Al-Qam to the Mukalla-
Sayhut main road. The completed road will significantly improve the domestic marketing of fish in this
area. With EU financing, the fishing villages of Al-Qarn and Al-Musainah have also had two electrical
generators installed for the entire village, including power distribution lines.  The operation and
maintenance (O&M) cost of the generators will be met by both the cooperatives and the villages, and the
PIU has concluded an agreement with beneficiaries regarding O&M responsibilities for the generators and
the power distribution system.
14.   Other Small Civil Works (IDA and IFAD Financed). Additional civil works completed under
the project included auction yards in Shuqra, Burum, Bir Ali and Al-Salif, and the construction of the
Fokum and Shuqra asphalt access roads of 1.6 km and 1.3 km respectively. The four auction yards were
handed over to the respective cooperatives in mid July 1999. Although not envisaged in the SAR, in view
of the unused funds from the cancelled equipment imports referred to in para. 9, under the project GOY
requested and IDA agreed on the use of US$1 million on priority fisheries infrastructure consistent with
project development objectives and implementable before Credit closure. Similarly, from the unused funds
in the IFAD loan, IFAD also approved the construction and equipment upgrading of the only Quality
Control Laboratory (QCL) in the country located in Aden. The construction of the additional wing of the
QCL was completed and handed over to the PIU in July 1999. The procurement and installation of the
laboratory equipment and furniture under the project was also completed. The upgrading of the QCL has
created a major asset, contributing significantly to enhancing Yemen's capacity to control fish quality
especially for exports in an increasingly quality conscious and demanding export environment.
15.   Technical Assistance (TA) and Training (EU/IFAD Financed). The SAR envisaged provision
of technical assistance to build regulatory and legal capacity in MFW, to develop a framework for future
investment, to monitor the effects of the ongoing liberalization, to carry out studies for the marine fisheries
sub-sector, to help with design of tender documents and construction supervision, and to engage in
promotional activities such as assisting cooperatives, private fishermen and traders, and NCFM in
marketing. This component was partially achieved. The first problem was that the TA activities planned
were not adequate to achieve the capacity building and fish stock assessment/management objectives. The
second problem was that the performance of project consultants ranged from satisfactory to poor. For
example, the "Fisheries Sector Review," which was an input into the IDA-prepared "Fisheries Strategy
Note" and the report "Fish Stock Assessment" were considered satisfactory. However, the report by
consultants on "Financial Re-appraisal of Fish Receiving Centers" was not fully satisfactory. The report
on "Fish Stock Assessment" was unfortunately only completed at the time of Credit closure, but it will be
a very useful document for improving the management of fish resources. All together, a total of 441
person/months (p/ms) of TA were financed under the project, slightly above the SAR estimate of 416 p/ms
(see details in Annex B, Table 2). The TA input on cooperative, management and fisheries credit was
substantial and positive, but that for stock assessment and women's development was too little too late.
The TA input for fisheries policy and planning was only partially utilized experiencing high and frequent
turnover, resulting in diminished effectiveness. In fact, the EU-financed Mid-Term Review (MTR) report
noted that the TA input should have had substantial impact on institutional development, but somehow
proved less so because many assignments were too short to have much effect. The security situation in
Yemen sometimes enforced premature evacuation of experts and, in some cases, the experts were
incompatible with their tasks or recurrent support was not provided. The mixed quality of the results from



V
the TA suggested that, in some cases, it is essential to have an experienced PIU with autonomy from
MFW to properly manage performance.
16.    Project Outcomes and Economic and Financial Re-evaluation. The project reached most of
its physical targets (see Annex B, Table 12). The shortcomings were capacity building and fish stock
assessment and management. It achieved its objective of increasing fish catches (although the incremental
annual fish landings of 9,200 tons were below the 11,000 tons envisaged in the SAR) and raising incomes
of project beneficiaries (financial rates of return range from 30-55 percent, depending on the size of the
production unit) (see Appendix B, Tables 10-11). Financial returns on investment undertaken by the boat
owners are in line with SAR estimates, and clearly indicate the financial viability of artisanal fishing
operations in Yemen. The project developed a strong, independent private small-scale fishing and
marketing sector, improving, at the same time, the financial position of the benefiting cooperatives/
societies. The actual cost of the project is estimated at US$29.4 million (Part II, Table 8A) or about 74
percent of the original appraisal estimate. The overall ERR for the project is re-calculated at 15.4 percent
(see Appendix B, Table 19) which, although considered satisfactory, is below the ERR of 31 percent
envisaged at appraisal. This lower rate is due to the less than expected increases of annual fish landings
(perhaps due to increasing fishing pressures) and delays experienced in project implementation.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
17.   Both factors internal and external to the GOY's control affected the project. For factors under
GOY's control, following IDA's Board approval in June 1991, the IDA credit and IFAD loan became
effective a year later due to GOY delays in meeting the conditions of effectiveness in establishing a
satisfactory PIU and opening two special accounts. After this slow start, implementation picked up and
continued satisfactorily until 1995, then slowed down for two years. It picked up again after 1997 until
Credit closure. During the entire project implementation period, however, GOY did not provide adequate
counterpart funding, despite the continued attempts of IDA/EU/IFAD joint supervision missions to resolve
this issue. Eventually, EU helped by providing a grant through the Food Aid Counterpart Funds (FACF)
to meet the funding shortfall. GOY actions that also negatively impacted on project implementation was
removal of the entire PIU staff by the top management of MFW. During this period (1995 and 1996),
project implementation was unsatisfactory. However, in 1997 the project experienced a major boost when
GOY made changes in the top management of MFW, which turned out to be highly supportive of the
project, and which restored some of the competent staff of the PIU. The revamped PIU proved highly
effective in steering the project, and major successes were achieved within a limited period, and the
project was able to make up for some of the lost time.
18.   The project also suffered from factors outside GOY's control. These included the Gulf War in
1991 and the Yemeni Civil War in 1994. Both wars heightened domestic insecurity and caused some
social dislocations. Furthermore, some periodic social unrest hampered project implementation as it
resulted in lack of security for project officers in the field.
19.   Overall, IDA  performance during project implementation was satisfactory. In fact, IDA
surmounted enormous difficulties to steer project implementation in the right direction.  GOY
performance was mixed: satisfactory in the early years of the project, unsatisfactory at midpoint, and
satisfactory in the final years of implementation when the PIU stepped up its efforts considerably to bring
all components to a satisfactory close. GOY was disappointed by IDA's refusal to extend the credit
closing date. IDA's position was that the project had already been eight years in the portfolio, and the
activities proposed for the extension period were outside the original project scope and would therefore
require a new appraisal.



vi
Future Operation
20.    GOY submitted a request in 1998 for a follow-on fisheries project. IDA's position was to prepare
a strategic review of the fisheries sector before considering further investment support. This has led to the
preparation of the Fisheries Strategy Note, prepared jointly with GOY, utilizing findings from field
consultations and the EU-financed Fisheries Sector Review as basis. The Strategy Note is expected to be
discussed at a joint workshop between GOY and the donors, and is planned for May 2000. It recommends
future emphasis on stock management and on efforts to improve quality and marketing.
21.   To ensure sustainability, GOY has embarked on efforts first to rent and, if some basic
preconditions of proper management are met, then to sell the village infrastructure facilities to the
benefiting cooperative/society. This approach would help ensure cost recovery, beneficiary accountability,
and infrastructure sustainability. The first villages to own their facilities, Mukalla and Shihr
cooperatives/societies, have demonstrated that this approach works, and are utilizing and managing their
facilities effectively. MFW/PIU are also working out cost-sharing arrangements with benefiting women in
Fokum, Imran, and Shuqra to ensure that the women's training centers are well utilized and maintained.
The causes for concern are the access roads, for which sustainability is uncertain due to adequate GOY
funding for maintenance of feeder roads, and the declining recovery rate in the fisheries credit program
which needs to be reversed to ensure sustainability.
Summary of Key Lessons Learned
22.   The key lessons learned from the project are the following:
(a)   Sustainability of village infrastructure facilities requires securing beneficiary commitment
to contributing not only to the capital costs but also to financing O&M costs. Under the
project, the successful privatization of two village facilities by first renting, and then
transferring ownership to the benefiting cooperatives/societies, has been the right approach.
Renting first allowed PIU to evaluate state of readiness before final ownership transfer.
Four village facilities are still under rental but expected to be transferred to the
beneficiaries shortly.
(b)   Expanding fish production requires commitment to improving resource management. This
project, and its four predecessors, concentrated mainly (and quite successfully) on
expanding fish production. There is a danger, however, that this success may lead to
overexploitation of fish resources, which, if not addressed through building better
regulatory and resource management capacities, could become self-defeating.
(c)   Reduced PIU autonomy through MFW involvement in the day-to-day running of project
activities can have detrimental effects on implementation. Under the project, especially
during the period 1995 and 1996, PIU was unable to make project decisions because the
MFW refused to support its role. Had this hiatus not taken place, the project would have
been completed sooner and with all funds fully disbursed.
(d)   Donor cooperation in developing a common approach to implementation was crucial to
guaranteeing project survival and eventual success. Under this project, the united approach
of the Bank, EU and EFAD allowed a common position on implementation and policy
matters and enhanced donor leverage on supervision, especially since EU funds were grant
financed. Also, donor flexibility and quick response to changes in the project environment
and project needs allowed, in some cases, for switching of project resources to other more
appropriate purposes.



vii
(e)   Ensuring a proper fit between project objectives and activities is essential. The project
showed that addressing capacity building and stock assessment/management objectives
with technical studies is not adequate to ensure success.
(f)  (Contracting all TA under a project to a single firm can have significant advantages but it
can also have distinct disadvantages for the client, as was the case in this project, because
the single firm contract allowed little room to change the TA experts in cases of
unacceptable performance.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOURTH FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2265-YEM)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Introduction
1.    The project was designed in the late 1980s to address a number of constraints defined in the
Fisheries Sector Survey (1989), in'particular, gradually increasing the role of the private sector in
fisheries, including marketing, while encouraging the privatization of cooperatively owned small-scale
fishing boats and village fishing facilities. Strong emphasis was on high value fish for export, as well as
expanding local distribution of fish and gradually reducing the role of the public corporations. IDA had
previously assisted in the financing of three fisheries projects in South Yemen and one in North Yemen.
In response to the GOY's request for continuing support to the traditional fishing sub-sector, IDA
appraised the FFDP in November 1989. The total cost of the project was appraised at US$39.8 million,
with a foreign exchange component of US$31.8 million. The cofinancing arrangement included an IDA
credit of US$13.2 million, an IFAD loan of US$6.5 million, an EU grant of US$16.3 million, and GOY's
contribution of US$3.8 million.
2.    During project design, the Government of South Yemen or the Peoples Democratic Republic of
Yemen (PDRY) had a planned economy while that of North Yemen or the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR)
had a traditional market economy. After unification in May 1990, GOY initiated more market-oriented
policies, but the economy of the South still contained elements of a directed economy. In this
environment of state control, the project made determined efforts to help liberalize fish marketing and
promote the development of small-scale fisheries and cooperatives.
B. Project Objectives and Design
3.    The main objectives of the project were to: (i) expand fish catches and improve processing, for
both local consumption and export; (ii) improve the efficiency of the domestic and export marketing of
fish, notably through investments, policy changes and adjustments in the institutional performance of
cooperatives; (iii) improve the assessment and management of the fish resources; and (iv) help improve
the position of women in fishing communities. Project objectives were quite realistic, except for the WID
component, which was ambitious and therefore had to be scaled down to a few pilot villages.
4.    To achieve these objectives, the project was designed to provide for: (i) construction of basic
facilities for fish handling in seven villages to improve fish processing and of roads to improve access and
the efficiency of domestic and export marketing; (ii) inputs and equipment in the form of intermediate
technology vessels, construction material for fishing boats, outboard engines, fishing gear, and a fleet of
insulated and refrigerated tucks and plastic boxes to help increase fish catches and improve fish
processing; (iii) technical assistance for the Coastal Fisheries Corporation (CFC) and cooperatives of the
Ministry of Fish Wealth (MFW) to improve the management of fish resources; (iv) strengthening of the
Marine Science and Resources Research Institute (MSSRI) in fish stock assessment to improve the



2                                                              Implementation Completion Report
management of fish resources; and (v) services for women in fishing communities to help improve their
economic status.
5.     Overall, the project outcome was satisfactory. One could argue for a different rating in view of
the partial achievements under some components. However, the project's impact on beneficiary incomes
and on privatization of the sector are a better measure of its success. At the time of the Credit closure, the
project had contributed to growth in the size of the artisanal fleet and the number of fishermen, which
tripled since 1992, and to growth in catches which have at least doubled (from 11,524 tons to 20,736 tons
annually in just the six cooperatives/societies participating in the project). This rapid expansion is the
result of two major project-related factors: (i) project investments in infrastructure and a successful, albeit
subsidized, fisheries credit program operated by CACB; and (ii) a number of policy changes since
unification, creating private boat ownership, liberalized fish marketing, and privatization of public fish
preservation services. A non-project related factor, however, was the influx of returnees after the Gulf
War, which also fuelled investment in fisheries.
C. Achievement of Objectives
Implementation Experience and Results
6.     The project and credit agreements for the FFDP were approved by IDA's Board on June 13,1991
and became effective on July 30,1992. The project was to implemented over a period of seven years from
the date of effectiveness, with a Credit closing date of June 30,1999. A PIU, under MFW, established
under earlier IDA-financed projects had overall responsibility for project implementation. The project
initially suffered from start-up delays, but implementation was satisfactory. From 1995-1997, the entire
PIU staff was replaced by the top management from MFW, resulting in major delays in procurement
processing and unsatisfactory implementation.  However, because of further changes in the top
management of MFW and improvements in PIU staffing, project implementation improved considerably
from 1997 onwards and closed satisfactorily. Hence, at the time of Credit closure, the overall achievement
of development objectives and implementation progress were satisfactory, and the project had several
significant achievements on many fronts (see paras. 5, 16, 24), benefiting many artisanal fisherfolk (see
implementation details in paras. 17-20).  Summaries of the implementation experience by project
component are described below.
7.     Village Fisheries Facilities (EU Financed).  The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) envisaged
provision of specific village facilities (fish receiving sheds, iceplants, ice stores, chilled stores, generator
houses and generators) to seven fishing villages: Mukalla, Shihr, Diss/Al Hami, Al-Qarn, Qusaeyr,
Musainah and Sayhut, all in Hadramaut and Al-Mahrah govemorates. These facilities would comprise a
minimum package of one ice maker, one ice store, and one chill store per village. The project
substantially achieved the appraisal targets under this component (see Part II, Table 5, and Annex B,
Table 1). Six facilities were constructed in six villages (against the SAR target of seven facilities in seven
villages), and all were completed by mid-1997. The village of Qusaeyr was excluded as construction of its
facilities were discovered to be prohibitively costly, given its remote location and the relatively lower fish
landings there.
8.     To ensure cost recovery and sustainability, the project devised an innovative scheme to initially
rent the village facilities to the local cooperatives and societies over a trial period to ensure that they have
the financial and technical capabilities necessary to operate and manage them. Once PIU/MFW were
convinced that these requirements were satisfactorily met, arrangements were made to sell the facilities to
the local cooperatives/societies. At the time of Credit closure, only two (Mukalla and Shihr) out of the six
cooperatives/societies were fully compliant in successfully managing the facilities and paying the required
rent up to date. As a result, the PIU sold the facilities to them in September 1999. For the remaining four



Implementation Completion Report                                                       3
facilities, however, PIU is still renting them to the cooperatives/societies of Musainah, Al-Diss, Sayhut,
and Al-Qam with plans underway for eventual handing over after these cooperatives/societies have
improved their financial and technical capacities. These facilities, whether rented or owned, are
contributing to reducing losses in fish catch and improving fish processing.
9.    Fokum-Ras Imran Road (IDA Financed). The SAR envisaged the construction of a 14.2 km
asphalt road between the fisheries facilities of Fokum and Ras hnran to facilitate transport of fish to Aden.
This component was fully achieved, despite delays in implementation. The construction of the road and
its extension (2.5 km) was completed. The extension enabled the road to reach the existing fisheries
projects' facilities, including the iceplants, which were built under the IDA-assisted Third Fisheries
Project (Cr. 1274-YDR). The delays experienced in the construction of the road were due to disagreement
between GOY and IDA on the bid evaluations and contract award recommendation. Following the MTR
and expiration of bid validity, IDA agreed to a rebidding with final contract award to the lowest evaluated
responsive bidder. The road has now been completed with about 27 percent increase in cost, due to
extension of its length, redesign due to changes in the soil profile, and a widening of the road width by 1
meter. This road is helping improve the efficiency of domestic marketing of fish, by facilitating fish
traders' access to these fishing villages and fishermen access to markets in Aden.
10.   Outboard Engines and Gear (IDA and IFAD Financed). The SAR envisaged the provision of
320 glass reinforced plastic boats, 50 wooden sambuks, 4 intermediate technology vessels, 2,400 outboard
engines and fishing gear to the fishing community. The project partially achieved its appraisal targets in
this regard. Most of the fishing equipment and inputs were cancelled because the private sector was
supplying them due to successful macroeconomic reforms in Yemen. Only the outboard and inboard
engines, fishing gear and spare parts were procured by the project because the bidding process for them
started prior to the reforms. Seventeen hundred outboard engines were procured (less than the 2,400 units
envisaged in the SAR, due to an increase in unit costs), of which 79 percent (all the Yamaha engines), due
to large demand, were successfully purchased by fishermen. The only outboard engine units that remained
unsold were the 340 Selva engines (against the 350 units procured) for which there was little demand. The
PIU, which is still operating with EU financing, is making arrangements for CACB to take possession of
them and help with their distribution at a price slightly below procurement cost. For the inboard engines,
20 were procured (one was sold to a fishermen and 19 were issued to the army under the instruction of the
top management of MFW). As for the fishing gear (nets, lines, hooks, ropes, twine, etc.), about US$2.1
million in value was procured in 1994 and some of it was immediately sold. However, during the Civil
War, the remaining gear, worth about US$0.9 million, was stolen. The second batch of fishing gear, worth
US$85,000, was ordered in August 1995 and consisted of experimental gear and equipment specified by
the TA fishing gear specialist. They were in stock and were being handed over to CACB with the Selva
engines. The inboard and outboard engines and fishing gear distributed to the fishermen have contributed
to expanding fish catches for both local consumption and exports.
11.   Fisheries Credit Component (IDA and IFAD Indirectly Financed). The SAR envisaged the
establishment of a revolving fund under the project in CACB totaling US$3 million equivalent, using local
currency generated from the sale, on cash terms, of project procured equipment/items (e.g., outboard
engines). CACB was to manage this credit scheme as a trustee on behalf of MFW for a fee. International
TA was to support the monitoring and implementation of the credit scheme. This component was
partially achieved. In September 1999, the revolving fund in CACB received a deposit of YR 203
million (or about US$2.7 million equivalent, converted at the prevailing exchange rate at the time of the
deposit), coming from proceeds of the sale of procured equipment, including spare parts. All of these
funds were utilized as credit to over 1,873 fishermen. CACB managed the credit scheme for a fee of 2.5
percent on top of the interest (7 percent) charged to borrowers. The fisheries credit component has, and
continues to provide, needed finances for the purchase of equipment by fishermen, and has therefore
contributed to increased fish catches. Its implementation was rated successful in the early years with high



4                                                          Implementation Completion Report
average recovery rates (above 90 percent) for credit extended. However, in recent years, the average
recovery rate has fallen to 68 percent. The recovery rate has been particularly low for the CACB branches
of Aden and Shuqra because of poor follow-up. This started during the period 1995 and 1996 when the
top management of MFW failed to cooperate with the management of CACB on recommended actions to
improve cost recovery. This resulted in non-procurement of needed vehicles for credit follow-up by the
CACB fisheries credit officials. This hampered the highly effective field administration of the fisheries
credit which relied on periodic follow-up and group guarantee and enforcement. Furthermore, MFW then
refused to deposit the agreed proceeds from the sale of equipment into the CACB special fund and
temporarily deprived the credit scheme of needed funds. CACB stepped in occasionally with its own
funds. Recently, the new management of CACB and the new management of MFW have been
cooperating closely. CACB is continuing the credit scheme and evaluating options on how best to
implement actions to boost credit recovery. It is anticipated that these actions will help increase the
recovery rate.
12.   Women Development Centers (IFAD Financed). The SAR envisaged construction of a small
clothing factory to be run by an existing sewing cooperative, and rehabilitation or construction of a total of
20 community development centers. It was also envisaged that an education and training consultant and
an extension coordinator, both internationally recruited, would be hired to survey, design and coordinate
with on-going training programs to provide adult education (e.g., literacy, home economics, primary
health) and vocational education (animal husbandry, fish processing, accounting, etc.) programs to benefit
women in fishing villages. This component has been partially achieved. It was considered too ambitious
and complex by the PIU, the WID consultant and the IDA supervision mission of March 1998. On the
basis of the consultant's advice and IDA's agreement, GOY decided to concentrate on a pilot in three
fishing villages. The WID consultant surveyed and identified specific sites for the construction of the pilot
women training centers after consultation with fisherwomen in Fokum, Imran and Shuqra. The three
centers have been completed using mostly local building materials. Contractors handed them over to the
PIU in June 1999, and PIU is working out cost-sharing arrangements with the female beneficiaries in these
villages to ensure that the facilities are equipped and utilized. These facilities will help uplift the
knowledge and skills of women in these fishing villages, thereby improving their positions and creating
opportunities for them to be gainfully employed. This redefined pilot-scale component is expected to
provide valuable experience for any future women's training component in fishing villages.
13.   Al-Qarn Asphalt Road and Electrical Distribution Network in Al-Qarn and Musainah (EU
Financed). The SAR envisaged improvements under the project of 4.5 km of the existing 8.8 km Al-Qarn
Road and 1.75 km Musainah Road connecting them to the main road running between Mukalla and
Sayhut. This was fully achieved. Additional funds were made available under the EU's Food Aid
Counterpart Funds (FACF) to finance the construction of the entire 9.0 km access road with asphalt,
linking Al-Qam to the Mukalla-Sayhut main road. Fishermen have greatly appreciated the decision to
implement the entire road which will facilitate fish traders' access to village landing sites and attend fish
auctions, and for fishermen to transport fish to large local markets such as Mukalla. Thus, the completed
road will significantly improve the domestic marketing of fish in this area. Under EU financing, the
fishing villages of Al-Qarn (resident population of about 800), and Al-Musainah (resident population of
about 2,000), have had two electrical generators installed for the entire village, including power
distribution lines. The total operation and maintenance (O&M) cost of the generators will be met by both
the cooperatives and the villages, and the PIU has concluded an agreement with beneficiaries regarding
O&M responsibilities for the generators and the power distribution system.
14.   Other Small Civil Works (IDA and IFAD Financed). Additional civil works completed under
the project included auction yards in Shuqra, Burum, Bir Ali and Al-Salif, and the construction of the
Fokum and Shuqra asphalt access roads of 1.6 km and 1.3 km respectively. The four auction yards were
handed over to the respective cooperatives by mid July 1999. Although not envisaged in the SAR, in view



Implementation Completion Report                                                       5
of the unused funds from the cancelled equipment imports (referred to in para. 10) under the project, GOY
requested and IDA agreed on the use of some of about US$1 million on priority fisheries infrastructure
consistent with project development objectives and implementable before Credit closure. Similarly, from
the unused funds in the IFAD loan, IFAD approved the construction and equipment upgrading of the only
Quality Control Laboratory (QCL) in the country located in Aden. The construction of the additional
wing of the QCL was completed and handed over to the PIU in July 1999. The procurement and
installation of the laboratory equipment and furniture under the project was also completed. The
upgrading of the QCL has created a major asset, contributing significantly to enhancing Yemen's capacity
to control fish quality especially for exports in an increasingly quality conscious and demanding export
environment.
15.   Technical Assistance (TA) and Training (EU/IFAD-Financed). The SAR envisaged provision
of TA to build regulatory and legal capacity in MFW, to develop a framework for future investment, to
monitor the effects of the ongoing liberalization, to carry out studies for the marine fisheries sub-sector, to
help with design of tender documents and construction supervision, and to engage in promotional
activities such as assisting cooperatives, private fishermen and traders, and NCFM in marketing. This
component was only partially achieved. A review of the planned TA reveals that even if it had been
carried out as planned, it would not have gone far towards achieving the project's objectives of capacity
building and fish stock assessment and management. These goals require more sustained and deeper
interventions. The second flaw was that even within the planned TA, the performance of project
consultants ranged from satisfactory to poor. For example, the "Fisheries Sector Review," which was an
input into the IDA-prepared "Fisheries Strategy Note" and the recent report "Fish Stock Assessment" were
considered satisfactory. However, the report by consultants on "Financial Re-Appraisal of Fish Receiving
Centers" was not fully satisfactory. The report on "Fish Stock Assessment" was unfortunately completed
around the time of Credit closure, but it will be a very useful document for improving the management of
fish resources. Altogether, a total of 441 person/months (p/ins) of TA were financed under the project,
slightly above the SAR estimate of 416 p/ms (see details in Annex B, Table 2). The TA addressed four
institutional development areas: (i) cooperatives and credit, (ii) research (stock assessment and
environmental protection), (iii) fisheries policy and planning, and (iv) women's development. Under (i)
cooperatives and credit, the TA contributed positively, providing training to staff of fisheries cooperatives
on cooperative management at the Aden Cooperative Training Institute and to branch staffs of CACB on
appraisal of fisheries credit. Under (ii) research (stock assessment and environmental protection), the TA
input was fragmented as to purpose, timing and personnel to have any lasting impact. No less than five
stock assessment experts came for short periods without any serious contribution. Only at the time of
Credit closure did a fish stock assessment expert arrive who produced the aforementioned useful report.
Under (iii) fisheries policy and planning, the fisheries sector adviser (TA), produced a Sector Review,
including a proposal on reorganization of MFW, and a new draft Fisheries Law. The Sector Review was
recently updated, but no action was taken on proposals for reorganization of MFW or adoption of the new
draft of the Fisheries Law. Under (iv) women's development, substantial delays were experienced
recruiting the TA, which arrived just before Credit closure. Overall, the TA was largely contracted by the
EU to a single experienced fisheries firm, creating little basis for competition and for attraction of more
diversified experts to the project. The TA experienced high and frequent turnover, carried out studies with
recommendations which were not acted upon and some of the TA had problems with the top management
of MFW. In fact, the EU-financed MTR report noted that the impact of the TA input on institutional
development should have been substantial but proved much less than expected because many of the
assignments were too short to have much effect. In some cases, this was because security problems
enforced premature evacuation and in others, incompatibility or lack of recurrent support were the cause.
The mixed quality of the results from the TA suggested that it is essential to have an experienced PIU with
autonomy to properly manage the TA.



6                                                          Implementation Completion Report
16.   Project Outcomes and Economic and Financial Re-evaluation. The project reached most of its
physical targets (see Annex B, Table 12; Part II, Table 5). However, it did not achieve its institution-
building goals related to MFW, particularly in the area of fish stock assessment and management. Its goal
of improving the position of women was also too ambitious in view of predominant attitudes. It
nevertheless achieved its objective of increasing fish catches (although the incremental annual fish
landings of 9,200 tons were below the 11,000 tons envisaged in the SAR) and raising incomes of project
beneficiaries (financial rates of return range from 30-55 percent, depending on the size of the production
unit) (see Appendix B, Tables 10-1 1). Financial returns on investment undertaken by the boat owners are
in line with SAR estimates, and clearly indicate the financial viability of artisanal fishing operations in
Yemen. The project developed a strong, independent, private small-scale fishing and marketing sector,
improving at the same time the financial position of the benefiting cooperatives/societies. The actual cost
of the project is estimated at US$29.4 million (Part II, Table 8A) or about 74 percent of appraisal estimate.
The overall ERR for the project is re-calculated at 15.4 percent (see Appendix B, Table 19) which
although considered satisfactory, is below the ERR of 31 percent envisaged at appraisal. This lower rate is
due to the less-than-expected increases of annual fish landings (perhaps due to increasing fishing
pressures) and delays experienced in project implementation.
D. Project Implementation
Major Factors Affecting the Project
17.   These can be divided into those under GOY's control and those beyond of GOY's control. For
factors under GOY's control: Following IDA's Board approval in June 1991, the IDA Credit and IFAD
loan became effective a year later due to GOY delays in meeting the conditions of effectiveness in
establishing a satisfactory PIU and opening two special accounts. After a slow start, implementation
picked up and continued satisfactorily until 1995, then slowed down for two years. It picked up again
after 1997 until Credit closure. During the entire project implementation period, however, GOY did not
provide adequate counterpart funding, despite the continued attempts of IDA/EU/IFAD joint supervision
missions to resolve this issue. Eventually, EU helped by providing a grant through the Food Aid
Counterpart Funds to meet the shortfall.
18.   Another major factor under GOY control that negatively impacted on project implementation was
the removal of the entire PIU staff by the top management of MFW. During this period (1995 and 1996),
the project implementation became unsatisfactory.
19.   With GOY's and IDA's conviction that the project was worth salvaging, the project experienced a
major boost when changes in the top management of MFW took place in 1997. This turned out to be
highly supportive of the project and changed project management, including returning some of the
previous experienced staff to the PIU. The revamped PI1 proved highly effective in steering the project
ahead, and major successes were achieved within a limited period and the project was able to make up for
some of the lost time.
20.   The project also suffered from factors outside of GOY's control. These include the Gulf War in
1991 and the Yemeni Civil War in 1994. Both wars heightened domestic insecurity and caused some
social dislocations. Furthermore, some periodic social unrest hampered project implementation as it
resulted in lack of security for project officers in the field. Overall, despite these difficulties, the project
was able to surmount the obstacles and reach a satisfactory close.



Implementation Completion Report          _                                               7
E. Project Sustainability
21.    To date, the project has made successful transfers in two fishing villages by ensuring that village
facilities built under the project are first rented to the intended beneficiaries and, after careful evaluation of
their successful management, were sold to the benefiting cooperatives/societies. The infrastructure
facilities are well-built and will likely be sustainable, because the project ensured that there was adequate
technical, financial and management capacity among the beneficiaries before they were handed over. For
other infrastructure works, such as the access roads, sustainability is uncertain as it depends on GOY's
provision of adequate funds for feeder road maintenance which in turn depends on the GOY's funding
priorities. Sustainability of the credit component is also uncertain because it depends on CACB reversing
the declining recovery rate. As for the WID centers, PIU is working out cost-sharing arrangements with
the benefiting women in these villages to ensure that the facilities are well-utilized and maintained. The
EU, which is continuing to finance the operations of the PIU, has recently approved a program of financial
assistance to improve and consolidate on the results so far achieved under the project, which may help
build local capacities and promote sustainability. The PIU has a 12-month work plan which started after
the IDA Credit has closed on June 30, 1999. An amount of Euro 450,000 (US$461,000 equivalent) was
approved by the EU to implement the program envisaged in the work plan.
F. IDA Performance
22.   IDA's performance in the project is rated satisfactory. IDA supported GOY's request and
participated in project identification and preparation, as did FAO/CP. IDA carried out the appraisal of the
project because it was consistent with GOY's strategy and IDA's commitment to support Yemen's
development efforts in the fisheries sector. IDA, together with its EU/IFAD cofinancing partners,
exercised great flexibility and quick response to changes in the project environment, which allowed for the
switching of project resources to more appropriate purposes. IDA carried out 13 project supervision
missions, including a joint IDA/EU/IFAD MTR mission in February 1997 (MFW was not prepared for the
MTR which was originally scheduled in 1995). The role of IDA and its cofinancing partners, who during
supervision ensured continued support, was particularly beneficial to the survival of the project, despite
unexpected policy changes and changes in the top management of MFW. Since this was an unusually
difficult project dealing with difficult circumstances of capacity weaknesses in MFW, the IDA task team
surmounted several obstacles and supported the project to satisfactory completion. IDA's task team never
lost sight of the project's potential to benefit small-scale fishermen (see para. 23). GOY was disappointed
by IDA's refusal to extend the Credit closing date. IDA's position was that the project had already been
eight years in the portfolio, and the activities proposed for the extension period were outside the original
project scope and would therefore require a new appraisal.
G. Borrower Performance
23.    The Borrower's overall performance was satisfactory. In project preparation, the Borrower
performed fully satisfactorily; its performance in implementation was partially satisfactory. The project
experienced start-up delays because the Borrower did not establish a PIU and open the project special
accounts in the time envisaged. Between 1992-1995, Borrower perfornance was satisfactory. However,
between 1995-1996, due to changes introduced in the top management of the MFW, project
implementation slowed down considerably and Borrower performance was unsatisfactory. With further
improvements in the management of MFW and PIU in 1997, project implementation experienced a
tremendous boost and the adverse policy actions taken in 1995 and 1996 were reversed. Borrower
performance was again satisfactory. The revamped PIU resumed its previous effective role, project
procurement was expedited, and cooperatives were allowed to resume their function in the project. As a
result, the project regained its successes. Borrower's compliance with accounting, financial reporting,



8                                                           Implementation Completion Report
auditing, procurement and progress reporting requirements was generally satisfactory.  Borrower
compliance with legal covenants in the Development Credit Agreement was also satisfactory.
H. Assessment of Outcome
24.    Considering the achievements of the various project components, the overall project outcome is
considered satisfactory. The project reached most of its physical targets (see Annex B, Table 12).
However, it made only negligible contributions to WID and institution building goals, particularly in fish
stock assessment and management. It achieved its objectives of increasing fish catches (although the
incremental annual fish landings of 9,200 tons were below the 11,000 tons envisaged in the SAR) and
raising incomes of project beneficiaries (financial rates of return range from 30-55 percent depending on
size of production unit) (Annex B, Appendix B, Tables 10-11). A strong, independent, private, small-
scale fishing and marketing sector was developed, improving at the same time the financial position of the
cooperatives/societies participating in the project. This has caused private small-scale fishing to expand at
a pace which is probably unique in the world. A rapid switch towards private marketing coincided with
the expansion of traditional small-scale fisheries along the Red Sea and the Gulf of Aden coasts. This
success was also made possible by the supply of boats and equipment (e.g., outboard engines) for small-
scale fisheries supported by the Credit component implemented by CACB. The construction of village
facilities, such as the ice plants, under the EU-financed infrastructure component has helped improve fish
processing and reduce losses due to spoilage. The access roads built contribute to improving the
efficiency of domestic and export marketing by facilitating the access of traders to fish auctions. The pilot
WID centers will help upgrade the skills of women in the fishing villages of Fokum, Imran and Shuqra
and create opportunities for them to improve their economic position. With ice availability and the rapid
growth of private fish marketing, fish is now available in most inland cities where it was not available in
the past.
I. Future Operation
25.   GOY submitted a request in 1998 for a follow-on fisheries project. IDA's position was to prepare
a strategic review of the fisheries sector before considering further investment support. This has led to the
preparation of the Fisheries Strategy Note, prepared jointly with GOY, utilizing findings from field
consultations and the EU-financed Fisheries Sector Review as basis. The Strategy Note is expected to be
discussed at a joint workshop between GOY and the donors, and planned for May 2000. The two key
recommendations of the Note are that a future operation should concentrate on fish stock management to
maintain catch levels and, consistent with this, expanded production should be de-emphasized in favor of
improved quality, marketing, and value-added activities.
J. Key Lessons Learned
26.   The key lessons learned from the project are the following:
(a)    Sustainability  of village  infrastructure  facilities  requires  securing  beneficiary
commitment to contributing not only to the capital costs but also to financing O&M
costs. Under the project, the successful privatization of two village facilities by first
renting them and then transferring ownership to the benefiting cooperatives/societies, has
been the right approach. Rental arrangements provided a basis for PIU to evaluate the
technical, financial and administrative capacity of the benefiting cooperatives/societies
and their state of readiness before final ownership transfer. There are now four village
facilities that are still under rental but expected to be transferred to the beneficiaries
shortly.



Implementation Completion Report                                                       9
(b)    Expanding fish production requires commitment to improving resource management.
This project, and the four fisheries development projects previously implemented
concentrated mainly on expanding fish production and were generally successful at this.
There is a danger however that this success may lead to overexploitation of fish
resources which, if not addressed through the development of better regulatory and
resource management capacities, could become self defeating.
(c)    Reduced PIU autonomy through MFW involvement in the day-to-day running of project
activities can have detrimental effects on implementation. Under the project, especially
during the period 1995 and 1996, PIU was unable to make project decisions because
MFW refused to support its role. Had this hiatus not taken place, the project would have
been completed sooner and with all funds fully disbursed.
(d)    Donor cooperation in developing a common approach to implementation was crucial to
guaranteeing project survival and eventual success. Under this project, the united
approach of the Bank, EU and IFAD allowed a common position on implementation and
policy matters and enhanced donor leverage on supervision, especially since EU funds
were grant financed. Also, donor flexibility and quick response to changes in the project
environment and project needs, in some cases allowed for switching of project resources
to other more appropriate purposes.
(e)    Ensuring a proper fit between project objectives and activities is essential. The project
showed that addressing capacity building and stock assessment/ management objectives
with technical studies is not adequate to ensure success.
(f)    Contracting all TA under a project to a single firm can have significant advantages but it
can also have distinct disadvantages for the client, as was the case in this project, because
the single firm contract allowed little room to change the TA experts in cases of
unacceptable performance.



10                                                            Implementation Completion Report
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOURTH FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2265-YEM)
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table  1:    Summary of Assessments
Table 2:    Related IDA Credits
Table 3:    Project Timetable
Table 4:    IDA Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
Table 4A:    Disbursements from the European Union (EU) Grant
Table 4B:    Disbursements from the IFAD Loan
Table 5:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:    Key hidicators for Project Operation
Table 7:    Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:  Project Costs
Table 8B:   Project Financing
Table 9:    Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:    IDA Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:    IDA Resources: Missions
ANNEXES
A. Mission's Memorandum of Understanding
B. Financial and Economic Re-Evaluation
C. Project Review from Borrower's Perspective
D. Comments from Government



Implementation Completion Report                                                                    1]
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives         Substantial     Partial    Negligible  Not Applicable
Macro policies                      A                          F  
Sector policies                     F              7             m           E
Financial objectives                 m                         L
Institutional development             7           FT]
Physical objectives
Poverty reduction                                                            F z
Gender issues                       El             W
Other social objectives                                                      EZ
Environmental objectives                          FTI
Public sector management                                                     FT]
Private sector development (coop.)
Other (specify)                                                               K]
B. Project sustainability           Likely       Unlikely    Uncertain
Highly
C. Bank performance              Satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
Identification                     [            Fl0
Preparation assistance               ]          K]            K
Appraisal                                       ED K] 
Supervision                                     FE K] 



12                                                              Implementation Completion Report
Highly
D. Borrower performance          Satisfactorv   Satisfactorv   Deficient
Preparation                       [_      ] LEg]
Implementation                   [             E           E
Covenant compliance                I          E[ Z
Operation (if applicable)        [I         
E. Assessment of outcome        Satisfactory   Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactorv



Implementation Completion Report                                                                     13
Table 2: Related IDA Credits
Loan/credit title              Purpose                   Year of approval            Status
First Fisheries Project  Provision of 100 traditional boats     1973                 Closed
lCr. 370 - YDR)          (sambuks) and construction of a small
l (Cr. 370- YDR)         receiving station and coldstore facilities   (An IDA
at Mukalla.                           supplementary
credit was approved
in 1975).
Second Fisheries Project   To finance the construction of a     1979                 Closed
l Cr 932 - YDR)          fishery/general purpose harbour in
(Cr. 932 - YDR)          Nishtun, including a fish processing and
storage complex, village facilities,
fishing vessels and outboard engines,
and technical assistance.
Fisheries Development    Provision of credit facilities to artisanal   1980          Closed
Project                  fishermen for the purchase of traditional
l(Cr 1025 - YAR)         fishing vessels, impact of marine
(Cr. 1025 - YAR)         engines and modem vessels, and the
construction of an artisanal fishing port
and related facilities in Hodeidah, as
well as for the construction of fish
processing facilities in Khawbah.
Third Fisheries          Establishing a Fisheries Manpower      1982                 Closed
Development Project      Development Center to provide training
(Cr. 1274 - YDR)         in marine engineering, navigation and
fish processing technology;
management training for government
fisheries personnel. Provide fish
receiving stations, engine maintenance
and net repair facilities in five fishing
communities.



14                                                                Implementation Completion Report
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                Date planned              Date actual/
____________________________________________  1~  Llatest  estim    ate
Identificationa1                                                       December, 1987
Preparationb/                                                          December, 1988
Appraisal                                        September, 1989       November, 1989
Post Appraisal                                                         March 1990
Negotiationsc/                                                         June 11-15, 1990
Post Negotiationsdl                                                    March 11-14, 1991
Board Approval                                   September 18, 1990
May8,1991            June 13, 1991
Signing                                                                June 20, 1991
Effectivenesse!                                  October22, 1991
March 31, 1992       July30, 1992
June 30, 1992
Midterm review                                   June30, 1994
April 17-24, 1996    February 14, 1997
Project completion                               December 31, 1998     December 31, 1998
Loan closing                                     June 30, 1999         June 30, 1999
Jointly by IDA and FAO/CP.
b! Carried out by FAO/CP. Site investigations and technical preparation of shore and marine facilities were carried
out under FAO/CP assistance during September/October 1988.
H Held in Washington.
d/ Post negotiation mission held in Brussels.
e/ IFAD: declared loan effective as of July 30, 1992 (Agreement dated April 2, 1991).
Table 4: IDA Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
Fiscal       Appraisal                                               Actual as % of
Year         Estimate            Actual           Cumulative           Estimate
1993           0.4a'              0.2                 0.2                50
1994           1.9                2.3                 2.6                121
1995           4.6                1.0                 3.6                22
1996           7.0                1.6                 5.2                23
1997           9.3                0.7                 5.9                8
1998          11.6                0.4                 6.3                3
1999          13.0                0.9                 7.2                7
2000          13.2                 0.8                8.0                 6
Date of Final Disbursement: November 30, 1999
Cancellationb/
a/  PPF advance of US$ 350,000.
bs  An estimated US$ 5.2 million will be cancelled.



Implementation Completion Report                                                                15
Table 4A: Disbursements from the European Union (EU) Grant
Year                                   Amount
(Euro)
1992                                  954,172
1993                                  448,613
1994                                  472,187
1995                                3,284,193
1996                                3,247,410
1997                                4,116,562
1998                                  100,938
1999                                  196,714
TOTAL                              12,820,789
Balance: 13,900,000 Euro - 12,820,789 Euro = 1,079,211 Euro
Expenditures By Category                        Amount
(Euro)
Civil Works                                 9,341,948
Equipment                                     135,881
Consultant                                  3,342,960
TOTAL                                    12,820,789
NOTE: 1995-1997: 1 Euro = 1.15 USD on average.
Table 4B: Disbursements from the IFAD Loan
Fiscal                                Amount
Year                                   (US$)
1994                                  1,752,064
1995                                  5,169,628
1996                                    109,276
1997                                    194,176
1998                                     86,937
1999                                    250,075
2000                                     89,643
TOTAL                               7,651,799a;
a/ The discrepancy between the sum of the actual disbursements per year and the original IFAD loan (expressed as
US$6.5 million based on the prevailing exchange rate then) came from fluctuations in the SDR value.



16                                                                       Implementation Completion Report
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Implementation Indicators              SAR                   Actual                    Remarks
in SARI President's Report             Estimate                                                           l
A. Village and Fish Processing Facilities
Civil Works
- Fish Receiving Sheds                  5 units; 1,100 rn2     6 units; 1,250 m2l
- Cooperative Offices/Store             2 units; 206 in2       6 units; 206 m2      Of which about 60 m2 for
offices and 146 m2 for
stores.
- Engine Workshops                      5 units; 310 m2r                            Provided under Japanese
bilateral assistance (total of
six). Container full equipped
put in place in Mukalla and
Shihr in the project area, as
well as in Bir Ali, Al-
Hudaida, Ahwar and Shuqra
outside the project area.
- Boat Repair Area                      5 units; 760 m2                             Funds not available because
of underestimate of costs.
- Vehicle Shade                         I unit;  207 m2               -             Not required.
- Access Roads Fokum-Ras Imran               15 km                  15 km           Completed asphalted.
Al Quarn                      4.5 km           9.6 km financed under   By June 99, 3.2 km
EU's Food Aid Counter   asphalted. The remainder
Part (FACF)        completed by Oct. 99.
Fokum Branch Road                -                    1.8 km           Completed asphalted.
Shuqra Branch Road               -                    1.1 km           Completed asphalted.
Musainah                      1.75 km                    -             Detailed designs were not
submitted in time. IDA
cancelled this component.
- Electrical Installation                   6 sites                 6 sites         Completed.
- Fresh Water Supply                         5 sites                4 sites          In Shihr both fresh and sea
water supply.
- Sea Water Supply                          2 sites                 3 sites
- Sewerage                                  6 sites                 6 sites
- Fish Market Rehabilitation            I site (Mukalla)              -             New fish market built by the
Municipality of Mukalla.
- Fiberglass Construction Yard          One unit at CFC               -             Not needed. At the same
time four private boat
builders are now operating
in Hadramaut.
- Staff Housing                           I site; 110 m2r                            Not needed as built by
NCFM for their staff
- Fencing                                 I site; 370 m2              ...           Not done at project
completion. However EU
funds are still available for
this activity. Works
expected to be completed by
end 99.
Equipment
- Ice Plant                           One unit 15 tons/day          8 units         Each 10 tons/day capacity
in Musainah                               (2 units each in Shihr and
Musainah).
- Ice Store                                 4 units                 8 units         Each 10 tons/day capacity
(2 units each in Shihr and
Musainah).
- Chill Store                               5 units                 6 units         5 tons capacity for fish, plus
ice.



Implementation Completion Report                                                                             17
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation (Continued)
Key implementation indicators             SAR                   Actual                    Remarks
in SARI President's Report            Estimate
- Generator                               3 sites                5 units         Three for the fisheries facility
and 2 extra (of 239 kW
capacity) for electric supply to
the village in Musainah and in
Al-Qam.
B. Transport Facilities
- Insulated Vehicles (5-8 tons)             16                                   Cancelled at MTR as the pnvate
- Refrigerated Trucks (10 tons)              6                                   sector was independently able to
procure these kinds of vehicles.
- Workshops Equipment/Machinery            n.a.                   n.a.
C. Fishing Vessels and Gear
- GRP Boat (7.6 m)                                                               Not directly implemented by the
- GRP Boat (9.4 m)                                                               project. However, fishermen
l  { 320             {              were able to procure fiberglass
320                   ...           boats of different types
themselves through either credit
or proper financial resources.
- Wooden Sambuks (14 m)                       50                   ...            Same as above. Currently,
fiberglass sambuks are replacing
the wooden ones.
- Intermediate Tech. Vessels                  4                     -            Cancelled. Donors realized that
(18-20 m)                                                                       the CFC could not dedicate the
time required for this activity,
jeopardising the economic
financial viability of the
Intermediate Tech. Vessels.
-Outboard Engines  15 HP                                                         A total of 1,700 outboard
25 HP                  { 2,400                { 1,700         engines procured and 922
40 HP                                                         actually sold as of 30 June 1999.
- Fishing Gear                         Various Types          Various Types      To be procured for the CFC.
- Lobster Traps                           12,000                    -            The CFC component was
drastically reduced and this sub-
component also cancelled.
D. Credit
- MFW Revolving Fund                  US$ 3.0 million        US$ 3.0 million
E. Fish Stock Assessment
- Field Surveys                       Coastal Habitat        Coastal Habitat      Completed.
- Habitat Survey                       Aden Harbor            Aden Harbor         Completed.
- Hodeidah Research Centre/Branch       Upgrading                  ...           Cancelled because included
under the GEF programme.
F. Training
- Initial Training                            See Appendix B, Table 3
G. Technical Assistancea'                  416 Staff months       441 Staff months
a/ See Appendix B, Table 2 for details.



18                                                                     Implementation Completion Report
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
1.   Key  operating  indicators  in             E
SARlPresident's Report                    Estimated                             Actual
Not identified at Appraisal.
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study                at appraisal/redefined        Status                 Impact of study
I. Monitoring Control and    Improvement and               Completed       The report recommended to decide
Surveillance (MCS)      management of the Fisheries                     on a common approach to improve
(EU).a                   Sector in Yemen through                        MCS and requested the donors of
increased MCS.                                 the FFDP Project to reallocate
remaining funds for it. No action.
GOY proposed other uses for the
funds.
2. The Role of MFW, and     To reorganize the duties of     Completed      Proposed staffing structure of the
the Organisational      the MFW.                                        MFW administration and general
Structure and Staffing                                                  department. GOY to review
Necessary to Carry out                                                  proposals. No action taken.
that Role (EU).a
3. Report on the Operation    To review and provide advice  Completed      Intermediate technology vessels
of Intermediate          on the management and                          dropped from the project because of
Technology Fishing       operation of the vessels.                      findings.
Vessels by Coastal
Fisheries Corporation
(EU).a
4. Marine Resources         State of the cuttlefish fishery  Completed     Recommended to lirnit fishing effort
Situation Reports       in Yemen.                                      to 2,000 fishing days/year to catch
(EU).a                                                                  up to 2,000 ton/year. Not
implemented.
5. Activities of the Fisheries   To help establishing an    Completed      Very poor technical report. No
Statistics Department,  efficient Data Base System                      action by the MFW.
MFW, and                for the MFW.
Recommendations for
Improvement (EU).a
6. Coastal Habitat Survey of   To assess the state of       Completed      Follow-up the recommended
the Gulf of Aden (Phase I)  biodiversity and human                      actions.
(Appr.) (EU).b          impacts on the coastal and
marine habitats and
ecosystems of the Socotra
Archipelago.
7. Coastal Habitat Survey of                                Completed      The result of the study has allowed
the Gulf of Aden, Final                                                 an assessment of the existing and
Report (Phase I) Socotra                                                potential resource/user conflicts that
Archipelago (Appr.)                                                    threaten the archipelago's marine
(EU).                                                                   biodiversity.
Not included in SAR.
b' Included in SAR.



Implementation Completion Report                                                                19
Table 7: Studies Included in Project (Continued)
Purpose as defined
Study             at appraisal/redefined      Status              Impact of study
8. Financial Re-appraisal   Re-appraising the        Completed      MFW/PIU did not agree with
of Fish Receiving     expected perfonnance of                    proposed recommendation on
Centres (EU).a/       the Fish Receiving Centres                 the basis of poor technical
and propose financial                     quality.
arrangement for those
emnbarking suitable
changes on their
management.
9. Analytical and        Assessing current financial  Completed     Helped to decide on the hand-
Evaluatory Report on    position of each                         over operation (good and well
the Conditions of the  cooperative/ society                      received report).
Fisheries Co-operatives  carried out by local
and Societies in      consultants.
Hadramaut and Al-
Mahara Govemorates
(EU).a/
10. Progress Report on the   Prepare the basis for the  Completed   Recommendations implemented.
Consultancy for the   WID component under
WID Project           Fisheries IV.
(UTF/YEM/008/YEM)
(IFAD).a/
11. Fish Stock Evaluation   Included a two-phase     Completed      Being implemented. Findings to
Consultancy Report    programme. During the                      be presented at the May 2000
(IFAD).al             first phase, a quick                       Fisheries Strategy Workshop.
assessment would be
carried out on the basis of
data currently available.
The second phase to
satisfy future stock
assessment requirements,
covering design and
implementation of a new
catch statistics system and
a long-term stock
assessment progranmne.
12. Fisheries Sector     Reviewing and updating      Completed      Recommendations not accepted
Review (EU).a/        the fisheries subsector                    by the PIU and the reports need
situation carried out in                  to be revised by the consultants.
1993.
a/ Not included in SAR.



20                                                       Implementation Completion Report
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M)    Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Local   Foreign    Total      Local    Foreign    Total
costs    costs                costs      costs
Item
1. Civil Worksa/            3.9        6.4      10.3       n.a.       n.a.      15.7
2. Machinery & Equipmentb/   0.2       3.8        4.0      n.a.       n.a.       0.9
3. Fishing Vessels and Gear    2.0    16.5       18.5      n.a.       n.a.       6.5
4. Consultant & TA          1.9        5.1        7.0      n.a.       n.a.       6.3
TOTAL                      8.0       31.8       39.8      4.2       25.2       29.4
al Including roads.
b/ Including vehicles.
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)     Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Local    Foreign    Total       Local      Foreign    Total
costs     costs                costsa      costsSal
Source
IBRD/IDA                 0.8        12.4       13.2       0.5         7.7        8.2
IFAD                     0.5         6.0       6.5        0.3         4.1       4.4
EU                       2.9        13.4       16.3       2.9        13.4       16.3
Domestic contribution    3.8         -         3.8        0.5         -          0.5
TOTAL                    8.0        31.8      39.8        4.2        25.2       29.4
Mission's estimates.



Implementation Completion Report                                                              21
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Unit        SAR Estimates   | ICR Estimates
A. Project Beneficiaries                        No.              3,500                910a'
B. Incremental Annual Fish Landings            Tons             11,000               9,200
C. Financial Rates of Returnb'
- GRP 7.6 meters                              %                  46                  3
- GRP 9.4 meters                              %                  44                  3
- Sambuk                                      %                  56                n.a.
- Intermediate Technology Vessels             %                  24                n.a.
- Production Unit of Six Boats                %                n.a.                 55
D. Economic Rate of Returnb
- Project as a Whole                          %                  31.0                15.4
- Road Component                              %                  13.0                17.5
- Intermediate Technology Vessels             %                  15.0              n.a.
a/ Only boat owners (with an average of 3 fishermen per boat, making it a total of 2,730 fishermen) .
b/ Financial and Economic Rates of Return. Ex-post financial rates of return have been estimated for Models A
and B on the basis of assumptions presented in Appendix B, Tables 10 and 11. Financial returns on investment
undertaken by the boat owners and including the capital cost of boats, outboard engines any years have been
assessed at 55% and 30% for the "Production Unit of Six Boats" and the "Single Boat Fishing Operation"
respectively. These values, in line with SAR estimates, clearly indicate the financial viability of artisanal fishing
operations in Yemen. The overall ERR for the project is estimated at 15.4% (Appendix B, Table 19) which,
although considered satisfactory, is well below the ERR of 31% assessed at appraisal. Major factor that have
negatively affected the economic impact of the project include less than expected increases of annual fish
landings, i.e. about 20% below the SAR estimate and the longer project implementation period. A separate
economic analysis has been carried out for the road component and the relative ERR has been assessed at
17.5%, i.e. 4.5 points above the SAR estimate. Details on both the ex-post financial and economic analysis are
presented in Appendix B.



22                                                                      Implementation Completion Report
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original   Revised
Covenant Present  fulfillment fulfillment          Description of
Agreement Section    class    status     date       date                  covenant                    Comments
Cr. 22650   2.02(b)    01       C                     -    Borrower to open Special Account.     In compliance
3.02(a)    05       C          -          -     Borrower to maintain PIJU satisfactory to  In compliance
IDA.
3.02(b)    05       C      09/30/1993     -    PIU to appoint Accountant, Procurement  In compliance
Officer and Engineer satisfactory to IDA.
3.02(c)    05       C          -          -     GOY to appoint Steering Committee.   In compliance
3.03(a)    10       C                     -     GOY to adequately consult with       In compliance
cooperatives conceming design and
financial implications of village facilities
prior to signing construction contract.
3.03(b)    03       C          -          -     Facilities under Part A of the Project  In compliance
(except those constituting infrastructure) to
be transferred to co-ops on terms
satisfactory to IDA.
3.04(a)    10       C                     -     GOY to initiate hire-purchase scheme for  In compliance
cooperatively owned vessels.
3.04(b)    02       CP         -          -     GOY to improve financial position of  Ongoing
fisheries cooperatives.
3.07(a)    03       C          -          -     MFW to open Special Fund with CACB    In compliance
satisfactory to IDA.
3.07(b)    02       C          -          -    MFW to make special deposit to Special  In compliance
Fund to compensate impact of negative
real interest rate and inflation.
3.08(a)    09       C          -          -     Provide a Quarterly Report.          In compliance
3.08(b)    09       CD    06/30/1994      -    Provide Interim Report.               In compliance
4.01 (b)    01      NC    06/30/1994      -     Provide unaudited copy of audit of MFW,  IDA agreed CFC is
CFC and MSRRI by April of each year,   no longer required to
and audited copy in September.       provide audit reports.
Status:  C     - Complied with                     SOON   - Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CD    - Compliance after Delay             CP      - Complied with Partially
NC    - Not Complied with                 NYD    - Not Yet Due
Covenant Class
1. Accounts/audit
2. Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
3. Flow and utilization of Project funds
4. Counterpart funding
5. Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency
6. Environmental covenants
7. Involuntary resettlement
8. Indigenous people
9. Monitoring, review and reporting
10. Implementation
11. Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12. Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13. Other



Implementation Completion Report                                                              23
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title        I    Describe and comment on lack of compliance
No deviation from applicable operational statements observed.
Table 12: IDA Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                       Planned                  Revised                 Actual
project cycle
Weeks      US$'000       Weeks      US$'OOO      Weeks    US$'000
Through Appraisal                                                            145.1     181.7
Appraisal-Board                                                              20,2       62.1
Board- Effectiveness                                                                          |
Supervision                                                                 149.0      468.7
Completion                                                                    6.0       27.0
TOTAL                       n.a.         n.a.        n.a.          n.a.    320.3      739.5



24                                                                              Implementation Completion Report
Table 13: IDA Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Stage of                          Number                   Specialized      Implemen-      Develop-
project cycle        Month/            of       Days in       staff skills      tation         ment        Types of
year         persons     field       represented'        status       objectives    problems'
Identification"      November 1987        4          21       FS, CE, NA, MS
Preparationr          December 1988       6          19        FS, E, FA, CE,
TS, NA
Appraisal            November 1989        8          n.a.     IS, HRS, TC, FA,
FE, FC, CE, NA
Post Unification     December 1990         1         n.a.           E
Discussion
Supervision:
1                  June 1991          3         n.a.         E, IS,NA             I
2                   July 1992         2          11            E, FE              2             1            SP
3                  June 1993d'       1+2          7          FE, FS, A            2             1         F, C, M, L
4                  April 1994          I          -             FE                2             2           F, C, P
5                  March1995          2          13            FE,E               S             S         F,C,M,P
6                November 1995        2           8            E, FE             U              S         P, T, TA, F,
M, E
7                  April 1996"       2+2          8         E, FE, FS, A          U             U         P, T, TA, E
8 (MTR)          February 1997d'     2+2         12         E, FE, A, FS         U              U         P, M, C, F
9                  July 1997"'       3+3          8       E,FE,PO,A,FS,E          S             S           T, SA
10               Feb./March 1998d'    2+1         12          E, PO, PC           S              S           T, SA
11                September 1998       2           1            E, FE             S              S           T, SA
12                Oct./Nov. 1998       3          10          E, FE, FS            S             S           T, SA
13                   May 1999          2          10            E, PO              S             S           T,SA
ICR"                  June/July 1999       1         14              E                S             S
P: Procurement Progress; F: Financial Performance; T: Training  Progress; E: Environmental Aspects;
TA: Technical Assistance; M: Management; S: Satisfactory; U/3: Unsatisfactory; L: Legal Covenant;
SP: Studies Progress; C: Counterpart Funds; SA: Fish Stock Assessment.
bl E: Economnist; FA: Financial Analyst; FE: Fisheries Economist; F: Fisheries Specialist; NA: Naval Architect;
IS: Institutional Specialist; HRS: Human Resources Specialist; TS: Transport Specialist; CE: Civil Engineer;
MS: Marketing Specialist; A: Administrator EU; PO: Project Officer; PC: Project Controller (IFAD).
C/ Carried out by FAO/CP.
d The mission comprised members from the EU and IFAD.
The mission comprised members from the EU and FAO.



ANNEX A
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOURTH FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2265-YEM)
MISSION'S MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOURTH FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 2265-YEM)
MISSION'S MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
LMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MISSION
JUNE 23 TO JULY 8, 1999
A. INTRODUCTION
1.        A World Bank (WB)/FAO/CP mission led by Mr. R. Suppa (Economist) visited Yemen from
June 23 to July 8, 1999 for the preparation of the ICR for the above project. The mission held meetings in
Sana'a with Mr. Abdul Rahman Tarmoum, Vice Minister of Planning and Development (MOPD), Dr.
Abdul Bari Fakhri, Assistant Deputy Minister of Fish Wealth (MFW), Mr. Rainer Fruend, Representative
of the European Union (EU) in Yemen, Mr. Mohammed Othman, DG, Credit Section of the Cooperative
and Agricultural Credit Bank (CACB), and Mr. Naji Abu-Hatim, Project Officer of the WB Resident
Mission. Before leaving Sana'a, the mission held debriefing meetings with Mr. S. Mahdi, FAO
Representative and Mr. G. Brizzi, WB Resident Representative in Yemen.
2.        After its arrival in Mukalla and together with staff of the PIll, the mission visited the fishing
villages of Mukalla, Shihr, Diss Al-Hami Al-Qam, Quaseyer and Musainah. It met with the chairmen of
the cooperatives and societies of these villages and recorded the appreciation of the fishermen for the
village facilities constructed under the project. This included the electrical distribution networks in
Musainah and Al-Qam expected to be inaugurated in early July 1999. Discussions were held with the
contractor and supervisor of the ongoing construction of the road connecting Al-Qam with the main road.
The mission also had the opportunity of following the preliminary negotiations between the PIU and
related cooperative/society for the privatization of the fisheries village facilities in Shihr and Mukalla.
Intensive working sessions were held in Aden with the PTU staff and visits were made to the completed
women training centers in Imran, Fokum and Shuqra, as well as to the newly completed Fokum-hnran
Road also expected to be inaugurated in early July 1999.
3.        The mission acknowledges the cooperation and courtesy extended by GOY and its agencies.
Special thanks and appreciation are due to Dr. Omar Awadh Subeih, Director-General of the PIU and his
staff, for providing comprehensive data and elaborating the project's performance and progress. The
mission also wishes to express its gratitude to Mr. S. Mahdi and the staff from FAO/CP for the support
received during its stay in Yemen. Preliminary impressions and findings of the mission are presented
below and are subject to modification following detailed analysis.
B. BACKGROUND
4.         The project was desigped in the late 1980s to address a number of constraints defined in the
Fisheries Sector Survey published in 1989. Identified in November 1987, the preparation of the project
started in December 1988 within the context of extensive sector dialogue between IDA and the
Government of ex-PDRY. The project was appraised in November 1989, prior to the unification of the



two Yemen Republics, which took place in May 1990. Subsequently, an IDA mission visited the Republic
of Yemen (ROY) in December 1990, to assess the changes which had taken place in the fisheries sector as
a result of unification. Although some minor changes were made to the project's design and to the
implementation arrangements, the overall concept, objective and scale of the project remained unchanged
continuing to focus on the sector's requirements on the southern coast of Yemen.
5.        The main objectives of the project were to: (i) expand fish catches and improve processing,
for both local consumption and export; (ii) improve the efficiency of the domestic and export marketing of
fish, notably through investments, policy changes and adjustments in the institutional performance of
cooperatives; (iii) improve the assessment and management of the fish resources; and (iv) help improve
the position of women in fishing communities.
6.        To achieve these objectives, the project was designed to provide for: (i) construction of
primary facilities for fish handling in seven villages and of a road between two fishing villages to improve
access; (ii) import of intermediate technology vessels, construction material for fishing boats, outboard
engines and fishing gear, and a fleet of insulated and refrigerated trucks and plastic boxes for fish
marketing; (iii) technical assistance for the Coastal Fisheries Corporation (CFC), the National Corporation
for Services and Fish Marketing (NCSFM), cooperatives and MFW; (iv) strengthening MSRRI fish stock
assessment and resource management program and environmental research capability; and (v) services for
women in fishing communities.
7.        The total cost of the project, to be implemented over a period of seven years, was estimated at
US$39.8 million, with a foreign exchange component of US$31.8 million. The cofinancing arrangement
included an IDA credit of US$13.2 million, a loan from IFAD of US$6.5 million, a grant from the EU of
US$16.3 million, and GOY's contribution of US$3.8 million.
8.        IDA had financed three fisheries projects in Southern Yemen and one in Northern Yemen. In
response to GOY's request for continuing support to the traditional fishing subsector, 1DA carried out a
review of the ex-PDRY fisheries sector which led to considerable discussions with GOY on sector
development policies and issues. The FFDP was essentially a follow-up to the prior IDA-financed projects
providing this time adequate support to the on-going sector adjustment process and, in particular, to the
institutional development in the artisanal fisheries sector. While the earlier IDA-financed projects focussed
on the development of the fisheries villages along the western part of the country's southern coast, the
FFDP was designed to finance village facilities along the eastern part of the coast, with the aim of
providing assistance to the poorer sections of the fishing community, with special emphasis on improving
the position of women to alleviate their social and economic constraints.
C. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
General
9.        The project experienced some modifications in relation to its original appraised design. Most
important, the Quaseyr site was dropped in 1995 following a negotiation with the contractor to reduce the
contract price to a figure within the budget. The Project Steering Committee (PSC) decided in 1994 to
cancel the construction of the foreseen 320 GRP boats to be handled by the Coastal Fisheries Corporation
(CFC) because of the emerging private sector capable of importing the required material. The construction
of the 50 wooden sambuks was also cancelled because this activity is currently well operated by some
private boat builders in the project area. The intermediate technology vessels were not introduced. The
PSC, although recognizing the utility of the activity, cancelled the component on the assumption that the
CFC would not be able to operate these vessels efficiently and therefore complete the program



-3-
successfully. The transport facilities component was cancelled at MTR realizing that, during the course of
the early years of the project, private traders became independently capable of procuring these kind of
vehicles. Finally, the rehabilitation of the fish market in Mukalla was dropped following the decision of
the municipality to grant the construction of a new fish market to the private sector.
10.       The WB Country Portfolio Performance Review, dated October 1996 rated the project as
unsatisfactory because only 40% of the available funds had been disbursed over a period of five years.
However, since early 1997 (IDA supervision mission, Memorandum of Understanding dated February 24,
1997) the project, in relation to its development objectives, has remained satisfactory. The same applies to
the physical implementation progress ratings and in particular to the village and fish processing, and the
fishing vessels and gear components of the project. The training and the fish stock assessment components
remained seriously delayed but are now expected to be completed under IDA financing. However, at its
completion, the implementation of the project as a whole is rated satisfactory. Details on the
implementation experience by project component, is described below.
Village Fisheries Facilities
11.       The construction of the village facilities including fish receiving sheds, ice plants, stores and
chilled stores were completed by mid 1997. The mission was pleased that these facilities financed by the
EU have all been finally handed over, on a rental basis, to the intended beneficiaries i.e., the cooperatives
and societies, after assessment of their administrative, financial and technical capabilities to operate and
manage the facilities was confirtned. However, GOY agencies are still assisting some cooperatives/
societies in their management. This is the case of less competent cooperatives/societies in Al-Musaynah
and Al-Sayhut which are temporarily managed by NCSFM and CFC. At the same time, the
cooperatives/societies of Al-Mukalla and Al-Shihr have been very successful in managing their activities
and are currently negotiating with the PIU the complete privatization of their respective village facilities.
This process is expected to be successfully concluded by the end of 1999.
Fokum-Ras Imran Road
12.       The construction of the Fokum-Ras Imran Road, which was initiated in 1998, has been
completed for its total length or 16.7 km, and includes the extension road of 1.8 km. This allows access to
the village of Fokum where fisheries facilities, including an ice plant, were built under the IDA-assisted
Third Fisheries Project (Cr. 1274-YDR). As this extension was not foreseen at appraisal, IDA was pleased
to provide its "no-objection" to implementation. Final payments for both the main road and the Fokum
extension have been made by the PIU at a total cost of US$2.64 million, or about 27% more than appraisal
estimate. The cost increase is attributable to the need for new design to incorporate modifications to the
original one carried out ten years earlier i.e., large sections of loose soils which required unforeseen soil
stabilization treatments, and wider width of the road from 6m to 7m. It is expected that the road would be
inaugurated in early July 1999.



-4 -
Outboard Engines and Gear
13.       The sale of the remaining outboard engines to the fisheries cooperatives and societies
continue satisfactorily because of the strong demand from fishermen. Concern remains about the
distribution of the 25 HP (Selva) engines for which fishermen in the project area have clearly indicated
their reluctance to procure. It seems, however, that these engines would be more suitable in the Red Sea
area and the PIU is actively exploring this possibility by distributing some of these engines to selected
fishermen on a trial basis. The following shows the status of distribution of the outboard engines to date:
Outboard Engine    Unit Price    Number                     Number in
Type            (YR)    j  Imported    N umber Sold      stock
15 HP Yamaha         123,678        1,250         815           435
40 HP Yamaha         245,298          100          100           --
25 HP Selva           152,380         350            7           343
14.       The possibility of appropriately disposing of the remaining stock of engines and gear was
discussed with the PrU and the mission was informed that after the last IDA supervision mission, the PIU
took action to investigate whether CACB seriously intended to take possession. CACB replied proposing
the following solutions; (i) acquisition of the 15 HP Yamaha engines with a reduction of 25% of the value
to cover expenses; (ii) acquisition of the engines with a reduction of 35% of their value allowing CACB to
deposit the money obtained from the sale in the PIU special account; and, (iii) acquiring the Selva engines
on behalf of the PLU charging, at the same time, for storage and insurance before retaining 25% of the
value of the equipment to cover expenses. The PIU has now called for a meeting with MFW, IDA, EU and
MOPD to take a decision on the CACB proposals. This meeting is expected to take place before the end of
July 1999.
15.       As to funds collected as of June 1999 from the sale of equipment, including spare parts, the
following amounts have been deposited into CACB's special account:
Equipment Sold        Revenue Collected (YR'000y
40 HP Yamaha engines                 24,530
15 HP Yamaha engines                100,798
25 HP Selva engines                     914
Spare parts                          17,579
Fishing gears                        14,570
Total                               158,391
Fisheries Credit Component
16.       The fisheries credit component continues to provide needed finances for the purchase of
equipment by fishermen. The MFW/PTU has already deposited the proceeds from the sale of this
equipment, mainly outboard engines, collected as of June 1999 into CACB's special fund. To date, the
amount of funds deposited is about YR 224 million or US$2.6 equivalent using the relative exchange rates
at the time of transaction. As of March 1999, CACB issued 1,873 loans for a total amount of YR 374



- 5 -
million. The overall Loan recovery rate is currently estimated at 68%, which is relatively low if compared
with the 91% average loan recovery rate recorded in 1992.
Women Development Centers
17.       To uplift the educational level of rural women and create job opportunities by acquiring the
necessary knowledge and skills, the construction of a small clothing factory and the rehabilitation/
construction of a total of twenty community development centers was foreseen at appraisal. This program
was considered too ambitious by the IDA supervision mission of March 1998 given the complexity of the
task and, on the advice of a WID consultant, it was decided to reduce the program to allow the
construction of only three of these centers at Fokum, Imran and Shuqra. The construction is now
completed and these centers were handed over by the contractor to the PIU on June 18, 1999.
Other Small Civil Works
18.       With the aim of utilizing remaining project funds under Category I, and to meet urgent meets
of fishermen within and outside the project area, both IDA and IFAD decided in May 1998 to finance the
construction of additional civil works including auction yards in Shuqra and Burum (IDA) and in Bir Ali
and Al-Salif (IFAD). Furthermore, while IDA approved the construction of the Fokum and Shuqra asphalt
roads of 1.6 km and 1.3 km respectively, IFAD approved the construction of the Quality Control
Laboratory (QCL) in Aden, as well as the auction yards in Bir Ali and in Burum. The construction of the
four auction yards has been completed and these facilities are expected to be handed over to the respective
cooperative by mid July 1999. As indicated previously, the branch road to reach the village of Fokum has
been completed as well as the Shuqra road. The final lengths of these roads are 1.8 km and 1.1 km
respectively (para. 12). The QCL is at its final stage of construction and is expected to be handed over to
the PIU in early July 1999. The installation of the relative laboratory equipment and furniture, both
already procured, will be completed by the end of July 1999.
Al-Qarn Asphalt Road and Electrical Distribution Network in Al-Qarn and Musaynah
19.       The Al-Qarn road, as envisaged at appraisal, was supposed to cover a length of 4.5 km and
have a compacted gravel surface. In response to the PIU's request to the EU Delegation in Sana'a, it was
agreed in May 1998 to finance the construction of a total 9.6 km separating Al-Qarn from the main road
Mukalla-Sayhut. For this purpose, additional funds were made available under the EU's Food Aid Counter
Part (FACP) programming the overall construction work in two phases. The first, corresponding to 3.2
km, was completed in March 1998. The construction of the remaining 6.4 km, foreseen under the second
phase started in May 1999 and is expected to be completed by November 1999. Fishermen have greatly
appreciated the decision to implement the overall road project as this will facilitate access for the fish
traders to reach the village landing sites where the auction yards are located.
20.       The fishing villages of Al-Qam and Al-Musaynah, with a population of 600 and 3,500
respectively, have received, under EU financing, electrical generators (installed) including power
distribution lines. These generators have a capacity of 239 kw each. Villagers have already covered about
10% of the available capacity. However, the O&M costs of the generators will be met by both the
cooperatives and the villages.



- 6 -
D. ACTUAL PROJECT COST AND DISBURSEMENT
21.       Actual project cost is estimated at US$28.4 million or about 71% of the appraisal estimate.
Final overall disbursement includes an IDA credit of US$8.0 million, an IFAD loan of US$6.5 million, a
grant from the EU of US$16.3 million and GOY's contribution equivalent to US$3.8 million. With regard
to the IDA credit, final disbursement rate has reached 62% of the original amount.
E. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
22.       The preparation of an environmental assessment was not required at appraisal as the project
was classified in environmental screening Category B, in line with the provision set in Operational
Directive 4.00. However, the various cooperatives that took over project activities at village level were
able to implement measures to protect the environment as agreed by the Bank and GOY at negotiations.
These include collection of refuse such as fish heads and guts for burial in suitable areas. The same is
applied to any waste (i.e., oil) from boats and engine rooms as waste is collected and incinerated. Other
hazardous waste like old batteries, paints, oil rags, etc, are currently collected and transported to a disposal
site.
23.       To avoid exploitation of fish resources, MSRRI is continuously monitoring catch and fishing
effort data. Furthermore, under the TA component and with IFAD financing, a Fish Stock Evaluation has
been completed and its recommendations and proposals will be followed up by MFW. EU has recently
approved the expansion of its funding (US$0.5 million) to allow MSRRI to carry out stock assessment and
survey design (Section G). The IDA supervision mission of October/November 1998 specifically points
out the extreme urgency of MSRRI obtaining broad assessments of the state of selected fish stocks, in
view of the apparent over fishing of these stocks.
F. PROJECT OUTCOME
24.       Taking into consideration the state of actual implementation of the various project
components, overall project outcome is presently considered as satisfactory. However, project results can
only be precisely quantified when the mission will return to FAO-Rome to carry out the detailed ex-post
economic and financial analysis. Relevant data on incremental fish landings to be attributed to the project
are being finalized by the PIU and are expected to be available to the mission before its departure to
Rome.
G. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
25.       Project sustainability may be defined in terms of physical works constructed, economic
activities supported and management capability of institutions. Infrastructure works, including roads and
electrical distribution network, were well designed and constructed on a sound technical basis. The same
would apply to the various village facilities, the women development centers, and the QCL. Preliminary
analysis of the fishing activities at fishermen level indicates that both the economic and financial viability
would be assured throughout the project life. The hand over of the village facilities to the respective
cooperatives/societies that have demonstrated their administrative, financial and technical capability to
operate and manage these facilities is one of the most important elements to assure future success. Finally,
as described in section H, MFW has confirmed its commitment to play an important role in actively
participating in all possible programs to support the fisheries sector in the future, in line with its mandate.
As described in para. 26, the EU has recently approved a program of financial assistance looking at
improving and consolidating the result to date under the project. For these reasons, the project
sustainability is rated as likely.



-7 -
H. FUTURE OUTLOOK
26.        During the last IDA supervision mission, a copy of the draft Fisheries Strategy Note was
given to the Minister of MFW and his key staff for final review and to provide comments before
finalizatio. The IDA mission also informed the Minister of MFW of IDA's plan to rally GOY and other
donors including the EU, IFAD, and FAO active in Yemen's fisheries, around the recommendations of the
draft Strategy Note to agree on directions for future development assistance to the fisheries sector. As a
result of the Minister's Resolution, a preparation committee was established and held its first meeting in
Sana'a on June 13, 1999 during which the PIU was instructed to contact key staff of MFW to assist in
reviewing the Strategy Note and in preparing a document on the future role of the fisheries sector in
Yemen which would be presented at a workshop with donor participation.
27.       The PITJ has in hand a work plan for a of 12-month period starting June 30, 1999 after closure
of the Credit. The specific objectives of the work plan are: (i) to introduce and consolidate at a sustainable
level, O&M of the six village facilities sites; (ii) to strengthen public and private Fisheries Products
Quality Control Services with the aim of promoting investments in the fisheries sector and to enhance the
quality of Yemen fisheries products, both in domestic and foreign markets; (iii) to support the
development and implementation of concepts designed to protect coastal fishing and spawning grounds as
well as enhance the research capacity of MSRRI in Aden; and (iv) to assist GOY in formulating and
subscribing to a long-term sustainable fisheries sector strategy. The program, estimated at about EURO
450,000 (US$461,000 equivalent), has recently been approved by the EU and implementation is being
initiated.
1. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
28.       The key lessons learned from the project are the following:
(a)   Delays in approval of submissions could have been avoided if more delegation of
real authority were given to the PIU to play a more active and decisive role in all
project activities.
(b)   Technical continuity during supervision was beneficial to the project to the point that
it allowed the project to survive. The same IDA staff was maintained and was never
involved in matters external to the project.
(c)   Under this project, the presence of different cofinanciers was also very beneficial in
the sense that cofinancing arrangement allowed the independent implementation of
specific project components. For example, the EU was able to continue disbursing
while implementation of its respective components progressed, in spite of the fact
that some delays were experienced during the implementation of other components.
(d)   In retrospect, considering the overall satisfactory rating of the project, IDA did well
to continue its support of the project in spite of the unexpected policy changes.
Undesirable changes at political level are often taken by IDA as an excuse to suspend
disbursement.
(e)    The project was very well prepared, capitalizing on the implementation experience
derived from the previous fisheries projects and on the active participation of GOY,
cooperatives, and fishermen during project design. It has, however, proven essential
that proper consultation, although sometime expensive, should be provided.



- 8 -
(f)   When TA is required, an early and continued evaluation is necessary in the event that
consultants need to be replaced. Unfortunately, this was not necessary under the
project.
(g)   To staff the PIU with highly competent personnel was essential for achieving the
satisfactory standard of overall project implementation.
(h)   Continued support from  MFW  to PIll was essential to expedite project
implementation. However, the project lost two years due to lack of support from
MFW.
(i)    Close coordination between donors was key to the project's success in ensuring that
joint concerted messages were passed on the Borrower.
J. FOLLOW-UP
29.       The mission discussed with the PLU about the preparation of the ICR viewing the
implementation experience from the Borrower's perspective. In line with IDA guidelines, the Borrower's
ICR may be incorporated in IDA's ICR but should not exceed ten pages. The mission will return to Rome
on July 8, 1999. During the following three weeks, it will prepare the draft ICR that will be sent to IDA by
the end of July 1999.
Date: 3 July, 1999
R. Suppa                                  Dr. Omar A. Subeih
FAO/CP Economist                              Director General (PMU)
Mission Leader                       Fourth Fisheries Development Project



ANNEX B
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOURTH FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2265-YEM)
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOURTH FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2265-YEM)
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
FINANCIAL BENEFITS
General
1.        An ex-post financial analysis has been carried out to assess the achievement of the stated
objectives of the project. At appraisal, the financial analysis was carried out for the different types of boats
and vessels proposed under the project and included two GRP boat models (7.6 m and 9.4 m), one Sambuk
model and one model representing Intermediate Technology Vessel operation. As indicated in the text
(Part I, para. 7), the wooden Sambuk boats and the Intermediate Technology Vessels were never
introduced. On the contrary, GRP boats, mainly of 9.4 m, were introduced equipped with outboard engines
of 15 HP and/or 40 HP. To estimate the annual income for fishermen, two different fishing operations
have been analysed, corresponding to (i) a production unit of six GRP boats, and (ii) a single boat fishing
unit. These two models represent the vast majority of the types of fishing activities in the project area.
Production Unit of Six GRP Boats
2.         As analysed in detail in Table 8, this model represents a typical fishing operation based on a
unit of six boats, all equipped with outboard engines, operating over 100 fishing days per year and with an
average fish catch of 2.5 tons/day based on the following daily catches:
4.5 tons/day for 30 days = 135 tons
2.5 tons/day for 20 days = 50 tons
1.5 tons/day for 30 days = 45 tons
1.0 ton/day for 20 days = 20 tons
Total      100 days = 250 tons
3.        Total gross value of the annual fish landings is estimated at YR 16,250,000 taking into
account an average price of fish of YR 65/kg on the basis of the following assumptions:
50 tons (20% of total category I fish landing) @ YR 120/kg
150 tons (60% of total category II fish landing) @ YR 60/kg
50 tons (20% of total category III fish landing) @ YR 25/kg



2
Single Boat Fishing Operation
4.         The single boat fishing operation is based on one GRP boat equipped with a 15 HP outboard
engine. This activity, analyzed in detail in Table 9, is carried out over a total of 120 fishing days per year
and the average fish landing is estimated at 200 kg/day. The fish catch composition is estimated to include
40% of first category fish, 40% of second category fish and 20% of third category fish. Average fish price
is set at YR 77/kg on the assumption that, as indicated above, relative prices for first, second and third
category fish are YR 120/kg, YR 60/kg and YR 25/kg respectively. On this basis, the gross value of the
annual fish catch is estimated at YR 1,848,000/unit.
Estimated Fishermen's Net Income
5.         On the basis of the above, the average net annual income for fishermen is estimated at YR
2,018/fishing day and YR 1,163/fishing day for the "Production Unit of Six Boats" and "Single Boat
Fishing Operation" models respectively. Detailed calculations are presented in Tables 8 and 9 and are
summarised below:
Production Unit      Single Boat
of Six Boats     Fishing Operation
A. Gross Value of Fish Landings
- Fishing Days (No.)                                       100                120
- Average Fish Landings (Tons/Fishing Day)                   2.5                0.2
- Total Annual Catch (Tons)                                250                 24
- Average Fish Prices (YRlKg)                               65                 77
- Estimated Gross Value of Annual Fish Landings (YR'000)  16,250             1,848
B. Operating Costs (YR'000)                                 6,564              1,150
C. Net Income Before Labour (YR'000)                        9,686                698
D. Labour (YR'000)                                          7,265                419
E. Net Income After Labour (YR'000)                         2,421                279
F. Number of Fishermen per Unit                               36                   3
G. Net Income per Fisherman
- Per Year (YR'000)                                        201.8              139.5
- Per Fishing Day (YR)                                   2,018              1,163
Financial Rates of Return
6.         Ex-post financial rates of return have been estimated for Models A and B on the basis of
assumptions presented in Tables 10 and 11. Financial returns on investmnent undertaken by the boat
owners and including the capital cost of boats, outboard engines and the years of operation have been
assessed at 55% and 30% for the "Production Unit of Six Boats" and the "Single Boat Fishing Operation"
respectively. These values, in line with SAR estimates, clearly indicate the financial viability of artisanal
fishing operations in Yemen.



3
Economic Benefits
Economic Re-evaluation
7.         The economic analysis for the project as a whole as well as, separately, for the road
component was carried out at appraisal. The main assumptions underlying the ex-post analysis and the
methodology followed are described below:
(a)   Benefits. The main project benefits materialized in the form of incremental fish
landings estimated at 9,200 tons/year are indicated in Table 12, where details on fish
landings by cooperatives/societies for the "without" and "with" project situations are
given. The estimated gross value of annual incremental fish landings in economic
terms is estimated at US$6.2 million/yr (Table 18). Benefits that would derive from
the 26.7 km of roads constructed under the project are estimated to reach YR 1.5
million at full development (in year 2008) (Table 13), on the assumption that the
running costs of vehicles would reduce by 10% and considering a total traffic count of
4,500 vehicles per year.
(b)   Standard Conversion Factor (SCF). Following the approach used at appraisal, a
SCF of 0.67 has been used to convert local financial costs of non-traded items into
border price terms, in order to reflect the prevailing distortions in the economy.
(c)   Investment Costs. The investment costs of all project components, other than the
auction yards built outside the project area and the Women Development Centers
whose direct economic benefits are difficult to quantify (Table 5), were included in the
overall project ERR calculation. These include the investment costs of the road
component. The local costs were adjusted by applying a SCF of 0.67.
(d)    Prices. Fresh fish prices, which includes first, second and third category qualities of
fish, are based on Freight on Board Aden (FOB) export prices of selected species
(Table 14). This is based on adjustment from Cost, Insurance and Freight (CIF)
prices by deducting sea transport or related freight charges and insurance to arrive at
FOB border prices at Aden port. Prices are further adjusted by adequately converting
to reflect relative prices of frozen fish (Table 16) and by deducting harbor and
handling charges in Aden, freezing, storage and cleaning, and local transport and icing
to arrive at the economic price for fish landed on the beach (Table 15).
(e)    Operating Costs. Operating costs including labour have been estimated on the basis
of financial costs as presented for Models A and B (Tables 8 and 9) and multiplied by
the SCF of 0.67.
8.         On the basis of the above assumptions, the overall ERR for the project is estimated at 15.4%
(Table 19) which although considered satisfactory, is well below the ERR of 31% assessed at appraisal.
The major factors that have negatively affected the economic impact of the project include less than
expected increases of annual fish landings, i.e., about 20% below the SAR estimate and the longer project
implementation period. A separate economic analysis has been carried out for the road component and the
related ERR has been assessed at 17.5% in line with the SAR estimate.
World Bank User
P:\!units\mnsre\tijan\yemen\revFishlCR-AppB-TextF.doc
03/01/00 9:53 AM



REI'UBLIC' OF YEMEN: FOLHrth Fisheries Development Project
Ann1iex 13: Financial and EcoInom11ic Re-evaltiation
Table 1. Summary of Refrigeration Units Established Under the Project
Site No.  |        Site        }     Descri tion      }    No.       :         Ca acity                 Ter  erature
1       Mukalla             Ice Maker                     I        10 tons per day FW
Ice Store                    I        10 tons                             -6C t IC
Chill Store                  1         5 tons fish, plus ice               IC ± IC
2       Shihr                Ice Maker                    2        10 tons per day FW
Ice Store                   2         10 tons                             -6C ± IC
Chill Store                  1         5 tons fish, plus ice               IC ± IC
3       Diss/AI Hami         Ice Maker                    I        10 tons per day FW
Ice Store                    I        10 tons                             -6C ± IC
Chill Store                  1         5 tons fish, plus ice               IC ± IC
4       Al Quam              Ice Maker                    I        10 tons per day SW
Ice Store                    I        10 tons                             -6C ± IC
Chill Store                  1         5 tons fish, plus ice               IC ± IC
5       Musaynah             Ice Maker                    2        10 tons per day SW
Ice Store                   2         10 tons                             -6C ± IC
Chill Store                  1         5 tons fish, plus ice               IC ± IC
6       Sayhut               Ice Maker                    I        10 tons per day SW
Ice Store                    I        10 tons                             -6C ± IC
Chill Store                  1         5 tons fish, plus ice               IC ± IC
Notes:  1. Water temperature to ice makers assumed to be 35C.
2. Ambient air-conditions 43C db and 30C wb.
3. Capacity/Product load figures do not include heat going through the structure or infiltration.
4. All units are 20 ft containerized units.
FW = Fresh Water - SW = Saline Water but all units to be capable of operating with saline water. All ice stores contain lOt flake
Ice,



5
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: Fourth Fisheries Development Project
Annex B: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Table 2. Summary of Technical Assistance
SAR Estimates   |        Actual
........................ .(staff months) .
Ministry of Fisheries
Fisheries Sector Advisor                            24                    24
Marine Fisheries Consultants                        18                    18
Sub-total                                          42                     42
Support for Fishery Cooperatives/Credit
Fisheries Cooperative/Credit Expert                 30                    48
Fish Stock Management
Stock Assessment Specialist                         30                    30
Consultants                                         12                    12
Environmental Scientists                             8                     8
Sub-total                                           50                    50
Development of Women in Fisheries
Expatriate Coordinator                              24                    12
Project Design, Technical Assistance
Project Coordinator                                 60                    60
Naval Architect: Boat Design                        12                     3
Naval Architect: Boat Procurement                    3                     5
Fishing Gear Consultant                              6                     7
Consulting Engineers: Design                        24                    36
Consulting Engineers: Constr. Superv.              129                   160
NCFM: Management Advisor                            18
Auditors for NCFM, CFC and PIU                      18                    18 (only for
PIU)
Sub-total                                         270                   289
TOTAL                                               416                   441



RlUI'  IC' 0  YIEMEN: Fourli-tl Fishieries Developilmelit plroject
Amiex 13: F`illanlcial anid lEconomic Re-evaluation
Table 3. Training Program Actually Implemented
Core Course Content             Number           No. of              No       . of      No. of
Core Course Content             Numtfr          People         No. of      Courses    Trainees          Where Courses             Course
as Foreseen at Appraisal       Cooperatives   Cooperative    Trainees        During      During        Were Given/Remarks            Days
A. Training for Cooperative
Members and Employees
1. Initial Trainrilig
Senior Management            Coop. Organization & Management           6              2             12            1           12      PIu - Mukalla                     14
Stat. and Plan. Officers     Statistics and Planning Accounts     Cancelled                                                           Lack of interest
Accounts Officers            Accounting                               10              2             20            2           40      Coop. Instit., Aden + FMPC        40 -
Cooperative Members          Principles of Cooperation & Credit   Cancelled                                                           Lack of interest
2. Refreshier Courses
Drivers                      Fish Handling and Transport          Cancelled
Stat. and Plan. Officers     Statistics and Planning Accounts     Cancelled                                                           { Lack of funds
Accounts Officers            Accounting                           Cancelled                                                           ( fromnGOY
B. Training for Processing
Facilities Staff
1. Initial Trainrilng
Refrigeration Mechanics      Refrigeration                             6              3             18            1           18      Fishing Facilities                42
Vehicle Mechanics            Motor Vehicle Repairs                Cancelled                                                           Provided outside project
Marine Engine Mechanics      Inboard and Outboard Eng. Repairs        10              2             20            1           20      Fishing Facilities                40
Cold Room Supervisors        Fish Handling and Storage            Cancelled                                                           { Lack of funds
Skippers, Fishermen          Post-harvest Care of Catch           Cancelled                                                             from GOY
Electric                                                               6               I             6            1            6      Fishing Facilities                12
Gensets                                                                3              2              6            1            6      Fishing Facilities                12
2. Refresher Courses
Drivers                      Fish Handling and Transport          Cancelled                                                           Lack of funds from GOY
Refrigeration Mechanics      Refrigeration                             6              3             18            1           18      Fishing Facilities                42
Vehicle Mechanics            Motor Vehicle Repairs                Cancelled
Marine Engine Mechanics      Inboard and Outboard Eng. Repairs    Cancelled                                                           { Lack of funds
Cold Room Supervisors        Fish Handling and Storage            Cancelled                                                           t from GOY
C. Trg. of Naval Architect     Training in Naval Architecture       Cancelled                                                           No request from Coops.
D. Computer Training           MSRRC, PIU, CALB, MFW  and                5              7             35            1           35      Private Institutes               120
FMDC Staff                                                                                               Not foreseen at appraisal
E. MSRRI Scientists            Training in Marine Res. Assess.                          2              2            1            2      Abroad                         2 years
F. Study Tours                 Cooperatives in Other Countries      Cancelled                                                           No request from Coops.
MSRRC (Short Course)                                     4              4            1            4                                    12 months
PIU (Short Course)                                       2              2            i            2                                     2 months
TOTAL                                                                                                              12         163



R EI'UII,   OF YFMFN: Fourith Fisheries Developmeiet lPr-oject
Appendix 13: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Table 4. Total Project Costs by Category and by Year
FinacngAenyCteoy                    92199                 I      9419                            9619                           9819                             oa
.................................................................................................... (U $ t o s n s  ..............................................  ................................
A. IDA
1. Civil Works                       -             -              -               -                               -              757           1,830             2,587
2. Equipment                          -            -              -               331              65             168            -               -                 564
3. Outboard Engines                   -            -            2,100             139            1,435           653             -               -                4,327
4. Consultant&TA                      -            217             43             130             -                13             13             44                460
5. PPF                                -            240            -               -               -               -              -               -                 240
Sub-total                                          457          2,143             600           1,500            834             770          1,874'              8,178
B. IFAD
1. Civil Works                                     -              -               -               -               -              -            1,300b              1,300
2. Equipment                          -            -              -               -               -               -               83            201                284
3. Outboard Engines                   -            -            1,721             114              15            280             -               -                2,130
4. L. Market & TA                     -            216             43             127             -               -              262             29                677
Sub-total                                          216          1,764             241              15             280            345           1,530              4,391
C. EU
1. Civil Works                        -            -              -             3,510           3,267          4,132             -              528             11,437
2. Equipment                          -            -              -               -               -                35            -               66                 101
3.TA& Engineering                   1,118          525            530             364             542             662            118            903               4,762
Sub-total                           1,118          525            530           3,874           3,809           4,829            118          1,497c            16,300d
D. GOY's Contribution
1. Civil Works                        -            -              -               -               -               42             197            100                339
2. Salaries & Allowances              -            -              -                -               10               8              7              4                  29
3. General Expenses                   -              8             16              16              46              20             21              4                 131
Sub-total                                            8             16              16              56              70            225            108                499
TOTAL                                  1,118        1,206          4,453           4,731           5,380          6,013           1,458          5,009             29,368
a  Including US$ 0.9 million to be spent after the closing date as "committed".
b  Including an amount of US$1.0 million for water supply works in Bab Al-Maredah (US$0.5 million), Arqha/Hawra (US$0.3 million) and in Musaynah (US$0.2 million).
c  Estimated disbursement up to December 31, 1999.
d  Equivalent to ECU 13.9 million.



8
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: Fourth Fisheries Development Project
Annex B: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Table 5. Detailed Investment Costs to be Excluded from the Economic Analysis
Sub-component                       1999
(US$)
1) Auction Yardsa
- Bir Ali                                    38,000
- Shoqura                                    39,806
- Burum                                      31,105
- Al Salif                                   37,474
Sub-total                                   146,385
2) Women Development Centres
- Fokum                                      50,872
- Imran                                      50,481
- Shoqura                                    58,310
Sub-total                                   159,663
TOTAL                                          306,048
Representing civil works executed outside the project area.



RIPUBLIC OF YEMEN: Fourth Fisheries Development Project
Annex B: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Table 6. Estimated Project Cost by Components'
SAR                                                                Actual
Components                       IDA   |IFAD               EU             OY          Total          IDA     IFAD                 EU          GOY          Total
.....................................................................................  milion.......................................US$.rni
A. Village and Fish. Process. Fac.                2.1          -           7.9          0.9           11.0           2.6            1.0         11.4           0.3         15.3
B. Transport Facilities + Equipment               1.7          -            -           0.1             1.8           0.6          0.3           0.1            -            1.0
C. Fishing Vessels and Gear                       8.1         5.3          3.8          1.3           18.5           4.3           2.1            -             -           6.4
D. Fish Stock Management                          -            -           1.3           -              1.3           -             -             1.3           -           1.3
E. Training                                       0.4          -            -           0.2            0.6            -            0.1                          -           0.1
F. Development of Women in Fish. Com.             -           0.9           -           0.1             1.0           -            0.3            -             -           0.3
G. Technical Assistance                           0.9          -           3.3           -             4.2           0.7           0.6            3.5           -           4.8          xo
H. Market Promotion                                -          0.3           -            -             0.3             -            -             -             -            -
I. Operating Costs                                 -           -            -           1.2             1.2            -            -             -            0.2          0.2
TOTAL                                            13.2         6.5         16.3          3.8    .    39.8             8.2           4.4          16.3           0.5         29.4
a See Table 4 for details.
b  SAR: Annex 11 (page 80).
c Included under TA.



Rl l'UBLIC OF YEMEN: Fouth lFislheries Development Project
Appendix B: Financial anid Economnic Ite-evaluation
Table 7. Total Project Cost in Constant 1999 Terms for Economic Analysis
Years             Consumer Pricea                 Deflators                  Investment                    Investment
Index (1995= 100)                                      in Current Termsb          in Constant 1999 Terms
.............................. (US$'000).
1992                     92.1                       1.17                       1,118                         1,308
1993                     94.8                       1.14                       1,206                         1,375
1994                     97.3                       1.11                       4,453                         4,943
1995                    100.0                       1.08                       4,731                         5,109
1996                    102.9                       1.05                       5,380                         5,649
1997                    105.3                       1.03                       6,013                         6,193
1998                    107.0                       1.01                       1,458                         1,473
1999                    108.0                       1.00                       4,703e                        4,703
a IMF: Intemational Financial Statistics - July 1999.
b See Table 4 for details and excluding investment costs as indicated in Table 5.
Excluding civil works executed outside project area and the cost of the Women Development Centres estimated at US$306,048 as detailed in Table 5.



I'
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: Fourth Fisheries Development Project
Annex B: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Table 8. Boat Model A - Production Unit of Six Boats
Estimated Net Income
A. Gross Value of Fish Landings
- Fishing Days (No.)                                                        100
- Average Landings (Tons/Fishing Day)                                         2.5
- Total Annual Catch (Tons/yr) a                                            250
- Average Fish Price (YR/Kg) b                                               65
- Estimated Gross Value of Annual Fish Landings (YR)                  16,250,000
B. Operating Costs
- Cooperative Charges (8% of Sales)                                    1,300,000
- Fuel: 10 gallons/boat/fishing day @ YR 160/gall.                      960,000
- Oil: 2 cans ( YR 200/fishing day                                       40,000
- Food: 400 YR/fisherman/day x 36 fishermene                           1,444,000
- Engine Spare Parts LS (@ YR 10,000/yr/engine x 6)                      60,000
- Net Maintenance (@ YR 12,000/yr x 6)                                   72,000
- Engine Maintenance (@ YR 5,000/yr/engine x 6)                          30,000
- Boat Maintenance and Replacement (@ YR 20,000/yr x 6)                 120,000
- Net Replacement (@ YR 300,000/yr)d                                    300,000
- Transport of Fish'                                                   1,625,000
- Engine Replacement (15 HP)'                                           300,000
- Contingencies (5% of above)                                           313,000
Total Operating Costs                                                6,564,000
C. Net Income/Unit Before Labour                                         9,686,000
D. Labour (6 fishermen/boat = 36 fishermen @ YR 201,792/yr)              7,264,512
E. Net Income/Unit After Labour (C-D)                                    2,421,488
F. Net Income per Fisherman       YR 9,686,000 + 48 = YR 201,792/year
or    YR 2,018/fishing day
a Assuming:  4.5 tons/day for  30 days = 135 tons
2.5 tons/day for  20 days = 50 tons
1.5 tons/day for  30 days = 45 tons
1.0 ton/day for   20 days = 20 tons
Total:                100 days  250 tons
b Assuming:   50 tons (20% of total fish landings) @ YR 1 20/kg (first category)
150 tons (60% of total fish landings) ( YR 60/kg (second category)
50 tons (20% of total fish landings) ( YR 25/kg (third category)
C Based on a crew of 6 fishermen/boat and a total of six boats.
d Average annual replacement cost assuming 5 yrs life and a capital cost of YR 1,500,000.
From different landing sites to auction floor estimated as follows: 40% of the catch, i.e. 100 tons; 25% of the
value of the fish.
f Average annual replacement cost assuming 3 yrs life and a capital cost of YR 150,000/engine.



12
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: Fourth Fisheries Development Project
Appendix B: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Table 9. Boat Model B - Single Boat Fishing Operation
A. Gross Value of Fish Landings
- Fishing Days (No.)                                                        120
- Average Landings (Tons/Fishing Day)                                         0.2
- Total Annual Catch (Tons/yr)a                                              24
- Average Fish Price (YR/Kg)b                                                77
- Estimated Gross Value of Annual Fish Landings (YR)                  1,848,000
B. Operating Costs (YR)
- Cooperative Charges (8% of Sales)                                     147,840
- Fuel: 25 gallons/trip ( YR 160/gallon x 120 days                      480,000
- Oil: 3 cans ( YR 200/fishing day x 120 days                            72,000
- Food: 400 YR/fisherman/day x 3 fishermned                              64,000
- Engine Spare Parts                                                     10,000
- Net Maintenance (@ YR 1,000/month)                                     12,000
- Engine Maintenance                                                      5,000
- Boat Maintenance and Replacement (@ YR 20,000/yr)                      20,000
- Net Replacement                                                        50,000
- Transport of Fishd                                                    184,800
- Engine Replacemente                                                    50,000
- Contingencies (5% of above)                                            54,780
Total Operating Costs                                                1,150,420
C. Net Income/Unit Before Labour (YR)                                      697,580
D. Labour (3 fishernen/boat ( YR 139,516/fishernan/yr)                     418,548
E. Net Income/Unit After Labour (YR) (C-D)                                 279,032
F. Net Income per Fishermanf    YR 697,580 -5 = YR 139,516/year
or    YR 1,163/fishing day
a Assuming: 20% of first category fish, 40% of second category fish and 20% of third category fish.
b Assuming:  9.6 tons (40% of total fish landing)   YR 120kg;
9.6 tons (40% of total fish landing) @ YR 60/kg;
4.8 tons (20% of total fish landing) @ YR 25/kg.
c Average of 3 fishermen per boat.
d From different landing sites to auction floor estimated as follows: 40% of the catch, i.e., 9.6 tons; 25% of the
value of the fish.
Average annual replacement cost assuming 3 yrs life and a cost of YR 150,000 per 15 HP outboard engine.
Assuming a crew of 3 fishermen and 2 shares for the boat.



13
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: Fourth Fisheries Development Project
Appendix B: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Table 10. Boat Model A - Production Unit of Six Boatsa
Financial Rate of Return
|    yrl  |    yr2           yr3         yr4-10
.................... (YR'000) .
A. Gross Value of Fish Landings           16,250         16,250         16,250         16,250
B. Operating Costsb                       13,829         13,829         13.829         13.829
C. Net Income                              2,421         2,421          2,421          2,421
D. Investment Costs
- Boats                                 1,320            -              -              -
- Engines                                 900            -              -              -
- Gear                                  4 500-                                         -
Total Investment Costs                6,720            -              -              -
E. Net Cash Flow                          (4,299)        2,421          2,421          2,421
Financial Rate of Return: 55%
a Detailed analysis for estimating the gross value of fish landings and operating costs is given in Table 8
b Including annual replacement costs for boats, engines and gears as indicated in Table 8.



14
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: Fourth Fisheries Development Project
Appendix B: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Table 11. Boat Model B - Single Boat Fishing Operationa
Financial Rate of Return
yr 1     l    yr 2              r3          yr 4 -10
.................... .(YR'000)...(YR'00
A. Gross Value of Fish Landings             1,848           1,848          1,848           1,848
B. Operating Costsb                         1.569           1.569          1 569           1,569
C. Net Income                                279             279             279            279
D. Investment Costs
- Boats                                   220              -              -               -
- Engines                                 150              -              -               -
- Gear                                    750              -              -               -
Total Investment Costs                 1,120             -               -              -
E. Net Cash Flow                            (841)            279             279            279
Financial Rate of Return: 30%
a Detailed analysis for estimating the gross value of fish landings and operating costs is given in Table 9.
b  Including annual replacement costs for boats, engines and gears as indicated in Table 9.



REPtUB3liC OF YEMI N: FouI'th Fisheries Development Project
Aninex n:  inianicial aid E conomic Re-evaluationi
Table 12. Total Fish Landings Without and With Project
Cooperative/             Without Project (1989)                             With Project (1998)                    Incremental
Fishermen    No. of Boats   Fish Landing   Cooperative/Society   No. of Boats    Fish Landing     Fish Landings
Society        (No.)            .            (Tons)              No.                              Tons)            (Tons)
Mukalla             247           n.a.           1,697             1,900               950            7,430            5,733
Shihr               450           n.a.           3,524             2,433             1,000            5,837            2,313
Al Hami
{ 349         { n.a.         { 2,363           { 1,100            { 465           { 816            - 1,547
Al Quarn
Quaseyr             369           n.a.           2,566             2,418               463            5,672            3,106
Sayhut              280           n.a.           1,374               191               102             981             - 393
Total              1,695                        11,524             8,042             2,980           20,736            9,212
Source: PIU.



16
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: Fourth Fisheries Development Project
Annex B: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Table 13. Economic Calculation for the Reads Component
Year    j   Investment                Regular              Reduced               ance
Costs'a          IMaintenance Costsb   Vehicles Costsc
.................................................. ( $9 0   ..........................................
1998              931 d                                        -                (931)
1999            2,295d                   50                    -              (2,345)
2000               -                    180                    100               (80)
2001               -                    180                   200                 20
2002               -                    180                   400                220
2003               -                    180                   600                420
2004               -                    180                    800               620
2005               -                    180                  1,000               820
2006               -                    180                  1,200             1,020
2007               -                    180                  1,400             1,220
2008-2022             -                    180                  1,500             1,320
Economic Rate of Return: 17.5%
a Including:
.............................. (US$) .
1998           1999           Total
- Al Quam 9.6 km (Proj. IV)         266,815        479,315         746,130
- Fokum-Ras Inran 14.2 km           757,000       1,550,150      2,307,150
- Fokum Branch Road 1.8 km             -           333,706         333,706
- Shoqura Branch Road 1.1 km           -            186.734        186.734
Total in Current Terms            1,023,815      2,549,905      3,573,720
Total in Constant 1999 Pricesd    1,034,053      2,549,905
b Based on US$ 10,000/km/yr for a total of 26.7 km of roads and multiplied by a SCF of 0.67.
c Based on a reduction of about 10% of total annual vehicles running costs estimated at US$ 5,000/yr/vehicle
before the construction of the roads and on a total car traffic of 4,500 vehicles per year. The SCF of 0.67 has
been applied.
See deflectors in Table 7.
d  An SCF of 0.67 has been applied to the local cost portion estimated at 30%.



17
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: Fourth Fisheries Development Project
Appendix B: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Table 14. European Selected Fish Prices: Frozen Fisha
US$/Kg                        Origin
Cuttle Fish                    1.70          Spain; CIF whole
Squid                          2.40          Spain; CIF bulk
Hake                           1.30          Eastern Europe/Italy; CIF
Yellowfin Tuna                 1.20          Italy; CIF
1.14          Spain; CIF
1.20          France; CIF
Skipjack                       0.65          France; CIF
0.59          Spain; CIF
Spanish Mackerel               1.60          France; CIF whole gutted
1.50          Italy; CIF
Mackerel                       0.85          East; CIF
0.53-0.82       Poland; CIF
0.62          Bulgaria; CIF
Sardines                       0.68          East; FOB
0.30
0.47
Barracuda                      0.50          Spain; CIF
a Source: FAO Globefish & Infofish Trade News; July 15, 1999.



18
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: Fourth Fisheries Development Project
Appendix B: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Table 15. Calculation of Economic Beach Landing Prices for Fish
First, Second and Third Grades
Projected World Market Price (See Table 12)        US$           X
(Average, US$/ton, for frozen products)
Ocean Freight and Insurance                        US$           90
Freight on Board Aden                              US$         X-90
Port Charges, Aden                                 US$            20
Freezing and Storage, Aden                         US$           100
Transport to Aden                                   US$           40
Receptor and Icing                                  USs           30
Total GOY Costs                                     US$          190
Beach Landing Price                                US$         X-280



19
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: Fourth Fisheries Development Project
Appendix B: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Table 16. Estimated Economic Prices of Fish
European CIF a      Cost to Move            Economnic Price
Fish by Category        Reference Price    Fish from GOY to
(US$/ton)        Euro Market         US$/ton         YR/Kg
(US$/ton)
1st Grade
- Squid/Cuttle Fish               2,050               280
- Croaker/Spanish Mackerel        1,000               280
- Hake                            1.300               280
Average                         1,450                280             1,170           181
2,d Grade
- Skipjack                          650               280
- Yellowfin Tuna                  1,200               280
- Indian Mackerel                   700               280
Average                           850                280               570            88
3rd Grade
- Barracuda                         500               280
- Sardines                          480               280
- Sharks'                           490c              280
Average                           490                280               210            33
See Table 12.
b See Table 13.
c Considered as non traded but including value of sharkfins and therefore price estimated at US$730/ton and
converted into economic value by applying an SCF of 0.67.



20
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: Fourth Fisheries Development Project
Appendix B: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Table 17. Estimated Operating Costs in Economic Terms
for Total Incremental Fish Landing
A. Total Incremental Fish Landing per Year
(i) Production from Units of Six Boats                       4,606 tons/yr
(ii) Production from Single Boats                            4,606 tons/yr
Total                                                    9,212 tons/yr
B. Operating Costs per Kg of Fish
(i) Boat Model A - Production Unit of Six Boatsa              YR 37.1/kg
(ii) Boat Model B - Single Boatb                              YR 43.8/kg
C. Total Fleet Operating Costs
(i) Units of Six Boats                                       1,102,468 US$
(ii) Single Boats                                            1,301,566 US$
Total                                                   2,404,034 US$
a Based on production costs given in Table 8 and applying an SCF of 0.67.
b Based on production costs given in Table 9 and applying an SCF of 0.67.



21
REPU8LIC OF YEMEN: Fourth Fisheries Development Project
Appendix B: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Table 18. Estimated Gross Value of Annual Incremental Fish Landings
in Economic Terms
A. Annual Incremental Project Fish Landings by Categorya
- Ist Category                         30%                        2,763,600 kg
- 2nd Category - Mainly Tuna           50%                        4,606,000 kg
- 3rd Category - Sharks-Sardines       20%                        1.842,400 kg
Total                                                         9,212,000 kg
B. Economic Prices of Fish by Categoryb
- Ist Category                                              1.17 US$/kg or 181 YR/kg
- 2nd Category                                              0.57 US$/kg or 88 YR/kg
- 3rd Category                                              0.21 US$/kg or 33 YR/kg
C. Total Gross Value of Annual Incremental Fish Landings
- 1st Category                                                   3,233,412 US$
- 2nd Category                                                   2,625,420 US$
- 3rd Category                                                     386904 US$
Total                                                        6,245,736 US$
a See Table 10. It is assumed that the catch composition of total fish landing equally represents production
units of six boats and single boat fishing operations as indicated in Table 15.
b See Table 14.



22
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: Fourth Fisheries Development Project
Appendix B: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Table 19. Economic Re-evaluation
Costs                                    Benefits
Years    Investment   Fish Production       Road Regular         Reduced  _  Gross Value of   Balance
Costs,     0 erating Costs   Maintenance Costsb   Vehicles Costs'  Fish Landings'
1992        1,177            -                   -                  -                -          (1,177)
1993        1,238            -                   -                  -                -          (1,238)
1994       4,449             420                 -                  -              1,250        (3,619)
1995       4,629             720                 -                  -              1,870        (3,479)
1996       5,084           1,200                 -                                 3,120        (3,164)
1997       5,574           1,680                 -                                 4,370        (2,884)
1998        1,326          2,160                 -                  -              5,620         2,134
1999       4,233           2,404                 50                 -              6,246          (441)
2000          -            2,404                180                 100            6,246         3,762
2001          -            2,404                180                 200            6,246         3,862
2002          -            2,404                180                 400            6,246         4,062
2003          -            2,404                180                 600            6,246         4,262
2004          -            2,404                180                 800            6,246         4,462
2005          -            2,404                180               1,000            6,246         4,662
2006          -            2,404                180               1,200            6,246         4,862
2007          -            2,404                180               1,400            6,246         5,062
2008-2016       -             2,404                180               1,500           6,246          5,162
Economic Rate of Return: 15.4%
a See Table 7. An SCF of 0.67 has been applied to the local cost portion estimated at 30%.
b See Table I 1.
c See Table 14.



ANNEX C
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOURTH FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2265-YEM)
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE






FROM : Qaiser&HabeebaKHAN              PHONE NO.   263315                Jan. 22 2000 02:40PM P9
FROM   Qai ser&HabeebaKHRN  . . -  1-ULRTM I'ISrn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R1Es   '~le 02
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Sumwarv Of 1Iem-enstation ComWletoin Renart: t
I. Thic project components were rnainly implcmented in Aden governorare and in thd coastal fish
landing areas of the southenm govemorates at shuqra Abyan, Bir Ali ghabwa, Hadranri,
Seihoot AL- Mahm and at Al- Salif in Hodeida.
2. As fishery is one of the major profession in terms of national resource wcalth anrd economyr as
well as enploymeat, Realizing the importanoc the government of the Rcpublic of Y arnen
decided and launched, a massive development program for the fishery sector as a profitable and
conmnercial proposition with tlhe suppont and assistance's of UDA and other co-financijg
agencies IrAD and the EC.
This project is the follow- up project of the three carlier projects prinrity financed by MDA to
comnplete the earlicr phases of infrastructure and institutional development in the artisinal
scetor in the south -
Board Approval                    June 13^ 1991.
iffccrive Date                     July 30h 1992.
Project Completion                 Dccernbez 3 10 199S.
Loan Close Date IDA
Original              Jane 30 1999.
Current               June 30ih 1990,
-3. Sorce Of Fina.nce
The total cost of the project ( to be iaplemnented over a period of saven ycars ) was
estimated at US S 39.8 million, with foreig_ exchangc conponent of US S; 3 1. milliown.
The co- financinFg arrangement included an IDA credit of US S: 13.2 million, a loan fl-am
IWAD of US S: 6.5 million, a grant from the EU of 'USS: 16.3million and a government
contribution of US S. 3-8 million .
Statemnt Evaluation:
3 A.  Objectives
fXhe main objectives of the project wcre:-
)       pxand fish catches and improve processing. for both local consumption and export.
ii)   Improve the efticiency of domnestic and  cxport marketing of fish, notably through
investment, policy changes and adjusancuts  in the institutional perforantoe of co-
operatives.
iii)   Improvc The asscssmem and 3anagsrnent of fish rcsources in XOY warcrs: and
iv)   Help improve the position of woman in fishinS conirxiunities.
4.    Pr-oiect CoQeRtS included =-
i)    The construction. Furnishing anid equipping of primary facilities for handling, preserving
end distributioo of fish in six villages In Mu]ck7aJi1  Al- Shehr, Al- qarn. Al- llami, Al-
Musain'a in Hadramout governorate and in Seihoot Al- Nlhra goveremorwe;
l



aROMeeaiaKHANabe        PHONE NO.: 263315                  Jan. 22 2000 02:41PM P10
FROM1  Qais.erS¢HaebKR                                  .1TFITE                                    o
ii)   The construction of asphalt roads i:e. The Foqum Ras- Imran Road 14.9 km, Foqum Branch
Road 1 .km ini  Aden governorate, and Shiuqra Brancb Road I . 1 km in Abyan governorate,
as w'rl1 as the Al- qarn access road 9km in liadramour governorare; and
iii)   The cowtruction of Auction yards i:e at Shuqra Abyan governorate. Biwum Hadzaouw
-overaorate, Bir Ali Shabwa governorate and at Al Salif Al- Hodeida governorate;
iv)   Import of outboard engincs, spare parts and fishing gear;
v)   Technical assistance for P1T1,MSRRC, lThe co-operatives and societies, and the MEW,
6t)   The enhancement of t4c MSRPC'a fish stock assesinem -and resource management
proWsm and cnvironinental restarch capability as well as overseas MSC fellowship fbr one
MSRRC sientist and local wo'rksbop zraining's forMSR.RC staffT
vii)  Services to women in the fishing communities. including the uonswuction of community
development centers in three 'rillaaes at Foqum Ran Itnran villges in Aden governorte and
at Shuqra village in Abyan govemoraze, as well as the implementation of adult educatiou
and vocational training programs, and the creation of income earning opportunities for
women.
2 B   Evaluation Of Obictives:
i)    The construction of the village facdiities including fish recoiving sheds, ice plants, stoems and
chilled stores were comspleted by mid- I9S97 under The ESU financing and are all built at a
high standard of conafraction. Generally during early 199x all six fishery filcilities were
eIntcd to correrponding societies? c:o-operatives and or other instiustonsfortrial before
privatization i;e the Mukalla facility to the join venture betwvee MUklla co-operative and
rhe society, Shchr  ciity also to the joint venture between Shehr co-operative and society.
Al - Hami facility to Al- Haii o-operative, Al- Qarn facility o Al- Qan co- operative
Musaina,a facility to NCSFM which defiLitely failed due to the management incapability
and therefore during Sept 1999 the Musain-'a facility was rented to the Mlusaina'a society,
and in the similar case Seihoot facility was also priorily rented to CFC and due to
managernent incapability therefore dluring November 1999 the Seihoor facility had to be
rented to the corresponding village co-operativC.
The village fisherics facilities in Mukalla and shehr have, now beea handed- over to
corTespondLng co- operaivel society ( Joint Venture) and privatization agreenemns for
ownersbip with the PI  were signed on September 6^ 1999ofterhecassessmentoftheir
administrative, financial audttchical capabilitiestooperateand managoeh faclities. he
capital costs of producive elements wreapportioned ovarapeiod of20year.sasabasis
for assessing annual payments and thesc werc flurher divided by twelve to establish
montddy installments. Howevcr concetne works ihaplamented forT rho Mukalla and shchr
facilities are still in condition, ice plants are also in fill operation sucon floors arc welt
utilized, and equipmnot still in good order and each of the Join venure instutions above
have been veny successful in managing their activities. The Mukalla and Shehr faiities
dgffi -.>,_operate at a good capacity utilization of 75 %  and 80 % respctively . Musaina'a 60 Ye
ws sigs of improvement under the new manauement of The local society which took
*gff during Sept 1999. Al- HarE 45 V which started operaxons only in April 1999 and
7p a ;nts one of the lower volurme lauding sites wit reliance on shark and lobster
-7 s and docs better than epxeced. M.1- Qar30". and Seihoat 1% ¶4 for rarions of
2



FROM : Qaiser&HabeebaKHRN              PHONE NO. : 263315                Jan. 22 2003 02:33PM P1
t9101~ *oo 13:46  rIA  2415072                JRT  FLSHER12S                            WU4
bath locasions (lower volumvq ancd reliance nn lobster, shas3c and sardines fishries) facility
oper2tors there. are preseatly ConCeatrAtLDg efforts ti- bcaefit towards the sell of ice to other
fish lIdinS arcas tir-18 to hettcx improvc their sites op-rating results. The re-payrnent
schedules establis*hd for shehr and Mukalla operators, wbich assumed ownership ofthe
sitcs from  October 1' 1999. need to be adhered to. A request by Mukalla operators to defer
repayment in order to pursue new inYtvstrment projects is not acceptable , given the good
operating result of this site.
Old lease payment axrears of 'NCSFM ( Musaina'a) and CFC( seihoot ) have yet to be
scrtled. New lease paymcnt arrears since October 1999 developed with the Dis co- operative
( Al- Qarn), Al- H4ami co- operative. and Sehoot co-operative to wlich the PIT is following
up the outstanding payments, The PTU is regularly receiving lease payments from the
Musaina' . cility recently rented to them witb effect from October 1999.
il)   1basdCanstructians I Fop um Rag Imira Road ) :
a)   The constructiox of The Foquum - Ras Imraa Road 14.9hu initiated in 1998 after a ddlay of
more than four years on account of extended and repeated rebidding oft he conract, The
contracm was finally awarded to tie lowest evaluated bidder Ms. Sheba General contractors
in The total bid cost for USD: 1 7SS,00 and has successfully achieved its compietion during
Juane 1909 in the total actual coat of USD: 2,316,169.64 incorporating additional costs for
the need of a new road design to the original one carried out trin years earlier, in liAe with
practical changes at large sections on ground which required un-foreseen soil stabiization
t-eatmeirns, and the widening of tho full road length from 6m to 7nm width,
b)   The Foqum  branch road I.Skm initiatcd during February 1009 has also achieved its
successful completion during Junc 1999. With IDA's no-objection the conutact was awarded
to the already established contractor in the area implementing the Foqumn Raslrnran road for
a bid amount for USD: 320,974.00 and covered the final actual total construction cost
anounting to USrD: 33I,147.00. Both above roads are constructed at a high standard of
construction under the required engineering Specifications and nntaerials used supervised and
approved by consuhants under technical supervision agreement provided by the Ministry of
constraction, Housing
c)    Shuara Branch R_ad Abvaw Governorate:
The construction of the shuqra bnucob road also acbieved its completion during June 1999
which commenced early in march 1999. The conmta  was awarded to the independent
department undcr the ministry of construction the OCRB for a bid cost of USD: 162,000 for
construction and completion of asphalt for i.lkm road connecting from main higliway
Aden- Mukelle road passing through Aaqra vilLage, so the fisheries facility built as shuqr&
under Third Fisheries Project fUnded by IDA. The road is also constuted at a high
standard ofconsucumion supe-rised by a qualified engineer appointed by the PIU.
d)   Al- Oarm  Access Road:
Undcer the EU FACF account, Phase I ofthe Jkrn Al- Qarn road was completed during May
199s at a total con.4ruction cost amounting to  WR: 46 milion under contrzt agreement
~  signed bcLween the Ministry of Fish Wealdi Head Office Sansaa and the implementing
74       a       ctor Ms. Arabian Eterprise Company.  Phase  n of the Al- Qam road which
rises of 6krcs commenced impiementation iU May 1999 awarded to the lowest
-   , s    F biddei Ma. Bin Malda Cuiporation fox xhe tutas cunatruction cost of YR S5
t~~~~~~~



FROM : QaiSer&HabeebaKHRN              PHONE NO. : 263315                Jan. 22 2000 02:34PM P2
1.9/01  00 13:48 F£X 2451°72               FUIURTH FISHER1ES It oLE
Million and is  in in m advanctd Ciourse cif consruction expected to be completed in January
e)    Construction Of Auction Yards:-
With refLncc to tbe proposed proposals rmade to the fimding agency's for the itilizarion of
the remaining finds under the projects savings, Both IDA and EFAD approved in May 1908
Zo include additional divil works compont- under category I of the IDA credit Agreement
and LFAD Loan to meet the urgent needs of fishetmcn within and outsidc the project arca for
the construction of Auction Yards in some fish lanLding sites at four different villages,
Funding percentages by IDA and FAD were endorsed ro cover 90 percent insead of 75 for
aIl civil works componen±s and fcllowing MDA's procuremcnt procedures, conuartss were
awarded to the lowest evaluated successfiul contrastctors for implementations and the
activ-iiies were duly concluded within the projects close date dated not later than June 1999
in the actual constiuction costs as follows:-
Shuqra Vili,e ( AbyanL Govemoratc ) Auction Yard     YX: 6.946,940.00
Burum VilDaSg ( ladramnout Governiorate) Aucetion Yard    YS: 5,014,S97.96
Bir- Ali Village ( Shabwa Governorate) Auction Yard.    Y\P S,864,735.00
I
L- Salif Village ( AI-Iodeida Governorate) Auction Yard YR: 5.813,652.00
All A-aeti-oz yartdlstare satisfactorily implemented in accordance wirh the specified
engineering specifications and rcemqirewients duly supervised o y-p;. .4 '   cc  by.
PIU and the auction yards are already handed- over to the correVponding village society's
and or co- operatives who are successfully operating and managing their work as required.
f)   Imrort Of Outboad lVnineg, F,6lare P2rts & Fighidl Gear:-
The sale of tie ISHP and 40 HP outboard engines to the fisheries co-operatives and
societies wgas comnplcted saisfiwsonly because oftthe stron, denand for Yamaha en:ines by
rhe fishermen. Frorn the total quantity of 3400 outboard engines procured by the project,
Ornly 72% of them have been sold becausc of tbe rmainug unold tock comprising of 340
Selva engines and the looted quanrtity of 600nos 15/40 -P YaTnaha engines looed during
the civil svar of 1994. The PTU has already raised a proposal during sept 1999 to His
lxccllency The Minister of Fish wealth for consideration to allow the sale of unsold
balance of 34ONas Selva engines at a reduced cost of 30%:Po of the onginal cost which todate
has not received positive approval . Thc pmject also procured 20Nos inboard engines of
thenm only one number was duly zold to fishermon and l9nos were issued to the Army
undcr instruction ofthe former Ministerof-Fish wesith. The present MinisterofFish wealth
is personally following to solve and recover the cost of 19 inboard engines from the army
authority . There prevails unsold balance stock of Fish gears and spare parts in the ttal
amount of YR: 100,S00.000 and the total amount deposited in the CACB special account
from Ehe proc2eds of the sale of outboard engines and gear sil sept 1999is YR: 203.2
Million which using the pvvaiIin.g exrhange rate at the timc  of coU ection is equivalent to
USD: 2.66 Million
iA



FROM   Qa iiserHabeebaKHAN             PHONE NO. : 263315                Jan. 22 2000 02:35PM P3
19/01  00 13:46 FAX 24507;                  FOtLRik FISUFRIES                           LtJub
g)   Technta Assu.tanee:-                                        
The perforrtwnce of project conmiltants under the £tU mranw ranged from vcry sad
un- satitfacAory. During the projects life generally, Lhe prncct did not beuefit in t  .9"'
tcchaical zsaner from nmost of the un- qualified expests fecrited and sup      pli
consultant to work with the project in Yemen paricularly with the expert supplied fo r
co- operative staff gmiagemont training componeat. The initial fair services rendered by the
Manne Research AdvisorsW expcrts also got affected due to the in- substanTial short term
durarion assignment contracts fior the experts. The report produced by consultanrts oan
recommendations for improvement of the activities of thie fisheries staTistics was considered
poorly prepared. Similarly. recommendations on financial Re- appraisal of fish recciving
centVers and a fishcric- sector review were rcected by the PITU due to the reports poor
preparation technically which was finally accepted during Dec, 1999 incorporating major
recom=ended c=g"s anLd com;ents raised by the PIU aad from th}e EU.
h)    Electricity Network comooncnt:-
netuder the E  tie
RIesraeialso    Ceuy cOncIuQeG aum:                 1V UtVotl eMe cosC
for YR: 35,156,206   ntracted to Ms. Flectrical contracting officc (ECO) Mukallah,
supexvised  by a PIltJ appointed electrical engineer during implementation. The power
nctwork is fiunctional supplying power az required for the benefit of the fishermen
commurities at the above two villages established at an hr supply operating routine per
day.
i)    EnIhaSucueIt Of The MSRRC In The Fish Stock Assessment Ability, Resource
14a enent,MSC F_Qqal~p&  IAWTrii"sI-
Under the TFAD Lcian 269-YR proceeds, The Ministry of Fish wealth Yemen signed UTF/
0081 YEM agreement with FAO Yemn for the provision of teclnical assistance for the
project in the Stock Assessment comnponen, Workshop Training's and MSC Fellowship for
the MSRRC as well as the assistance in providing consultant for the women in Development
component for thc Fishery sector. The first mission of tbe fish stock evaluation consualtany
focussed in the cxamination of saveral aspcets of the fisheries resources, available data
processing and analyzation whenever the situation allowed. From the key fish stocks, it has
been possible to estimate the ectual total allowabic anniial catch for Cutle fish. Rock
Lobsters arnd a tcntative assessment of the Demaral fish species in the Red Sea and the gulf
of Aden. The sccond consultation mission was devoted to
1)   The implementaion of a stock study program for the Red -ea shrimp fishery ineluding fil
colction of statistics arid biological data from landings in two sites, Hodeida for catches
mainly taken from the southern fishing arca and Salif for the northern area catches.
2)   The Organization of a two weeks training %;ourse on statistics and biological data for
dynaLnic studies of commeroially important species, to wbich twevcl officers from the
Marine Sciences Resources Resoarch. cente:r and saveal MFW  slam from statistics
Dcparment participated in the course.
3)   The, preparation of a comprehensive proposal for the collection of scaistical and biological
fisheries data at the national Lval ixcluding stafEiS cstimation and costs implication.
S



FROM : Qaiser&HabeebaKHRN              PHONE NO. : 263315                 Jan. 22 2000 02:36PM P4
19/01 *00 13:4t  FAX1 2a5072                POtLTll FISUERIES                          lo7
Thc third consultadion mit"ion is expqcted to tke place in Februm.y 2000 to which updating
skills is required for the MSRRC acicnrists and it iS thorefore planned for the expected third
flAssion's phase to organize a second trea7inng oourse that vwill be devoted to the dta.
analysis.
Only one MSRRC scientist successfhlly undertook the MSC fellowship at the Bangor
University in The united kingdom under the UTFI008/ YEM agreement withFAO in the
Marine Environment studies funded under EFAD.
The projec% dcvoted all efforts to have the strengthening ofthc MSRRC scienxists skills, in
the stock assessment tasks and improve the technical knowledge and ability for the fishery
sector development which will be put into practice thus to keep the status records ofthe
fisheries resouresca MSY and the corntrol of fishery resources in the Yemen wazars violated
by the Licenxsd foreign industrial fishing tie basis of which can be used for the
continuarion of futurc follow- up projects for the fisheries Devclopment sectr Yemen.
j)    Women In Devel_grnent CeMPOneui
Under Eh(e  tE/ 00S YSM agreemeat with FAO for the provision of the WID consultaWt for
the project funded   under the IFAD Loan 269-YI, The aproved WID expert Dr. Ruda M.
Saloh completed her first mission work on 22 Apinl  9098 wvhich focussed at the three fishery
villares at Foqurn, PLas- rnran in Aden govcrnorate and shuqra in. Abyan governorate and
submitted a final field survey report with rocommendation to have the constructon ofthe
training centers at cach of the three above nillages, procure traing cquipts, the training of
women treiners in such areas 85 skill development, health and nutrition tip s, and implemeat
a pilot proSrana with some cost sharing fiom beneficiaries.
The consultants reco cmoendatioizS hasve ben implemented in phases and first, through the
IDA procurement proedures. the three WID centeor at each village was duly completed in
tEie at fairly modest costs and with high quality standards of constructions and already
handed over to the PIU :-
1-   The Foqum village center building      YR:7,630,86S.23
2-   The Ras-lmraz village center building  YR, 7,572,21S.S6
3-   The shuqravillage center buitding      YP1. 8,731,169.38
The second mission of the WMD consultant will take place in Feb.2000 which will be
devoted to trainin; wonen trainers in such areas as skill development, Health and nutiton
tips, and implement a pilot training program  Proaurement of ftirniture's and equipping ealrl
village center with triniAg equipment is also successfitly achieved in time and the cosc of
furziture's procured for each center is valued at YR: 700,000 and cost ofequipmant's for
each center is also valued at USD: I ZOOO. The PTU will undewak the supevisionl over the
temporawy operation of the throc WID centers for tlhe temporary period of one year in the
astnpts to try the ability ofthc futur user of the centers.
k)   Central Quality Control Laboracory :-
in the ovemll objective to imnprove current practices in the fishery products quality control in
Ycrnen both at the leveCl of thc cOMpCtcnt authority aDd at the IlVel oflicensed xporter
required to mcet the icernational standards and the EC requiremns, and to facilitate access
fr the markcting of Yemen  fish products abroad, The MFW  decided to hxve the
-shmrent of a new central quality control section tor th 1MFW in Aden. The N(FW
support to inplement the constriction ofthe new central quality control sciaon
ry building In Adan undir the WtAD loan t69 savinas Which has Suocessafilly



FROM : Qaiser&HabeebaKHAN              PHONE NO. : 263315                 Jan. 22 2000 02:37PM P5
IJUL  tUu ±.3:sb  kVA.L .VIouI.              VVLn±L VIVJJ.AiUO
achieved its completiun before projects close date before Jun1 30'h 1999 constructed within
the MFW  Aden office br9nch comnplex at . tota actual construction cost incurred fr YR:
10,495,611 40 chemical martcrials and equipment's were also procurcd under IFAD loan
savings in the Lotua cost of USD: a30,000. Chemical matcrials are satisfactorily received and
equipment's installed in good working renditions and already the laboratory is fincrioning.
in anothcr arrangement TA services will have to be received for the projCEt under the. EU
grant workplan for Jaxiuary to Dec 1999 for tho provision of TA expets to train MFW srtaf
ability and the strenghening of fishery products qLuality contol systems in the dcvclopmcnt
of HACCP plans.
T)   PP-ocurement Of Spare Part IDingaE,auinmenr' s & Vehicles Per MSRRC:-
The procurement of spare parts to renovate the research vessel M.V Dotafa and
procurement of Diving and laboratory equipment's as well as four wheel drive pick- up
vehicles for the MSP.RC to be used for the stock assessment section have all been received
and handod- over to the MSRRC in the total cost for USD: 200,000. Upon the receipt of
thcse, the MSRRC have now startcd to imprcve the fSsheries srudics and researob activitics.
mn)   Maior Factors that Affected The Project; -
The project fiully agrees with the pigen points of major factors indicated in the donors ICR.
rcport being resons th;lt affectedl the project implementations during its early stages.
n)   Pro c-t SustainAbitv :-
Infrastructure works, includinG roads aad electrical distribution network were well designed
and oon40ncted on a aound tochnicil basis. The  erah;p aLid han - over of the village
facilitics to the respective co-operatives / socicties is one ofthe most important elements to
"ssure fulture project sustarnability . The MFW is conunitted to play an important role in
actively participating in g1l possible progmnauz to support the fisheries sector in the future in
linc with its mandate. The RU has recently approved a program of the financial assistance by
cxtcnding the EU grant validity until Dec, 2000 to improve and consoldate tihe results so for
achieved under the project and to continue the use of unused finds.
0)    Bank Perforwance:-
TDA was direcly involved in the project identification, preparation and supervision which
werc caried out by the government with the assi&tance of the FAOI CP . co-financing
donors supported the govemments project preparation effort because it wa2s consistent With
the government strateSy to continue to sutpport the development of the fisheries sector.
MA's performance in project idaetification, preparation, supervision  and appraisal
assistaioe is rated vcry satirsctoly. The role of IDA which during supervision ensured
continued support was pasticularly beneficial to the survival of the project in spite of the un-
expected policy changes and by exercising patienee and focussing on out comes for the poor
even under the most difficult of circumstances. In view  of this, the role of IDA during
supervision is rated highly satisfactory.
Irad



FROM : Qaiser&HabeebaKHAN               PHONE NO. : 263315                Jan. 22 2000 02:38PM P6
19'01  oO 13.48  FAX 245072                  FOUa FISlERIES                                 0
p)   Kc  Lessons Learnmed
The key lessons lcarned from the project arc tho followings:-
1)   His Excellency The MPFW Ministers decision to staff the PIU in 1997 with highly co±npetet
professional was essential for aciuieving the momcntum and satisfactory standard of ovcrall
project implementation.
2)   The sucocssful privatization of several villagc facilitics provides an example which can be
followed by other fisherice co-operatives/ societies in the country. The project has
demonstrated  lhe impinTavoe of combining the dcevlopmcnt of wall dcsigned physical
facilities with substantial investments in capacity building as preconditions for succcssf4l
privatization .
;)    The four fisheries dcvclopmcnt projects, so far imnplecxmn±cd, mainly concentrated on
ecxpaadlng fish production and  have been 5cncrally successful in this. There is a danger,
however that success, if not well managed leads to uncduc pressure on the resources which,
if not Suressed throu,gh the de-elopment ofbettcrrceulatozy capacities, Could become self-
defeatings.
4)   Under this proiwct. the pTcseacc of sveral cofinanciers proved to be rersy benefcil in the
sense that cofinancina arrmngeinents allowed thc irmplemcntation of specific project
components independentiy For example, Thc EU, because of the projects success achieved,
and therefore not experiencing MPW  intczdhrece, was aole to positively ecxtend the grant
financing till Deeambor 2000 thus to allow  the implementation of new additional
conmpo-nents i.e. the TA servioes for the centrai Quality control Laboratory ad T/A fior thc
maintenance ofthe fisheries facilities.
5)   it retrospect and considcring the overall satisfactory rating of the project, MA did well to
continue to support the project inspite of the unexpected policy and project mansgement
changes. Usually, Undesirable chbangs at political Level can influence IDA to slow or evcn
stop disbursement.
6)   When T/A is provided, continuing evauiation is necessary to decide as carly as possible, if
and vhen consuhnts are to be replaced. UnfortunatcIy, since much of the T/A in this
projew was SU- financed and contracted out To one fiu«, there was Little scope to evaluate
and chRnne rho T/A provided, as circumstances would have required. Hcowever the T/A
provided was spotty and discontinuous, even disruptive and LTcked a sustained core.
7)   Close co-ordination between donors was a key to the projects success in ensuring that Joint
agreed positions on major issues were conveyed to the borrower.
S)   The support of the doors ( IDA, IPAD and the EU) and the Ministry of planning, which co-
operated dlosely during impl.mentation, was particuiarly beneficial to the project.
8



ANNEX D
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOURTH FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2265-YEM)
COMMENTS FROM GOVERNMENT






FROM : AL-TUAHI TELECOMMUNATION CENTR  PHONE NO.  205eBB                JAN. 11 2000 07:30PM PI
MINISTRY OF FISH WEALTH                                           ;   6,5>   3j
I;ourth Fisheries Development Project .   .1)                      ) _g.9tJ ,,9_._4
P.O. Box No. 1299 Tawahi                                            oj r      d
Tel. No. 245058                                    't o" A   vA
Fax: 245072                                        via.v   : Lsoa
Tawahi - ADEN               ;Re      o                    -  4p1 .0
II     ~Republic of
Yemen
Ref 1tlS./9tp g|Q/£ /1 e§ ...~~~~~~~~~............ ...... 1
Date:       .C      .  ff                                       ......2.........................
Fax: 001-202-4776391 orOO1.202-4771374
To;   The IBRD/ IDA Headquarters Washington DC 20433 UJSA.
From: IV Fisheries Development Project (QIU) MFW Aden, Yemen.
Attn: Ms. Donis Koehrn, Director MNSRE Division.
Copies To: H.E. Mr. Ahmed Musaed Hussein, Minister MFW (ROY) Sana'a Fax: 268588.
Mr. Abdul Rahman Tarmoutn, Vice Minister MOPD (ROY) Sana'a Fax:01 -250109.
Mr. Petros Aklilu Sector Manager Rural Development Agriculture Fisheries
Fax: 001-202-4771374
Mr. Tijan M. Salah, Task Team Leader FFDP Rural Development Agriculture,
Fisheries                                       Fax: 001-202-4771374.
Mr. Naji Abu- Hatem, Sr. Operations Officer The Resident Mission (ROY) Sana'a
Fax: 967-1-413709.
Subject; IV Fisheries Development Project ( PIU) MFW, Yemen.
LDA CR- 2265- M, IFA) loan 269-VY  And The EU Grant ALA_-9122.
Having reviewed the ICR dated. November 3rd 1999 in respect of the above, We would like to
inform you that the report generally represents an accurate and fair assessment of the
implementation stage of the project and therefore have attached herewith the borrowers comnments
to the ICR.
Overall project outcome is considered satisfactory and the close co- ordination between donors was
the key to the projects success realized in the development of fisheries sector in Yemen thus to
further achieve the improvement of the social lif e and national economy.
We would like to extend our thanks to you and appreciation to IDA and the MNSRE staff and to the
joint co-financiers IFAD and the EU for the close co- operation and  assistance given to the
fisheries sector in achieving its role of serving the rual fisheries communities along the Yemen
coastal areas in different governorates.
Regards
Dr. Omar A. Subei j
Sr. Research Offcc
Director General FDA 






MAP SECTION






IBRD 30309
42'                                       44                                         462                                        48'                                         50'                                         52-       '                                 54
YEMEN                                                                                               SAUDI  A RABIA                             _-\                                                     TIeOOpoosprOde5Jhyho
The hb-ido.-srlr,doorrb
FISHERIES RESOURCE AREAS                                                                                                                                                                          /
S~~~ddw -1, Sh.qq.k    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~Hi "p do r- h,piy,  the pnt e.l.
- - -   0Soddot ash Sheqqoh  7                              ~~~~~~~Th. Worle B-tk Greip, ery jdgste-
*     LOCATION OF VILLAGE FACILITIES                      -     PRIMARY ROADS                                                                       -Io_ Ielt   f try itoryor'
o    SELECTED TOWNS AND VILLAGE5                       -      - SECONDARY ROADS                                                    _                                                                                                      c I Ireder,o1
(®    GOVERNORATE CAPITALS                                     - WADIS                                                       /                                                               I
.='                 1*NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                        GOVERNORATE BOLJNDARIES                                                                                           0 ' .                            °ane                            M    A   N
AIRPORTS                                          -       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                             /                .
PORTS                                                                                                     A-4,                                o               '-                                       '  '---_
V ~ ~    ~          ~         ~          ~        ~ ~ .>>                                ,   ,~                                                                           Rob nbm8_/       '/ HrIl \
_  T zeCran                                                              .SR /                   .        {          y /  5'        / 
i,,         /t Do/                                                                                                   ,--i                                                       - tv   . t/  AI MAHRA   i,
SA&DAH                   ,-      -YIor                                                      /                                                               -i - > *
T. J - ToJR A  M                                                                                                                                  U-  T /  R A F  U                               -
Trrrr  ,k17>   5d                                                      "                      //          Qmobh             H6 *     R A  M1O  U T                   -           _              -        .        2A1 O GhopEob                                              1'-
AL-JAWF                                                                                                                                                      T or
46                     '' H   JJAbhj  IA      A? H                  A  bo                 -~5         '  -Sihhdcrl4eldrt/I                                          t                                                                                                 'Gue  --  )
A5ohyyeb"'                                                                                                                                                                                                                Nis drt., 
i          AMAelr AN                 Al           . H.-- 
ETHIOPIA> >, j  \ x Ra;AI-Aro......./                           (      Yma)-    Sofir           S- haEharoh     
42  jyo DJBO T    §<  ®AMe#    'A                                  'tbV- D                                ?--      N0 /2                                                                                                                 - ~,-JtE1
0DVDAH~~~~  7    ~~~    ~~        601~~~,   0QJJh            SH B? A 
AT Hobo deh~~~~~  /   ''~~  Mob     '4           AI :                                                     Aolo>Ar '                   Al MgeIl                                                                                                                       14
t  0A1  or   "        N       home       N        5     K       'yN *Aa                        odb'
L~~Ride AI~~~BElGA  H/AOIWA"2/
Al K.d.~~~~~~~d.hN                                       AlA,~
'QA                 Q    R B  oniIi<h              od                     6~"                                                     WWI
a4   "AL-         iA-n E                      -D,
AlYA
N.6'4J 1L,       B1id.
N.   P                     r~~    ~    ~~~~ho~  TAIZ                                          -------
'1'-  -  ~~~~~~~   LAI-YEJ  5aho1 /       zinjihor   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~0                                      25   DO    75   400 KILOMETERSSaar
\.  '1                                        -                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I I    I    I
At1             ' obc~~~~~~r~~ird-,                                                                     I        I         I        I         I
Turbo/i1  I Rae IatoLU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j ~0                                                 25       sT        75       ITO0 MILES                                                        -Sbo
ETHIOPIA                                                                                                                                                                                                                              'b  1 .iD
42'  .         DJIBOUTI                                                                     46oR                                          4'IO5'                                                                                                                                      54' 
1                                                                                                                                                                                                                   JUNE 1999~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AE19



