Documi
The Wor
FOR OFFICIAI
A eV Y5-F
Report No. 9843-EC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ECUADOR
FIRST SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EDUCATION AND TRAINING
NOVEMBER 19, 1991
Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a resticted di6ibudon and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wihbout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY UNIT - SUCRE (SI.)
EXCHANGE RATE
(as of July 15. 1991)
US$1.00 - S/. 1098
S/. 1.00 - US$0.000911
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system has been used throughout the report.
SCHOOL YEAR
March - December (Coastal Region)
October - July (Sierra Region)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
AMER             IDB Project for Rural School Improvement
CENAPIA          Center for the Advancement of Handicraft and
Small Industry
CENDES           Industrial Development Center
CINTERFOR        ILO International Center for Vocational Education,
Montevideo
CONADE           National Planning Council
CONAUPE          National Corporation for the Support of the
Popular Economic Units
CONUEP           National Council .f Polytechnic Schools and
Universities
DINACAPED        National Directorate of Pedagogical Training
FONNIN           National Fund for Nutrition and Infancy
FOPINAR          Fondo de Fomento para la Pequefia Industria y a la Artesania
(Development lund for SSEs and Artisans)
IDB              Inter-American Development Bank
IESS             Social Security Institute
ILO              International Labor Office
INEM             National Employment Institute
IPED             Pedagogical Institutes
MEC              Ministry of Education and Culture
MOF              Ministry of Finance
MOL              Ministry of Labor
MPH (or MSP)     Ministry of Public Health
PCU              Project Coordination Unit
SECAP            Vocational Training Service
SNALME           National Service for Educational Materials
Supply
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
SSEs              Small Scale Enterprises
UNEPROM           Executive Unit of the National Program of
Microenterprises



- iii -
ECUADOR
FIRST SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT: EDUCATION AND TRAINING
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
I.  THE SECTOR
A.   Economic Setting  ....... . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
B.  Evolution of the Social Sector and its Institutions  . . 2
C.   Poverty and Income Distribution Trends . . . . . . . . . 3
D.   Institutional and Policy Issues  . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
E.   Overview of the Basic Education and Training Sector  . . 5
F.  Major Issues in the Basic Education Subsector  . . . . . 6
G.  Issues in Vocational Training  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
H.  The Government Strategy  .        .      ........ .  9
I.  The Bank Strategy  . . . . . . . . . .  .       .  . . 10
J.  Lessons from Previous Bank Involvement . . . . . . . . . 11
K.  Women in Development. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .14
II.    THE PROJECT
A.   Project Origin .         . . . . . . . . . .   .    . . 15
B.  Objectives and Content . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
C.  Detailed Project Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
D.   Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
E.   Costs and Financing  ... . . . ....   ....... 32
F.   Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . .   . . . .   .    .  35
G.   Procurement  . . . . . .......    .  .   ..             36
H.   Accounting and Auditing  .....  .  .  ..  .  .   .... . 38
I.  Benefits and Risks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
III.  AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS                   40
-----------------------------------------------------------__------------
This report is based on the findings of a World Bank appraisal mission that
visited Ecuador in June/July 1991, comprising Messrs./Mmes. Bernardo Kugler
(Mission Leader), Robert McMeekin, Rene Corradine, Emilia G6mez-Fernandini,
Luis Pisani, Eduardo Velez, World Bank; Maria Anderson, Hernando G6mez-
Buendia, Alfredo Sarmiento, Consultants. Ms. Barbara Searle and Messrs.
Douglas Keare and John Middleton were peer reviewers. Messrs. Ping-Cheung Loh
and James W. Adams were the Department Director and Division Chief,
respectively.



.9   -
LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNEX  I   Basic Socioeconomli Indicators  . . . . . . . . . . . 43
ANNEX 2   Sector Finance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
ANNEX  3   Basic Education Indicators  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
ANNEX  4   Improving the Quallty of Basic Education
in Low-Income Urban Areas . . . . . . . . . .    .  64
ANNEX 5   Development, Production and Distribution
of Textbooks and Educational Materials  . . . . . . . 73
ANNEX 6   National System for Measurement of
Educational Achievement . . . .  . . . . ..    . . 79
ANNEX  7   Institutional Strengthening and Decentralization  .  82
ANNEX 8   Adult Education and Training  . . . . . . . . . . . . 90
ANNEX 9   Project Management  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .104
ANNEX 10   Project Monitoring   .  .  .  .   . .  . . . . . . . 109
ANNEX 11   Project Costs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .112
ANNEX 12   Project Financing Plan  . . .        .  .  .  . . . . . . . 116
ANNEX 13   Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .117
ANNEX 14   Selected Documents Available in Project File  . . . .119



ECUADOR
FIRST SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Republic of Eciador
Beneficiaries: Ministry of Education (MEC) and the Vocational Training
Service (SECAP)
Loan Amount:   US$89.0 million equivalent
Terms:         Repayable in 20 years, including a 5-year grace period, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Protect
Obiectives:    The proposed project is part of a social sector program
incorporating a sequence of projects in rural development,
education and training, health and nutrition and social
welfare. The program is an integral part of the Bank
assistance strategy for Ecuador, supporting structural
adjustment and poverty alleviation and seeking to increase the
public sector's focus on social welfare. By assisting the
Government in improving the quality and effectiveness of basic
education and training and in strengthening the resource
allocation process, the project would help to remove
constraints on growth. By focusing on the urban poor it will,
together with the other social sector loans, contribute to
improved equity. The project aims to improve the quality and
effective delivery of basic education and training services
targeted on the poor and strengthen decision-making and
management of public institutions involved in the delivery of
basic education and training programs. These two objectives
would be achieved through: (a) raising learning achievement of
primary age children; (b) raising basic skills of poorly
educated adults; (c) strengthening capacity of decentralized
service providers; and (d) improving resource allocation and
program design processes in the education/training sectors.
Prolect
Description:   The proposed project would have two main components.  The
Urban Basic Education component (76 percent of total project
coat) would finance: (a) textbooks and other education
materials, in-service teacher training, pre-school and special
education programs for needy children and enhancement of
existing physical facilities; (b) a decentralized network for
school management that will deliver these services;
(c) development of an educational assessment syetem; and
(d) policy and institutional strengthening of MEC. The Adult
Education and Training component (24 percent of total project



- vi -
costs) would finance: (a) basic education and training
(functional litera'v) programs directed to the poor;
(b) technological and informational support for small
enterprises in subsectors with good export c velopment
potential; and (c) strengthening of SECAP's 4tilization of
their installed capacity, and of their institutional and
technical capacity.
Benefits:       The proposed project would increase human capital accumulation
among the poor and would alleviate poverty in the short and
medium term, thus improving the country's human capital stock
and strengthening the bases for economic development, as well
as contributing to a more equal distribution of economic
opportunities due to enhanced educatio~nal attainment and
productivity of those poor reached by the project. The impact
on improved sector policy would be substantial.  At the policy
level, the project would support: (a) a new approach to hasic
education, (b) introduction of an education assessment system,
(c) development of a cost-effective special education program,
and (d) a revised role for SECAP. In addition, the project
would improve the efficiency of public resource use by
strengthening MEC's planning and budgeting process, as well as
its implementation capacity, and by offering sector-level
support necessary for the over-all budget reform measures
being pursued at the macroeconomic level. Similar benefits
would be effected in SECAP, which in addition would put into
use its underutilized physical capacity.
Risks:         The main risk for the project derives from poor implementation
capacity on the part of Government agencies. This problem may
be aggravated by the change of administrations in 1992.
Project design incorporates the following features to overcome
the kinds of obstacles to successful implementation that have
been endemic in the country: development of a decentralized
management network for basic education, use of SECAP's
existing decentralized facilities and the network used
successfully by MEC in its national literacy campaign to reach
the target population, use of existing sector staff --
selected on a merit basis, provided with necessary training
and offered career development opportunities -- in project
tasks, use of SECAP's experience in managing Bank projects,
contracting with specialized international agencies to manage
procurement and technical assistance, assuring incorporation
of counterpart funding of recurrent expenditures in the
national budget beginning in 1992 and including annual
subsector and project budget reviews during supervision
missions, introducing cost-recovery schemes and managing their
proceeds in a decentra1ized manner, and establishing direct
ties between schools and their communities and between SECAP
and private industries. The potential delay with the upcoming
change in Government is reduced by the substance of the
project components that, focussing as they do on alleviating



- vii -
poverty, should enjoy continued support in spite of change in
administrations. Intensive supervision will nonetheless be
maintained during the transition to ensure clear understanding
of and commitment to the project.
Estimated Costs                              Local         Foreion         Total
-US$ million----------
A.   URBAN BASIC EDUCATION
Education Quality Improvement            50.0           15.6           65.6
Institutional Strengthening               5.5            5.8           11.3
Subtotal                                 55.5           21.4           76.9
B.   ADULT EDUCATION AND TRAINING
Post-Literacy Training                    9.3            2.1           11.4
Small Enterprise Support                  1.4            1.3            2.7
S'rengthening of SECAP                    7.0            4.4           11.4
Subtotal                                 17.7            7.8           25.5
Total Baseline Costs                     73.2           29.2          102.4
Physical Contingencies                  2.7            1.0            3.7
Price Contingencies                     9.7            2.9           12.6
Total Project Costs                      85.6           33.1          118.7
Financinq Plan:
Government of Ecuador                    29.7             -            29.7
IBRD                                     55.9           33.1           89.0
85.6          33.           118.7
Estimated Disbursements:
IBRD Fiscal Year         92      93     94      95      96      97     98      99
Annual                  5.0 a/  5.0   13.0    16.0   17.0    14.0   14.0    5.0
Cumulative              5.0    10.0   23.0    39.0   56.0    70.0   84.0   89.0
a/   Includes Special Account deposit of US$4.2 million and part of expected
retroactive financing of up to US$4.8 million for eligible expenditures
incurred after July 13, 1991.



I.   THE SECTOR
A. Economic Setting
1.01      The stimulus of an oil bonanza in the 1970s and subsequent
accelerated economic growth that lasted until 1980 provided an environment for
social sector programs to undergo considerable expansion. Hcr;ever, poverty
still persists in Ecuador and has been further exacerbated by the harsh
economic climate during the 1980s. The country has insufficient human capital
accumulation in both an absolute sense and when compared to countries in the
region (Annex 1).
1.02      The oil windfall of the seventies led to an average GDP annual
growth rate of 9 percent and placed Ecuador among the middle-income countries.
The strategy followed by the Government during the boom lacked a long-term
perspective, hence major portions of the Gove'nment's oil revenues were
allocated to inefficient public expenditures and subsidies, and in the end
financed consumption instead of productive investments. This increased the
public deficit, which was partly financed by external da'0t.
1.03      Since 1982, the country has faced several external shocks in the
form of reduced oil prices and natural disasters, greatly complicating the
Government's efforts at adjustment. The public deficit reached an all-time
high of 9.7 percent of GDP in 1987, with interest due on external debt
representing 9.8 percent of GDP in 1988. With the implementation of a basic
stabilization process in 1988, inflation was reduced from 85 percent per year
to 54 percent by 1989. As a result of adjustment measures, complemented by a
rise in international oil prices, the public deficit was brought down to 5.1
and 0.3 percent of GDP, respectively, in 1988 and 1989, while a 0.8 percent
surplus was recorded for 1990. However, annual inflation rates remain high at
above 50 percent and the sustainability of the adjustment effort is
problematic given the large quasi-fiscal deficit in the public financial
sector.
1.04      Economic growth was near zero for the period 1982-87; however, the
abrupt fall in GDP caused by the 1987 earthquake was recouped in 1988 when the
growth rate approached 11 percent. GDP grew modestly in 1989 and 1990 (under
1 percent per year); and although growth rates could be higher in the coming
years, they are expected to remain modest. The mixed record of economic
performance during the eighties aggravated the debt burden: external debt was
equivalent to 37 percent of GDP in 1982 and 109 percent in 1988. Arrears to
commercial banks reached over US$1 billLon before partial interest payments
were resumed in the second half of 1989.
1.05      Rapid growth in the seventies was accompanied by changes in the
composition of production and employment. The share of employment in the
agriculture sector fell drastically while the industrial sector share remained
the same.  Informal sector employment filled _rc of the gap, reaching 50
percent of total employment in some r..ajor urban areas. The oil and mining
sector share of production increased and service sector employment (including
government servicea) increased. Qualitative improvement in the latter,
however, was limited since financial and public administration institutions
remained weak.



- 2 
B. Evolution of the Social Sector aud its Inatitutions
1.06      The annual rate of population growth in Ecuador dropped alightly
from 8.1 porcent during the seventies to a present level of about 2.6 percentS
which is above the regional average. Urban population, which was near 40
percent of the total in the early sevonties, has now reached 55 percent. The
fertility rate declined from 5.4 children in 1975-79 to 4.3 in 1982-97, with
the most important determinant of fertility being educational level: an
average of 2.3 children for women with some university instruction versus 6.4
for those with no formal education. SJmilarly, only 19 percent of the women
with no formal education use contraceptives compared with 41 percent and 57
percent, respectively, for women with primary and secondary or more education.
Despite population growth, substantial resources allocated to the social
sector during the seventies brovght about major improvements in basic health
and education indicators. Infant mortality was reduced by half during the
seventies, reaching a level of about 55 per thousand by 1988, while the
primary school age group net enrollment rate reached levels of about 90
percent. Correspondingly, life expectancy increased from 46 years in 1970 to
65 in 1988, with the illiterary rate declining by more than half during that
period, from 24 to 10 percent.
1.07      The public sector has been directly responsible for the provision
of most social services. The Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC) is the
institution generally responsible for primary and secondary education, while
universities are loosely coordinated by MEC and a National Council (CONUEP)
responsible for higher education. The two main providers of public health
services are the Ministry of Public Health (MPH) and the Social Security
Institute (IESS). Numerous public institutes responsible for specific social
programs are attached to ministries. Some of them have special budgets
approved directly by Congress while others are included in the regular public
budget. Among these institutes, the Ministry of Labor's Training Service
(SECAP), financed largely by payroll contributions, provides labor force
training.
1.08      Public sociel expenditures increased substantially during the
seventies but declined by about one-third during the early eighties and then
stabilized in real terms since 1984 (Annex 2. Table 1), following the pattern
of overall public sector expenditures. The increase in social sector
expenditures set in motion an increase in coverage of sectoral programs that
continued during the eighties despite the fall and subsequent flattening of
the expenditure curves. During this period there were improvements in some
social indicators, notably increased education enrollment rates and reduced
infant mortality. As a result of overall expenditure declines, however,
average expenditure per student and per patient decreased during the eighties.
While parL of the reduction in unit costs can be 3ttributed to productivity
increases (per sucre spent), there is serious concern that the quality of some
social services has deteriorated.
1.09      Development of public sector institutional capacity was limited,
even though public employment grew at a rate of about 20 percent per year in
the period 1974-82, representing nearly 15 percent of total employment during



- 3 -
the eighties. Progress toward bettor puiblic investment programming mechanisms
and toward timely program implementation was insufficient. Social sector
institutione were expecter; to interact with the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and
with the National Planning Council (CONADE) in preparing plans, programe, and
budgets. However, these exercises have limited relevance, as discussed in
paras. 1.15 and 1.17. One of the reasons for this limited relevance is that
leus than half of the budget is allocated through the planning and budget
decision processes, with over one-half of public spending being earmarked.
Even when resources are properly allocated for investment programs and
projects, implementation is usually fraught with difficulties. An example was
a comprehensive development plan issued in 1985 that floundered in part
because of inadequate formation of clear priorities and slow implementation of
projects sponsored by external financing agencies.
C. Poverty and Income Distribution Trends
1.10      Poverty has been widespread and income diBtribution highly skewed
in Ecuador. Although Ecuador does not have primary data of the sort provided
by Li.ring Standards Measurements Surveys, available data permit some reliable
analysis. While benefits of the oil boom trickled down to the poor--mostly in
the form of increased access to social services--poverty and inequitable
income distribution were still evident in 1980 and persisted during the
eighties. Poverty is especially serious for Ecuador's large Indian
population.
1.11      According to several reports, income distribution continued to be
among the worst for middle-income Latin American countries between 1970 and
1990 (see Annex 1 for ragional figures). The labor share of GDP, according to
national accounts, decreased between 1983 and 1988, and the minimum wage,
measured in real terms, by mid-1989 was about three-fourths of its 1983 level.
The reduction of incomes during the eighties appears to have affected the poor
the most and to a lesser extent the lower-middle income groups. Studies
indicate that the lower half of the income distributl-n was worse off in 1985
than in 1978 with the real income of the lowest quintile falling to the levels
of the early seventies. Although the trend toward urbanization led to
improved access to social services, poverty measured by monetary income
remains pervasive in large cities, as shown by labor force surveys the
National Employment Institute (INEM) has performed since 1987.
1.12      Levels of household earnings at or below the poverty level are
tasociated with poor employment opportunities and inadequate human and
ohysical capital. Labor force growth has been concentrated in urban areas,
growing at an annual rate of 5.1 percent between the 1974 and 1982 censuses.
While open unemployment did not increase substantially, agricultural
employment decreased by 110,000 and manufacturing sector employment (three-
fourths of which is currently in firms with less than ten workers) maintained
its share at 12 percent of total employment. While manufacturing's share of
total employment has remained stable since the late fifties, it has declined
as a share of urban employment. Thus, most of the new entrants to the urban
labor force have been absorbed in low skill, low-productivity jobs in the
service sectors, including the public sector. Statistics show some under-



- 4 -
utilization of the labor force, which contributes to worsening income
distribution and aggravating poverty. Underemployment appears in the informal
sector of self-employed microentrepreneurs and their employees and unpaid
family workers. Seventy percent of the informal sector is engaged in commerce
and services and the remainder in the manufacturing sector.
D. Institutional and Policy Issues
1.13      Social Sector Exoenditure.  Social sector expenditures in the
Central Government budget stabilized around 5 percent of GDP for the period
1983-87 but fell to 4.5 percent in 1988 and 4.2 percent in 1989. Education
experienced the most severe decrease, from 3.8 to 2 percent, during the same
period. While these changes are usually unplanned consequences of crises,
allocations of resources within the public budget show the rigidities typified
by the relative stability of sectoral shares over the last eight years. This
is largely due to the incremental nature (in nominal terms) of the budgeting
process and the widespread practice of earmarking. About two-thirds of social
expenditure is financed by the Government. The remaining one-third is
financed from private expenditures of families (mostly those in the upper half
of the income distribution) on private education and health services.   Cost-
recovery is almost completely absent from the arena of public social services,
the exceptions being negligible fees charged in higher education institutions
(covering under 3 percent of their operational costs) and some charges made on
the purchase of student materials. The absence of cost-recovery mechanisms
aggravates the situation with respect to efficiency and equity.
1.14      The distributional impact of public expenditure for potable water,
sanitation, social security, health, housing and education has been analyzed
in detail. Overall social public expenditure has some effect in
redistributing income to the poor, as expenditures are less unequally
distributed than income. Education expenditures appear to be fairly
equitable, and have the greatest redistributive impact on the poor among all
the subsectors considered. This is because basic education expenditures are
geared primarily to the poor.
1.15      Institutional CaDacitv to Manage Social Sector Development.  The
ministries responsible for social services, collectively referred to as the
Frente Social (Social Front) -- Education, Health, Labor and Social Welfare --
have limited capacity to plan programs and make resource allocation decisions
(a shortcoming found in Government agencies outside the Frente Social as
well). The support for planning and programming activities provided to the
Frente Social ministries by CONADE and the MOF has been insufficient. In
general, expenditures of the Frtinte Social ministries exceed the amounts
originally budgeted by a substantial margin. The principal cause is
inflation. However, in years of low inflation, expenditures may fall short of
budgeted amounts when either the line ministries or MOF lack the capacity to
implement the activities budgeted or fail to adjust the budget when
expenditures fall. Neither the Annual Operational Plan nor the multi-year
National Plan provide satisfactory operational procedures for evaluating and
establishing priorities for capital expenditures. Earmarking has led in the



- 5 -
past to overinvestment in areas of questionable economic merit, which imposes
a continuing burden of high recurrent costs.
1.16      Capacity to implement programs and projects is also limited.  All
miniotries suffer from the inability to attract, train and retain high-quality
otaff on a permanent basis. While on average, public sector salaries are
reasonably close to salaries in the urban labor market, typically salaries in
the social sectors were slightly below other public sector salaries in 1984.
Moreover, while salaries of lower-level staff (those with o.aly a prinmary or
secondary education) are high compared to the private sec'or, the salaries of
senior government employees and others with higher education are lower than
co;oiparable private sector salaries. Low salaries for professionals contribute
to the difficulty the social sector ministries have in developing the capacity
to plan and manage their programs. Specialized Institutes of the Frente
Social ministries, such as SECAP, have greater flexibility in salary setting
and can attract able Btaff. Reflecting this, SECAP has greater capacity for
program implementation than the ministries themselves. However, even in
SECAP, the potential benefit of better staffing has been undermined by a lack
of flexibility and financial and management inefficiencies.
1.17      Administration of social sector activities also tends to be
centralized. While provincial and municipal governments have some limited
roles in the delivery of public programs, especially those related to public
works, their role in the social sector is very limited.  At most about 5
percent of social public expenditure is directly spent by provincial or
municipal institutions. Although the ministries have provincial dependencies
with nominal responsibility for management and supervision of education
activities (and other social programs in varying degrees), administrative
capacities are very limited and virtually all resources (and program
direction) come from the central ministries and their institutes. However,
SECAP as well as the higher education system, have a more decentralized
operational capacity in the geographical zones where they operate.
E. Overview of the Basic Education and Training Sector
1.18      Primary school enrollment in Ecuador totalled 1.84 million students
in 1990, of which 0.33 million (17 percent) were in private schools, with 0.99
million (54 percent) enrolled in urban areas. Sixty percent of urban primary
students benefit from a school snack program. Net enrollment in primary
education is greater than 90 percent, but enrollment ratios are lower in rural
areas and especially in low-income communities in both urban and rural zones.
Since most public schools offer only six grades, net enrollment is also much
lower in grades 7 through 9, the last years of the nine-year Basic Education
cycle that Ecuador has adopted as its standard. Poor transition rates
indicate that there are serious problems of low quality: the over-all
repetition rate is 21 percent and only 64 percent of students who enter grade
one finish the primary cycle. Due in part to the reduced resources available
for the sector and to the lack of autonomy and control over resources on the
part of provincial authorities or school principals, most public primary
schools lack teaching materials, teachers have had little in-service training
and teach in inefficient ways, and children have few if any textbooks. After



- 6 -
a period of policy neglect, the present administration has indicated firm
support for the sector and has taken a number of important initiatives,
generally with a strong equity orientation. A nationwide two-year literacy
campaign achieved some success, mobilizing 37,000 student trainers who reached
200,000 beneficiaries who are now being offered follow-up training to help
them maintain and use their literacy skills. An on-going program to increase
primary school enrollment in rural areas, which was financed by IDB (Project
AMER), has improved its implementation record in recent years, and a
significant quality-improvement reform is being initiated in rural areas, with
IDB financing approved.
1.19      A total of 800,000 students are enrolled in secondary school.  At
the upper secondary level there are both academic and vocationally-oriented
streams, the share of enrollment in the latter being about one third.
Although there are indications of serious deficiencies and rates of return are
lower than for other levels, the vocational stream has continued to grow in
recent years. The university subsector has grown very rapidly (even after
correcting faulty enrollment data), by about 50 percent between the late
seventies and the late eighties. Current enrollment is at 130,000. While
some post-secondary institutions continue to have reputations for quality
education, there is widespread agreement that quality of university education
has deteriorated. The Government has implemented (with varying degrees of
success) a series of education sector loans financed by the IDB in the area of
technical education.
1.20      SECAP (under the MOL) is a 30 year old institution responsible for
general vocational training programs. It is financed mainly through a 0.5
percent payroll tax supplemented with direct contributions from the general
budget. Cost-recovery through fees and contracts represents less than 2
percent of SECAP's budget. Workers and private sector employers are
represented on the Board of Directors. SECAP has decen,ralized facilities in
twelve different provinces and provides apprenticeship programs lasting three
years and short (six-month) training courses for adults. More recently, basic
training programs of shorter duration (Proarama de Cayacitaci6n Poipular) have
been introduced for the poor.  In 1990 SECAP enrolled 45,000 trainees.  SECAP
completed implementation of Loan 2171-EC, the Bank's only social sector
operation in Ecuador during the eighties, and used technical assistance under
that loan to prepare the Programa de Capacitaci6n Popular.
F.  Maior Issues in the Basic Education Subsector
1.21      Ecuador has achieved relatively high levels of access to primary
education, similar to most countries in the region. Expansion of primary
school enrollment is not, therefore, the highest priority. But there is a
serious problem of poor quality of primary education, and the problems of
limited access and poor quality are most serious in the case of the poor. Low
quality, reflected in children not obtaining a sound foundation of knowledge
and skills in the lower grades, causes high repetition and substantial numbers
of children to drop out before completing the nine-year basic education cycle.
There are some direct indicators of poor quality but, since there is no



national system of evaluating what children learn, it is not possible to
determine the magnitude of this problem, to target resources on the neediest
regions or schools or to find efficient solutions. Management of the
education sector is characterized by excessive centralization in the MEC,
inadequate budgeting and resource allocation capacities, weak project
implementation capabilities and generally weak sectoral management at all
levels.
1.22      Low auality of Basic Education.  A recent study confirms that
children in rural primary schools and in urban primary schools serving low-
income areas do not receive sound academic foundations in language and
mathematics skills. Repetition rates are high: of the cohort that entered
primary school in 1984, 26 percent dropped out of school without completing
six grades of primary, the average repetition rate was 20.7 percent per year
and repetition in first grade was 32 percent (Annex 3, Table 4). While these
over-all rates are high, the situation in schools serving the poor is even
worse.  In the area of educational inputs, one of the most serious problems is
acute scarcity of textbooks in the public schools. Reflecting this, teaching
follows highly inefficient patterns: teachers dictate material or copy it on
the blackboard, children copy the text into notebooks and use these in place
of textbooks. Teachers make very poor use of classroom time and receive no
in-service training in how to use time effectively to improve learning.
Indirect indicators, such as availability of charts and maps in classrooms,
even inadequate school maintenance, point to low quality learning
environments, especially in schools serving rural areas and poor neighborhoods
in and around cities.
1.23      Lack of Information on Educational Outcomes.  The only indicators
of school quality are either indirect ones such as repetition rates,
observational data or small-sample one-time studies. There is no system that
produces sound and consistent information on how much students learn on a
basis that permits valid comparisons between regions, types of schools or over
time. Lack of a system to assess educational outcomes complicates evaluating
the quality of education and impairs policymaking. Education authorities have
no empirical basis for making allocation decisions, or even to argue for more
resources for the sector. Professional educators have no guidance on what
qualitative problems are most severe (by region, grade, or subject matter) or
where to intervene in order to make the most efficacious improvements.
Needless to say, there is no reliable information that would contribute to
greater accountability at any level in the system.
1.24      Ineeuitv in the Delivery of Basic Education Services. Repetition
and dropout rates are higher in rural than in urban schools, due in part to
the lower over-all quality of rural schools. Repetition rates among children
of families whose total income was less than the average for all families were
double the average rates. Observation confirms that there are severe
qualitative problems in poor urban communities. Schools in poor communities
have fewer textbooks, fewer supplemental educational materials, poorer
maintenance and, in some urban schools, severe overcrowding. The best
teachers are offered places in schools serving more well-to-do populations and



-8 -
only a few possess the dedication to remain in schools in poor neighborhoods.
Whereas more fortunate families can supplement school resources with modest
additional payments (for materials and supplies and other quality-related
inputs), poor families have less financial flexibility. Problems of inequity
are especially serious in the case of indigenous populations, who are
typically poor and suffer Zrom language barriers, problems of intercultural
adaptation and varying degrees of overt discrimination. Need for bilingual
and intercultural education is greatest in rural areas, although problems of
cross-cultural adaptation affect indigenous students in urban schools as well.
1.25      Inefficiency and Ineffectiveness in Sector Management. The limits
of public resources allocated to education (para. 1.15) indicate that
available resources muBt be allocated with greater concern for cost-
effectiveness than in the past.  Serious shortcomings in methods of resource
allocation (paras. 1.8, 1.9, 1.15, and 1.17) are found at MEC. While changes
at the sectoral level cannot overcome all problems, there is ample margin for
improvement within MEC's allocation procedures. Budgeting, like most other
decision-making, is highly centralized, with little substantive input from the
provinces or line agencies. The provincial education offices, which in theory
have responsibility for managing sector operations within their provinces,
have little authority, very little discretionary control over plans and
budgets, and staffs comprised predominantly of senior teachers who have been
promoted to supervisory rank and have little preparation for administrative
responsibility. Project implementation capacity, whether at the MEC or the
provinces, is weak and even the record of independent project implementation
units has been poor.
G. Issues in Vocational Training
1.26      Vocational training in Ecuador is the juncture between basic
education and entry into the labor force for most workers. Inadequate
employment generation by the modern sector, attributable in part to
institutional restricti..ns imposed on the labor market, has led to a large
absorption of workers in the informal sector, which can usually bypass labor
legislation. Poor workers are overrepresented in the informal economy, lack
human capital, and include the highest percentage of women in total
employment. The issues of the informal sector can only be addressed by
encouraging economic growth in a competitive environment based on market
incentives. This would have a double effect, encouraging both a productive
modern sector and the portion of the informal sector with the economic
potential to grow and provide employment. In addition, remedies that would
improve the productivity of the poor and contribute to raising their incomes,
are an appropriate and priority focus for vocational training programs.
1.27      While SECAP has enhanced its physical capacity in recent years,
some of this capacity has remained under-utilized because of the institution's
inability to adapt to the changing labor market requirements. Two particular
areas where innovations could be introduced are training in the informal
sector and in sectors with export potential.



- 9 -
1.28      Vocational training programs need to build on sound formal
education processes and maintain close relationships with the productive
sector. While SECAP has made efforts to do this, it has not yet been able to
design and implement courses responding to the current priority needs of labor
markets. SECAP courses are not always responsive to the needs of trainees,
sometimes duplicating courses already received by trainees and usually
oriented toward preparing specialized workers for the formal sector; they have
therefore tended to neglect the poor, less-educated workers whose needs are
more difficult to serve. Recent actions by MEC geared to improve basic
literacy have shown the need for complementing the literacy program with
vocational training that would enhance the effects of literacy on productivity
and the incomes of the poor. SECAP, which has provided mainly formal training
in the past would require adjustments in order to adapt itself to the
requirements of this type of program. The movement towards a more open
economy with increased exports of some sectors, particularly within regional
markets, will also need support in terms of a qualified labor force and of
strengthening marketing opportunities of subsectors with comparative
advantage.
H. The Government Strategy
1.29      The Government has been actively engaged in a sectoral dialogue
with the Bank and has issued several policy statements, among them a Letter of
Development Policy submitted to the Bank in January 1990, where priorities in
the social sector were identified. Improvement of coverage and quality of
basic education and the Procrama de Ca0acitaci6n Ponular were among the
highest priorities. While progress in these areas has been limited, this
project represents a major initiative in this area.
1.30      The Government has indicated a commitment to the education sector
and a determination to target services to the poorer segments of society.
Targeting is essential because the current economic crisis has imposed severe
constraints on the sectoral budget and brought about a decline in sector
spending. Its strategy gives priority to basic education, in keeping with its
active participation in the World Conference on Education for All and in the
LAC regional project for the improvement of education. Key elements in its
policy and strategy statements include improvement of educational quality and
a major literacy program, the first phase of which was completed successfully.
Also, to give children of poor families a fair chance to take advantage of
basic education, the strategy emphasizes bilingual education, preschool
education and special education. Other elements of the strategy include
improving textbooks and educational materials, and taking advantage of
educational technology. Currently the highest priority is to improve the
quality of basic education, so that children who enter primary school will
have the opportunity to complete the cycle and to learn essential skills. The
Government views investment in quality as an equity-promoting measure since
quelitative deficiencies have the most negative effects on the poor. For
implementing these strategies, the Government has already obtained financing
from IDB to improve the quality of education in rural areas (para. 1.18). The
IDB project will reach schools that serve slightly over half the children of
poor families in the country. To extend this qualitative reform to the



- 10 -
remainder of the student population from poor families, the Government now
seeks the proposed loan for a complementary project targeted to low-income
urban areas.
1.31      The Government is also giving priority to improving skills of less
educated workers through training, and to increasing opportunities for poor
adults through programs to maintain or enhance their literacy and basic
general education and provide training that will improve their productivity.
This is consisternt with the Government's general policy on labor, where
legislative reforms are being sought in order to enhance competitiveness in
international markets. To implement Government policy SECAP is establishing
closer ties with private enterprises and promoting an increased role of the
private sector in training. Besides existing agreements with several business
chambers for implementing training programs, SECAP has operational agreements
with MEC's adult education campaign (Ecuador Estudia) and with the Frente
Social Special Fund for the Infancy (FONNIN). Small enterprise development is
an important element in the Government's general program to compete more
effectively in international markets. For implementation of its programs in
this area, SECAP has agreements with agencies that operate credit for
microenterprises (UNEPROM and CONAUPE) and with agencies that provide
technical assistance to small enterprises and the handicraft industry (CENDES
and CENAPIA). SECAP itself is committed to strengthening its managerial and
financial capacity, a process started with Bank technical assistance provided
under Loan 2171-EC.
I. The Bank Strategy
1.32      Several World Bank studies stress the importance of social sector
programs in alleviating poverty, and also emphasize the need for enhanced
public responsibility in the social sector and for improved public sector
management. The proposed project forms an integral part of the Bank's
strategy for country assistance, which recommends several fundamental changes
in the economy, including: (a) a redefinition of the role of the state,
devoting greater attention to areas of clear public responsibility such as
social welfare; and (b) replacing the existing protectionist trade regime and
the inefficient and constraining labor market policies with a set of economic
incentives that are likely to stimulate economic diversification and a greater
outward orientation of the country. The Bank strategy includes in its core
lending program a set of projects for poverty alleviation in the social
sectors.
1.33      The Bank strategy for the social sector aims at: (a) giving
priority to social sector programs as the instrument for poverty alleviation;
(b) establishing efficiency and eguity in public social expenditures;
(c) strengthening public sector decision-making and management; and
(d) enhancing effectiveness of specific social programs. The basic means for
addressing the issues identified are: (a) strengthening the budgeting process;
(b) decentralization of social programs and project implementation;
(c) reinforcing social sector staffing; and (d) fostering the role of the
social sector in promoting economic growth and efficiency. The priority
social sector programs selected for support include basic education and



- 11 -
training; basic health and nutrition; and investment funds for social
assistance and infrastructure. The Government haB presented to the Bank
project proposals for the first two and work on the third is ongoing.
1.34      Interventions in basic education are a key element in the proposed
strategy within the Bank social sector program for Ecuador. The education
sector has benefitted from a longer period of dialogue, as well as experience
gained in preparing the IDB rural education project, and is the key sector
chosen for this first social sector project. Experience indicates that
investment in Ecuador's human resources yields relatively high returns; the
social rate of return to primary education was estimated as 11.5 percent in
1987; for all secondary education the rate was 9 percent. The project is
expected to improve the efficiency of public spending in a sector that is
strategically important for Ecuador's development and which represents 15
percent of the public budget. The project's focus on improving educational
opportunities for children in low-income urban areas is consistent with the
Bank's special concern for reducing poverty and alleviating the social costs
of adjustment as well as with the principles of the World Conference on
Education for All.
1.35      Vocational training activities in clearly identified priority areas
would complement improvements in basic education and contribute to achieving
the Bank's strategy by improving productivity and earnings among the poor and
promoting a more competitive, market-oriented environment. Evaluations of
SECAP courses (Annex 8) show satisfactory results. A recent cost-benefit
study found high rates of return to training --18 percent social and 37
percent private-- providing evidence in favor of investing in training and
applying cost-recovery mechanisms to finance the investment. SECAP has taken
advantage of lessons learned when implementing Bank Loan 2171-EC and is ready
and well disposed to improve its responsiveness to market signals, make better
use of its installed capacity, and improve its finances through users-fees.
J. Lessons from Previous Bank Involvement
1.36      The project design takes into account implementation experience in
Ecuador in particular with regard to projects aimed to strengthen the capacity
within SECAP; other agency implementation experience with the MEC; and the
Bank's education sector experience within and outside the Latin American and
the Caribbean region, including what was reflected in the Completion Report of
Project 2171-EC. Key lessons and their incorporation in the project design
are described below.
Lessons Learned and their ARplication
(a) Education Proiects
1.37      A review of past education projects yielded a number of general
lessons on implementation. Project preparation should not be rushed, as the
participation of the beneficiaries of the project and full understanding of
the administrative processes and intended educational outcomes is crucial to
successful project implementation. Also, an understanding of Bank procurement



- 12 -
procedures has been a common bottleneck. In addition, in order to facilitate
implementation in the education sector it has proven beneficial to: (a) use
local contractors and materials; 'b) require all tender proposals to include
local networks for maintenance and spare parts; (c) have a warehouse to store
equipment; (d) check the workload of contractors before bids are awarded; (e)
ensure that all equipment is compatible and that adequate manuele are
availablel and (f) establish in-house maintenance facilities. For
consultants, the use of local experts who already know the country has led to
substantial savings. Finally, the inclus.on of educators, architects, and
economists on supervision missions has beei found to improve project
effectiveness and efficiency.
1.38      More specifically in education projects involving chan.qes and
innovations, it has been found that participants must be completely informed
about proposed changes and project designs should have built-in flexibility to
adapt based on current experience, new information, or changes in the external
environment. Furthermore, projects need to anticipate and minimize the effect
of interruptions caused by changing political administrations. It has also
been shown that decentralization, targeting, and improved budgeting lead to
better use of resources.
1.39      Finally, experience has identified a number of critical factors
influencing the success of projects to improve educational quality: (a)
changes in the educational system should be preceeded by a widespread public
information campaign; (b) before initiating a system of nuclear schools,
linkages between and responsibilities at each management level must be set
forth and the sites of schools chosen prior to implementation to avoid
community disputes over site selection.
1.40      In order to address the conclusions highlighted above, the proposed
project was prepared by the borrower and the basic education component's
design was developed using the framework of an on-going education project
financed by IDB. To address concerns about procurement, the executing
agencies would receive support from procurement agents to facilitate
procurement of goods and services (para. 2.37). Local contractors are
expected to carry-out any new construction and rehabilitation of hub schools
and network schools (para. 2.04). Each project executing agency, operating
separately with clear role definition, would be supported by a project
coordinating unit staffed with consultants to facilitate project
implementation (paras. 2.27 and 2.28). In addition, a high proportion of
short-term consultants are expected to be contracted locally.
1.41      At pro3ect initiation, informational and training seminars would be
conducted for central and provincial level staff as well as for community
leaders to enlist their cooperation and ensure their participation in meeting
project objectives. The project's long-term objective is to decentralize
planning and budgeting functions; to this end, training would be provided at
all levels. The project would also seek to decentralize to the school network
a portion of the nonsalary budget for school supplies and preventive
maintenance of project schools (paras. 2.15 and 2.16). To enhance the
sustainability of quality improvements generated under the project,



- 13 -
information and training seminars would be financed to reinforce project
objectives and intended outcomes. The procurement agent contracted will work
with MEC to ensure that maintenance of existing schools will be managed
according to Bank guidelines.
(b) Vocation9al Trainn  Projects
1.42      Sustainability has been a key constraint in vocational training
projects. Some of the most frequent problems affecting sustainability
include: (i) difficulty in recruiting and retaining instructors from the
private sector; (ii) low enrollment and high dropout rates; (iii)
inappropriate job training; and (iv) poor teaching quality.
1.43      Management has been another broad area of concern.  In Latin
America, it has proven useful to establish an autonomous government agency to
manage these programs. Often such agencies are supported by an earmarked
payroll tax, although several countries are experimenting with alternative
financing methods. Past experience shows that to be effective these agencies
must have strong government support, and their responsibilities should be
phased in gradually to allow development of management experience and
capabilities.
1.44      The proposed project differs significantly from traditional
vocational training projects. Training would be targeted to the poor, most of
whom would first receive training equivalent to regular basic education. In
addition, ties between SECAP and prospective employers would be strengthened
by direct participation of private sector associations in determining training
priorities and content. Also, labor market information, SECAP graduate tracer
studies, and impact evaluation would be carried out to ensure better response
to labor market demands (paras. 2.30 and 2.31). Finally to assist in
implementation a project coordination unit would be set up in SECAP.
(c) Countrv-specific Lessons
1.45      In Ecuador, the most frequent observation about implementation is
the need to assure that the Government can meet counterpart funding
obligations. This is an issue not only relating to fulfillment of project
objectives but to the more general matter of budget processes and priorities.
Reflecting this, the proposed project, through its inst3tutional strengthening
component, would finance technical assistance and training to improve the
budgeting and planning capacity within MEC at the central and provincial
levels (para. 2.26) and in SECAP (para. 2.31). In addition, the project would
include annual subsector reviews and project budget reviews during supervision
(para. 2.36). The proposed project also aims at improving availability of
resources in SECAP by instituting cost-recovery mechanisms, since the current
0.5% wage levy paid to SECAP by public and private employers has not always
been adequate and MEC has faced many financial constraints. A second problem
in hgcuador has been the lack of continuity of project staffing. For this
reason, staff continuity in project leadership from the Bank, MEC and SECAP
has a high priority.



- 14 -
K. Women in Development
1.46      The Bank conducted an Assessmer.t of Women in Development (WID)
issues in Ecuador in 1989, which yielded a number of important conclusions
about the status of women in the education sector, training and the labor
force. There are no major differences in enrollment rates by gender; at the
preschool and secondary levels there are more girls than boys.  There are,
however, fewer male teachers: at the primary ievel two-thirds of teachers are
women and the ratio is nine to one at the preschool level (see Annex 3, Table
10).   Most schools (92.3%) are coeducational.  Girls have a slight advantage
in terms of promotion rates. For example, while boys' promotion rates between
first and secc..l years of secondary education improved from 76.4 percent to
78.1 percent between 1980 and 1983, girls' rates improved from 77.4 to 79.1
percen.' during the same period. Another indicator of slight advantage for
girls is that, while 26.7% of secondary schools girls were in the correct
grade for their age, 25.1% of boys were in the correct age cohort.
1.47      There are some problem areas.  According to local education
specialists, there is gender stereotyping in formal education textbooks.
Also, girls tend to be directed into educational streams with little
mathematics and science which limits later career options. There is little
vocational counseling for girls, but the same thing is true for boys. Girls'
education could be improved by focusing on the quality and relevance of
schooling, specifically through better teacher training, concentrating on
basic curricula, and using textbooks that portray women in nonstereotypic
occupational roles (see paras. 2.05 and 2.10).
1.48      While there is some general information on women's status (reviewed
above), there is little data in the country that could be used to identify
priority needs in women's education, much less to develop policies and
implement programs to further WID efforts in Ecuador. For example, little or
no information exists on factors that could influence women's participation in
the economy or their role in contributing to family income and welfare.
Enhancing the labor market and earnings information data base through the
National Employment Institute LSMS household surveys (see para 2.30) plus the
development of a national educational assessment (see paras. 2.12 and 2.13)
are two tools that should, in time, fill these information gaps.
1.49      Labor force participation by women has increased since the 1950s,
although women are still concentrated in low-skill, service-sector activities
and informal occupations with low earnings potential. Available evidence from
several surveys suggest that female monthly earnings are lower than males
across all educational levels and occupational categories. Even when
adjustments are made for differences in average hours worked per week, women
with similar levels of schooling and years of experience still earn less than
men. Close to 35% of the economically active female population work in the
informal sector, with about 45% of working female heads of households in the
informal sector, and more than one-third of them self-employed (Annex 3, Table
11). At the same time, illiteracy rates are higher for women than for males,
and men in the 25-and-over age group show higher educational attainment.



- 15 -
1.50       With respect to technical education, there is a substantial gender
difference in choice of subjects studied. Men generallv enroll in industrial
and agricultBure courses while women choose courses associated with traditional
"female" occupations and commercial courses. In SECAP courses in 1987 and
1988, roughly 30% of participating students were women but only 12%
matriculated in the industrial tracks. The redesigned SECAP program, focusing
on post-literacy education and basic skills training breed on labor market
demands, will have great potential to improve work skillo, productivity and
earnings capabilities of women, including women not currently in the labor
force (see paras. 2.19 through 2.22).
II. THE PROJECT
A. Prolect Oriain
2.01      The proposed project has been prepared based on the conclusions of
Bank Report 8935-EC, "ECUADOR: A Social Strategy for tihe Nineties", which the
Government and the Bank agree should serve as the centerpiece for developing
the Bank's social sector lending program in the country. Dialogue with the
social sector ministries of the Frente Social has continued since the
beginning of thiso government in 1988 and progress has been achieved with the
MEC and SECAP towards definition of projects and policies. Government is
committed to the projects proposed and their underlying concepts have been
shaped through extensive interaction. Project preparation has been conducted
during 1990/91 by MEC under PPF 151-EC and by SECAP under Bank Loan 2171-EC.
Appraisal was completed on July 12, 1991. Negotiations took place in
Washington D.C. during November 1-7, 1991. At negotiations, the Government
delegation was headed by Mr. RaGl Vallejo, Minister of Education, and
included representatives of the MOF, MEC, MOL and SECAP.
B. Obiectives and Content
2.02      The project supports the Government's planned developmr-.t and
investment programs for basic education and training already started in 1991.
Its dual objectives are: (a) to improve the quality and effective delivery of
basic education and training services targeted on the poor, and (b) to
strengthen decision-making and management of public institutions involved in
the delivery of basic vocational education and training programs. There are
two Ta4n components: basic education and adult education and training. The
firat component is designed to raise learning achievement of primary age
children by improving quality and in;creasing accessibility of basic education;
the second component is designed to raise basic vocational skills of poorly
educated adults, thus enhancing their productivity and earning capacity. Both
components are meant to strengthen the capacity of decentralized service
providers and to improve resource allocation and program design processes in
the education/training sectors. Investment criteria under the proposed
project target the poor as the priority group to be served by focusing the
basic education component on children ir. low-income urban neighborhoods and
the vocational training component on the least educated adults under the
Programa de CaRacitaci6n Popular.



16
C. DetAiled Prolect Deaarition
BAS,UI_C_EDUCAX   (Annexes 4-7L   (US$90.1 million, including contingencies, 76
percent of total project coote)
2.03      Thio component, incorporating the bulk of project expenditures, Is
designed to increase sector efficiency and equity. It aime at improving the
quality of primary education for children from low-income urban families,
giving them a better education and reducing their rates of repetition and
dropout, and strengthening the management, budgeting and sector programming
capabilities of the education sector, within the central MEC and in the
provincee. Two complementary groups of activities have been developed to
achieve these objectives. The first group involves providing quality-
improvement inputs through a system of nuclear schools serving urban poverty
zones, and developing a national system for education assessment. The second
group involveo institutional strengthening, including enhancing capacities for
budgeting and aectoral management within the MEC. It would also promote
decentralization of administrative authoriy to the provincial education
offices and the nuclear schools, and generating information to guide future
policy dec1- ons, especially regarding resource allocation.
ducat.ional  ev_el2pment (Annex 4)
2.04      Building upon the framework developed for taie establishment of
school networks in rural areas under an IDB financed project, the proposed
project would create decentralized netiworke for qualitative improvement in
low-income urban areas. Both the propcsed project and the related IDB project
for rural areas call for in-service teacher training, improved supervision,
and decentralization of pedagogical management to networks of schools
organized around nuclei called hub schools. These hub schools would serve as
focal points for networks of surrounding schools, centers for the application
of training and related quality-improvement activities and, in coordination
with the Provincial Education Directorateo, for decentralized administrative,
teacher supervioion and planning functions. During negotiations, the
Government presented the ministerial decrees establishing the School Networks
and provided assurances that a MEC resolution governing the operational
relationships between the Provincial Education Directorate. and the school
networks would be made effective by July 1992. The IDB project provides for
curriculum change and for converting teacher training colleges into higher-
quality Pedagogical Institutes (IPED) at the provincial level. The proposed
project for urban areas would add innovative subcomponents in special
education and preschool education to give poor chlldren a rt3re equitable
opportunity to benefit from basic education, and would develop a system for
production and distribution of textbooks and teaching materials with strong
private sector participation, as well as a national system for assessment of
student achievement.
2.05      Networks for oualitative Improvem2nt.  The proposed project would
establish fifty-five hub schools in urban areas. The sites would be chosen
based on targeting criteria that identify poverty areas where this approach
could achieve the greatest berefito. The hub schools would be "centers of



- 17 
excellence" that would provide both models of good-quality education and
nuclei for networke of from 15 to 25 urban echoole serving the game low-income
urban zone. Tho schoolo in the network would receive in-service teacher
training in improving quality, supply of improved textbooks and teaching
materials, and orientation to ensure that all boys and girls have an equal
chance to complete basic education. Schools in the networks would be visited
by teams of special education professionals who will screen students for
learning disabilities and train teachers in Sow to ensure all children have
effective opportunities to learn. Preschools that already exist in the zones
of influence would obeerve in-school models of service delivery and receive
advice on how to improve the quality and coat-effectiveness of their services
through short-term visits arid exchange. The hub schools would havy
decentralized authority for management of academic matters, including
professional supervision of schools in their networks, and management of a
limited budget for non-salary expenditures, including rehabilitating and
maintaining schools in the network. The proposed project would finance the
budgets for non-salary expenditures on a declining basis.
2.06      Low-income urban areas have been identified through a process of
microplanning. Within each target area an existing school shall be chosen
based on size, location, and other criteria to serve as the hub school. The
project would upgrade and expand the physical facilities at each hub school,
including construction of administrative facilities for the hub school
functions, addition of classrooms to provide all nine grades of basic
education, and provision of two or three preschool classrooms and headquarters
for the special education teams that will serve the network of school. in the
zone. The 55 school networks to be financed under the program would be
upgraded in three phases (See Annex 4, Table 1). The first phase will
establish networks serving 137,000 students Jn 20 low-income zones in Quito
and Guayaquil, where detailed microplanning has been completed on the basis of
available data. Some of the largest concentrations of urban poverty can be
found in these cities and conditions warrant priority attention. The second
phase will provide 23 networks in the provinces of Guayas, Pichincha,
Bumeraldas, El Oro and Los Rios, while the third phase will provide 12
networks in Carchi, Chimborazo, Loja, Manabi and Caflar. A total of
approximately 345,000 students will be enrolled in the hub schools and the
schools within their networks. While this represents the current enrollment
in the influence zone, it is expected that a more efficient flow of students,
due to reduced rates of repetition, would allow the schools to serve a larger
group of school age students (Annex 3, Table 4).  Detailed planning for the
second and third phases will use more recent data from the 1990 Census and
other sources to identify priority zones of urban poverty in the provincial
capitals and other urban places, and will draw on the experience of
implementing Phase one in planning the new school networks.  Planning will
also take place during the project to extend the quality-improvement program
to all remaining low-income areas not covered under this project or the IDB
project to rural areas. During negotiations, the Government provided
assurances that criteria, acceptable to the Bank, would be applied for
choosing the sites of networks and hub schools to be built during phases two
and three of the project.



- 18 -
2.07      In-service teacher trainina would be provided to teachers in all
schools in each urban network, on the basis of curricula already developed
under the IDB project, emphasizing improved use of time in classrooms, better
utilization of textbooks and teaching materials and other quality-enhancing
methods and information. A total of 12,700 teachers will be trained during
the three phases, as well as 120 Teacher Trainers, 180 IPED staff and 180
Provincial staff. In addition, 2200 community leaders and representative of
Parent-Teacher organizations will participate in meetings to disseminate
information about the quality-improvement program. Each teacher would
participate, on average, in eleven training events including orientation to
the concept of the Decentralized Networks for Quality Improvement and the aim
of giving all children, regardless of gender or ethnic background, a fair
chance to complete basic education. Training would cover subject matter
skills, pedagogical methods (with special emphasis on needs of children from
poor families), use of new textbooks (depending on subjects taught), and the
role of the educational assessment system. Training would largely take place
during vacation periods. Training events would range from 24 to over 200
hours in length with the modal duration being 100 hours. Participation in the
training would not, in itself, lead to promotion or pay increase. Training
would continue for two years after establishment of each hub school and
network of schools in accordance with the phasing of the project. The hub
schools will provide facilities and logistical planning and support for the
training activities, which will be presented by trainers from The National
Directorate of Pedagogical Training (DINACAPED) and, whenever possible, from
the IPEDs located in each province.
2.08      Preschool classes will be added to each hub school with the aim of
both increasing access to preschool for children in the low-income area and
providing a model of preschool education and a source of technical advice and
training for operators and staff of other preschools in each network's zone of
influence. The model of in-clasc preschool education would involve unit costs
approximately equal to the costs of primary school. Sixty preschool
classrooms will be built at the 20 hub schools constructed during Phase I of
the project. Approximately 105 pren-chool classes would be attached to the 35
hub schools constructed during Phas- 3 II and III. The direct beneficiaries
will be the approximately 5,800 stuciwnts enrolled each year in the preschool.
attached to each hub school, while some 37,000 children in other existing
preschools within the networks' will receive indirect benefits from the
training and technical assistance extended to these schools. This
subcomponent is intended as a pilot program. It will be evaluated (para.
2.17) together with alternative modes of preschool education, to determine how
to meet the need for preschool services in low-income urban areas in the most
cost-effective manner. The evaluation will examine inputs provided, processes
of outreach and technical assistance to preschool. in the zone. of influence,
costs of alternative modes of service delivery and direct tests of readiness
of preschool completers for grade one. Data from the educational assessment
system (paras. 2.12-2.13) will permit measurement of the educational
attainment of preschool completers once they reach grade two. For this reason
the evaluation will not be complete until after the second iteration of the
educational assessment.



- 19 -
2.09      Snecial education ser rices for all schools in the network will be
headquartered at the hub schoola. Teams of specialists (Equipos psico-
pedag6gicos) will provide screoning to identify students with any learning
difficulties. Technical assistance, including nine months of international
experts in special education, would be provided to the MEC Department of
Special Education, and would focus on the design of training for the
specialist teams. The specialist teams will screen students (beginning at the
preschool level) to identify problems, provide low-cost interventions when
this is possible, make referrals to other agencies in cases requiring special
attention, and train teachers in methods of dealing with children who have
problems in the classroom. Among their responsibilities will be
identification of language, intercultural or psycho-social problems of
indigenous students and training teachers in how to respond in sensitive ways
to the special needs of such students. All of the 345,000 students in the
school networks will be screened. It has been found that, even without taking
into consideration intercultural problems of indigenous students, from 10 to
12 percent of primary school students in Ecuador experience some form of
learning difficulty, but it is estimated that as many as 20 percent of
children in low-income areas have such problems. Thus, approximately 70,000
students would benefit from identification of their problems, better training
of teachers to deal with students with special needs, and in many cases from
interventions to alleviate or overcome the problems. An evaluation of the
special education subcomponent would be based upon inputs and processes
applied, repetition and wastage rates among recipients of special education
services, educational achievement (utilizing data from the assessment system),
costs of the program and estimated savings both in terms of reduced repetition
and wastage and costs of other social services (para. 2.17 and Annex 7).
2.10      Develonment, Production and Distribution of Textbooks and Education
Materials (Annex 5). The project would support development of an improved
general textbook series for primary education, covering teachers' guides plus
textbooks and workbooks in Spanish, mathematics, natural science and social
studies. Each student would have access to textbooks in all subjects, with
some subjects (e.g., mathematics and science) combined into a single volume.
The new series would build on work done to develop the AMER texts for the
rural areas, with a design suitable for students in all areas of the country.
Special emphasis would be given to removing gender bias and stereotyping from
the revised textbooks. The project would finance improvements in the
organization, scope, and sequence of materials covered in the new texts and in
their physical design. During the project'8 first phase, before the new
series comes into print, an estimated 130,000 units of the AMER textbooks
would be distributed, together with 5,000 copies of a brief guide for teachers
about how to use them most effectively and how to deal with that series' rural
orientation. The project would support provision of 567,000 (new series)
textbooks to all students in project schools on a limited cost-recovery basis,
plus 1,520,000 workbooks and 60,000 teachers' guides. Project schools'
students will pay a rental fee equal to 20 percent of the cost of each
textbook, with incentives for return in good condition. Proceeds from the
rental fees would be held in an Editorial Fund operated by the National
Service for Text and Educational Materials Supply (SNALME) under its existing
legal authority to receive and spend funds (Annex 5, para. 4). The average



- 20 -
life of the new textbooks is estimated to be four years. The new series would
also be made available on a comme-cial basio to a wider audience of students.
Approximately 250,000 additional books would be sold throughout the country
through existing public and private distribution channels at prices that cover
full costs of production and distribution, plus a 15 percent charge to
replenish the Editorial Fund for republication of the texts. The proceeds
from rental fees and charges on additional copies sold on the market would
yield over three fourths of the funds needed to make the textbook program
financially self-sustaining. These cost recovery arrangements were agreed
with the Government during negotiations.  Rental fees equivalent to one-fifth
of full cost of production would not only contribute to sustainability but
would also serve to increase the recipients' appreciation of the books. The
project would benefit the great majority of primary school students throughout
the country in terms of making good quality textbooks available to students
who, for lack of budgetary provision for textbooks, would not otherwise have
had access to the books.
2.11      The multiple activities of the Ministry relating to design and
development, manufacturing, and distribution of textbooks and educational
materials would be streamlined under the coordination of an Editorial Council
(Annex 5, para. 5). This includes related activities under the IDB project.
The Editorial Council will plan and institute organizational changes to
rationalize activities relating to elaboration and production of textbooks.
Technical assistance would consist of the following: one person year of
international consulting services to advise the Minister and the Editorial
Council on long-term arrangements for textbook development; 27 person months
of consulting services in investigation, validation, evaluation and promotion.
Design and development of the new textbooks would be performed within the
Ministry through a process of technical assistance contracts with authors,
according to guidelinee provided by textbook design experts and international
technical advisors (Annex 5, para. 6). Printing would be contracted with the
private aector. Distribution would be through existing channels, including
SNALME and commercial distributors. During negotiations, the Government
presented the ministerial decree establishing the Editorial Council. During
negotiations, the Government agreed to prepare by the time of the 1993 annual
project review (para. 2.42), and to carry it out thereafter, a plan for
rationalizing textbook activities including plans for disposition of the
printing press, reduction in number of entities within MEC involved in
developing and printing texte and materials, and provision for a small and
effective textbook unit.
Educational-Assessment System (Annex -6
2.12      Euaial A            et.  To monitor the quality of learning
achievement and to identify cost-effective means for raising achievement,
systematic educational testing would be introduced under the project. An
educational assessment system would be administered to a sample of students,
based on objective, criterion-referenced tests (i.e., tests measuring how well
students have achieved specific curriculum objectives). Testing would be
initiated on a pilot basis in 1992 in language and mathematics for a
representative sample of 15,000 students in grades 2, 6 and 9 in the provinces



- 21 
of Guayas, Pichincha, and El Oro. Pilot testing would be extended in 1993,
administering 127,000 tests to a sample of students in other provinces not
previously covered, and would include additional subject areao of science and
social science. In 1994, pilot testing of language and mathematics skills
would be applied to a wider sample and the system would be standardized and
introduced on a national scale during 1996 with a sample of approximately
121,150 students (approximately 480,000 tests). Technical assistance
comprising regional and international experts would be provided to train local
staff in techniques of preparing standardized tests, which would assure that
experience from Latin America and elsewhere in the world is incorporated in
the test designs.
2.13      The testing system will be under the management of the MEC, which
will establish a Council of Directors composed of the Minister of Education,
the Director of the Evaluation Department and the Coordinator of the PCU. The
project would finance technical assistance, training, and other services
needed to develop and manage the testing system. The testing system would
have 25 senior professional staff and both local and international advisors.
Up to thirty teachers and university professors would be contracted to develop
the teste, together with 34 referees who would manage the review and scoring
of the tests. Study tours for 20 staff would be financed under the project in
order to familiarize them with other achievement testing systems in the region
and in other parts of the world. The project would also finance the operating
costs of the system during its start-up stages and, on a declining basis, for
the full period of implementation. MEC's central and regional staff in
collaboration with regional supervisors and teachers would provide support for
administering tests. Results would be used to provide performance feedback to
teachers, school directors, district officers, and regional staff of the MEC.
They would include data on performance in several sets of learning-specific
objectives and could be translated into revised teaching techniques or
curriculum objectives. In addition, an analysis of the determinants of
learning achievement (para. 2.17) would provide feedback to regional and
national authorities on priority needs for the allocation of resources. A
proposed design for the educational assessment has been prepared.  During
negotiations, the Government provided assurances that the assessment system
would be introduced on a pilot basis in 1992 and established on a national
basis by the 1996 school year.
Institutional Strencithening (Annex 7)
2.14      activities of institutional strengthening closely complement the
proposed educational quality-improvement activities and will enhance the long-
term capacity of MEC to make better use of its resources and to plan and
implement improvements in the sector. The objective would be to strengthen
the budgeting and resource allocation capacity of the MEC (para. 2.16),
promote administrative decentralization, strengthen provincial and local
management and foster policy analysis and innovations (para. 2.15). Financing
of consultants and other related expenditures for the Project Coordinating
Unit are included. Detailed descriptions of institutional strengthening
activities, inclu ing technical assistance to be provided, appear in Annex 7.



- 22 -
2.15      Decentralization and Stre athening Local Management.   The aim of
this activity is to improve the management of the sector by decentralizing
management functions to the provinces and to the school networks. At prasent
the provincial directorates have little authority of their own, hardly any
control over budget resources, and little impact on management (para. 1.17).
The project would provide technical assistance and training to develop their
capacities to carry out tasks delegated from MEC, including enhanced roles in
generating education statistics, and in microplanning (including detailed
design of phases II and III of the project), and newly-developed budgetary
authority and supervisory functions relating to educational quality. The
activities leading to strengthening the provincial offices and decentralizing
management functions will provide primary data based on educational needs at
the local level and will contribute to improvements in budget processes that
are also part of Institutional Strengthening (para. 2.16). Provincial staff
would have access to the informatics equipment provided to the provinces to
support local preparation of budget requests. The school networks responsible
for improving the quality of basic education would play an important role in
decentralization, including micro-level planning, allocation of non-salary
budgets and gathering statistical information. Provincial directorates will
also work with and support the school networks in administrative and
supervisory roles. The hub schools would be critically important to carrying
out decentralized management of qualitative improvement programs, including
teacher training and other activities relating to project implementation.
Directors of school networks would receive allocations of funds for nonsalary
expenses, including maintenance of buildings in their networks of schools.
At negotiations, the Government provided assurances that budget funds for
teaching materials, building maintenance and other non-salary expenditures,
would be allocated at the local level. The project would finance training for
110 hub school staff, 480 provincial office staff, and 45 staff members from
MEC and other central agencies, 1.5 person-years of international and 10
person years of local technical assistance, plus the cost of staff
redeployment and travel.
2.16      Budgeting and Resource Allocation.  Training, technical assistance,
and supply of data management capacities would contribute to establishing the
budget as a more meaningful tool for managing the sector. The project would
provide training for staff involved in the budgetary process, not only within
the Planning Directorate and its budgeting department but also in parallel
operating directorates of MEC that need to participate in the revised
budgeting process. This subcomponent will emphasize the involvement of the
Provincial Education Directorates and the school networks in generating the
basic information on which to base budget proposals. Coordination between
MEC's Financial Directorate and budget authorities outside MEC (MOF and
CONADE) would also be within the scope of this subcomponent and MOF and CONADE
staff working on education budgets would participate in training activities.
Training would include on-the-job training by local and international
technical advisors, seminars and workshops, provision for relevant studies by
key officials, and for travel and study visits to institutions in other
countries whose practices could be applied in Ecuador. Technicai assistance
would provide knowledge of how information-based decision making and resource
allocation are implemented in other administrative environments and would be



- 23 -
provided by international experts. Transfer of skills between organizational
units and between the MEC and the provinces would be provided by local
consultants. A total of 9 person months of international technical assistance
and 7 person years of local consultant services would be financed in this
area. MEC staff would participate in knowledge transfer to the provincial
directorates and the school networks. The project would finance training for
40 staff from MEC, CONADE and the Ministry of Finance, 105 provincial offices
staff and 110 hub schools staff.
2.17      Policy Analysis and Innovations.  This subcomponent provides for
conduct of three studies and two national consultations relating either
directly to management and finance or to specific topics pertaining to
qualitative improvement and ways of increasing the cost-effectiveness of
Ecuador's education system. Purposes of the studies include: providing
information needed for policy choices concerning continued efforts to improve
the quality and cost-effectiveness of education in Ecuador; analyzing the
costs and cost-effectiveness of existing forms of education and possible
alternative approaches to meeting educational goals; evaluating activities of
the project to inform future policies about whether and how these should be
extended (as in the case of preschool education) and how they should be
adapted to serve remaining needs for qualitative improvement; and laying the
groundwork for possible future projects to improve education at all levels in
terms of its quality, cost-effectiveness, and equal access. A list of the
proposed studies with a brief summary of each appears in Annex 7. During
negotiatione. proposals for the studies were reviewed. The Government
provided assurances that the studies will be performed in accordance with the
schedules agreed.
ADULT EDUCATION AND TRAINING (Annex 8L (US$28.5 million, including
contingencies, 24 percent of total project costs)
2.18      This component is designed to strengthen the effectiveness of
vocational training by using Ecuador's training capacity more efficiently and
reorienting SECAP's activities so that they respond better to the changing
economic and labor market conditions. A past project (Loan 2171-EC) under a
more traditional orientation contributed to create institutional capacity in
SECAP. Recent policy work has argued for a significant redirection of its
more expensive, highly technical programs. Under this project, SECAP would
expand basic general training programs targeted to the poor, and would
increase coordination with other institutions, especially with MEC and the
private sector to orient better its conventional program. Three types of
activities are envisaged. By providing post-literacy education and basic
skills training to the least educated adults, productivity and the standard of
living of the poor would be improved. Technical support and training for
small manufacturing businesses would improve their productivity and
competitiveness in strategic sectors with export potential. Institutional
strengthening activities would enhance SECAP's general and financial
management, and improve its capacity to respond to market needs.



- 24 -
Post-Literacy Education-gnd Training.
2.19      The starting point for project activities in this area is the
Literacy Campaign completed by MEC and successfully targeted to the poor.
Follow-up programs agreed between MEC and SECAP will make use of MEC's
existing network of adult training centers and SECAP's capacity in terms of
instructors, equipment, and physical infrastructure. The project would
support activities in basic adult education and basic skills training. The
population targeted for these activities include adults who have started to
reach literacy and primary school drop-outs. A preparatory phase would -- on
the basis of the network that MEC created for its literacy campaign -- use
final-year technical secondary school students to conduct a diagnosis of the
training needs and the availability of physical and organizational
infrastructure in communities where the poorest urban and rural people live.
Then students of the last two grades of the technical secondary school would
be trained to serve as instructors. Pilot post-literacy programs conducted by
MEC and SECAP in 1990-91 have been financed with resources from FONNIN. Post-
literacy training will serve 180,000 different persons during the project
lifetime, each receiving modules of two or three training courses (para. 2.20,
2.21 and Annex 8), a majority of them having also received a post-literacy
formal course (para 2.20). Activities could thus be maintained after project
completion to address continuing poverty objectives.
2.20      Basic Adult Education would be provided to 113,500 (about 20,000
per year) participants who have attained basic literacy skills. A total of
5,765 courses would be offered with options at three levels: literacy
instruction (duration 100 hours); primary education (duration 300 hours); and
basic middle cycle (1,100 hours). The courses would lead to certification
equivalent to a regular basic education. They would be taught by 2,000
regular teachers, 100 volunteers from NGOs, and trained students mentioned in
para. 2.19. The activities will be conducted at existing facilities,
including the adult education centers, the technical colleges of the MEC, and
the SECAP Vocational Training Centers. The training of teachers and
instructors, and the preparation of the teaching materials will be the
responsibility of the National Directorate of Popular Education of the MEC.
2.21      Basic Skills Training.  Short-duration basic skills training that
would be provided by MEC comprises implementation of 10,000 practical courses
for 200,000 (about 30,000 per year) participants (including most of those who
attended the adult education courses -- para. 2.20). These courses provide
general training for work in arts and crafts, agriculture, industry,
construction, trade, services and small business management. The duration of
the courses varies between 60 and 100 hours. The courses are aimed at adults
without labor training who work or will work in the informal sector on an
independent basis or with small businesses. The courses will be taught by MEC
teachers in day and evening sessions. The existing infrastructure of 600 NEC
technical colleges, 400 MEC arts and crafts centers, and 19 SECAP vocational
training centers will be used to provide these courses. Informal occupational
training would be provided also to 25,500 disabled participants through 1,700
practical courses. Since this is a highly individualized form of instruction,
the duration of the courses will vary. They will be offered by 500 special



25 -
education teachers and 40 institutes of special education that now exist. In
addition, 22 multipurpose workshops for training of the disabled will be
offered. Teacher training and the preparation of teaching materials will be
the responsibility of MEC and SECAP together. Technical assistance in the
amount of eight person months of international and four person years of local
consulting services would be provided. Submission of signed operational
agreements acceptable to the Bank, between the Ministry of Education and SECAP
detailing how the work on the basic adult education and basic skills training
activities would be coordinated, would be a loan effectiveness condition.
2.22      Complementary to, anl in most cases as continuation of, the basic
skills training activities of MEC described in para 2.21 is the Capacitaci6n
Popular (CP) Program. This activity is aimed at boosting the earnings of the
beneficiaries through training, and to promote and advise microenterprises on
improving their productivity and profits. SECAP's operational instruments
would be adapted for the purpose of providing vocational training Bervices to
both urban and rural users chosen from the least educated population. SECAP
would increase the utilization of its existing physical capacity and would
receive four person years of local technical assistance to deeign teaching
materials, other support materials, and to train instructors. The expected
results include: implementation of 10,000 practical short-duration courses
for 180,000 participants (about 30,000 per year), most of them identified in
the previous courses (paras. 2.20 - 2.21). The courses will provide training
for work in agriculture, industry, construction, trade, services, and small
business management and project preparation. These are intended for adults
without previous training who work or will work in the informal sector. The
duration of the courses ranges between 60 and 100 hours. The courses will be
taught by 160 SECAP instructors (30 already in-house and 130 to be hired),
plus a number of part-time instructors. To provide these courses, SECAP
infrastructure will be used, which consists of: 19 permanent vocational
training centers, and 7 mobile units, recently acquired out of the resources
of IBRD Loan EC-2171. In addition, 150 modular kits and 30 vehicles to
transport them would be acquired, and 10 community centers for instruction and
production would be  established.  Instructor training and preparation of
teaching materials will be the responsibility of SECAP.  It is estimated that
the use of the permanent centers in the adult training and small business
assistance program will increase their use by one-third.  Training costs would
be US$22 per participant-course.   This means that US$50 would be invested in
the average person taking 2.25 courses 4Annex 8).
Technical Support and Training for S'       .anufacturing Businesses
2.23      Activities in this area (representing 2.2 percent of the cost of
the project) constitute a pilot effort aimed at developing SECAP's capacity to
accommodate to changing training requirements. A specific subset of
industrial sectors, characterized by small manufacturing companies with good
productivity and export potential, has been chosen for this pilot: clothing,
leather products and wood furniture. Taking into account the activities of
the Technical Assistance component of the Fourth Small Scale Enterprise
Project (Ln. 3162-EC), SECAP would closely collaborate with private
enterprioea and with the Center for Industrial Development of Ecuador (CENDES)



- 26 -
and the Center for Promotion of Small Industry and Handicrafts of Ecuador
(CENAPIA) in implementing activities that would improve productivity and
competitiveness in the areas of technology transfer, quality control, and
marketing. The project would support the following pilot activities: (a) an
in-depth diagnosis of firms in the sectors select-d to provide detailed
information on needs for training and technical assistance; (b) provision of
training and technical assistance to mid-level managers and executives of
small enterprises in the leather, clothing and wood-products industries; (c)
three information and consulting centers to disseminate knowledge on available
technologies, production processes and quality-control techniques; and (d)
technical acsistance that would assist the capacity of small businesses in
international marketing. Following the diagnosis stage, the project would
provide in-service training and technical assistance in the areas of
productivity, quality and marketing and establish technological information
and consultation centers. Technical assistance would consist of 2.5 person
years of international and 3 person years of local consulting services. On
the basis of sectoral geographic concentration, the provinces of Imbabura,
Pichincha and Guayas have been selected as locations for the centers. They
would transmit the experience of SECAP, CENDES, and CENAPIA in assisting
businesses, and would develop a data base with international links. This data
base would place national and international technical information at the
disposal of businesses. The centers would provide training of middle-level
and executive managers, disseminate technological information, and render
technical assistance for production and quality control (Annex 8, p. 9, (c)).
Users of services under their proposed component will pay for them. It is
expected that activities (c) and (d) above would be fully self-supporting.
During negotiations, the schedule of fees for provision of technical
assistance to enterprises was agreed. Fees should cover 60 percent of costs
by the end of 1995 snd reach full recovery by the end of 1997.
Institutional Strengthening of Vocational Training
2.24      These activities aim at improving the quality of the vocational
training that SECAP offers, enhancing the capacity of the vocational training
system to adjust to labor market requirements, and developing SECAP's internal
management systems. Among SECAP institutional strengthening activities
initiated under Loan 2171-EC were those leading to increased participation of
the private sector in SECAP'S decisions. The role of the private sector in
organizing, managing and financing of more efficient training activities would
be enhanced under this project through agreements made between SECAP and
chambers of the private sector. During negotiations, drafts of proposed
agreements between SECAP and the private chambers were discussed. Submission
by SECAP of a plan of action for establishing during the period 1992-1995 at
least ten agreements with private chambers of commerce and/or industry would
be a loan effectiveness condition. Other activities that would be undertaken
are training of trainers, curriculum design and production of teaching
materials, refurbishing of training centers, strengthening the labor market
and earnings information system, and establishing SECAP's management
information system. Financing of consultants and other related expenditures
for the PCU are included in this component.



- 27 -
2.25      Trainina Trainers.  During a 5-year period, a total of 137 courses
of between 40 and 280 hours each would be provided to 2,158 instructors in
basic and advanced methodological training, instructional materials design,
advanced technical instruction. The project will finance seven person months
of international and 30 person months of local technical assistance. As a
supplement, 36 fellowships or internships abroad will be offered, along with
102 internships at national enterprises. Besides enhancing the quality of
training, this activity would contribute to career development of SECAP staff.
2.26      Curriculum Desion and Production of Teachina Materials. The
objective of this activity is to improve the quality of vocational training by
strengthening the technical capacity of SECAP to conduct occupational
analyses, and develop content, methods, and training aids for new courses
developed in response to changing labor market demands. Seven person months
of international technical assistance would provide specialized consultation
on design of these activities. The following curriculum design activities
would be undertaken: updating the curriculum design of 11 clusters of existing
specialties, technical/pedagogical design for courses of 11 new specialties of
the CP training program, curriculum design for 8 new specialties, and
implementing a pilot outreach training project, and a pilot project for
individualized training in welding.   Implementation would be conducted by 46
specialists, who would receive a one month special course.
2.27      Teaching materials (equipment, auxiliary didactic materials,
printed and audio-visual aids) that would be provided include teaching
equipment and instruments for the 25 permanent centers of SECAP, teaching
materials for the activities of the informal workers training program, 166
technical manuals for all SECAP specialties, and 16 instructional videotapes
for different specialties. In addition, an audio-visual materials
reproduction unit (filmstrips, video tapes, and slides) would be established
and 14 technical staff would receive a 40-hour course in the handling of these
materials.
2.28      Refurbishing Training Centers.   Limited equipment would be
provided for development of new specialties, as well as installation and spare
parts for existing equipment. New specialties included are small-scale
mining, tanning, industrial electronics, data processing, and baking.
2.29      Strenathenina the Labor Market and Earninas Information System.
Technical assistance and staffing would be provided to establish an
information system for orienting vocational training programs so that they
respond more efficiently to the demands of the labor market. The National
Employment Institute (INEM), which has established household surveys, would
continue developing with SECAP labor market monitoring systems analyzing
existing information (started under Loan 2171 EC), and would develop the
collection of new information for tracer/evaluation studies of SECAP graduates
that would allow a more thorough examination of the impact of SECAP programs.
A data bank with labor market information along with analytical models of the
impact of economic changes on the demand for labor and labor skills would be
outcomes of this activity. INEM would also develop a living standards
measurement survey (LSMS) preparing the questionnaire and carrying out a



08 s
field-based pilot preparatory survey. SECAP would also establish a National
Information System for Vocational Training linked with the CINTERFOR regional
network, with one national center and four specialized regional centers that
would support quality improvement of training programs. A total of
approximately three person years of international and 15 months of local
technical assistance would support these labor market information activities.
2.30      Management Information System.  This activity is aimed at providing
SECAP with the inputs for planning and operational docision making.
International and local tochnical assistance (10 and 3 pernon months,
respectively) will advise SECAP on preparing a set of manuals for
administrative and organizational procedures, a cost accounting system, and
conducting regular impact evaluation studies and labor market studies based on
information from several surveys, including the LSMS.
2.31      The studies proposed in paras. 2.26, 2.29 and 2.30 are part of the
project activities aimed at strengthening sectoral effectiveness and
increasing the efficiency of training programs (para. 2.18). To encure that
the operational recommendations following the results of the studies would be
incorporated in regular training operations during the project's lifetime,
results of the studies should be available by October 31, 1994, one year
before the mid-term project review of 1995 (para. 2.42 below). During
negotiations, proposals and timetables for the studies were reviewed. The
Government provided assurances that it will carry out the studies in
accordance with the schedules agreed. Results of the studies of curriculum
design would be available by March 1994 and of impact of vocational training
by September 1994.
D. Implementation
2.32      Project Management.  Project implementation would be carried out
within the existing organizational structure of both MEC and SECAP through
units whose operational and administrative responsibilities are directly
linked to project components. Overall responsibility for implementation of
the Basic Education Component would be vested in the Minister of Education and
Culture and of the Training Component in the Executive Director of SECAP.
They would be supported in general policy setting and institutional
coordination by a Committee of Directors in MEC and a Board of Directors in
SECAP, and, to facilitate project implementation, would be assisted by two
Project Coordinating Units (PCUs).
2.33      The PCUs would be staffed by a Coordinator and consultants, both
local and international. The Coordinators would report directly to the
Minister of Education and to the Executive Director of SECAP respectively.
Each PCU would have one technical advisor and technical consultants that would
support and monitor technical execution of project components, as well as an
administrator/accountant that would manage personnel, procurement, consultant
contracting, accounting and financial activities under the project. Technical
consultants at MEC's PCU would be in the areas of: education management,
education quality, implementation of decentralized basic education programs,
infrastructure, and legal counsel. Technical consultants at SECAP'S PCU would



- 29 -
be in the areas of: adult education and basic skills, small export
enterprises, and vocational training institutional policy and management.
2.34      The Ministry of Education PCU would assist, coordinate, monitor anL
evaluate the activities of the following participating entities:
(a) DINACAPED and IPED in each province for the design and planning of
teacher training programs, and school networks for the
implementation of the training programs;
(b) School networks and Provincial Directoratos for the implementation
of the pro-school education programs;
(c) National Department of Special Education and school networks for
the implementation of the special education program;
(d) DINACAPED and the Editorial Council for the production of
educational materials and SNALME for their distribution;
(e) Council of Directors formed within MEC for the implementation of
the educational assessment program; and
(f) National Directorates of Education Planning, of Finance and
Administration and of Regular and Special Education, Provincial
Directorates and school networks for the implementation of the
institutional strengthening activities.
2.35      SECAP's PCU would assist, coordinate, monitor and evaluate the
activities of the following participating entities:
(a) Operations Directorate and CENAPIA for technology transfer, quality
control, and marketing in support of small manufacturing
businesses.
(b) Directorate of Basic Skills Training (Capacitaci6n Popular) and
MEC's Directorate of Adult Education for implementation of short-
term training programs for the poor.
(c) Technical Directorate for (i) the design, planning and
implementation of instructor training programs; (ii) curriculum
design and production of didactic materials for technical training
programs; (iii) production of technical manuals for all technical
specialties offered by SECAP; and (iv) procurement of supplemental
equipment for technical training centers.
(d) Planning Directorate for strengthening the labor market and
earnings information system and establishing SECAP's management
information system.
2.36      The PCUs structure is deemed appropriate to ensure efficiency in
project implementation while retaining implementation authority in the



- 30 -
respective line and staff departments of R4EC and SECAP. Financing for the
PCUs is included under the respective institutional strengthening activities
of each componens, and includes funds (US$300,000 equiv%lent) for paying
regular MEC or SECAP staff for their incremental work on the project to the
extent not covered by their salaries. The project preparation working teams
have been performing the role of PCUs. Establishment of PCUe as operational
entities staffed with key personnel, together with submission of satisfactory
timetable for filling remaining positions within the PCUs is a condition of
loan effectivenoss. A committee comprising the heads of the two Coordinating
Units and the Under-Secretary of Public Credit of the Miniotry of Finance
would meet reqularly to assure effective liaison between the PCUs themselves
and with MOF and taking advantage of project commonalitieo and complementary
capabilities. This committee would assure that communications and
relationships with the World Bank are carried out in a coordinated and
efficient manner.
2.37      Implementation Procedures.  The administrative unit of the PCUs
would manage project procurement and consultant contracting with support of
procurement agents. Procurement for hub school design, construction and
supervioion would be done individually or in packages of 1-3 hub schools in
three phases covering 20 hub schools in Quito and Guayaquil during the first
phase, 23 hub schools in cities other than Quito and Guayaquil during the
second phase and 12 hub schools during the third and last phase of
implementation. Furniture, equipment and vehicles for the hub schools would
be procured following the phasing of civil work construction; whenever
possible tne distribution would be included as a service to be provided by
suppliers. Procurement of basic school supplies and materials for hub schools
and other network schools would be done by school network directors.
Procurement of supplemental equipment for SECAP's training centers would be
done in packages throughout the life of the project. Office furniture and
equipment would be procured during the first two years of project
implementation. MEC, through SNALME, would be responeible for textbook
distribution which would be done through contracts with local transportation
companies. Design of textbooks and didactic materials would be done through
contracts with authors and printing would be done through competitive bids;
their distribution would be carried out by SNALME. Training materials for
teachers and instructors would be developed by the responsible units of MEC
and SECAP and training delivery would be done by MEC and SECAP's trainers.
Technical Assistance would be contracted by the PCUs with support of
procurement agents.  (For details see Annex 9).
2.38      ImDlementation Schedule and Status. The project would be completed
over a seven-year period beginning in 1992 and ending in 1998. Implementation
of componento that were fully prepared by appraisal has been initiated.
Essential preparatory work for physical infrastructure investments for the
first year of the project was completed prior to negotiations. Further
preparation for additional school networks, the education assessment system
and some of the studies, is on-going, with assistance of consultants financed
under PPF 151-lEC.



31 -
2.39      Monitorina Targete. In line with prl,ject objectives, key indicatoro
will be monitored to track and support improvements in the overall efficiency
and effectiveness of primary education. In addition, selected, well-focuaed
performance targeto related to improving efficiency, coverage, and expenditure
are presented in Annex 10. Both final and interim targets are noted. During
negotiations, the Bank and the Government agreed on the targets and indicators
of project objectives, to be included in the monitoring plan.
2.40      Fivo key targets are oetablished in the monitoring plan:
(a) a reduction in the rate of student repetition from the current
21 percent to 15 percent annually by 1998;
(b) a reduction in the average dropout rate from the current 4
percent to 3 percent annually by 1998;
(c) an increase in the participation rate of the primary school
age group from the current estimated 92 percent to 95 percent
by 1998;
(d) an increase in SECAP's rate of utilization of its physical
capacity from the current 48 percent to 60 percent by 1998;
and
(e)  an increase of the prod"ctivity and/or earnings of SECAP
graduates to 10 percent over those of a suitable comparator
group by 1995, and an additional 5 percent by 1998.
The current values and coverage targets of the above indicators are based on
analysis of information and estimates currently av.ilable and should be
refined during project implementation on the basis of improvements in the
management information and planning systems of MEC and SECAP. Refined
indicators woulce become available during project implementation based on LSMS
information and the outcomes of the educational assessment system. The
targeted gains are projected on the basis of quality improvements expected to
result from project inputs and expenditures. The targeted ir.crease in the net
enrollment ratio is based on a reduced bottleneck in enrollments at grade one
and a decrease in the number of over-aged students in the system generally,
which would free -laces for an additional 20,000 children in the 6-12 age
group. Achievements in provision of project inputs would largely determine
progress towards the performance targets. Monitoring of provision of these
inputs (e.g., numbers of textbooks provided, numbers of students benefitting
from special education programs) would therefore also be carried out (Annex
12).
2.41      Additional aspects of expenditure on basic education and on
vocational training would also be closely monitored during project
implementation, with a view to ensuring adequate overall levels of financing
and to sustaining benefits and inputs. Particular emphasis would be given to
ensuring that no real decline in the current per-student level of financing
for primary education transpires; and that sufficient internal funds are



32 
budgeted by 1998 for materials replacement and continued school supervision,
teacher and administrator training, educaticnal testing, the chosen
alternatives for special and pre-school education and support for parent-
teacher associations and maintenance of facilities. At negotiations, the
Government provided assurances that it would conduct, during the third quarter
each year, a joint review with the Bank of the MEC/SECAP budgets for the
forthcoming year. The reviews will concentrate on: (i) the overall level of
expenditure with particular attention to the shares allocated to basic
education; and (ii) the increases required to cover project incremental
recurrent expenditureso.
2.42      The results of monitoring would form a central focus in an annual
review of project implementation. The review would be conducted jointly by
MEC, SECAP, MOF, and the Bank. It would assess the previous year's progress
towards achieving expenditure, resource management, and sector performance
targets, and establish targets and scheduleB for the following year.
Particular attention would be given to ensuring that systematic school
location criteria are adhered to in the rehabilitation and construction of
classrooms for primary schools and that SECAP facilities are experiencing
increasing utilization. Resolution of implementation problems and required
adjustments in project content and targets would also form a focus of the
reviews. During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that it
would prepare and furnish for Bank review, at the end of every six month
period during project implementation, project reports regarding: (a) project
implementation results and expenditure for the preceding six months; and (b) a
related review of achievements and shortfalls based on established plans and
objectives. The two reports covering the immediately prior calendar year
shall be consolidated into an annual report which shall be the focus of an
annual review held by the Bank, the Borrower and SECAP in the third quarter of
each calendar year during project implementation. Each such review shall
conclude with the finalization of an annual plan of action to be carried out
by the Borrower and SECAP during the year immediately subsequent to the
review. The annual review of achievements and shortfalls for 1995 would be a
formal mid-project review and with a comprehensive review of all project
components. It will focus on the project impact in achieving its main
objectives (paras. 2.39 - 2.40) with particular reference to: progress in MEC
and SECAP budget programming, cost-recovery in vocational traLning,
streamlining of textbook related activities and establishment of the student
assessment system. It would include, in addition, an evaluation of the
effectiveness of provision of project inputs in achieving key targets for
improving sector performance as measured through the studies mentioned in
para. 2.31. Thereafter recommendations would be made of measures to be taken
in areas such as reallocation of funds and institutional changes to ensure the
best use of available resources congruent with project targets. Another
comprehensive review would take place in 1997.  During negotiations, the
Government provided assurances that it will perform these evaluations based on
the studiGs carried out pursuant to the Projoct.



- 33 -
E. Costs and Financing (Annex ll)
2.43      The total project cost, including physical and price contingencies,
excluding taxes and duties, is estimated at about US$118.7 million equivalent,
of which about US$33.1 million would be foreign exchange. Investment costs
amount to 76% of base costs and incremental recurrent costs amount to 24% of
base costs (Annex 11, Tables 1-4). Project costs were estimated at July 1991
price levels and include physical contingencieB of 10% for civil works and 5%
for equipment, furniture, vehicles, and textbooks. Price contingencies were
calculated at 3.4% per year for 1992-98, These rates have been applied to
local and foreign costs, and periodic currency rate adjustments based on
purchasing power parity would compensate for the difference between projected
US dollar inflation and local inflation rates. (See Table 2.1 on page 35).
2.44      Estimated construction costs for the project area are based on unit
prices derived from current contracts and cost analyses for similar standards
of construction in corresponding facilities. Estimated educational facilities
rehabilitation costs were calculated based on studies carried out on existing
facilities. Estimated costs of equipment, furniture, and vehicles are based
on current CIF unit prices, adjusted to include local transportation costs.
Estimates for technical assistance and studies are based on current rates for
local and foreign experts.  Cost estimates for training, salaries, and
operating costs are based on current costs or costing standards used by the
Ministry of Education and SECAP.
2.45      Incremental Recurrent Costs.  During the implementation period, the
project will add an average of about US$4.0 million per year to the recurrent
expenditures budget of MEC and SECAP, starting with US$2.0 million in the
initial year and rising to US$4.9 million in the last year of implementation
as shown below. These incremental operating costs would be incurred mainly by
continued provision of materials; hiring of pre-school education teachers, and
technical and administrative staff; maintenance of facilities, equipment, and
vehicles; and establishment of the new programs of education assessment,
special education, and basic skills training. The share of the Government
financing of recurrent costs under the project would build incrementally
during the 1992-98 period to facilitate absorption of the full increment at
completion.
1992   1993   1994   1995   1996    1997   1998
in US$ million
Total Cost         2.0    2.6    3.3    3.9    4.7       5.5    6.1
Bank Financing    2.0    2.6    2.0    2.3    2.8        1.6       0
Govt. Financing      0      0    1.3    1.6    1.9       3.9    6.1
Incremental operating costs generated by the project are estimated at US$4.9
million the last year of project implementation, of which US$3.3 million
correspond to ZEC and US$1.6 million to SECAP. These amounts represent 1.9
percent of the 1991 MEC budget and 45 percent of the 1991 SECAP budget.  In



34 -
the case of MEC, this incremental demand on the budget does not represent an
undue burden; even less so in view of the past decline in real expenditures on
basic education and the essential need to provide basic education of good
quality to the school-aged population. In the case of SECAP, the significant
increase in recurrent costs generated by the project reveals the relative
magnitude of the financial requirements for using the existing physical
capacity, and demonstrates institutional commitment with the Btated objective
of reorienting SECAP's activities (para. 2.18). In thie context, SECAP would
agree to institute a system of partial differential cost-recovery fees in all
ito training courses. It is expected that the complete set of cost-recovery
and fee arrangements (paras. 2.23, 2.24, 2.45) would raise the share of
recurrent expenditures financed through cost recovery from the current 2%. At
negotiations, the Government provided assurances that it will provide annually
the specified amounts required for project costs, and it was also agreed that
SECAP would institute a generalized, partial cost-recovery fee system for all
SECAP's training courses reaching a recovery of at least 24 percent of such
costs by the end of 1995.
2.46      Financina Plan.  The proposed loan of US$89.0 million would finance
about 75% of project costs, net of taxes and duties. The loan would finance
100% of foreign exchange expenditures and 65% of local expenditures. The
remaining US$33 million would be financed by the Government. To facilitate
project start-up activities, such as those related to employment of
consultants and technical and bidding spezifications for computer and office
equipment, the Bank would authorize retroactive financing of up to US$4.8
million equivalent to help cover eligible start-up expenditures made on or
after July 13, 1991, following project appraisal.
F. Disbursements
2.47      The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed during a seven-year
period as follows: (a) civil works, 70 percent of expenditures for new
construction and rehabilitation of hub schools and network schools; (b)
equipment, furniture and vehicles, 100 percent of foreign expenditures, 100
percent of local expenditures (ex-factory cost), and 80 percent of local
expenditures for other items procured locally, excluding taxes; (c) production
and distribution of textbooks, 100 percent of foreign and local expenditures,
excluding taxes; (d) educational materials, 100 percent of foreign and local
expenditures, excluding taxes; (e) training, technical assistance, consultancy
services, and studies, 100 percent of total expenditures; and (f) office and
school supplies, maintenance of educational facilities, incremental salarieo
and operating costs at a rate of 100 percent until an aggregate amount of
US$4.6 million has been reached; thereafter, disbursements for this category
would be made at a rate of 60 percent until the aggregate amount of US$10.6
million has been reached; and the remaining funds would be disbursed at a rate
of 30 percent. PPF 151-EC would be refinanced under this loan (Annex 13,
Table 2).
2.48      Proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed against withdrawal
applications to be fully documented for all contracts valued at more than
USS100,000 for goods, US$500,000 for works and US$20,000 for consultants and



- 35 -
Table 2.1
ECUADOR
FIRST SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Project Costs by Category
Sucree    (Thousands)                      USS     (Miltions)                              X Total
,.........     ...................   -----.-- ------------------(---------   % Foreign                Base
Local        Foreign        Total          Local        Foreign        Total       Exchange         Costs
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Works
1. Quito & Guayaquil                  7135.9        3599.4       10735.3            6.5            3.3           9.8          33.5            9.5
2. Other Cities                      21227.1        4332.3       25559.3            19.3           3.9          23.3           16.9          22.7
-- . - - - --  - - -  - --  - - -  -     ---------------------------------.          ..   .....................
Sub-Total                               28363.0         7931.7       36294.6           25.8           7.2           33.1          21.9          32.2
B. Equipment
1. Computing Equipment                  73.2         460.4          533.6           0.1            0.4           0.5          86.3            0.5
2. Equipment and Furniture            6242.5        7039.4        13281.9            5.7           6.4          12.1           53.0          11.8
Sub-Total                                6315.7         7499.8       13815.5            5.8           6.8           12.6          54.3           12.3
C. Didactic Materials                     1393.7        1048.5        2442.2            1.3            1.0           2.2          42.9            2.2
D. Textbooks and books                   3284.7         2790.4        6075.2            3.0            2.5           5.5          45.9            5.4
E. Vehicles                                124.9         789.7         914.6            0.1           0.7            0.8          86.3            0.8
F. Studies and Tech. Assist.
1. Studies                            6920.2        2284.2        9204.4            6.3            2.1           8.4          24.8            8.2
2. Local Experts                      2709.2          188.2        2897.4            2.5           0.2           2.6            6.5           2.6
3. Fortign Experts                      33.3        2963.8         2997.0            0.0           2.7           2.7           98.9           2.7
---..   ---.-----..------.---.  .-----.    .................................          ....................................................... .................. 
Sub-Total                                9662.7         5436.2       15098.8            8.8           5.0           13.7          36.0           13.4
G. Training
1. Scholarships                         21.8        2154.6         2176.3           0.0            2.0           2.0          99.0            1.9
2. Short-term,on-the-job trg            82.3           91.4         173.7           0.1            0.1           0.2           52.6           0.2
3. Teachers and Instructors           3375.6           13.1        3388.7            3.1           0.0           3.1            0.4           3.0
4. Staff Training                     1093.0            0.0        1093.0            1.0           0.0           1.0            0.0           1.0
-- . - - - -- - .  - -  -- -  - - -     .................................        . .. ---------------------.................... .....
Sub-Total                                4572.7         2259.1        6831.7            4.2           2.1            6.3          33.1           6.1
H. Purchasing Agents & Audits              161.4        3835.3        3996.7            0.1           3.5            3.6          96.0           3.6
................. .................................    ......--- - --- --- - -- -.......................-- --- - -- - --.........--- -- - -- -- -- ---- -----.......... ...
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                  53878.8       31590.7        85469.5           49.1          28.8           77.8          37.0          76.0
11. RECURRENT COST
........ ............ . ...
A. Human Resources
1. Teac!'irs and instructors          7867.1            0.0        7867.1           7.2            0.0           7.2            0.0           7.0
2. Professional and admin.            9500.5            0.0        9500.5           8.7            0.0           8.7            0.0           8.5
~~~~~~~ ...................................................... .   ......... ................. ....... ......... I.................. 
Sub-Total                               17367.6            0.0       17367.6           15.9           0.0           15.9           0.0           15.4
S. Office and Other Supplies             2516.3          301.3        2817.6            2.3           0.3            2.6          10.7            2.5
C. Maintenance
1. Civil Work Maintenance             1647.7            0.0        1647.7            1.5           0.0           1.5            0.0           1.5
2. Equipment Maintenance              2315.4           12.6        2328.0            2.1           0.0           2.1            0.5           2.1
3. Vehicle Maintenance                 891.1           92.2         983.4            0.8           0.1           0.9            9.4           0.9
- - - -- - - -- - - --  - - --  - -     ---------------------------------           -----------------........................-
Sub-Total                                4854.2          104.8        4959.1            4.4           0.1            4.5           2.1           4.4
D. other Operating Costs                  1780.0          19.6        1799.6            1.6            0.0           1.6            1.1           1.6
................ ......................... ............................................................   ............................... ..... ......
Total RECURRENT COSTS                   26518.1          425.7       26943.9           24.2            0.4          24.6           1.6          24.0
Totat BASELINE COSTS                    80396.9        32016.4      112413.4           73.3          29.2          102.4          28.5         100.0
Physical Contingencies                2972.1        1122.0         4094.0            2.7           1.0           3.7           27.4           3.6
Price Contingencies                  10568.3        3227.0        13795.3            9.6           2.9          12.6           23.4          12.3
Total PROJECT COSTS                     93937.3        36365.4      130302.7           85.6          33.1          118.7          27.9         115.9
m             C    f0=z=zzswz=saeaa=    an=rxSS Z222222asflzzsz                         CCDs=2as===



- 36 -
for all of the incremental operational expenditures. Disbursement requests
for lesser amounts would be disburBed against submission of statements of
expenditures (SOE), for which t.e supporting documentation would be retained
by the PCUs for periodic inspection by the Bank and by external auditors. All
expenditures and SOEs would be transmitted to the Bank through the PCUs. To
facilitate direct management of their part of the loan proceeds by SECAP, the
Government will sign a subsidiary agreement with SECAP. Submission of such
agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, is a loan effectiveness condition. The
government would set up a Special Account in US dollars at the Central Bank of
Ecuador with an initial deposit of US$4.2 million. Withdrawals from the
Special Account would be supported by the required documentation. Separate
accounting records would be established and monitored by the Project
Coordinating Units in MEC and SECAP. The closing date of the project would be
September 30, 1999.
G. Procurement
2.49      Procurement of civil works, goods, and services would be done in
accordance with Bank guidelines, using standard bidding documents based on
Bank models. The GOE has recently enacted new procurement legislation that
resolves past disagreemento regarding the precedence of Bank procurement
guidelines over local legislation. The loan agreement for this project
contains explicit provisions dealing with points of difference, either in
substance or interpretation, between Bank guidelines and Ecuadoran
legislation. For efficiency in complying with Bank procurement policies and
procedures, the two executing agencies would retain the services of
procurement agents whose qualifications are acceptable to the Bank. The
contracting of such agents would be a condition of effectiveness. Project
costs breakdown by procurement method are summarized in Table 2.2.
2.50      Civil works.  It is expected that about 880 schools throughout the
country would be repaired at cost ranging between US$5,000 and US$15,000 per
school. Because of their modest size and scattered locations it would not be
justified to procure these works through international competitive bidding
(ICB). Therefore, school repairs costing US$50,000 or less and up to an
aggregate of US$7.0 million, would be contracted on the basis of comparison of
price quotations obtained from at least three local contractors.  Local
competitive bidding (4CB) procedures, acceptable to the Bank, would be used
when it would be possible to group repair works in contracts estimated to cost
above US$50,000. The construction of the proposed 55 new hub schools which
would be located in 25 different cities would be carried out over a six-year
period. Construction packages of two or more hub schools would be encouraged;
resulting contract values are expected to range between US$250,000 to
US$1,200,000. Therefore, these works would be procured through LCB procedure.
acceptable to the Bank up to an aggregate amount not exceeding US$32.5
million. In the event that the expected cost of a package or contract would
exceed US$1.5 million, it would 'ie procured through ICB.



37 -
TABLE 2.2
ECUADOR
FIRST SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million)
Category                ICB       LCB        Other      Not Appl.   Total
Civil Works                     32.5        7.0                   39.5
(22.5)     (5.0)                  (27.5)
Equipment, Furniture  10.6       3.0        2.0                   15.6
Vehicles            (10.6)     (2.0)      (0.9)                 (13.5)
Textbooks and Didactic 5.0       2.5        1.5                    9.0
Materials            (5.0)     (2.5)      (1.0)                  (8.5)
Studies and Technical                      19.2                   19.2
Assistance                              (19.2)                 (19.2)
Training                                               7.0         7.0
(7.0)       (7.0)
Office and School                           3.0                    3.0
Supplies                                 (1.5)                  (1.5)
Operating Costs                             5.3       19.9        25.2
(2.5)      (9.3)      (11.8)
15.6      38.0      38.0       26.9        118.7 a/
(15.6)    (27.0)     (29.1)     (16.3)      (89.0)
______________________________________________-____________________________
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts estimated to be financed by the Bank.
A/   Figures do not add to Project total of US$118.7 million because of
rounding.
2.51 Textbooks and Didactic Materials.  Procurement of about US$5.0 million
worth of printing of large runs of textbooks based on existing and new
designs would be done in packages of at least US$200,000 and through ICB.
Contracts for the printing of textbooks and manuals valued at above US$25,000
but no more than US$200,000 each and US$2.5 million in aggregate, would be
awarded through LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. Teacher, instructor
and staff training manuals would be developed by MEC and SECAP staff with
technical assistance. The printing of small numbers of these teachers' guides
and training manuals estimated to cost US$25,000 or less, and not exceeding
US$1.5 million in aggregate, would be contracted on the basis of comparison of
price quotations obtained from at least three local print shops.



- 38 -
2.52 &tuipment. Unleso otherwise agreed by the Bank, vehicles (excluding
motorcycles) including maintenance, and computers including software and
maintenance, would be procured through ICB. Furniture and equipment
(including spare parts) valued at above US$25,000 but no more than US$200,000
would be procured through LCB procedures acce,ptable to the Bank, up to an
aggregate value of US$3.0 million. Contracts for other furniture, motorcycles
and other equipment (including spare parts) valued at US$25,000 or less and
not exceeding US$7.3 million in aggregate, tiould be awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three eligible
suppliers. Under ICB, local manufacturers would be granted a margin of
preference for purposes of bid evaluation, in accordance with Bank guidelines.
2.53      Office and School supolies.  In view of the project's objective of
decentralizing school management, procurement of office and school supplies
would be carried out by the end users over a period of six years through
contracts valued at US$25,000 or less, up to an aggregate of US$3.0 million.
2.54      Consultants.  The selection and appointment of consultants for
studies and technical assistance, including the hiring of local authors for
preparing new textbook designs/improving of rural textbooks, would be done in
accordance with the August 1981 guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers.
2.55      All procurement documentation relevant to ICB contracts and civil-
works contracts valued at above US$500,000 would be subject to prior review by
the Bank. In addition, the Bank would review ex-ante, the first LCB
procurement for school rehabilitation works, hub school construction, textbook
printing and equipment respectively, regardless of their value. Also, an ex-
post review or contracts disbursed against SOEs would be conducted during
field supervision on the basis of random sampling. The proposed prior review
levels would cover about 40% of items subject to procurement arrangements in
accordance with Table 2.2.
H. Accounting and Auditina
2.56      SECAP's PCU would develop, with technical assistance, an acciunting
manual that includes a chart of accounts, payment and control systems to
ensure efficient use of loan resources, and budgeting and management reports.
MEC's PCU would contract technical assistance to develop, in consultation with
SECAP, the accounting manual that includes a chart of accounts, payment and
control systems, as well as budgeting and management reports. During
negotiations the Government provided assurances that the complete accounting
system acceptable to. the Bank, to be used for the project by MEC, including
charts of accounts, payment and control systems and budgeting and management
reporting systems, would be operational by June 30, 1992. SECAP provided such
assurances with regard to its accounting system as well.
2.57      During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that
implementing agencies would maintain separate project accounts that would be
audited annually by independent auditors, in accordance with appropriate



- 39 -
auditing principles, with terms of reference approved by the Bank. The audit
would include the Special Account and Statement of Expenditures.
I. Benefits and Risks
2.58      Expected Benefits.  The principal benefits of the proposed project
will be increased human capital accumulation among the poor. This would
include both primary school children in low-income urban areas, who would gain
a better chance to complete primary schooling of good quality; as well as
adults who are self-employed or employed in low-productivity o7cupations, who
would obtain skills that would improve their productivity, occulpational
mobility, and income. The project would invest in human capital to strengthen
the basis for Ecuador's economic development, in accordance with the Bank's
country strategy. It would alleviate poverty in the medium term and
contribute to improved income distribution by targeting education and training
on the poor. The project policy focus would help to improve the quality of
basic education, especially for the poor. More specifically, it would
decentralize educational management; provide cost-effective special education
to overcome barriers to learning for poor children and ethnic minorities;
institute a system of educational testing; and orient SECAP's training toward
meeting the needs of the poor.  In addition, the project would improve the
efficiency of public resource use by strengthening the process by which the
education budget of approximately US$200 million per year is allocated, and by
decentralizing management of the education sector to the provinces and the
schools serving poor urban neighborhoods. Improvements in budgeting would
parallel overall budget reform measures that the Bank is pursuing at the macro
level. The project would take advantage of SECAP's demonstrated capacity to
implement projects, which would be strengthened ard serve as a model for the
education sector, as well as utilize the MEC's basic education capabilities to
complement SECAP's training for marginally-literate workers. It would also
lead to fuller utilization of SECAP's physical capacity created under Loan
2171-EC.
2.59      The project would promote the use of information to guide policies
and program plans in the social sectors. This would be done through
establishment of a system for evaluating academic achievement and improving
the flow of management and budgeting information in the education sector, and
through utilization of household survey information and feedback from training
programs to target training and adapt its content to signals from the labor
market. The existing household surveys would be refined to provide reliable
bases for poverty analysis.
2.60      Risks.  The principal risk is in the area of project implementation,
where the capacity of the MEC in particular is weak. This problem may be
aggravated by the forthcoming presidential election and change of political
administrations in 1992. To reduce this risk and ensure a balance between
efficient project management and related capacity building at MEC and SECAP,
the project includes the appointment of technical and administrative
consultants to assist with project management. Moreover, the project design
incorporatec features to overcome implementation problems that have arisen in



- 40 
earlier projects in Ecuador, including: (a) decentralized project management
in the education sector, working through the line agencies of the MEC and a
small, flexible Project Coordinating Unit, and utilizing the best of sector
staff, chosen on a merit basis and provided with training and career
development opportunities to carry out project tasks; (b) use of SECAP's
project management experience; (c) contracting with specialized international
agencies to improve and facilitate processes of procurement and technical
assistance; and (d) taking stepo dur.ing preparation to build broad and
decentralized support for the project among potential beneficiaries and
stakeholderse The project would establish close tieo between schools and
their communities and between training activities and employers. Its
substance and targeted approach to address the needs of the poor promises to
meet the approval of virtually any incoming administration. A second risk
concerns the sustainability of the project. Preparatory activities have
reviewed carefully the recurrent cost implications of the project and
determined that these will not impose an undue strain on sector finances. The
project will include annual subsector and project budget reviews during
supervision. Establishment of cost-recovery schemes and managing their
proceeds in a decentralized manner is part of the project and should
contribute to long-run sustainability.
II. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
3.01      During negotiations the Government furnished the ministerial decrees
establishing the School Networks (para. 2.04) and the Editorial Council (para.
2.11).
3.02      During negotiations, the Government (and SECAP where applicable)
provided assurances that:
(a)    a MEC resolution, satisfactory to the Bank, governing the
operational relationships between the Provincial Education
Directorates and the School Networks would be made effective
by July 1992 (para. 2.04);
(b)    criteria, acceptable to the Bank, would be applied for
choosing the sites of networks and hub schools to be built
during phases two and three of the project (para. 2.06);
(c)    cost-recovery would be implemented in the provision of
textbooks, mainly through rental fees (para. 2.10), and a
plan for rationalizing textbook activities, including plans
for disposition of the printing press, reduction in number of
entities within NEC involved in developing and printing texts
and materials, and provision for a small and effective
textbook unit, would be presented to the Bank prior to the
1993 annual project review, and thereafter carried out by MEC
(para. 2.11);



- 41 -
(d)   the assessment system would be introduced on a pilot basis in
1992 and established on a national basis by the 1996 school
year (para. 2.13);
(e)   budget funds for teaching materials, building maintenance and
other non-salary expenditures would be allocated at the local
level (para 2.15);
(f)   all studies and consultations would be performed as part of
the Institutional Strengthening activities in accordance with
the Schedules agreed. Regarding SECAP, the results of the
studies of curriculum design would be available by March 1994
and of impact of vocational training by September 1994
(paras. 2.17-2.31);
(g)   SECAP would charge fees for the provision of technical
assistance to enterprises in accordance with an agreed
schedule. Fees should cover 60 percent of costs by the end
of 1995 and reach full recovery by the end of 1997. (para.
2.23);
(h)   SECAP would implement the plan of action of para. 3.03 (b)
(para. 2.24);
(i)   it would conduct, during the third quarter each year, a joint
review with the Bank of the MEC/SECAP budgets for the
forthcoming year. The reviews will concentrate on: (i) the
overall level of expenditure with particular attention to the
shares allocated to basic education; and (ii) the increases
required to cover project incremental recurrent expenditures
(paras. 2.41, 2.45);
(j)   it would prepare and furnish to the Bank for review, at the
end of every six month period during project implementation,
project reports regarding: (a) project implementation results
and expenditure for the preceding six months; and (b) a
related review of achievements and shortfalls based on
established plans and objectives. The two reports covering
the immediately prior calendar year shall be consolidated
into an annual report which shall be the focus of an annual
review held by the Bank, the Borrower and SECAP in the third
quarter of each calendar year during project implementation.
Each such review shall conclude with the finalization of an
annual plan of action to be carried out by the Borrower and
SECAP during the year immediately subsequent to the review
(para. 2.42);
(k)    a mid-project eval 'ation in 1995 and another comprehensive
evaluation in 1997 based on the studies carried out pursuant
to the Project would be carried out (para 2.42);



- 42 -
(1)    the specified amounts required for project costs would be
provided annually , and that a generalized, partial cost-
recovery system for all SECAP's training courses reaching
recovery of at least 24 percent of such costs by the end of
1995 would be established (para. 2.45);
(m)    it would present to the Bank before June 30, 1992, the
complete accounting system to be used by each of MEC and
SECAP, including charts of accounts, payment and control
systeme and budgeting and management reporting systems (para.
2.56);
(n)    it would:  (i) have the records and accounts for each fiscal
year audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards and procedures; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each year, a certified copy of the agreed audit
reports; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the records and account as well as the audit as
the Bank would from time to time reasonably request; and (iv)
select an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank that
would conduct the annual audit (para. 2.57).
3.03      Conditions of loan effectiveness are:
(a)    submission of the operational agreement, satisfactory to the
Bank, between the Ministry of Education and SECAP (para.
2.21);
(b)    submission by SECAP of a plan of action for establishing
during the period 1992-1995 at least ten agreements with
private chambers of commerce and/or industry (para. 2.24.);
(c)    establishment of PCUs as operational entities staffed with
key personnel, together with submission of satisfactory
timetable for filling remaining positions within the PCUs
(paras. 2.33, 2.36);
(d)    submission of a subsidiary agreement, satisfactory to the
Bank, for the transfer of Loan proceeds from the Government
to SECAP for SECAP's part of the project (para 2.48).
(e)    submission by MEC and SECAP of signed contracts between each
of them and the procurement/technical assistance agents
(para. 2.49);
3.04      Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project would
constitute a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$89.0 million equivalent to
the Government of Ecuador, to be repaid over a period of 20 years, including 5
years of grace.



- 43 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 2
BASIC SOCIOECONOMIC INDICATORS
I. Basic Economic Indicators
As GNP per capLta (USS 1988)
B: Income distribution share of household, lowest 20S
Cs Population below absolute poverty line (percent) 1977-87
1I. Education*
Di Adult Illiteracy rate (percent)
;Es Public Expenditure on Education as Z of CNP
F: Public Expenditure on Educatlon as Z of Government
CG  Public Expendlture on Education per Student US$-Primary
H: Publlc Expenditure on Education per Student US$eSecevvffry
I: Public Expenditure on Education per Student USS-Higher Education
III. Health
J: Life Expectancy at birth (years) 1988
K: Infant mortality rate per thousand live births 1988
A     B   C    D        E      F      G     H       I      J    K
Argentina        2,520  4.4  19   6.1    1.9    8.9    13   268    408 70.7   32
Bahamas         10,560  3.0        10.3   **6.2  17.7   ...   ...  . ... 69.9   26
Barbados         5.990  7.0         0.7    6.1   17.8   627  *691  2,604 74.9   12
Belize           1,490  ...         8.8    ...   15.5   141   363    ... 66.7  . 50
Bolivia            570  2.4  85  36.8    0.4   21.3   104   114    ... 53.0  108
Brazil           2,160  2.0  73  22.2    4.5   17.7   219   246  1,300 65.3   61
Chile            1.510  4.0         8.9    3.6   15.3   180   158    581 71.6   20
Colombla         1,240  4.0  70  14.8    2.7   22.4    40    64    322 68.0   39
Costa Rica       1.690  3.3  34   7.4    4.6   21.6   165   322  1.177 75.0   18
Dominican Rep.    720  6.0  43  31.4    1.6   10.0    26    31    123 66.0   63
Ecuador          1,110  2.0  65  10.0    3.5   21.3    81   136    173 65.0   55
El Salvador        940  5.5  32  30.2    3.0    8.5    96   103    273 63.0   57
Guatemala          900  5.5  74  45.0    1.8   12.4    54   114    491 62.0   57
Guyana             420  ...  ..   8.4    9.6    8.1   101    93  2,421 66.1   44
HaLti              380  ...  80  65.2    1.9   20.6    27    47    547 54.7  116
Honduras           860  6.9  55  40.5    4.9   19.5   111   176  1,023 64.0   68
Jamaica          1,060  5.4  80   3.9    5.2   11.0   140   188  2.064 73.0   11
Mexico           1,770  2.9  49   9.7    3.4   16.2    86    94    989 68.6   46
Nicaragua          830  3.0  19  42.5    6.2   12.0   271   438  3.150 64.0   60
Panama           2,130  2.0  30  11.8    5.4   14.3   283   348  1,072 71.9   22
Paraguay         1,180  ...  50  12.5    1.5   16.7    45   139    502 66.9   4.
Peru             1,300  4.4  68  18.1    3.3   15.7   158   215    266 62.0   86
SurLname         2,450  9.0  ..  10.0   10.4   22.8   908   383  2,305 66.6   42
Trinidad & Tob. 3,350  4.2  39   5.1    5.8   12.3 1,050 1,403  5,521 71.0   16
Uruguay          2,510  6.0  ..   6.1    3.1   15.0   318   390    669 72.0   23
Venezuela        3,250  3.0  56  15.3    5.4   21.3   232   137  2,074 70.1   35
LAC Average      1,860  4.4  54  16.7    4.0   16.6   219 266.4 1202.2 67.0   53
Reference Groups
Low lncome         320  ...  65  43.3    4.0    8.5   ..,   ...    ... 60.0   72
Middle income   1,940  4.4  36  26.2    4.4   11.2   ...   ...    ... 66.0   52
High incom      17,080  4.7  ..   ...    5.4    3.9   ...   ...    ... 76.0    9
Source: The LAC Connection, World Bank, LATHR, 1990.
* Most recent estimates around 1986
** Refers to 1975
... Not available



- 44 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 2
BASIC SOCIOECONOMIC INDICATORS
IV. Health
L: Number of Habitants per Doctor 1984-87
M: Number of Habitants per Nurse 1984-87
Ns Government Expenditure on Health as a percentage of total expend. 1987
V.  Nutrition
0  Infants with Low Birth-Weight (percent)
P: Daily Calorie Supply per capita
Q: Protein Supply per capita (grams per day)
R: Index of Food Production per capita (1979-81 - 100)
VI. Population
S: Population (thousands)  .989
T: Population Growth-percent/per year 1980-86
U: Population Growth-percent/per year 1986-2000 (estimate)
V: Birthrate per Thousand Population 1988
W: Deathrate per Thousand Population 1988
L      M      N    0    P      Q    R         S       T    U   V   V
Argentina    374    981  2.1    6 3,210  107  96.9    32,429  1.4  1.1  21  9
Bahamas    1,060    206 13.5         2,652   77 101.5         262  2.0  1.8  25  S
Barbados   1,123    223 11.6    6 3.199  100  73.0            262  0.3  0.2  17  8
Belize     2,221    496  9.0         2.599   70  91.3         183  1.9  1.7  37  7
Bolivia    1,538  2,477  1.9   12 2,143   56  94.8          7,113  2.7  2.7  42 14
;              Brazil      1,080  1,205  9.5    8 2,656   61 111.8   147,399  2.2  1.8  28  8
Chile      1,231    371  6.3    7 2,579   67 105.0    12,960  1.7  1.3  23  6
Colombia   1,186    627  4.5   15 2.542   56 101.7    31,192  2.1  1.6  26  6
Costa Rica   958    450 19.3   10 2,803   68  86.0         2,941  2.3  2.0  27  4
Dom. Rep.  1,763  1.209 10.6   16 2,477   53  91.5          7,018  2.4  1.8  31  7
Ecuador    2.900  2,684  7.3   20 2,058   49  95.9    10,490  2.6  2.2  32  7
El Salv.   2,829    934  7.4   15 2,160   53  90.3          5,135  1.3  2.1  36  8
Guatemala  2,184    851  7.6   10 2,307   60  90.0         8,935  2.9  2.8  40  8
Guyana     6,220    885  5.7   11 2,484   60  77.6         1,023  0.8  0.6  27  7
Haiti      7,179  2,292 11.1   17 1,902   45  95.2          6,38.  1.8  1.9  35 13
Honduras   1,511    672 14.7   20 2,068   53  75.1         4,982  3.6  2.9  39  8
Jamaica    2,065    492  7.8    8 2,590   58 100.1         2,483  1.5  0.5  23  6
Mexico     1,242    880  1.3   15 3,132   81  92.5    86,737  2.2  1.9  28  6
Nicaragua  1.498    534  ...   15 2,495   63  70.5         3,745  3.4  3.0  41  7
Panama     1,000    390 16.7    8 2,446   59  92.1         2,370  2.2  1.6  26  S
Paraguay   1,459    999  5.8    6 2,853   79 107.5         4,157  3.2  2.7  35  6
Peru       1.042    ...  5.8    9 2,246   61  95.5    21,790  2.2  2.1  31  9
Suriname   1,264    276  3.7    . 2,725   67 101.9            397  0.2  0.4  32  7
Trin. & Tob  962    258 15.9    . 3,082   82  71.6         1,263  1.7  1.4  26  6
Uruguay       502    ...  4.8    8 2,648   78 104.2        3,104  0.6  0.6  17 10
Venezuela    701    ... 10.0    9 2,494   66  93.2    19,245  2.8  2.2  30  5
LAC Average  933    857  6.7   11 2,700   69 100.7  *413,600  2.2  1.8  28  7
Ref Groups
L.-income  1,462  1,547  4.2   18 2,384   57 116.4 *2,884,000 2.0  1.9  31 10
M.-income  1,334    ...  6.7   10 2,846   75 100.7 t1,068,000 2.2  1.9  29  8
H.-lncome    530    168 12.7    7 3,376  101 102.1   *784,200 0.7  0.6  14  9
Source s The LAC Connection, World Bank, LATHR, 1990.
* Refers to the total population                                         -
... Not available



Tal .e
ECUADOR
Public Expenditure In Social Sectors by Ministry and Main lostitutioni
1980-1990
Hillions of Constant 1988 Sucres
Sub-Total                              Sub-Total
Year   Education .J Welfare   Labor   Health  Ministries  SECAP          IEOS  IESS ki  Institut.    Total
1980       186,516    2,956    1,092   27.974   218,538   1.071    6.734   18,758    26.563   245,101
1981       139,157    4,337    1,674   35,754   180,922   2,106    8,008'. 22,0i9    32,153   213,075
1982       129,233    4,176    1,274   36,593   171,276   1,524    8,580   23.513    33.617   204,893
1983       112,345    5.096    1,106   32,971   151,518   1,7S5    7,390   21,736    30,861   i82,378
1984       108,299    2,965        807   31,303   143,373   1,012    6,865   18,610    26.487   169,861
1985       110,434    3,614        791  '32,251   147,089   1,229    3,808   21,211    26,Z48   173,337
1986       111,690    4,503        983   31,424   148,600   1,163    7,645   17,53c    26,347   174,947
1987       107,451    4,552        876   32,298   145,177   2,063   10,941   18,684    31,688   176,865
1983       101,045    3,951    1,024   32,552   138,570   2,344   10,246   17,941    30,531   169,101
19B9 8      86,779   11,147    1,022.- 36,882   135,829   1,159   10,904   14,187    26,250   162,080
1990.B      75.452   13,870    1.274   40,404   131,000   1,260   18,474   18,780    38,514   169,514
Sources Ministry of Financo, *Presupuesto del Estadoj 1900-19903 Casto Efectlvog
Ministerial and Institutional Judgets
Notes .
aJ Includes all higber education pxpenditures.
bI Includes health related expenditures only.
*gj toisioaal figures.
Al Coded ludget  s oft pril 30, 1990.                   ,                                                        CQ>
3A                                                                              .                  , x
Ii'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Table 2
ECUADOR-
Share of Social Expenditureiin GDP and in Total Public Budget (Pt)
(3.)
Total Social
Iducatlon           Health      Other Social Sec.        Sub- Total           Institutes           Sectors
CDP        PA      GDP        PB       GDP        PB       GDP        PB       GDP        PB      GDP         PB
-         ----     ----      ----      ----      ----      ----      ---       ----      ----       ---      ----
1970       2.8     19.8       0.5       3.4      n.a.      n.a.       3.3      23.2     n.a.    n1a.        n.a.      n.a.
1980       7.2     50.0       1.1       7.5       0.2       1.1       8.4  *  58.6        1.0      7.1        9.4     65.7
1981      5.1      31.6       1.3       8.2       0.2       1.4       6.7     41.3        1.2      7.3       7.8      48.7
i912       4.6     30.2       1.3       8.5       0.2       1.3       6.1      40.0       1.2      7.9       7.4      47.9
1983       4.2     29.0       1.2    - 8.5        0.2       1.6       5.6     39.1        1.1      8.0       6.8      47.0
1984       3.9     28.7       1.1       8.3       0.1       1.0       5.1     38,0       0.9       7.0       6.1      45.0
1985       3.8     24.8       1.1       7.3       0.2       1.0       5.0     33.1       0.9       5.9       5.9      39.0
1986      3.7      25.5       1.0       }.2       0.2       1.3       5.0     34.0       0.9       6.0       5.8    .40.0
1987      3.8      26.3       1.2       7.9       0.2       1.3       5.2     35.6       1.1       7.8       6.3      43.3
1985      3.2      24.2       1.0       7.8       0.2      1.2        4.3     33.2       1.0       7.3       5.3      40.6
1989      2.7      22.1       1.1       9.4       0.4      3.1       4.2      34.6       0.8       6.7       5.0      41.3
1990      2.3      15.1       1.2       8.1       0.5      3.0       3.9  *  26.3        1.2       7.7       5.1      34.0
__--_________.___________,_____      --______  --___ ----___----___---______     --.   __-  _  ____- __- _- _- .- ___- __
Sources Social Sector Study ebtimtes (see Table 1.1 and Annex 17).
F



- 47 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 9
Table 3
emm=
ACTUAL SOCIAL SBOCR EdWPTURE BY MINISW
CMoand Conatant 1988 MSO)
1960                          1981                        1982
fEC r  N         rVSE     TOTAL   REzURENT r TE     TrrAL  REBT1 DxESMEr  TOTAL
EDUCATION
Pr_-chcol A Primary              119,884        0    119,514   111,757       88  111.792   98, en         SY   98.708
Midile School                     82,811      887      92,608   88,282       1S   88.266   80,487         SI   80,488
Higher Education                    n.m.     n.e.        n.e.     n.m.     n.n.      n.e.      n.uE.    n.D.      n.e.
Other                            188,670   79.938    21,606   84,881   87,281   12.,112   81,903   88,806  117,211
Sub-tota                         847,818   80,276    427,790  281,840   87,88    819,170  261,028   88,876  290,404
Employment promotion A
Humn Reecree. developent             378       14        889       449      139       889       406      112      820
other                              1,678      287       2,118    1,951    1,299    8,280    1,568        B4     2,404
sub-total                          2,254      251       2,808    2,400    1,488    3.888    1.968        989    2,924
Nutrition A Prevention programs      819       26        868    1.007       114    1,120    2,002         89    2,041
Other                             88,254   10,382      68,8s9   67,140   18,748   8o,688   68,762   18,1S2   01,694
Sub-tote                          88,774   10.68       64,161   61,140    18,889   82,008   66,764   18,172   88.988
Popular promotion program           881         1        382      8a8        e8       624       877    2,688    8,01J
Child protection                   8,016                8,110    8,81        90    8,408    2,e99        780    8,709
other                              2,825      980       8,267    2,781    8,168    8,916      1,8=     1,088    2,087
ub-totI                            8,719    1,060       6,779    6,624    3,623    9,947    8,1S0    4,424    9,661
TOTAL                            409,261   91.974    801,268   89,0O1l   88,980  414,961  8S8,914   58,930  892,848
193                           e1964                       19
R aEr Ddrr8W   TtrAL  RF tET                TW      TOTAL  RIf94T D*WrMEr TOTAL
DUCATISON
Pr*-cheol A Primry                67,868        0      67,606   e4,78         8   84,766   87,714          2   67,717
Middle School                     74,470       as      74,826   74,072       82   74,104   79400          67   79,487
Higher Education                    n.e,     n.a.        ".m.     na.      n.a.      n.m.   40,400    7,776   48,178
Other                             77,268   18,618      98,879   66,962   20,86    89,498   21,776   16,18i   67,906
sub-tota1                        289,6   18,8n        257.676  207,781   20,r07  248,8MO  229,267   24,002  266,209
Eoplo_amt protin &
Humn Reaorcea devlopmnt              88n       69        426       688      114       447       818       89      674
Other                              1,612      60        2,132    I,68        48    1,406    1,6          106    1,444
Sub-toal                           1,68       6e        2,886    16o        102    1,6 8      1,8 O      167    1,618
MUALTH
Musrition A Preention program      1.207      86        1,841    1,884       38    1,660    1,024         20    1,044
Other                              6,e981   l,I.2      74,068   88,66    16,810   70,446   8,172   19,784   72.92e
Sub-total                           1i8   17,40       7,66   84,972   16,626   71,76   84,196   19,774   78,970
Poplar prtmIon prora                   ,      821 an    1,17       811      86        64?      264       478     7*U
Child preotection                  80   -      04       4,000    2,044       as    6,479    2,984        861    ,868i
Other                              1,446    8,048       6,811    1,041    1,662    2,67       8,59w.     6      4,197
Sul-t11al                          4,917    6.772      11,09    4,196    2,604      6,79      1,6618%   1,482    0,286
IVAL                             60,069   48,4814        07,8121 2   1,  40,19    821,686  2919,70   46,696  887,868 "t
-   -   -       -        -         -         -        -        -~~~~~(^X



-48-                                         ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 9
Table 3
(cont 'd)
ACnVAL SOCIAL SETOR E(9OrrAE OY MDINISTRY
CThouaand Conatant 198 US$)
1l88                          1987                        1646
IT           DSNfESl4   TOTAL   R    tM68ENr    StTEr TOTAL  lhT  DWT@Er TOTAL
MIUATIO4
Ir'-chool  Prlary                 89e88s        0      69,8a  83,230          0   68,250   82,156          0    2,1U14
"iddl ScWool                      6t4,140       0      84,140   79,701        17   79,718   71,643        2a   79,664
Nigh.,' EdCeUtion                 42,484    7,962      50,416   40,200    6,268   46,485   38,840    s,JC       40,UiO
Other                             20,27    11, 773     32,048   21,471   18548   87,018   20.129        , 975   29,104
Sub-ttl                          258,438    19,738    28, 170  224,621   21,627  246,448  217,452   14,802  281,754
11loyment  ro.otln *
l.n Ramrce  dowelopaefnt             481       125        608      a8          a       W1       804        2       806
Oth..                              1,842      109       1,61    1,442        217    1,689    2,007        64    2,041
Sub-total                          2,023      233       2,258    1,767       222    2,009    2,.11        87    2,847
HEALTH
ttritien & Prvenftlon    nmroora   1,301       30 1s,30            953       23       976    S,816       148    S,64
Other                             82,847    7,897      70,744    8,8 13   14,768   73,101   81,089   17,98    6,"9e
Sub-total                         64,148    7,927      72,075   59,2a8   14,311   74,0o7    u56,77   18,02   74,689
Powular proasion proen               31       219        5Ws       26        33       269       218      141       859
Child pGotlteon                    8,169      48        3,657    8,396        60    S,48    3,028        1"      8,192
Other                              2.34    3,774        a,1ss    1.616    5,097    a,716    1,489    4.62        5,610
6gb-total                          5,649    4,481      10,330    5,260    S.191   1o0441    4,735    4,826    9,061
TOTAL                            306.4S    s2,8376    340,630  290,925   42,01  832,975  281,075   86,747  317,621
1959 1/                       1990 3/
_C4r DNEnW    TffAL   FtorAt    DIVT19T  TOTAL
Pre-chool A Primay                68 944        0      68,944   60,157        0   50,157
middle School                     64, 480      1"4     64,64   80,3a          22   80,687
H"lher aduation                   81,472    4,442      85,914    0,6 21    8,742   64,863
Other                             20,O08    9.478      29,342   27,770    9,677   87,647
Sub-totel                        184 952   14,062    199,064  19,113   13,941   173,054
aom
bmplcymmt pr'omoOtion
Hlawn Recutrce development           826       29         865      261       64       885
Other                              1,738      260       1,98"    2,872       168    2,557
sub-total                          2,044      279       2,348    2,688      269    2,922
Nmtri is A Prevenstion pr_ams                   -       -  / V                -        2/
Other                                 -        -        -2/         -        -      -2/
Sub-totl                          6,o020   26,84       64.592   80,861   42,069   92,570
rpulae pr,mIon proera                249      147        8ge       800      782    1,862
Child protectlon                   8,11       266       8,851    8,65        837    4,142
ohe                               17,184    4,63       21,70   82,960    8,825   26,806
Sgb-toteI                         26,516    8,049      25,567   27,865    4,447   81,612
TOTAL                            265,62   47,974    811,536  259.712   0,748  800,486
1/ Actual *Feadlture (powlalonal flamree).
3/Pgrow' budgetl eleelfiaetlon see aodified.
8ceded Nudgest to AeellI a0.



-  49  -
ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 9
Table 4
ACIJL SocIL 65170  won         Or F Tncl PLC ZN$rVF
cThoua,nd of constant 1916 UN)
19"                               19966
N50uj #  vDm lT    ToTAL           F21rBT  vmvw            TOrAL       nar    ve1sff   TAL
S0UCATION
SNAUE                               121         458         as         1S2         414        892         124        427         61
Sn-t. NoIt. de
Pat8rimcla Cultual                  190          64         253        219        913         451         217        n7o         492
Case Cult. Ec. Ban). Caerlon        6u6         866       1,853        7s7                - 1,S6          744       sl2a       2,o04
Orqu-sta Sinfenics Nalcional        163           1         164        194       2.161      2,35
OM4ACE                                                                                                  1,417       4.,4       6,26
LAOCA
DAN                                  32          66          96         40         73         116          so          2          82
WEPROa                                                                  98           2        100          16         101   1S     7
SAP                              2,284         385       2.660      2.244       2,488      * 4.736     1,0        *.741       $,87
MIALTH
MEN4                              2.512          14       2.526      2,929          is      2.947       2,88          48       2,596
lost. Ral. Laoldo Ixquio.t        2.202          89       2.291      2,232         94       2,325       1.909         79       1.9es
la08                              1,893      13,642      17,83       2.044     2S.049      28,096       2,267     21.214      2S,801
' EUARU
SWRA                                899       7.440       6.039        S44      10,160     10,924         44       6.782       9,197
TOrAL                            10800       24.80       8,70       11.429      30,742     at.171      11,412     40,766      62.218
- - --
RE.. -T ..   ESTMr   TOrAL
5DUCATZON
S e                                 128         378        a8m
Inst. Mal. de
*telon  Culturl                      6s         872         837
Ca" Cult. Ec. BenJ. Carlion         721       1.106       1,17
Opqaeeut S;ifoni@c Haaconsi         174          24         198
P4S4                                225          20        24S
UNEpptom                   ~~~~as      el         isa
se0P                              2.108       4,4US       6.86
HIELTH
wee                               2,268           4       2.290
bet. Hal. L~opol laleta           1,260          1        1,8W
150                               2,162      22.847    2a,009
%WJARE
8rI                                 892      14,287      14,160
TOTAL.                          9.,91     4.MOt       83,490



Table 5
ACPIAL lUT C0Or, BY SY  6 AD SY FM0R,. 1980-1990
(C.WTN4r 168 LS$)
1980      1981      1is        1988       1984       1988       1988      1987       1988       1989      9m
___   _  _   ____   __-_      _--       ~~~   ~   ~~~----  ----  ----   _____-_
Pro-school A PrImry             78.01     89.14      59.87      51.29     48.24      49.9       48.89      44.49     42.2D      49.20      88.49
Middle School                  172.10    161.08     138.04     120.15 s   11.98     112.62     118.45     107.09     104.58    117.02      95.28
Hlgl'r Education                 n.d.      n.d.       n.d.       n.d.      n.d.     139.S7     131.39     109.10    292.42     352.87     s60.s9
Other                           98.89     30.81      4d.81      38.62     488.28    176.64     129.69     122.95     87.20     112.11     128.0O
sA-total                       841.50    271.88     242.22     200.00     147.4s    478.53     426.48     383.63    526.39     631.00     692.81
Employment Promotion a
tb_n Raeaurcte dawelopoat       0.14       0.21       0.18       0.14      0.15       0.12       0.19       0.10      0.09       0.11       0.10
Other                           0.79       1.17       0.84      0.71       0.46       0.46       0.51       0.EO      0.59       0.49       0.6s
sub-total                       0.93       1.38       1.02      0.86       0.61       0.se       0.70      0.60       0.68       O.6O       0.7a
8WP                             11.84     25.09      16.06      17.95      9.81      18.62       9.66      15.6S     17.79       8.86       s.d.
WIALTH
Ittrlitlon a Prwaot&ose pr_o    0.07       0.18       0.24      0.17       0.15       0.11      0.14       0.10       0.58       0.41      0.40
other                           7.8        9.67       9.62      8.37       7.78       7.78      7.33       7.87       8.78       7.15      s.78
Sb-total                        7.90       9.81       9.75      6.54       7.68       7.89      7.47       7.47       7.32       7.5e       7.18
Ms3                             1.90       2.20       2.29      1.91       1.73       0.93      1.62       2.53       2.30       2.02      s.d.
Nedlo.Oper.                     58.94     56.74      36.21     46.65      86.36      38.62      29.91     29.78      27.24      20.47      28.51
Ad.sube.ds                       8.681     3.6        8.28      2.37       1.73       1.65       1.10      1.46       1.14       0.77      0.73
Su-totl lGdlc.AS                57.76     82.29      61.49     49.02      38.32      40.17     81.09      31.26      28.38      21.24     27.26
0.00      0.00
Popular PromotIon Programs      0.0        0.07       O.        0.18       0.07      0.08       0.06       0.06       0.08      0.09       0.11
Child Protection               288.73    257.69     273.96    208.44     244.93      29.26    245.45     228.46     204.23     237.48     242.79
Otehr                           0.40       0.71       0.33      0.74       0.29       0.45      0.64       0.6S       0.54       1.82      2.38
Sub-totl                       289.19    256.87     274.64    289.81     243.29     229.7t    248.14     227.16     204.0      26.84      248.26
CM
World  Bank  Report No. 8935-S
0



-51 -
ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 9
ECUADOR
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Expenditure by Program
(1)
----------------------------------------   -----------------------------------------------_
1985     1986      1987     1988      1989 lIl
ICentral Activity. Direction                     1.9       1.8      2.2       1.9      5.2
land Gene'hal Administration
|Budgeted credit and contributions to
ladscribed agencies                        1
I 
IProvincLal education administration       I    3.8        3.4      3.7       3.8      4.6
IPre-school and primary education               35.4      35.5     34.8      35.8     32.3
ISecondary school                               32.1      33.5     33.3      34.8     31.7
iHigher educatLon                          |   19.4      20.1      19.4      17.7     19.0
I                                          I                                                  I
IPermanent popular education                     1.0       1.2      1.0       1.1      1.5
II
iConstruction and equipment for schools  I    5.3          3.4      4.5       3.6      4.6
land sports centers                        I
ICultural development                      I    1.1        1.1      11        1.3      1.1   I
I                                          I                                                  I
ITotal Sector                              I  100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0   I
I                                          I                                                  I
I--___--------------------------------I---------------------------------------------         - I
ECUADOR
MINISTRY OF LABOR AND HUMAN RESOURCES
Expenditure by Program
;                                          (Z)
e--------------------------------------    ----- ----- ----- -----  ----- ----- ----- ----
1985     1986     1987      198S      1989 1l1
----------------------------------------    -----------------------------------------------_
ICentral Activity. Directlon                    28.9      26.5     26.0      19.3     24.5   |
land General AdminLstration
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
1hdministration and labor mediation        j   28.8       24.3     26.7      18.9     32.3 2
II 
7Employment promotion and human resourcesl    20.6        26.8     17.7      13.1     18.8   7
Idevelopment                               I
I                                          II
lBudgeted credit and contrlbutlons to    I   21.7         22.4     29.6     48.5      24.4   |
lascrlbed agencies
I
jTotal Sector                              I  100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0   I
I                                          II-------------------------------------------------
Sourcet Social Sector Study estLmates, based on Ministry of Finance data.
1/ Coded Budget



- 52
ANNEX 2
Page 87o f 9
Sources and Notes:
1). G8atos de L',s Ministerios: Fuente: Ministerio de Finanzas,
Presupuesto del Estado; 1980-1988: Gasto Efectivo; 1989:
Presupuesto Codificado a 30 de agosto; 1990: Presupuesto
Aprobado (inicial)
2).. Educaci6n Superior: 1985-1990 : Ministerio de Fin&izas,
Presupuesto del Estado (Vease Cuadro 1).  Para 1980-1985
no  es posible  separar este  rengl6n  de "otros" en el
presupuesto del MEC.  Se incluyen s6lo las transferencias
que  figuran  en el Presupuesto Naclonal,  pues algunas,
cuya  cuantLa  no  fue posible  determinar  sino para eL
. ato 1987, parecen ir directamente al Fondo de Universida-
des;  en  ofecto,  Aeg6n  la 'Subsecretaria  del  Tesoro
y  el  8anco  'Central  del  Ecuador,  Direcci6n  Central
do EstadisticaLs Presupuestarias, eL total de transferen-
cias efectivas para Universidades y Escuelas Polit&cnicas
en 1987 fu& de a/14'546.278.000 a comparar con Los
a/13.829'054.000 del presente cuadro.
3).  SECAP : Direcci6n de Planeaci6n; 1980-1989 : las "trans-
ferencias de presupuesto" son su valor efectivo total;
bajo "con ingrcsos propios" se incluyen gastos con
cargo  al  impuesto  del  0.5%  sobre  n6mina,  superivit
y  "otros";  el  rubro  se calcu16  por diferencia entre
gasto total y transfeCencias de presupuesto; en 1981
se incluye la contrapartida del pr6stamo BID; en 1986,88
y 89 so incluyen pr6stamas BEDE.
4)..-.Ministerio   de  Salud,  Discriminaci6n  oor  programas
1985-1989---- Datos de la Di.recci6n de Presupuesto del
Ministerio.
S).  lEOS  : Direcci6n de Presupuesto.    En  "transferencias
presupuestales"  se  incluyen  las  partidas  subvenci6n
fiscal para funcionamiento (No.30-120-100) y subvenci6n
fiscal para. inversiones (No.30-200-100); no so incluyen
dep6sitos  de  otras  entidades  publicas,  aportes  con
destLnact6n  especial  ni  fondos  con  nter6s  regional.
1980-1988  : Transferencia ofeetiva;  1989  : asignaci6n
original.   El rubro de gastos  financiados "con otros



53
ANNEX 2
Page 9 of 9
Lngresoas"  se  calcul6  por  diferencia  entre  el  gasto
total y las transferenci.as presupuestales.
6).  lESS : Departamento de Control y Evaluaci6n Presupuesta-
rna.     1980-1985       Balances  Generales;  1986.1989
Ejecuci6n Presupuestaria; 1990: Proforma Presupuestaria.
k Cobertura.  No  se  incluye  : a)  El  gasto  de  Los hogares;
b)  El  gasto  pCublico  financiado  can  irngresos  propios  de
las provincias y municipios, ni c) EL gasto en educaci6n;
capacitaci6n de recursos h.umanos, salud y "bienestar" que
*fecttian.  otros  ministerios,  en  especial  eL  de  Defensa.
Las. dos Ciltimas categorias de gasto parecen sin embargo
de muy poca importancia dentro del gasto pabLico socLal
total (menos del 5%).
Por  lo  demAs,  debido a quo Las fuentes son independientes
y sus sistemas de c;asificaci6n no comparables estriLeamente,
puede haber algunas sumas inclu das tanto ba4o "IEOS-transfe-
rencias  presupuestales"  como  bajo  "MSP-otros";  esta  doble
contabilizaci6n podria estar, como maximo,  y segCn el aMo,
oRtre un 3 y Un 8% de las transferencias al IEOS.
7)  Educaci6n  Preescolar,  PrImaria  y  tMedia  :Namero  de
Alumnas segun MC, Estadisticas do la Educaci6n.
8)  Educacl6n Supertor : Segan UNESCO, o. neumero de matricu-
Ladas on 1983 era de 280.599 y La matrLcula aument6
entre L978 y L983 al II* anual.  (DesarroLlo EducativO,
Problemas XPniortdades. 1986).  A falta de otra informa-
cLdn,  se .extrapcl6  La  saerle  completa.    Deoe  ademhs
saala.rse *que se habLa de una sobreestimact6n cercana
a  1/3  en  eL  nCsero  de  estudiantes  universLtarLos,
loa  cual  por  supuesto  elevarta  proporcLonalmente  eL
costo unitario deL Cuadro 8.
9)  Par. los  "otosl programas educativos se toma eL tdcal
4e estudiantes.
10)  Trabajo : Poblaci6n Econ6micamente Activa Total 1983-1987
soegn  BCE,  O3letitanuar_L  No.. 10, 1987;  1980-82  y
L983-90 : proyectada por regresl.6n.
) . SECAP  : 01recdL6n de PlanoaciLn, nCkmero total de horas
de formacL6n impartida.



- 54 -
ANNEX 3
Table 1
PRIMARY SCHOOL ENROLLMENT AND ANNUAL GROWTH RATE
TOTAL AND BY URBAN RURAL ZONES
School                  Students                           Growth
Year
TOTAL      URBAN       RURAL        TOTAL      URBANA    RURAL.
1982-1983   1,633,516  807,971    825,545
1983-1lP4   1,635,671  832,290    803,381         0.131       3.01X   -2.68Z
198/-1985   1,700,755  869,033    831,722         3.98Z       4.41%    3.53%
1985-1986   1,737,241  893,467    843,774         2.15        2.81      1.45%
1986-1987   1,785,426  920,231    865,195         2.77%       3.00%    2.54%
1987-1988   1,817,463  944,489    873,351         1.79%       2.64%    0.94%
1988-1989   1,897,829  993,605    904,224         4.42%       5.20%    3.54%
1989-1990   1,843,519  992,189    851,330        -2.86%    -0.14%    -5.85%



Primary School Enrollment, Repetition and Dropout
1989 -90
ALUMNOS MATRICLIDOS NUEOS. PROM(WIDS, NO PROMOJIIDOS.Y DESERTORES. POR GFADOS, SEXO SEGUN PR(OIINCIS
ATWOS DEFINiTWVOS
TOTAL        IDE IA          TOTAL                       PflIRIM             SEUD                   EC M'R-T73QIT If                                  ~       SEXT
NACIOML   MATRICULA    TOTAL  uFlUW  -WJW- UfREND   PUPAL -uam                          flUw   *URLAN                                                        URBA lfl
Maft.Nda        1033518   O9797       Mf546    171573    MM2B       142.105   163.492    MI5.1    138527    12758)   118.404    1190a7    98581    111.473   830189
Nuuevos         1A487M      MM83    730.45D   15533i   196031    130M7    140134    128224   124.144   11958$4  108.909  115.101    9202            105.W9   79GB
199-196?   Promovfdo$       I.Af9.746   122W    89.188   147031    110U5    124831    i4997   121271    I1933$    114254   10S290   110211    99510    104.970   78672~
No Progovido,    W4A13    644Am48      5917T    1390    31.189    11641       18.916     0841l    11M3       8.78      8335      5J3       4260      2021    1236
Desrntorss        86575   38917   152440    10812    2184            '3744     gm2       6240      734       458       5778      3.873     4B51      3JM2    329
mrfqd~~              -    2__D____1                  Z1r eiMS    148.746   154961   138.195   13873    132.732    i17.463   122942    89581    t152M   8529
Nusvos          1.49689    181.19    714.183   16021i7   11396     125510   1338B74   129376   121.67    12896    107fM    117B47    94.115   113723   32584
19983199    Pwtmov dos      1.43796)   75WB      M.318    i83M8    161A74    131.113   123.76   1259%    11718    12028          189335   114.J94    9057    110O918   Ot.t9
No Promovidos    11024      40f0      8964      11231    20903       9        16.104     8914      K1119     7210D    81)0       42(9      4.405      1f37    270
Deseltoes  876  35J27 6i.423 losm      1W        6218      9,351     542)      7.5A3     5229      6.192     4439      4978      3914    3S32
ma-ft. Noti  17mm                  l96x     337    183.4-8D    f 1813    125.17   137.149   12396                   1179iw    192.29    119J513   89D12     ,
Nuevos          158185    9181342   743913    171019t   19B581   142.1eO   138.135   1MM13    12225    129.139   110947   1Z3B37    96294    118.93    05611
Q894-19%    Promovidos      lim 93w     96.18    71034     183M8    i74J196   13.152   13305    13277    117277   12857          197.144   12027i    80.40i   11451    84SM
No Promovtdos    114216    38EM       74M5    11527    31.473        9.441     17614     6549    11230       6B92       2913    42         4.491      1.105    12M
Desudores         6101t2    3358      471318    10.71     1903       6847      7896      483       6.410     458       5.406     4.164     42M       3.7E2    V.97
-        *1~~~. de                           843174    l90i474M7513flJ 112140                                              - 7   -     131A9) 3     01     i         92.713
Nuevos         I1523444      4 1945   69181    176777    19103    147031   143.719   1MM9    125331    13338         110296    12S.773    89823     4193    SM93
19B&igff   Promovidos       I M.4(38    W92T    13280    171 Z35   i81.408      MM6    134.118   1375(    123515   130.123   107555   124217    9784           11786    86.39
No Promovidos    96M        33219    8388        92Z3    23136       8944    17391       5221      9247      6134      7915      292       3.801       801    I=8
Desmtorss         19B17    92819    47A'        10.112    18sm        B584     9876      4B11      6.176     4.474     6.191     4.082     4.15      3.161    3212
Nuevo$          168983    87259   794283    183w2    148522   183.747   151.141    M.1466    13203    137M3    116W5    127.90    104584    123.946  893123
1966.1W    Promovldos       158.48    ami8i   76si5a    ioza    106917   149.179    HUM33    t430M    V2S=             13415     110882   127.699    89210    12188   90944
No Psomovldos    89227    25137       84.149     933      3388       9.467    1.98       6476    10.73       62M       9.11)0    2,91)     388         911    1sm
Desettotes        78.180    32872    46818      1088      18.111     65O13     92793     4918      6037      4247      498       388       CM19      3.70     3.192
mit  at        R       9FIw   - -MMW                                                         14123.18161557    i BW    142B3    107.74         132828194 911
Nuevos'         1.710.12    W9308    779.423   189519   192.189   189.18    M4M7   155191   1331)0    147-88    117.405   13884    18.797T   130215   644891
196-1980   PromovAdos       I88M3    93128    MM31         19787     19247   16734    141.189   19749D   12.102   144BB3   11288    125689   10338             12933    WA.S?7
No Promeovidos    7676i   37879    MM79         10612     22419      9911    1888A    6.144        S888      6584      7227      3.480     3380      1I3      1.1481
Desetores         13.191   1'1?2o    40481      10.183    16.727     696       7240      4.961     6918      4.400     451       3843      302       3.439    3=8
=          ~~~   2G~~~uu tiu v                                     6guD                                            .         - = -                 
TOTAL           186789   438B   1349867   31994    29237    2316 241231I
i998.18    URBANO            96388    30777    1768        189861    183J547   146M$   13888 
RURIAL           80422$   28.18      113.198   16388    13398    I177i91    103255
FUENWE:   DIRECClON NA~C1ONIL DE PLANEAI.IENO 
ELABORADO POfr Inn Dwfls



- 56-                                                               ANNEX 3
Table 3
Enrollment by Age and Grade
and Enrollment Ratios
1983 and 1984
Matriculas por edades y grados           1983            Poblac.  Tasa
Edad  Primer Seoundo Tercer Cuarto  guinto  Sexto  TOTAL   edad 7   Escol
4         0        0       0        0        0      0         0  260000      0.01
5    25026        10       0        0        0      0   25036  2S7560        9.7!
6   186250   15998        10        0        0      0  202258  251431   00.42
7    99754  124067  12900          44        0       0  236765  245895   96.31
8    39325   62492 104135   12574          34        1  238561  240832    99.12
9    16400   38329  72128   93079   9473           17  229426  2;6118    97.21
10      8302   19625  39523   65147  75368   o55  214;10  231748   92.5I
11      3859    9044  21119   348677  62892  53745  186136  227711   81.71
12      2420     5576  11818   20678  35616  6tl6  138026  223310   61.81
13      1208     2728   6268    11959  19662  39060   80885  218192   37.11
14       735    15:    3012    o3'4  10552  20635   42931  21:579   20.1%
15       414      684   ; 93    3119   5541  10858   22209  207128    10.7I
16       259      388    672    1414   2295   6600   11628  201802            5.81
17       150      250    350       600    900   2000    4250  196041          2.21
18        80      140     240      200    400    900    1960  189662          1.0;
19        70       60    120       100    100    400.    850  18201    0.51
20         0       50      50        50     5     100       300  176=5       0.21
21         0        0      40        30      2       50      145  1694h3      0.17
22         0        0       0        20      15     25        60 163162        .0;
23         0        0       0         0      10      15       25  157612       .0:
24         0        0       0         0       0     10        10  152777       .01
25         0        0       0         0       0       0        0        0    0.01
26#        0        0       0         0       0       0        0        0    0.0%
1983  384252  30156t  273978  250:55 222933 202687 163567! 2867090   5S.7;
Tea  bruta oe oocaIarl2a:lon en el anioa          1983 es;        114.11
Taos netu ce escolari:acjor en el ania:           19e8  el;        91.2I
Matriculas par edadent  prados           1984            Poblac.  Tasm
Edad  PriLer Seounde Tercer Cuartt  luinto  Seyto  TOTAL   edad 7   Eluol
4         0        0       0        0        0      0         0  265000
5    33361        11       0        0       0       0   33372  2t3027
6   192602   22124         4        0        0      0  214730  256485   93.7%
7   101309  1:S981  18575          22        0      0  243887  250609   97.3Z
8    46243   81627 103519   17088           10       1  248'88  245281  101.31
9    17778   40951  74?96   90738  13491            9  237763  240381    98.N2
10      9468   20675  38280   68584  765o'   8763  222334  235866   94.31
11      4619    9871  20758   38092  61797  5644  192231  231688   63.01
12      2686    6306  11293   1934  38363  62301  140988   227359   62.01
13      1374    2850   6018   1!O1   19918  36247   79513  22,u14   35.11
14       790    1745   3209    6287  11233  21377   44641  217555   20.51
15       410      883   1648      3102    5481  11020   22544  212642   10.6t
16       455      671   1181      1523   3126   5407   12363  207892          5.91
17       200      300    300       500   1000   3000    5300  202502    2.61
18         0        0    200       300        0   1500    2000  196152        1.01
19         0        0       0      200        0     50      550  189208       0.3t
20         0        0       0         0       0    150       150  182353    0.1?
21         0        0       0         0       0       0        0  175449    0.0O
22         0        0       0         0       0       0        0  168913      0.01
23         0        0       0         0       0       7        7  163021       .01
24         0        0       0         0       0       0        0  157597      0.01
84  411295  311995 279781  258076 230983 208625 1700755 2990230   56.91
Source: E. Schiefelbein, "Ecuador: Acceso, Permanencia, Repeticion
y Eficiencia en la Educacion Basica", UNESCO / OREALC, 1989



-57 -
ANNEX 3
Table 4
Retention and Efficiency of the 1984
Primary Education Cohort
1984 Trayectoria y Eficiencia de una Cohorte de Prisaria
Anios      Prieero SequndoTercero Cuarto Guinto  Sexto  Total 6raduados
1984     1000       0         0      0       0       C   100(O
1985      318    620          0      0       0       0    938          0
1986      101    316       453       0       0        0    870         0
1987       32     123      3:5    338        0        0    819         0
1988       10      44      15B    311    264          0    787         0
1989        3               65    18J    281    220    764             0
1990        1       5       24      85    182      256    553        198
11        6       2         9     35      93     177    315        231
1992        0       1         3     1i      41      95    153        159
1993        O       0         1       5     16      44      66        85
1994        (       O         0       2      6      18      26        39
1995        0       0         0       1      2        7      10       16
1996        0       0         0      (I      1       3                 6
1997        0       0         0      0       0        1       1        2
1998        0       0         0      0       0        0       0        1
1999        0       0         0      0       0       0        0        0
2000        0        0        0       0      0       0        0        0
Anos - alumnos             1466   1125       1038    $70    887    821   6307          739
Desertores                    91      88       46      18      19       0    261
% de desertores              6.'"    7.81    4.4t   1.94   2.1Z   0.0    4.1t
Desertaron de cohorte    '.1%  17.91   22.4Z  24.3%  26.1%  26.1%  26.1t
Promoyidos                   909     821      776    757    739    73Q   401(
Anos repetidos              466    216        217    !4    129        82    305
: oe Repeticion            3;1%  19.2IS      20.91  ^ .0%  14.6%  10.0;  20.7;
Escolarid per promovi    1.6         1.4      1.      ;.3    1.2      1.1    1.3
I Extra edad:
Uno G mas anos          31.8   44.96       56.4%  6 !.:  70.2t 100.0O  57.6%
Dos a sas anos          10.1%  6i.81   25.1%   :.1;  38.5t  73.2;  29.5%
Tres o aes &nos          3.2%   5.       9.86  14.5%  16.0%  42.0%  13.6%
RESUMEN DE PROMEDIOS OBSERVADOS EN EL SISTENM  ESCOLAR:
Porcentaje de alumnos que se graduan en la cohorte:                                   73.9%
Anios alusnes que tosa M  sistema en promedio caca graduaoo:                           8.5
Anios que cada alumno permanece en prisaria (escolarided media):                       6.3
Grados que aprueba cada alueno en su paso per la escuela:                              4.7
Eficiencia bruta Iconsidera los desertortes comc ineficiencia):                       75.21
Eficiencia neta (solo consioera repeticion coae ineticiencia):                        7.3%
Source: E. Schiefelbein, op. cit



Enrollment by Age by Grade in Urban and Rural Zones
MATIICUIA POR ED A-17
MATRKC    TOTAL
TT ~i51  ~ii  R GRh0Q    rSEUNDO GRO                           r       RC 5DO   IG -  RGGTTO GR A T        O           QUINTO GRDO                   - mTb   GFDO
NACIONA   TOTAL  URBAN  RURAL  TOTAL  URBAN  RURAL  TOTAL  URBAN  R                                    URA  I RURL  TTAL
-5     31.987   31.984   19.518   12.466         3 _      2        1        0                           0    -                     0
6     235.447  199.798  103.984   95.814   35.637   18.480   17.157        12    7            4        a    _                      0           - _  _
7     268.005  113447   47.634   65.813  125.405   66.524   5.881   29.109   18.603   10.506          44       13       31        0                           0
8     283.470   45.611   15.326   30.265   85.582   41.770   43.812  104.s28   58.037   46.791   27A21   16.266   11.1i55        27        14       13        1
9     249.826   16.830    6o 02   10.758   42.734   18.315   24Ats   75.943   38.037   37.906   94.312   56?.52   38.760   19.971   13.582    6.3e9          36          1c       is
10    235.027    6.826    1.856    4.970   22.671   10.122   12.549   41t892   17.733   24.159   71.716   3t.347   35.439   77.059   60s454   26.605   14.793          tO.12 _3.91
11    207.J1    3.320    1.089    2.231   11.995    5.516    6.479   22.214   10.750   1 1.464   36f360   17.647   187Sf13   70.663   36. 7s   338S%   fi-. 1         42.S64   20.495
1 2    145A62    1.845   517  1.328  4.459    1.653    .80t 12.612    5.727    6.885 20.6:33 10.342    10.291   38.927   17.058 21.069                      6         r 8 6      28.102
13     74.396      846      198       648    2.577      925    1.652    5.232    2.566    2.666   10.770    5.079    5.691   17.349    7.625    9724   37.622    I 16.13J    21.45
14     40.359      414      127       287    1.321      373      948    2.608    1.055    1.553    4.73      2.071    ZSS6   10.505    4.626    5.8*9   2n.777 T       9.520   11257
15      19.747     274      134       140      .986     201      31    1.18a       442       74 7 _ 2202       911    1.291    4.243    1.896    2.34?   11.253         S  1     6OSS
16      13.989     385      268        97      5ss      378      217      e91      466      425    I.6S3       75B     897    2.813    1.99    t314    7.672            3271   4A81
I-f
tn
OD
I
t    x
nJ  La



- 59 -
ANNEX 3
Table 6
RESULTS OF EVALUATIONS OF STUDENT LEARNING
IN A SMALL SAMPLE OF URBAN AND RURAL SCHOOLS
URBAN SCHOOLS              RURAL SCHOOLS
Multi-
Single-   Teacher
Private    Public      Teacher   IncomDl. OComaleteg
LANGUAGE: Percent of
students scoring
Excellent             7.5        5.0         0.0        0.0      0.0
Very Good            38.8       11.2       27.3        17.6      0.0
Good                 26.3       10.0       12.1         8.1      8.3
Acceptable           13.8       18.8         6.1       25.0    33.3
Insufficient         13.8       55.0       54.5        48.6    58.3
MATHEMATICS: Percent of
students scorings
Excellent             2.5        2.5        3.0         8.1      0.0
Very Good            17.5        5.0       18.2         6.8      0.0
Good                 31.3       16.3       21.2        13.5    16.7
Acceptable           35.0       26.3        24.2       17.6    58.3
Insufficient         13.8       50.0       33.3        54.1    25.0
Sources ISOTEC/CIEDC 'Diagnd'stico de La Realidad Educativa Primaria
Regular Rural,' USAID, Quitos 1990  (Tables 64, 65 and 66).



- 60 -
ANNEX 3
Table 7
ECUADOR
Average Monthly Income by Sector
based on Education Level
(Constant 1987 Sucres)
_________________________________- ________- _______________
Education Level           Total Formal  Informal Formal/
Sector  Sector Informal
None                     10.829  11,722  13,842    84.7
Incomplete Primary       18,035  21,827  19,718   110.7
Complete Primary         22,456  25,375  22.458   113.0
Incomplete Secondary     24,168  27,134  21,057   128.9
Complete Secondary       36,368  37.867  31,152   121.6
Incomplete Higher        43,428  45,266  32.208   140.5
Complete Higher          67,744  67,017  55,578   120.6
Total Average            33,236  39,126  24.737   158.2
---------------------------------------------------__---------
Sources J. Mezzara & R. Pisoni, El Mercado de Trabaio Urbano
en el Ecuador, PREALC-OIT, 1989.



- 61 -
ANNEX 3
Table 8
PRIVATE AND SOCIAL RATES OF RETURN
TO EDUCATION IN ECUADOR, 1987
(percent)                      Social
Private Rates of Return         Rates
Private   Public               of
Level of Education                     Sector    Sector             Return
Primary (vs. less than primary)         12         32                11.5
Secondary (vs. primary)                 10          3                 9.0
Higher (vs. secondary)                  18         10                12.0
Sourcet Gomez-Castellanos, Luisa and George Psacharopoulos, 'Earnings and
Education in Ecuador: Evidence from the 1987Household Survey'. Washington:
World Bank, 1989, Tables 7 and 9.



- 62 -
ANNEX 3
Table 9
ECUADOR
Employed Popalation by Sector and Sex
1987.
QUITO           G GUAYAQUIL    |      CUENCA   |
iTotal                  451,078  103J:    618,537  100l    79.211  10O:1
Female            182,835  lOOZI    214,307  1OOZS   33,928  1OO0?
Male              268,243   10021   404,230  10021   45,283  100?1
I                 I                 I
lUrban Formal Sector    267,900  59.4XI   308,622 49.9Z1   39,214  50.3ZI
Female             86,465  47.3ZI    87,522  40.8ZI   12,676  38.9XI
Male              181,435  67.61    221,100 54.7ZI   26.538  58.6CI
llnformal Sector        183,178  40.6Z1    309,915  50.121   39,997  51.3I
Female             96,370  5z.7Z1    126,785 59.2ZI   21,252  65.2:1
Male               86,808  32.4:I   183,130  45.3XI   18,745 41.4ZI
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   I - - - - - - -   I  I
Sourcet INEM, Encuesta Permanente de Hogares y Empleo, 1987.
ECUADOR
Employment Levels
I  ______ OI-------------------I----------------I
I  I   Total       I   Employed by
I        I Population Employed l  Public Sector
I        I   (Thousand)      I       (S)
|        I  Urban    Total I  Urban   Total I
I        I  -----     _____ I   -       -----   I
I   1974      64.3      73.5 I    8.3      3.9 I
1982 1  247.5    316.4 I   21.6    14.1 I
I      I        .                            I
1986/87    195.2           I   18.4           I
Sources World Bank, Ecuador-Country Economic
Memorandum, 1988.



TALEO       63-               ANNEX 3
TABLE 10       - 63-AM                     
TEACHERS AND SCHOOL ENROLLMENT BY EDUCATIONAL LEVEL AND GENDER,
1989/90
Preschool          Primary             Secondary
N                 N      %             N
Male      528   9.6        20931  34.5          33862  57.7
Teachers
Female   4949  90.6        39703  65.5          24849  42.3
Male    56672  49.6        940435 51.0          393405 49.6
Students
Female  57510  50.5        903084 49.0          398892 50.4
Source: Estadisticas de la Educaci6n. Datos Iniciales. 1989-90.
MEC-Departamento Nacional de Planeamiento.
TABLE 11
ECONOMIC SECTOR AND OCCUPATIONAL DISTRIBUTION BY
GENDER OF HOUSEHOLD HEAD
(percentage)
Females       Males
Economic Sector
Modern                            38.8           60.9
Informal                          44.8           35.5
Agr./Domes. Service               16.5            3.6
OccuRational Category
Owner                              8.0           13.5
Self-employed                     34.2           23.9
Government employees              16.1           21.1
Private employees                 23.4           40.8
Unpaid Family workers              3.2            --
Paid Apprentices                   --             0.2
Agr./Domes. Service               15.2            0.4
Source: INEM, Household Survev: Ouito. Guavaoruil. and Cuenca, 1987.
TABLE 12
QUITO: EMPLOYMENT BY GENDER AND ESTABLISHMENT SIZE, 1985
(percentage)
Size of
Establishment               Male     Female
1-2 employees               25.7      47.7
3-9 employees               20.1      16.3
10-49 employees              18.0      13.3
50-99 employees               5.0       3.9
100+  employees              31.3      18.8
Total                       100.1     100.0
Source:  Instituto de Investigaciones Econ6micas.  La &uerza de
Trabajo en Ouito: AnJlisis Metodol6cico v Estructura Ocupacional,
Quito, August 1986.



- 64 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 9
ANNEX 4:  IMPROVING THE QUALITY OF BASIC EDUCATION
IN LOW-INCOME URBAN AREAS
1.   The cornerstone of the program to improve quality of the nine-year basic
education cycle in Ecuador is the creation of "school networks" in areas where
the population is poor and school quality is low. The aim of these networks
is to make sure that poor children have an opportunity not only to attend
school but also to be able to take full advantage of this opportunity,
overcome poverty-related barriers and learn effectively. The school network
concept is essentially the same as what have been called "nuclear schools" in
other countries. They are intended to be centers of excellence in themselves,
but they will also be the focal point for quality-improvement activities in
local networks of from 10 to 20 schools serving the sAme low-income
neighborhoods. The Directors of the networks will be highly qualified
educators who will be paid approximately the same as Principals of secondary
schools ("Colegios") and who will be responsible not only for managing their
centers of excellence but also for orchestrating the quality enhancement
programs in their network of schools. Responsibility for Drofessional
supervision of the schools in their areas will be delegated to the Directors,
together with budgets for non-salary expenditures. The budgets will be used
for minor quality-enhancing expenditures (e.g. purchase of single copies of
storybooks, or of pictures for classrooms) and for priority maintenance
activities; they will be based upon enrollment in schools in the network and
calculations of urgent needs for maintenance. Secondary schools have such
budgets under present regulations but no primary schools do, nor do provincial
education offices have any discretionary funds for such purposes.
2.   The activities that will be headquartered at each hub school will
include, in addition to the activities of a large (usually three-stream, nine-
grade) school:
-    In-service training for all teachers in the network of schools:
actual training will be provided by professional trainers from the
appropriate Pedagogical Institute (IPED) or the National
Directorate of Pedagogical Training (DINACAPED);
-    Peer-based professional supervision of schools in the network
(relationships between supervision of teaching
practices and other quality-related factors and supervision of
administrative matters such as personnel and financial records will
be coordinated with the provincial departments that have the latter
responsibility);
-    Distribution of textbooks provided under the project and
training of teachers in how to use the new materials (Annex 5);
-    Local administratic.G  of the national system for assessing
student learning (Annex 6);
-    A preschool education program, to be offered on an experimental
basis at the hub school that will provide technical advice and
training to preschools in the network area and will evaluate the
cost-effectivenese of alternative models for providing preschool
education;



- 65 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 9
-    A special education program that will identify children with
learning difficulties, provide simple interventions or refer them
to agencies than can help them overcome problems, and train
teachers in their network of schools in how to deal with children
with special needs in the classroom. The special education teams
will include specialists in bilingual/intercultural education.
-    Community organization activities designed to involve parents
throughout the network area in the school's efforts to improve
learning, inform them of their roles in encouraging their children
in studying and learning, and to seek community participation in
improving the school.
3.   The school networks and the targeted quality-improvement program aim to
make sure that children from low-income neighborhoods have a fair chance to
learn; to help overcome handicaps that cause them to repeat, drop out in
frustration or simply not learn the material. The program takes account of
the problems of children whose parents may be illiterate, who are under
pressure (both boys and girls) to work because their families need their
economic contributions, whose culture makes it difficult for them to adapt to
the culture of the school. For poor children in rural areas, government has
sought and obtained a loan from the Inter-American Development Bank for a
quality-improvement project in rural areas of the country, where poverty
affects virtually all families. This proposed project would extend the
program to urban areas where low-income families are concentrated. Total
enrollment in the schools to be included in the project would be 345,000 or an
estimated 75 percent of urban public enrollment in low-income areas.
Ultimately the concept will be extended to all parts of the country, including
areas where children from low-income families are more dispersed and cannot be
attended to readily through the school network concept in its present form.
(Planning to provide 100 percent coverage to all poor childt.n will take place
under the proposed project.)
4.   One critical concern is the selection, training and support the network
Directors will receive. School network Directors and Deputy Directors will be
competitively selected from among the best Principals of primary or secondary
schools, supervisors or other well-qualified individuals. The selection
methodology has been developed and refined with international technical
assistance and used successfully in selection of the first Directors under the
IDB-financed rural project. Special training for Directors and Deputy
Directors will be provided under the Training subcomponent of the project.
Responsibility for the management of the hub school itself will be delegated
to the Deputy Directors of each network who will report to the Director. The
Directors will also count on the support of the teacher/manager in charge of
the Special Education teams, the head teacher of the preschool program, the
senior staff within the network of schools who are responsible for in-service
training and textbook distribution and the (competitively selected) teacher In
charge of coordination with communities and parent teacher associations in the
network areas. Additional support from outside the networks will come from
the Pedagogical Institute (IPED) staff conducting in-service training, end
from Provincial supervisors responsible for budgeting, micro-planning and
other administrative functions. Provincial supervisors may be detailed to



- 66 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 9
work with the school networks for periods ranging from a few days to several
weeks. The school network Directors will coordinate and provide leadership
for the multiple quality-improvement activities within their networks with
extensive support from these sources.
5.   Each hub school will have the following personnel, in addition to the
classroom teachers and staff of a regular school providing nine grades of
basic educations
Director
Deputy Director
Community development coordinator (part time)
Support personnel (4)
Preschool staff (2 or 3, depending on size of the hub school
Special Educatio.. Teams (Equipos psycho-pedagogicos) (5).
Teachers and principals of schools in the hub school's network will be
selected to coordinate in-service training, distribution of textbooks,
achievement testing in schools in the network and peer-based supervision.
6.     Provision of physical infrastructure.  The proposed project to cover
low-income urban areas would provide 55 networks (See Annex 4, Table 1).
Implementation of this project would take place in three phases. The first
would cover 20 low-income areas in Quito and Guayaquil, where data have been
available that made it possible to carry out detailed physical planning to
identify low-income neighborhoods, schools that can serve as hub schools and
nearby schools serving the low-income population that will form part of the
network. The second phase will provide 23 networks in urban areas in the
remainder of Guayas and Pichincha provinces, Esmeraldas, El Oro and Los Rios;
the third phase would cover Carchi, Chimborazo, Loja, Manabi and Caflar. Annex
4, Table 2 shows enrollment in the hub schools and the schools in their
networks, by phase of implementation and in total. The 55 school networks
proposed have been cho.sen on the basis of detailed micro-planning efforts that
identified low-income urban areas and the schools within those areas, gathered
data on all the schools identified, chose one school in each area to become a
center of excellence and serve as the headquarters for its network of schools,
and gathered data on the size and condition of that school building. Criteria
for choosing schools to be hub schools included location near the center of a
low income barrio, fairly large size of the original school, and space to
provide the additional facilities for the hub school. Cost estimates have
been based on the information generated through micro-planning and on
estimates of the costs of providing the necessary facilities for prototype
schools and costs of rehabilitation and maintenance of schools in the
networks. Beginning in the first full year of implementation and continuing
during the second year, detailed planning would be carried out for all
remaining hub schools using the enhanced planning capabilities of Provincial
Education Departments resulting from the Institutional Strengthening component
of the project and technical assistance. The establishment of school networks
has already begun on a pilot basis in three areas with financing from the
government's own resources. Implementation began in rural areas under the IDB
project in July, 1991.



- 67 -
&WNEX 4
Page 4 of 9
7.   Teacher training will be provided to 12,700 teachers in the hub schools
themselves and in network schools, and for 160 candidates for the positions of
school network Director and Deputy Director. The curricula for teacher
training have been developed as part of the IDB project to improve quality in
the rural areas. The proposed project for urban low-income areas will make
use of the processes and Teacher Training curricula and training materials
already developed, with adaptations to suit the needs of low-income urban
children, thus the main costs will be 'or delivering the training. Training
will be carried out by teacher educatirs from DINACAPED and each Province's
Pedagogical Institute (IPED).
8.   The general design of the training program will incorporate the
following:
Introduction for Teachers: concepts and philosophy of the quality
improvement program; information about program services and
subcomponents and ways teachers can take advantage of them, orientation
to other elements in the training program.
nPRrading Teaching Skills: specialized training, for each level and
specialty, in improved methods and modes of classroom organization and
utilization of time, making use of new textbooks, lesson planning,
materials preparation and related pedagogical skills;
Special Education: the Special Rducation team in each network will
provide training on the role of the teams and how classroom teachers can
deal with students with special needs and draw upon the resources of the
teams and from outside the program.
Other Program Subcomponents: Teachers will receive training on how to
make effective use of the various elements of the quality improvement
program, including the textbook subcomponent, the nature and purpose of
the student evaluation subcomponent, the role of the preschools and
related issues.
Continuing Training at a Distance: both network Directors and teachers
will receive materials on a continuing basis designed to provide
additional content, refresh and upgrade skills and strengthen
professional competences.
In addition to training for Directors and teachers, the training component
will provide information to community leaders and parents on the quality
improvement program and ways in which parents and the community can contribute
to achieving its objectives. Monitoring and evaluation of the Training
Component will be under the responsibility of the Training Expert of the PCU,
who will draw on resources in DINACAPED, the IPEDs and technical assistance to
develop and implement an evaluation of the effects of training on teachers'
knowledge and teaching practices.
9.   Preschool. will be provided at each hub school a pilot basis.
Preschools will have two or three classrooms at each hub school (depending on
whether the hub school itself has 2 or 3 first grades). All of the 20 schools
in Phase I of implementation will have 3 preschool classes, thus there will be
60 pre-school classrooms in the hub schools in Phase I, plus an estimated 105
classrooms in hub schools of Phases II and III. In virtually all cases these
will be new classrooms. Total enrollment in the preschool classrooms provided
by the project will be approximately 6,000, but an estimated total of 37,000



68 
ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 9
children per year will benefit indirectly from preschool improvements in
existing public preachools in the zones of the 55 hub schools. The "model" of
preschool education provided at the hub schools will be formal, classroom-
based preschool education conducted by teaching professionals who, while
trained, are not early childhood education specialists. One of the preschool
teachers will be selected by the network Director to be Coordinator of the
preschool program for the network. The coordinator will receive a salary
increment and the Director will delegate to this teacher the responsibility
for establishing a center of excellence and coordinating training for other
preschool teachers throughout the network. The unit costs of preschool will
be comparable to those of primary education. While Ecuador has interesting,
low-cost models of non-formal preschool education and child care (and these
alternatives will be studied as Dart of the project), the MEC is best able to
provide more traditional forms of services. The objectives of the preschools
will be:
-    to demonstrate to other preschools in the network (public and
private, formal and informal) how preschool education of good
quality operates, what standards and practices are observed;
-    to provide technical assistance and training to preschool teachers
and directors in the network on specific aspects of preschool
education, early-childhood pedagogical techniques, use of low-cost
materials for intellectual stimulation of children, proper physical
conditions for child care and other themes;
-    to evaluate alternative models of preschool education, including
their costs and the quality of services they provide, in order to
inform national policies on how to offer preschool education to
children in low-income urban neighborhoods on a feasible and cost-
effective basis.
All preschools within the low-income neighborhoods served by the hub schools
and their network of schools will be beneficiaries of the outreach activities
of the preschool program. These activities will include training for public
preschool teachers in the concepts of the quality improvement program and
techniques for improving the quality of formal in-class preschool education.
Materials, manuals and guides used in this training will be made available to
all teachers in the networks (including teachers in formal and informal or
"guaguahuasi" schools, both public and private). In addition teachers and
preschool directors from private and informal schools will be invited to
participate in short training courses and informational meetings appropriate
to their different types of preschools, the content of which will be prepared
at DINACAPED and the IPEDs. The content will focus on the stages of
intellectual development of preschool children, forms of intellectual
stimulation and preparation for formal schooling appropriate to their ages,
the concept of readiness to enter grade one and the purpose of testing for
readiness and the test instruments that can be used. These types of training
will be organized by the preschool Coordinator. Finally, personnel from all
types of preschools will be invited to observe preschool classes at the hub
schools and to raise questions and seek advice from the Coordinator and
preschool teachers, An evaluation of the preschool subcomponent will be based
upon (a) observation of preschools of all types or "models" in a sample of
network areas and the categories and quality of services they provide, (b)
sample-based application of a test of readiness of preschool children for



- 69 -
ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 9
grade one at the end of the preschool year, (c) use of data from the
Educational Assessment System to evaluate the achievement of second grade
students who attended different types of preschool or no preschool, and (d)
data on the costs of alternative models of preschool education.
10. Special Education teams (Equipos Psicopedag6gicos) will report to the
Directors of the school networks. One member of each team will be designated
Coordinator of the team's activities and will assume responsibility for
programming its visits, screening and other services, arranging for
transportation to schools within the network, and integrating the team's
teacher training activities with the broader in-service teacher training
program.  Each team will be composed of:
-    Psychologist: university-level professional
-    Special Education specialist: university-level professional
-    Speech therapist: university-level professional and specialist
-    General Educator: one for each 5 to 6 schools in the network,
trained in special education; one of these, who must be bilingual
in Quichua, will specialize in diagnosing and dealing with
bilingual/bicultural education issues and problems
-    Social Worker: specialist in social services (knowledge of referral
arrangements) with post-secondary training.
In general the teams will operate as mobile units, visiting classrooms in
network schools, conducting screenings, working with children with special
needs, observing how teachers cope with differences in children's levels of
advancement and with disabilities, and providing coaching, demonstrations and
training in how to deal with diversity in the main stream classroom. Each
network will have appropriate vehicles that will enable the SE teams to visit
the schools in the network, as well as budgets for fuel and maintenance.
11. At each school, in the course of various visits, the teams will carry
out the following activities:
-    orientation for teachers and network school principals in the
national policy on special education and its application in the
quality-improvement program for low-income urban areas
-    training for classroom teachers in how to deal with children with
special needs, how to establish ability groups, use peer-tutoring
methods to deal with special problems, deal with behavior problems
that impair the learning opportunities of others
-    screening (e.g. for dyslexia of various degrees of seriousness;
speech, hearing or vision problems)
-    interventions (e.g. teaching left-handed children improved
techniques for writing; recommended exercises for children with
mild psychomotor disorders)
-    In the case of ethnic minority children, identification of, for
example, problems of adjusting to the classroom environment and
counselling (of student, teacher and/or parents) in ways of
overcoming the problems
-    referrals (e.g. for eyeglasses; for in-school special courses in
the case of mild dyslexia; to specialized institutions for children



- 70 -
ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 9
with degrees of mental retardation that cannot be dealt with
through mainstreaming strategies)
-    Parent information conferences with parents of children with
special needs to make them aware of the program, of services
available from other social agencies, of activities they can
provide in the home to supplement the schools' efforts to provide
for their children's needs.
12. Over-all programming and policy direction in the area of special
education is provided by the National Department of Special Education, under
the National Directorate of Regular and Special Education. The Coordinator of
each school network's special education team will be an employee of the
National Department. The Department will provide training and other inputs to
the special education teams and, together with the PCU and with international
technical assistance, will carry out monitoring and evaluation of special
education activities of the project.
13. Community organization activities will include involving the parents in
the network area more closely with their children's schools. Where feasible
and appropriate, they will also promote community self-help activity to
maintain and generally improve the physical condition of the schools. Each
school network Director will receive a limited budget based on the number of
students attending schools in the network. Funds for this purpose will be
provided by the project on a declining basis, with increasing responsibility
assumed by the government as part of local counterpart funding. One teacher
from within the network will be chosen to work part time as Community
Coordinator for the hub school and its network.  The Community Coordinator
will report to the network Director on activities to promote community
involvement with the schools, identify community organizations (Parent Teacher
Organizations or other local groups) and leaders at each school in the
network, identify the needs and priorities of each school, and develop plans
for meeting those needs, using the budget allocated for this purpose.



- 71 -
ANNEX 4
Page 8 of 9
Annex 4. Table I
SCHOOL NETWORKS, BY PHASE
Province and City              Phase 1   Phase 2   Phase 3          TOTAL
1.   GUAYAS
Guayaquil                   12        6          -              18
Milagro                      -        2                          2
Puna                        -         1          -               1
2.   PICHINCHA
Quito                       8         -          -               8
Santo Domingo               -         2                          2
Mejia                       -         I          -               1
3.   ESMERALDAS
Esmeraldas                  -         3                          3
Borbon                      -         1          -               1
4.   EL ORO
Machala                     -         2                          2
Huaquillas                  -         1          -               I
Santa Rosa                  -         1          -               1
5.  LOS RIOS
Quevedo                     -         2                          2
Babahoyo                    -         1                          1
6.   CARCHI
La Libertad                 -         -          1               1
7.   CHIMBORAZO
Riobamba                    -         -          1               1
Chunchi                     -         -          I               1
Guamote                     -         -          1               1
8.   LOJA
Loja                        -         -          1               1
La Toma                     -         -          1               1
Macara                       -        -          1               1
9.   MANABI
Manta                       -         -          1               1
Chone                       -         -          1               1
Portoviejo                  -         -          1               1
Montecristi                  -        -          1               1
10. CAiAR
El Tambo                    -         -          I               1
TOTAL                       20       23          12             55



Annex 4 - Table 2
Urban Public Enrollment and Coverage of Networks of Hub Schools
Project      Province                Students in 1989/90                 No. of     Students      Percent
Phase       Covered                                                     Hub       Cdvered in   Coverage
Schools Hub Schools
and          (X)
___________              PP          P           SB       Total                  Networks
1.2  Pichincha       10,765    116,970      53,699     181,434          11       61,882       34.10
1.2  Guayas           8,912    224,740      80,493     314,145          21      150,517       47.90
2  Esmeraldas       3,262     38,099      12,019      53,380           4       25,200       47.20
2  El Ora           4,008     50,305      20,304      74,617           4       25,200       33.80
2  Los Rios         1,725     37,059      14,332      53,136           3        18,900      35.60
Subtotal  Phase 1         28,672    467,193    180,847       676,712         43       281,699      41.60
and 2
3  Carchi             714      8,988       4,428      14,130           1        5,200       36.80            l
3  Chimborazo       2,369     22,457      10,055      34,881           3        15,600      44.70            s
3  Loja             2,404     23,785      14,256      40,715           3       15,600      38.30             Q
3  Manabi           4,378     66,539      31,416     102,333           4       23,800      20.30             l
3  Canar              760      9,221       9,990      19,971           1        5,200      26.00
Subtotal  Phase 3         10,625    130,990      70,145      212,030          12       62,400      29.40
Project                      39,297    598,183    250,992      888,742          55      344,099       38.70
Subtotal
Other                        11,148     52,356      52,356     183,439           0             0       0.00
Provinces
National                     50,445    650,539    303,348   1,072,181           55      344,099       32.10 |     0
Total                                                                                                            X X
PP - Pre-primary                               Sources: Planning Department, Ministry of Education and
P  - Primary                                             Culture, Estadfstica de la Educacion (1989-90),           0 X
SB - Secondary Basic                                     and project preparation team.



- 73 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 6
DEVELOPMENT, PRODUCTiON AND DISTRIBUTION OF TEXTBOOKS
AND EDUCATIONAL MATERIALS
1.    The Bank's research indicates that one of the most cost-effective means of
improving the quality of education is through the medium of textbooks. Public
schools in Ecuador, an in many developing countries, operate with few textbooks.
Teachers must resort to highly inefficient methods of dictation and copying from
the blackboard as the dominant mode of instuction. Government has not been able
to provide free textbooks to primary school students.   An earlier project
financed by the IDB provided textbooks designed for rural areas (the Abramos
Surcos series developed under Project AMER). These are provided free to students
in sor.e rural areas but production and distribution hare not achieved the project
targets. Texts are available from commercial booksellers throughout the country
and from an extensive network of sales and distribution centers (National Text
and Educational Materials Supply Service, SNALME) operated by the MEC, but not
all students are able to purchase them. There is no single approved text. Costs
of texts vary, with the costs of the government-produced texts (including the
AMER series) generally lower than those of commercial texts (Annex 5, Tables 1
and 2). SNALME does not stock a full line of textbooks and materials and the
commercial sources tond to stock the more expensive imported textbooks that have
been adopted by private schools and public schools serving more affluent
populations.   In general the textbook supply situation in Ecuador could be
described as chaotic; there is no doubt that there are severe shortages of texts
in schools serving low-income urban neighborhoods.
2.    Obiectlves.  The main aim of the Textbook portion of the project is to make
sure that children in project schools in low-income urban areas have adequate
textbooks and that teachers know how to use the new texts effectively. A broader
objective is to contribute to overcoming the situation described above, in which
there is an inadequate supply of good quality textbooks.   The project would
develop an improved general textbook series for primary education including texts
for Spanish, Mathematics, Natural Science, and Social Studies, as well as
teachers' guides and workbooks to accompany the series. While the design and
development of the series will build upon the existing texts developed for
Project AMER, that series will be updated and improved in organization, scope,
sequence and physical design of the books.  The new series will be reviewed
specifically to eliminate bias or stereotyping with regard to gender or ethnic
minorities.
3.    Covergg. The project will provide textbooks and materials to all children
in project schools, including not only the Matrix Centers but also the schools
in the networks associated with each center. The materials produced and provided
will include textbooks, workbooks and supplementary materials, as well as
teachers guides.   After considering alternatives, it was decided to provide
students in grades 7 through 9 (Ciclo Basico) with modularized instructional
materials that can be used on an individualized basis, which reduces costs and
conforms to curricular plans for those grades. The total number of texts to be
produced is 567,000 and 1,520,000 workbooks will also be produced. The number
of workbooks is far greater since they are only used once by each student, while
textbooks are used for an average of four years. Cost analyses indicate that
efficient print runs for individual volumee would be larger than necessary for



ANNEX 5
- 74 -                        Page 2 of 6
project schools alone. For that reason, and in order to generate revenue to make
the textbook component more nearly self-sustaining, an additional 250,000 books
(in the four subject areas) will be produced and sold through SNALME and through
commercial bookstores.
4.    Costs and Sustainability. Total cost of the textbook component will be
US$5.7 million (including contingencies), of which US$5.3 million will be
investment costs. The cost of printing the textbooks themselves will be US$4.6
million. In order to make the textbook subcomponent self-sustaining, Government
has agreed to a form of limited cost recovery whereby poor children in project
schools pay a rental fee equal to 20 percent of the full cost of the book (with
incentives for return of books in good condition). The books will be designed
to have an average useful life of four years, thus the rental fees will equal 80
percent of cost. An Editorial Fund will be created under SNALME, which has the
legal authority to receive monies, establish accounts and spend for textbook-
related purposes.  This Fund will hold the amounts collected until they are
applied to the costs of producing new books to replace those no longer usable.
Minimum efficient print runs will lead to quantities larger than the numbers
needed for project schools. The additional books will be sold to students who
are not in project scnools at a cost 15 percent greater than the cost of
producing them, and the surplus will also be transferred to the Editorial Fund
for replacing the stock of textbooks.  Total revenues from rental fees and
charges for copies sold will not fully cover the costs of replacing outworn books
but will make a substantial contribution to the sustainability of the textbook
program (approximately three fourths of the cost of replacing the books.)
5.    Administration of the Component.  The subcomponent includes creation of an
Editorial council within the MEC, which is designed to bring together the
multiple activities of the Ministry relating to the design and development,
manufacturing and distribution of textbooks and educational materials.   The
Council will be composed of one representative of the Minister of Education, the
Coordinator of the PCU, the National Directors of Planning, DINACAPED and Regular
and Special Education of MEC, SNALME and one representative of the private
publishi:.-  sector.   One result  of the work of this Council will be a
rationalization of these dispersed activities, some of which are of inefficient
size and many of which operate without knowledge of or contact with other related
activities.
6.    Implementation of textbook activities will be the responsibility of the
Ministry and will be carried out by a textbook unit under DINACAPED and by
SNALME. The PCU, as the source of funding for textbook activities and a member
of the Editorial Council, will have oversight.   The responsibilities of the
textbook unit will include:
Coordinating  the design  and development  of  the  new  textbooks  and
materials;
Contracting with private sector firma for the production of textLooks;
Arranging, xn coordination with SNALME, for distribution of textbooks to:
(a) students in low-income urban areas covered by the project's Matrix
Centers, and (b) distributions centers -- both SNALME and private sector



- 75 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 6
booksellers -- that will sell additional copies of the new textbooks and
raise revenues for the Editorial Fund;
-     Contracting for technical assistance to advise the Minister and the
Editorial Council on the long-term arrangements for textbook development,
distribution and finance.
7.    The design and development of the textbooks will be performed through a
process of contracts with authors, according to guidelines providel by textbook
design experts and international technical advisors. There needs to be close
communication with the groups that developed the AMER texts, the curriculum
development activity under the IDB poject and other activities associated with
the project.   Printing will be contracted on the basis of  international
competitive bidding,  in which Ecuadoran firms can obviously compete.   The
operating unit under DINACAPED will receive technical assistance in preparing
bidding documents for procurement of goods and services needed to carry out its
tasks. Distribution will be carried out through SNALME and through commerical
booksellers.
S.   SNALME, which is one of the key entities represented on the Editorial
Council, will have the following operating responsibilities.   First it will
receive the funds collected from renting textbooks to primary school students in
the Matrix Centers and their networks of schools, and for maintaining the
Editorial Fund for use in printing additional textbooks as needed.   Second,
SNALME will arrange for distribution of textbooks (a) to the Matrix Centers, for
distribution to the project schools and studentB and collection of rental fees;
and (b) for sale of additional copies and receipt of proceeds for the Editorial
Fund.   In the case of distribution in project schools,  SNALME will simply
contract  for physical  delivery to  the Matrix  Centers.    With  regard to
arrangements for sale of additional copies, SNALME will sell some textbooks
through its own distribution centers throughout the country, and will seek bids
from private sector booksellers to market additional copies. The more copies
marketed through all means, the more revenue will be received for the Editorial
Fund.
9.    The textbook subcomponent includes training 17,000 in-service teachers in
how to use the new textbooks. Textbook-related training will be provided to
teachers as part of the training activities offered within the general quality-
improvement subcomponent; for training in effective use of texte and materials,
teachers will be grouped according to the subject matter of the text in question.
Costs of textbook-related training are included in the training component.



ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 6
Annex 5 - Table I
INDICATIVE COSTS OF PRIMARY TEXTBOOKS
IN THE PRIVATE SECTOR
GRADE      AREA       TITLE OF TEXT    NO. OF       PUBLLSHER      UNIT COST
PAGES                       (SUCRES)
1 TO 5   MATH        NACHO CALCULA       200      ED. NACHO/        4290
SUSAETA
1 TO 5               MATEMATICA          200      SM/LOS ANDES      3700
1 TO 3               MATEMATICA          170      ALMA ZAMBRANO    1500
1 TO 5               MUNDO DE LA         200      EL CID            4765-5325
MATEMATICA
1 TO 3   SPANISH    LENGUAJE             200      SM/LOS ANDES      3700
1 TO 5               ANTOLOGIA           200      NORMA             4000
COMUNICATIVA
1 TO 5               CRECE CON TU        200      SUSAETA           2715
IDIOMA
1 TO 5               NACHO LEE                    SUSAETA           2420-2715
3330
1 TO 6               LENGUA ESPAfhOLA    200      CULTURAL A        9000
1 TO 6               CRECE CON TU        200      SUS.ETA           3800
IDIOMA
I TO 6               ESPAhROL            200      GEORGINA          8500
ESTPUTCTURAL                 GONZALEZ
1 TO 5               ARMONIA DEL         200      EL CID            4985-5325
LENGUAJE
1 TO 2               SERIE PATITO        150                        1000-1500
3 TO 6               SERIE LNS                    DON BOSCO         1550-2100
1 TO 6   NATURAL    CIENCIA REY          250      CULTURAL A        6480-9880
1 TO 6   SCIENCE    CIENCIA DE LA        120/2    EL CID            5800-7200
NATURALEZA
1 TO 2               CIENCIA 1-2         150      SM/LOS ANDES      3700
3                    CIENCIA 3 (NT)      150      SM/LOS ANDES      3800
1 TO 6   SOCIAL      LNS                          DON BOSCO         2500
4 TO 6   SCIENCE    ESCOLAR                       EC.               2500
ECUATORIANO
1 TO 6               COLECCION                    EDITORIAL         2500
I____   CABELAS                           CABELAS
Note:  Costs based on a sample survey of private bookstores in Quito;  Primary
level (grades 1 to 6);  prices as of July, 1991



- 77-                          ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 6
Annex 5 - Table I
(Continued)
INDICATIVE COSTS OF LOWER SECONDARY TEXTBOOKS
IN THE PRIVATE SECTOR
GRADE   AREA       TITLE OF TEXT       NO.OF     PUBLISHER      UNIT COST
_.______   .________    _____________________  PAGES             (SUCRES)
1 TO 3  MATH      REPETTO 1,2,3         350    KAPELUSZ          6000
1 TO 3            ARMAS/ZAMBRANO        120                      1700
1 TO 3            MATEMATICA            200    NORMA             5200
PROGRESIVA
1 TO 3            MATEMATICA            250    PIME              5900
3                 DOLCIANI              450    PUBL CULTURA      17000
1 TO 3            ENCICLOPEDIA LNS      200    DON BOSCO         2300
3                 MATEMATICA            470    MACIL/CULTURA    7400
3                 ANALITICA/ALGEBRA     580     BALDOR/CULTURA   20000
1 TO 3  SPANISH   CASTELLANO            250    MOSQUERA          2600
1 TO 3            CASTELLANO            250    LNS               1450-2300
1 TO 3            ESPAROL MODERNO       250    ALVARADO          2000
1 TO 3            CASTELLANO            250    JACOME            19000
1TO 3            IDIOMA NACIONAL       250    CORNEJO           2000
1 TO 3            CASTELLANO            300    ARQUERO           5390
DINAMICO
1 TO 3            ESPAihOL              300    LEGURBURU         4915-4980
5215
1 TO 3            LENGUAJE TOTAL        300    NORMA             4600
1 TO 3  NATURAL   CIENCIAS NATURALES   250    LNS                2000
1 TO 3  SCIENCE   CIENCTAS NATURALES    250    ALVAREZ           1700
1 TO 3            CIENCIAS NATURALES    250    MENA-MENESES      2400
1 TO 3            CIENCIAS NATURALES    400    MANTILLA          1200
1 TO 3            CIENCLAS NATURALES    350    NORMA             7000
1 TO 3            CIENCIAS NATURALES    200    NAVAS             2000
1 TO 3  SOCIAL    HIST. CEO. Y CIVICA           GARCIA           3200
SCIENCE                                 GONZALEZ
1 TO 3            ESTUDIOS SOCIALES     300    LNS/DON BOSCO    1500
1 TO 3            HIST. GEO. Y CIVICA   250    MARTINEZ          2200
ESTRADA
1 TO 3            HIST. GEO. Y CIVICA   250     NAVAS JIMENEZ    2000
Note: See previous page; books above are for grades 7 through 9.



- 78 -                            ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 6
Annex 5 - Table 2
APPROXIMATE PRINTING COSTS OF "ABRAMOS SURCOS" TEXTS
(in thousands of sucres)
GRADE          MATERIAL        NO. OF           UNIT COST       TOTAL COST
EXAMPLES
FIRST            Texts             309,000             1.7           525,300
SECOND           Texts             235,000            1.8            423,000
THIRD            Texts              21,000            2.4            506,000
FOURTH           Texts             182,000               3           546,000
FIFTH            Texts             164,000            2.8            459,200
SIXTH            Texts             151,000            3.2            483,200
FIRST            Notebooks         657,000           1.35            886,950
SECOND           Notebooks         532,000           1.45            771,400
THIRD            Notebooks         474,000           1.33            630,420
FOURTH           Notebooks         438,000            1.8            788,400
FIFTH            Notebooks         394,000              2            788,000
SIXTH            Notebooks         360,000            2.1            756,000
FIRST            Guides             15,000            1.2             18,000
SECOND           Guides             15,000           0.67             10,050
THIRD            Guides             15,000           0.74             11,100
FOURTH           Guides             15,000           0.74             11,100
FIFTH            Guides             15,000           0.83             12,450
SIXTH            Guides             15,000           0.74             11,100
FIRST            Charts            898,000           0.25            224,535



79                      ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 3
NATIONAL SYSTEM FOR MEASUREMENT OF ACADEMIC ACHIEVEMENT
1.   Obiectives.  The objective of this subcomponent of the project
will be to improve the quality of basic education, and in
particular to provide an empirical basis for targeting programs and
resources to benefit children of poor families, by providing an
objective, standardized system for assessing how much children have
learned at critical stages in their education. Specifically the
system will:
-    provide an examinations-based indicator of educational
quality:
-    develop the tests needed to measure command of essential
knowledge, according to the curriculum for basic
education;
-    provide information to. educators and administrators about
the levels of acade ic achievement of students in a
stratified sample of basic education institutions;
-    provide feedback on areas of strength and weaknesses to
aid teachers in improving student learning; and
-    carry out educational research related to measurement of
achievement.
2.   Characteristics of the System.
-    Measurement will be an assessment; that is it will be
used to evaluate the education system and not individual
schools, teachers or students.
-    Tests will be administered to a sample of schools
(approximately 15 percent of schools in the early phases
of implementation)
-    Testing will take place every two years
-    Measurement will be on the basis of criterion referenced
tests
-    Testing will take place at grades 2. 6 and 9 of the basic
education system.
-    Tests will be administered
3.   Content of the Proiect
The project will finance:
-    preparatory activities -- design of the system, technical
assistance for developing the tests, training of
specialist staff, contracting for services to manage the
system, pilot testing of instruments -- leading to
implementation of the assessment system;
-    operating costs (on a declining basis) of implementing
the system during the duration of the project including
international technical assistance;
-    study visits to observe assessment systems in operation



- 80 -                  ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 3
in other Latin American countries and elsewhere;
-    in-country  training  for  specialists  in  educational
measurement;
-    procurement of computational equipment,  including an
optical scanner, needed to develop and administer the
assessment system and analyze the findings of the tests;
4.   Administration  of  the  System  for  Measuring  Academic
Achievement.
The educational assessment system would be under the direction
of a Board of Directors (Consejo Directivo) composed of the
Minister of Education and Culture or the Minister's delegate, the
head of the Department of Evaluation of the National Planning
Directorate and the Coordinator of the PCU.  Responsibility for
implementing the system would rest with MEC, with the PCU being the
entity that assures performance of operational tasks.  The PCU,
which would arrange for physical space, logistical support,
technical assistance and other services as necessary.   The PCU
would contract for the international technical assistance that will
be essential for establishing an assessment system of good quality,
and for other services and would be responsible for financial
arrangements during the seven-year period and arrangements for
publication of findings without interference from the government.
During project implementation, arrangements will be made for the
long-term institutional support of the assessment syst_.:".  An
Academic/Technical Urit would be responsible for assuring that the
materials covered conform to the national curriculum, that the
design of the tests are in accordance with the philosophy and
guidance laid down by the Board and that the system will operate
independently. The Administrative Unit would be responsible for
activities such as arranging for printing the test forms and
distribution of the tests, and for assuring the security of the
tests and of the equipment provided under the project.   The
Research Council would be responsible for analyses of the tests,
interpretation and dissemination of the findings and governing
access to the basic data.
5.   Coverage of the Assessment System
Once it is fully operational, the system will be applied to a
national sample of approximately 121,000 students. While it will
benefit the schools aided specifically by the project, its over-all
coverage will be national. During the pilot testing phase, 51,000
students will take the tests. Annex 6 Table 1 shows the estimated
size of the samples to be used in the pilot test. Initially the
subjects zovered will be Spanish language and mathematics, although
the subjects to be evaluated will be extended to cover natural and
social sciences as well.



- 81 -                         ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 3
Annex 6 - Table I
APPROXIMATE TOTAL OF PILOT TESTS TO BE ADMINISTERED
IN 1992
PROVINCES
PICHINCHA       GUAYAS          EL ORO         TOTAL
A.  UNIVERSE
No. of primary          1332           2522             533           4387
schools
No. of secondary        475             543             121           1139
schools
No. of students:
2nd grade           49046           87520          14876          151442
6th grade           38207           58752          10960          107919
9th grade           28646           42120           8136           78902
B. SAMPLE
No. of primary         200             378              80            658
schools
No. of secondary        71              81              18            170
schools
No. of students:
2nd grade           7357           13128           2231           22680
6th grade           5731            8813           1644           16194
9th grade           4291            6318           1220           11855
TOTAL STUDENTS       17385           28259           5095           50739
No. of tests:
2nd grade          14714           26256           4462           45432
6th grade          11462           17626           3288           32376
9th grade           8594           12636           2440           23670
TOTAL TESTS          34770           56518          10190          101478



- 82 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 8
Annex 7: INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING AND DECENTRALIZATION
1.   Objectives.  The institutional strengthening activities within the
Education compoutent of the proposed project are designed: (a) to make the MEC
a more efficient and effective agency and specifically to improve the ways it
allocates resources; (b) to delegate greater authority to provincial offices
of education and to the hub schools so that education officials at the local
and provincial levels, and eventually parents and community leaders, will have
a greater role in efforts to improve the quality of basic education; and (c)
to generate new information to guide educational policies and to stimulate the
use of objective information to guide sectoral strategies and decisions.
These are long-term objectives; the proposed project will make initial steps
toward their eventual achievement. The following sections describe the
activities that will promote these ends.
2.   Strengthening the Ministry's Budgeting and Financial Management
Capacities. There is a network of offices and key staff within the MEC, the
prov;.nces and other agencies involved in preparing and approving the budget of
approximately US$200 million for education annually. This network includes
the central NEC Directorate of Planning and other units within the ministry
involved in budgeting and resource allocation, offices at the provincial level
that are charged with planning and gathering information related to budgets,
and certain staff of the Ministry of Finance and CONADE responsible for
education sector budgets. Annex 7, Figure 1 shows an institutional map of the
institutions involved in the budgeting process. Annex 7, Figure 2 shows the
budget cycle and the key agencies involved in the capital and recurrent
budgeting process. As noted in the Social Sector Study, the budgeting process
does not lead to considered decisions on resource allocation. The project
proposes to work within the existing system to strengthen analytical
capacities, improve decision processes and make the budget a more effective
tool for sector management. An important innovation in the project will be
strengthening the involvement of the Provincial budget offices, which have a
mandated role in budgeting but now play little effective part in planning and
budgetting, and the school networks in a "bottom-up" process of generating
information and indications of financial needs that is fundamental to
decentralization. Improvement of budgeting in the education sector alone can
proceed only as far as the institutional context outside the MEC will permit;
still the project will make what advances are possible within the time period
of project implementation and constraints external to the education system,
and will lay the groundwork for longer-term improvements in programming,
budgeting and policy formulation, some of which may be financed through other
operations in the Social Sector. The project will promote better resource
allocation in the education sector through the following:
-    Technical Assistance to the budget and finance network within MEC
and t}e provinces. The project will finance 60 person months of
international consultant services, 180 persor months of local
consultants, and related seminars and workshops on budgeting and
financial management. Technical advisors will design improved
processes and provide on-job training to permanent staff who are



- 83 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 8
responsible for gathering information, performing analyses related
to planning and budgeting and preparing education sector budgets.
Advisors will also provide inputs into training activitiesand will
identify key staff for local and international training.
-    Training for permanent staff will include, in addition to on-job
advice and guidance from technical advisors, semi-formal training,
courses, seminars and workshops, and more formal training for staff
involved in in the budgeting process. Formal training will include
local courses for 48 staff, international courses for 12 selected
key budget personnel, and international study visits for 15 higher
level staff to learn about budgeting procedures in other settings.
Informal training in the form of short courses and seminars will be
provided to 110 school network Directors and financial officers
and, through the hub schools to the principals of primary schools
in their networks.
Provision of informatics ecuinment and software and training in its
use: Budgeting and the use of information to guide policy will
benefit from introduction of computers and training in how to use
information and computing technologies. This is especially true
for staff at the provincial levels, where modern information
technologies have not been introduced. The project provides for
purchase of 75 computers plus related equipment, software and
training.
Immediate beneficiaries will be the staff trained; longer term benefits will
be better decision making, based on improved information and budgeting
procedures, and more efficient use of resources to accomplish sectoral
objectives. Indicators of performance. will initially be process indicators:
technical assistance activities, studies and reports and number of training
activities and of staff trained. Longer run evaluation of the Institutional
Strengthening activities will be designed to indicate whether budgeting
processes have changed and improved. Specific indicators will show what
officials are involved in allocation decisions, what information is being
generated and used, what budget technologies have been adopted or adapted for
use in Educador's education sector, and how the steps in the budget process
have changed in a qualitative way.
3.   Decentralization of Sector Management to the Provincial Education
Offices. The process of decentralizing the management of education will take
a number of years. The project will finance activities that will start this
process and lay the groundwork for continuing progress in this direction.
Decentralization will constitute a substantial change in established practices
and Bank experience with projects that involve substantial organizational
change and innovation indicates that successful implementation requires:
adequate information to all parties about the objectives of the change and
specific activities to be undertaken, participation on the part of
"stakeholders" in the design of changes, and flexibility during the
implementation of changes to take account of experience, new information and
changes in the external onvirtnment. Design of this comuonent takes these



- 84 
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 8
lessons into account. The quality-improvement program and the system of
school networks in rural and urban low-income areas involves decentralizing
professional/pedagogical management, including some control over financial
resources, and decentralization in this respect will be linked with
decentralization of administrative functions within the provincial offices.
The school networks will establish working relationships and linkages with the
Provincial Education Departments in the areas of micro-planning, budgeting,
administrative supervision and implementation of the quality improvement
program. Key activities leading to decentralization will include the
following.
-    Implementation of a phased program of decentralization.  Government
has issued an executive decree giving the school networks authority
to receive and allocate budgets for non-salary e-penses, including
maintenance, and to perform professional management functions
concerning teachers in the hub schools and the networks of schools
associated with the hub schools. This constitutes a significant
step in decentralization. In addition, the project will put into
operation the plan for decentralization and a process by which the
initial steps will be implemented. The process includes
consultation with represmntatives of provincial offices, central
ministry offices and officials in charge of developing the school
network program for quality improvement. This consultation will
solicit the views of key provincial and school network officials on
the proposed plan and the actions necessary to make the delegation
of authority and responsibility to their operating levels
effective, the barriers to decentralization they perceive and ways
of removing these barriers. The consultation will provide
orientation and information programs to inform all parties affected
about the objectives of decentralization, what will be expected of
them and what benefits they can expect in return.
-    Development of links between the provincial education offices and
the school networks. As an important part of the decentralization
process, the quality-improvement program will be linked with
provincial level management processes, which are themselves to be
strengthened through the project. Staff of the provincial offices
will provide support to school network Directors in implementing
the quality improvement program, while educators from the hub
schools and schools in their networks will work closely with the
provincial offices onL matters such as generating data for budgeting
and planning.
-    Technical assistance. trainingt continuing consultation and
provision or necessary equi2ment. Strengthening provincial
management capacities will involve organizational design, staffing
and other changes. In addition to technical assistance and
training relating to improved budgeting processes, the project will
also provide TA and training in support of decentralization.



85 -
ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 8
4.   Conduct of studies and evaluation of innovations.  The objectives of
this subcomponent are:
-    providing information needed for policy choices concerning
continued efforts to improve the quality and cost-effectiveness of
education in Ecuador;
-    promoting public consultations and policy deliberations among
concerned parties on education sector policy and strategy issues;
-    analyzing the costs and cost-effectiveness of existing forms of
education and possible alternative approaches to meeting
educational goals;
-    evaluating subcomponents of the project in order to inform future
policies about whether and how these should be extended (as in the
case of preschool education) and how they should be adapted to
serve remaining needs for qualitative improvement; and
-    laying the groundwork for possible future projects to improve
education at all levels in terms of its quality, cost-effectiveness
and equitable access.
The studies would not only generate information that will define sector
priorities and allocation decisions but also demonstrate ways in which
information -- including information from the educational assessment system --
can be used to guide policies and plans. The appraisal mission reviewed
proposals for studies and recommended reductions in their number,
methodological approaches, and substantive changes in the focus and emphasis
of a reduced set of studies and national consultations. The studies proposed
include the following.
a.   An evaluation of the quality of basic education.
This proposed study would utilize data produced by the achievement testing
system to assess .he quality of education and cast light on the results of
some of the activities of the education component. It would complement
achievement data with information on school inputs, student background and
participation in quality-improvement programs and activities. Data on program
costs would also be gathered and related to the quality study. In addition to
analyzing data from the achievement testing system to provide general
information on educational quality, the study proposed would include two
sample-based investigations. One would be a longitudinal study of a group of
students designed to provide information on repetition and wastage: what
students are at greatest risk of repeating or dropping out, what associations
exist between inputs of the quality-improvement program, indicators of
achievement and tendencies to repeat or drop out? The second sample, drawn in
the fourth year of implementation, would examine the achievement of students
who had participated in various models of preschool education -- formal,
informal, public and private -- or who had had no preschool education.
b.   Study of Needs for Bilingual and Intercultural Education for
Indigenous Students in Urban Areas.
Project preparation activities have determined that the principal needs of
indigenous students in Quito and Guayaquil, where Phase I of the project will
be implemented, are for intercultural education to deal with possible problems



- 86 -
ANNEX 7
Page 5 of 8
of psychological adaptation to majority culture and the behaviora requirements
of school. Phases II and III will take place in smaller communities, however,
and more information is needed in order to program interventions to understand
the needs of indigenous students and mwke sure that they have an equal chance
to obtain an education of good quality. This study would use data from the
1990 Census and other sources to provide information on demographics of
indegenous population and students, as well case studies in a limited number
of communities of the social, cultural, linguistic and other problems
indigenous children encounter to provide this information.
c.   Specific studies of gualitv-imDrovement Drograms. their in2uts.
effectiveness and costs.
This complex of studies would use a consistent conceptual framework and set of
methodologies to examine aspects of the teacher training, special education
and preschool activities of the education component. The first would focus on
the way teachers use time in the classroom for active learning activities, one
of the key fackors associated with student learning and a subject to be
emphasized in taacher training. The study would use observational
methodologies both early in the implementation period and a second iteration
in the fifth year of implementation to determine whether there have been
changes in this important variable, and would also relate data on time use to
achievement data from the testing system. The second two studies would
examine in detail the special education and preschool prog.ams, their inputs
and modes of operation based on observations in a sample of cases. The data
would emphasize process and would provide short-term feedback on
implementation of these activities. The information would also be related to
data from the achievement study to explore whether student contact with these
programs is associated with differences in achievement. In the case of the
preschool component, the study would examine not only project preachools but
other models as well.
d.   PreDaratorv work for a National Consultation on Reform of the
Secondary Education Curriculum.
Although government gives priority to improving basic education, there are
also serious needs to assess the objectives of the upper secondary level
(called diversified education) and propose reforms. There are great
differences of opinion on how this should be done and very little information
to guide policies and decisions. For example, there are no studies of the
post-school employment and earnings of completers of the several streams.
Government proposes a "national consultation" on reform of secondary
education, in which interested parties and institutions -- schools, teachers,
employers, social and religious institutions and parents -- would have an
opportunity to receive valid information and make their views and priorities
known. This study would provide analytical information for that consultation,
including a review of the secondary curriculum and its relation to modern-day
requirements, and an analysis of the internal and external efficiency of the
several types of secondary schooling offered in Ecuador.
e.   A National Consultation on Hither Education Qualitv and Costs.
A similar activity would examine the post-secondary eduation subsector, about
which little information is available on quality, management, costs, or



- 87 -
ANNEX 7
Page 6 of 8
finance. Analytical work would be carried out under the direction of the
National Higher Education Council (CONUEP) and would lead to policy
deliberations on ways of making Ecuador's higher education better adapted
the needs of the society and the economy of the coming century, within the
fin.ncial constraints the country and the subsector will continue to face.



- 88 -                         ANNEX 7
Page 7 of 8
Annex 7 - Figure 1:  INSTITUTIONS INVOLVED IN THE EDUCATION BUr.GET 1'iOCESS
PRESIDENCY
*                             CONGRESS
*I                                     i
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
UNDERSECRETARY OF THE BUDGET
|MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND CULTURE|
 _ _ _ X | ~~CONE|
oTHER     ||NATIONAL DIRECTOR ||NATIONAL DIRECTOR  ||UNIVERSITIES|
DIRECTORATES        OF PLANNING        OF FINANCIAL ADMIN. 
|DEPARTMENT OF     |
|FINANCIAL PLANNING|
PROVINCIAL EDUCATION DIRECTORATES
SECONDARY SCHOOLS
SCHOOL NETWORTKS   PRIMARY SCHOOLS



- 89 -                 ANNEX 7
Page 8 of 8
Annex 7 - Figure 2
PROCESO PRESUPURSTAL ACTUAL
CONGRESO
-. ,
PRESUPUESTO
MINISTERIO DE FINANZAS  <
SUBSECRETARIA
DE PRESUPUESTO
CONSOLIDACION DEL PRESU.
S   CONADE     2                     |PROFORMA   1  PROFORMA
IPRESPIJPEST. JPRESUPUESTI
IDIRECCIONES I  CONUEP
DESCENTRAL.   PROF. PRES
r -  v       , ~- Co leg.
PROFORMA PRESUP.   - DPES    DIRECCIONES   - Proforma Presup.
.    ,    ,  ,.  ~- Direc.   NACIONALES
l    |  r  ~Nacio.I
DT.PLANIFCC
 ~FINANCIER
- Proforma DPE
- Proforma Pre-primaria
DPES              Primaria
F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
PREPRIM - PRIMAR             GOLEGIOS- Proforma
Presupuestal



- 90 -
ANNEX 8 _
Page 1 of 14
ECUADOR
FIRST SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ADULT EDUCATION AND TRAINING COMPONENT
I.   BACKGROUND
In August 1989 a delegation from the Ecuadoran Ministry of
Labor Training Service (SECAP) visited the World Bank Headquarters
to review the execution of the Vocational Training Project, Loan
2171-EC (US$16.0 million)' and to indicate its interest in
obtaining technical  and financial assistance for basic skill
training programs targeted to the unskilled poor and to small
manufacturing business owners working in marginal areas of the
economy. Project preparation began in February 1990 with Bank and
UNDP assistance.
One of the major problems in developing assistance strategies
and designing programs for the poorest segments of society lies in
the  difficulty  of  identifying  and  grouping  them  to  ensure
successful interventions.  In Ecuador, the MEC has succeeded in
establishing a system of community service which has identified the
poorest communities where there are a large number of young adults
between 12 and 18 years old who dropped out of the education system
without having, in most cases, completed basic education, and who
entered or are seeking to enter the labor market.  In addition,
there are more than 500 technical secondary schools whose sixth
year level students can provide community services by imparting
basic skills training after a short-duration instruction program to
acquire teaching skills. There could be a considerable increase in
the relevance of the training offered and in the cost-effectiveness
ratio if SECAP's equipment and institutional capacity to provide
technical instruction, MEC's identification of poor communities and
their training needs, and the multiplier potential of the technical
area students are brought together.
A basic problem for the development of the Ecuadoran social
sector  is institutional weakness.    As a consequence,  it is
difficult to find an appropriate institutional setting to identify
and carry out programs and projects successfully.   SECAP, while
being the only Ecuadoran institution which has completed with
acceptable success social sector projects and the institution which
has best implemented poverty programs with resources from FONNIN in
1990-91 still needs institutional strengthening in the following
I The First Vocational Training Program, Ln. 1157-EC (US$4.0
million) had been implemented in 1975-84.



- 91 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 14
areas: (i) selection, training and management of instructors; (ii)
curriculum design and production of training materials; (iii)
improved utilization of existing equipment and infrastructuire; and
(iv) labor market and earnings information system. In addition,
SECAP requires a management information system and development of
student follow-up and training evaluation systems.
SECAP's Impact. Although a comprehensive economic evaluation
of vocational training in Ecuador has not been conducted to date,
several studies of SECAP's graduates show a positive impact of
vocational training.   Among them a 1987 study sponsored by the
Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ) (Bernd
Schleich, El Paradero ocupacional de los earesados en metalmecanica
y automotriz de los centros de Ouito.  Ibarra. Ambato v Santo
Domingo) found that "91.3% of trainees were working as skilled
workers",  "70% of the business owners were satisfied with the
quality of SECAP instruction, one third was very satisfied and only
one-fourth was not fully satisfied."  A 1990 follow up study of
former SECAP students who received training in electricity and
electronics (Jesus Mejia, Evaluacion de impacto de la capacitacion:
areas de electricidad v electronica, Consulting contract, PNUD/OPS)
found that "90% of those who received training are working, 59.5%
as salaried workers and 26% are self-employed. It also showed that
" 73.5% are working in private sector companies and 26.4% in public
sector institutions."  Supervisors surveyed indicated that "u'-der
similar circumstances" they preferred a SECAP-trained worker. The
reasons given were "adequate general knowledge and high level
technical knowledge." A cost/benefit analysis based on the 1989
data (Eduardo Martinez, El valor economico de la capacitacion
profesional en las areas de electricidad v electronica,
SECAP/PNUD/OPS) shows a social rate of return of 18% and a private
internal rate of return of 37% in the areas of electricity and
electronics.
II. GOVERNMENT STRATEGY
The Government has indicated a commitment to the education
sector and a determination to target services to the poorest
segments of society. Targeting is essential because the current
economic crisis has imposed severe constraints on the recurrent
budget and brought about a decline in sector spending.   The
Government's strategy gives priority to basic education and to
targeted basic general and technical skills training programs for
the poor. This would serve to maintain or enhance their literacy
and basic general education and improve their productivity.  To
implement these programs, SECAr has operational agreements with
MEC's adult education campaign (Ecuador Estudia) and with the
Frente Social Special Fund for the Infancy (FONNIN). Facilitating
access of small enterprises to information and training in the
areas of quality control, devign, management and marketing would
increase their potential competitiveness  in the market.   For



92
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 14
implementation of p u-ograms in these areas, SECAP has agreements
with agencies that. M-ovide credit to microenterprises (UNEPROM and
CONAUPE) and with agencies that provide technical assistance to
small enterprises and the handicraft industry (CENDES and CENAPIA).
The Government has expressed its commitment with a more market
oriented economic poGicy.  in particular it has approached labor
market issues attempting reforms that would eliminate fixed costs
of labor which have deterred in the past new investments. Trade
issues have also started to be addressed and markets within the
Andean Group will start opening in 1992. It is within this context
that labor productivity increases will become more necessary in the
near future.   SECAP itself is committecd to strengthening its
managerial and fii.ancial capacity, a process started with Bank
technical assistance provided under Ln. 2171-EC. A main feature of
SECAP's institutional strengthening policy is establishing closer
ties with the private sector. -n addition to implementing existing
agreements with the private sector, SECAP is actively seeking new
agreements with enterprises and chambers of the private sector that
would give a more significant role to them in the design,
management and financing of training courses.
III. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The Adult Education and Training con.ponent seeks to strengthen
the effectiveness of vocational training by using Ecuador's
training capacity more effi,iently and reorienting SECAP's
activities so that they respond better to changing economic and
labor market conditions. To achieve these objectives, SECAP would
expand basic general training programs targeted to the poor, and
would increase coordination with other public sector institutions
and with the private sector to better orient its conventional
program.
The component has three types of activities: (ij provision of
basic skills post-literacy training for tho least educated adults
geared to improving productivity and the standard of living of the
poor; (ii) support to small manufacturing businesses in strategic
sectors with export potential seeking to improve their productivity
and competitiveness; and (iii) institutional strengthening of
SECAP's general and financial management aiming to improve its
capacity to respond to labor market needs.
Post-Literacy Education and Traininc
The objective of this program is to improve the standards of
living of the poorest segments of society by providing basic adult
education and basic skills training.   Other objectives are to
institutionalize basic skills training as an instruction process
for those who dzop out of the formal education system.   An
important characteristic of this program is that SECAP has
operational agreements with NEC, UNEPROM, CONAUPE that will



93
ANEX 8-
Page 4 of 14
facilitate its implementation. In addition, it .is expected that a
large number of non-governmental organizations working with the
poorest communities will be involved in these activities.   In
addition, the program seeks to create within SECAP the capacity to
serve marginal urban and rural population groups. These services
will be provided based on explicit criteria of economic efficiency
since many of the training activities will be done by using SECAP's
existing infrastructure during hours when there is little demand
from apprenticeship and adult education programs.
An important aspect of the basic adult education and basic
skills training programs developed between MEC and SECAP is that it
will use MEC's existing network of adult training centers and
SECAP's capacity in terms of instructors, equipment and physical
infrastructure. Another important aspect of these programs is that
they will have more flexibility due to simplified requirements for
participation; short duration; training based on needs assessment;
and use of available capacity at the permanent centers.   The
program includes massive and quick training needs assessment
methods that include canvassing the communities with regard to
their felt needs and to the availability of suitable infrastructure
in the area.
Basically, there will be a continuum of training that begins
with basic adult education, continues with basic skills training
and affords some of the participants the opportunity of self-
employment.   The most talented will have the opportunity to
continue their training at SECAP centers and financial assistance
to cover their transportation costs would be available in both
instances.
The post-literacy training program would meet the education
and basic training needs of the urban and rural poor who are
working or are seeking to enter the labor force as follows: (i) a
total of 5,675 basic education courses for adults would be offered
by the Ministry of Education and Culture for 113,500 participants;
(ii) lo,noo short-duration basic skills training courses would be
offered by MEC, with SECAP's collaboration, for 200,000
participants; (iii) 1,700 short-duration basic skills training
would be offered by MEC, with collaboration of SECAP, for 25,500
disabled adults; and (iv) 10,000 practical, short-duration courses
would be offered by SECAP for 180,000 participants, including about
20,000 small manufacturing business owners who will receive
technical and management training. In addition, a number of these
small business owners will require technical support in project
preparation and gaining access to funding sources. The following
table summarizes the expected results of t1I:_i wrcgram.



- 94 -
ANNEX 8
Page 5 of 14
Post-Literacy Training Targets (1)
Primary        Courses   Participants
Responsibility
(i)   Basic Adult
Education              MEC           5,675      113,500
(ii) Basic Skills
Training               MEC          10,000      200,000
(iii) Basic Skills
Training for
the Disabled           MEC           1,700       25,500
(iv)  Capacitacion Popular
and Small Business
Assistance            SECAP         10,000      180,000
(1) 60% of the activities in rural areas and 40% in urban.  The
table shows the person-courses to be provided. One person can take
more than one course. The project would cover a total of 180,000
different persons each of whom will receive between two and three
training courses (an average 2.25) each. Of them, 113,500 would
have also received the basic education course.
The post-literacy training program is subdivided into two main
activities: basic adult education and basic skills training for
adults who have started to reach literacy and primary school drop-
outs.   The basic adult education and basic skills  training
activities would: (i) use sixth-year technical secondary school
students to conduct training needs assessments and determine the
availability of physical and organizational infrastructure in the
poorest urban and rural conmunities. These assessments would be
carried out using the network that MEC created for its literacy
campaign; and (ii) provide short-term training as instructors for
students of the last two grades of technical secondary schools.
The estimated cost of this program is about US$13 million,
including contingencies.
The program objectives would be met throvg,. the following
actions:
(i) Implementation of 5,765 courses for 113,500 participants,
with options at three levels: literacy instruction (100
hours); primary education (300 hours); and basic middle
cycle (1,100 hours). These courses lead to certification
equivalent  to  regular  basic  education.       Program
participants would be those attending the basic adult
education and skills training programs of MEC and SECAP
who have not completed their basic education.   The
courses will be given by 2,000 regular teachers, 100
volunteers from social service   agencies and 35,000



- 95 -
ANNEX 8
Page 6 of 14
students from the last grades of technical secondary
schools. The activities will be conducted at existing
facilities including adult education centers and
technical colleges of the MEC, as well as the SECAP
Vocational Training Centers. The training of teachers
and the preparation of teaching materials will be the
responsibility of the National Directorate of Popular
Education of the MEC.
(ii)  A   basic   skills   training   program,    including
implementation of 10,000 eminently practical,  shoi'-
duration courses for 200,000 participants.   These are
courses that provide training for work in arts and
crafts, agriculture, industry, construction, trade,
services and small business management. she duration of
the courses varies between 60 and 100 hours. The courses
are aimed at unskilled adults who work or are seekirng to
join the labor force on an independent basis or as small
business employees. The courses will be offered by MEC
teachers in day and evening sessions. The infrastructure
of 600 MEC technical colleges, 400 MEC arts and crafts
centers and 19 SECAP vocational training centers will be
used to give these courses. The teacher training and the
preparation of teaching materials will be the joint
responsibility of MEC and SECAP.
'-ii) A basic skills training program for the disabled
including implementation of 1,700 eminently practical,
short duration courses for 25,500 participants. Since
this will involve a highly personalized form of
instruction, the duration of the courses varies. They
will be offered by 500 special education teachers, in 40
existing institutes of special education. In addition 22
multipurpose workshops for training of the disabled will
be established to provide these courses.  The teacher
training and the praparation of teaching materials will
be the joint responsibility of MEC and SECAP.
(iv) Implementation of 10,000 eminently practical, short-
duration courses for 180,000 participants. The courses
will provide training for work in agriculture, industry,
construction, trade, services and small business
management.    Also  included  are  technical  support
activities for microenterprises in project preparation
and submission of credit requests. The duration of the
courses is variable, ranging between 60 and 100 hours.
The CaRacitacio'n PoRular training and microenterprise
assistance program is for the unskilled who work or will
enter the labor force, on an independent basis or as a
small business employees. Program participants may also
choose the basic adult education courses, either before



96 -
ANNEX 8
Page 7 of 14
or after their training. The courses will be given by
160 SECAP instructors (30 already in-house and 130 to be
hired), plus a number of part-time instructors.   To
provide these courses, use will be made of the SECAP
infrastructure consisting of 19 permanent vocational
training centers, currently used at 49% of c.4pacity, and
seven mobile units, recently acquired with the resources
of  IBRD  Ln.  2171-EC.    Teacher  training  and  the
preparation  of  teaching  materials   will  be  the
responsibility of SECAP.    It  is expected that the
utilization of SECAP's   permanent centers for these
training programe will increase by 35%. Thus, the use of
SECAP infrastructure will increase from the present 49%
to 65%.
A comparison of 1989 unit costs of training of SECAP and the
estimated training costs, with the project, are presented below:
1989 Average        1989 Average
Unit Recurrent       Unit Costs
______________________costs _USS            USS
Industry
Cost/participant           69.3            141.6
Cost/hour of instruction   6.0              12.3
Commerce and Services
Cost/participant           11.4            24.4
Cost/hour of instruction   5.5              11.8
Total
Cost/participant           41.4            84.9
Cost/hour of instruction   5.9             10.6
Project training costs would be US$22.0 per participant-course of
which US$15.2 represent recurrent costs.  This means that US$50
would be invested in the average person taking 2.25 courses (or
US$72 including for those who take the basic post-literacy
education course).   By increasing the utilization of SECAP's
capacity its unit costs per participant would fall from the present
US$84.9 to US$73.7 in case the proposed activities are undertaken.
Technical SupRort to Small Manufacturing Businesses
Ecuador has a group of srall manufacturing businesses engaged
in textile and leather garment and accessories manufacturing,
furniture-making, and metal-machinery.   These businesses have a
tradition of having craft skills that enabled them to compete in
the Andean subregion. Ecuador also has institutions experienced in



- 97 -
ANNEX 8
Page 8 of 14
technical assistance to small businesses. These are the Center for
Industrial Development of Ecuador (CENDES) and the Center for
Promotion of Small Industry and Handicrafts of Ecuador (CENAPIA).
Coordinated &ction between SECAP, CENDES and CENAPIA would provide
support to small manufacturing businesses through training and
technical assistance.
This program constitutes a pilot effort to improve the
productivity and competitiveness of small manufacturing companies
in strategic sectors with export potential by transferring
production technologies, quality control and marketing knowledge.
The transfer of technologies will be done through training
activities, provision of information, technical assistance and
promotion of marketing associations.   It is expected that about
2,800 already established companies, which provide employment to an
estimated 28,000 workers would be assisted through this pilot
program which will have a four-year duration at an estimated cost
of  about  US$2,800,000.   SECAP, CENDES  and  CENAPIA  will be
responsible for its implementation.
The  program  will  have  four  basic  activities:         (a)
identification of production, design and quality control problems
of small manufacturing businesses of textiles, leather, and wood
products; (b) provision of technical assistance services to these
businesses; and (c) establishment of technological information and
consulting centers for the targeted sectors.  Each one of these
activities will include training for production workers, middle
level managers and executives.
(a) Identification of production, design and quality control
problems would be done by SECAP, CENDES and CENAPLA, with
support of national and international consultants, using
a sample of 1,200 businesses.   The identification of
problems facing these small manufacturing businesses
would be done through: (i) preparation of a critical
overview of past studLes of the selected sectors; (ii)
preparation of an industrial profile of each of the
sectors; (iii) identification of existing bottlenecks in
the production, design, and marketing processes; (iv)
identification of norms, procedures and policy changes
required to enhance the sector's potential; and  (v)
training the staff of SECAP, CENDES and CENAPIA that
would perform these analyses.
(b) Technical assistance in productivity and quality to the
textiles  and  leather  ready-to-wear   clothing  and
accessories sectors would be provided to resolve
previously identified problems of production and quality
((a) above).   Also, the capacity to replicate these
programs in SECAP, CENDES AND CENAPIA would be deireloped.
The  following  tasks  would  be  accomplished:   (i)



- 98 -
ANNEXL 8
Page 9 of 14
identification of specific production and quality
problems; (ii) identification and testing of solutions
suited to local conditions; (iii) standardization of
successful interventions and training of technical
advisors who can assist businesses in identifying
problems and recommending solutions; and, finally (iv)
developing a fee-based system for provision of technical
assistance services to the enterprises. It is expected
that this activity will last two years beginning from the
date of completion of the identification phase.
(c) Three technological information and consulting centers
for the leather garment and clothing sectors and the
furniture and wooden parts manufacturers would be
established (one for each sector). The centers will take
advantage of the experience of SECAP, CENDES and CENAPIA
in providing support to small businesses, and will
develop a data base with international links. This data
base will place national and international technical
information at the disposal of businesses.   A set of
manuals would be developed and continuously updated to
assist in the provision of services; also, the staff of
the three above institutions would be trained to enable
them  to  provide  technical   support  services  to
manufacturing businesses in the target sectors.   The
centers would provide technical support services using
the resources of the three agencies or of those offering
the required assistance within Ecuador or abroad. The
three centers would have the following functions: (i)
offer training for middle-level managers and executives;
(ii) disseminate technological information; (iii) provide
technical assistance in the areas of production and
quality control. At the outset, these functions will be
organized by CENDES, using the infrastructure, technical
staff and information available within CENDES as well as
that of CENAPIA and SECAP. The centers will be located
in the areas having the highest concentration of
activities  in  the  target  manufacturing  sectors.
Initially, the province of Pichincha (textiles), Imbabura
(leather) and Guayas (wood) have been considered as
likely locations.
Institutional Strenathening of Vocational Training
The objectives of this program are:   (i) to improve the
quality of the vocational training that SECAP offers; (ii) to
enhance the capacity of the vocational training system to adjust to
labor market requirements; and (iii) to develop the institution's
internal management systems.



- 99 G
ANNEX 8
Page 10 of 14
The following activities would be undertaken:   training of
trainers; curriculum design and production of teaching materials;
refurbishing of training centers; strengthening the labor market
and earnings information system; and establishing SECAP's
management information system.   The total cost is estimated at
US$12.8 million, including contingencies.
Training of Trainers and Instructors. The objective of this
activity is to train and provide advanced instruction to trainers
and instructors  in teaching methodology and techniques.   The
training program is based on the results of the technical training
needs assessment carried out in 1990; at that time, an instructor
selection process rs well as the technical profiles for the seven
types of existing technical instructors were also developed. The
training program includes: (i) 20 courses of 180 hours, on basic
methodological training, for 455 existing and new instructors; (ii)
20 courses of 280 hours, on advanced methodological training for
500 instructors who have completed the basic training; (iii) 3
courses of 120 hours for 60 trainers of instructors; (iv) 2 courses
of 40 hours, on design of instructional materials, for 25 technical
staff from the department of pedagogical design of SECAP; (v) 86
advanced technical instruction courses of between 60 and O hours,
aimed at 1,043 instructors (some instructors will take more than
one course); (vi) 3 courses of 80 hours, on basic methodological
training, for 75 part-time instructors in the Capacitacion PoDular
program; and (vii) 3 courses, of between 60 and 80 hours, for
promoters and supervisors of the Capacitacion Popular program. In
addition, 36 fellowships or internships abroad would be offered,
along with 102 internships at Ecuadoran enterprises, for advanced
technical   training   of   instructors   and   their   trainers.
Implementation of the training programs will be the responsibility
of the Technical Directorate of SECAP and it is expected that
training would be part of the staff career development system of
the institution, presently under study.
Curriculum Design and Production of Training Materials. One
objective of these activities is to improve the quality of
vocational training by strengthening the technical capacity of
SECAP to conduct labor market analyses, and develop program content
and  methodology.     A  second  objective  is  to  improve  the
instructional design capacity ;,,thin SECAP because a study done by
its Department of Pedagogical Design and Methods showed that SECAP
has only 38% of the instructional materials it needs. Of these,
23% are now obsolete. Similarly, SECAP has only 27% of required
training media when compared to the minimum requirements indicated
in CINTERFOR standards.  Available instructional materials are
outdated and in certain specialties such as construction, graphic
arts and industrial clothing manufacturing there are no
bibliographical references for consultation and research. A final
objective is to establish a specialized documentation center, that



Page 11 of 14
would become part of CINTERFOR's international network, to orient
vocational training proqrams.   Its primary function will be to
support the tasks of designing curricula and to take advantage of
internationa) training matorialn production that is covered by the
CINTERFOR network.
The first objective would he met hy:  (i) forming a grour of
46 specialists in charge of technica:l and instructional design who
would receive training through two specialized courses of one month
duration each; (;.i) updating of curriculum design of 11 families of
existing  specialties  that  SECAP  offers  at  present;   (iii)
technical/pedagogical design for courses of 11 new specialties to
be offered under the Capacita.cidn Po ular training program; (iv)
curriculum design in eight new specialties for SECAP's regular
program; (v) implementation of an experimental distance training
program that would be used for training of instructors in teaching
methodologies; and (vi) implementation an experimental program of
individualized  training  in  welding.    The  execution  of  the
curriculum design program is the responsibility of the Technical
Directorate of SECAP and it is expected that it would become a
permanent activity:
The second objective would be met by: (i) replacing, during a
two-year period, all training equipment and media in the 25
training centers of SECAP; (ii) training 14 technical staff in
training media use through a 40 hour course. These technical staff
will later become multiplier agents for in-service training of
instructors;   (iii)   producing   training  materials   for  the
agncitaciojnpopular program; (iv) organizing and equipping an
audio-visual media reproduction unit (filmstrips, videotapes and
slides); (v) preparation of 166 technical manuals for all
specialties offered by SECAP; and (vi.) acquiring 16 instructional
videotapes for different specialties.  Program implementation is
the responsibility of the Technical Directorate of SECAP and it is
expected that it would become a permanent activity.
The final objective wou].d be met by:  developing a national
information and documenitation system, headquartered at SECAP,
consisting of one national ceniter and four specialized regional
centers that would be part cf the Regional Information System on
Vocational Training (SIRFO), whicG' CINTERFOR coordinates for Latin
America and the: Caribbean. The first year will be devoted to adapt
the physical infrastructure required, train the persons who would
manage the system, and index all documents in accordance with the
ILO glossary, with CINTERFOR technical assistance.  During the
second year of program implementation, the centers could start
operations.
~ Center RiRr.bi>lsbin     cTh' objective of this activity
is to  acquire and provihd(' f't)nlioit  %r new  specialties, and
provide supplemental equipment, eLhu:ipmi,ent repair and installation



10]
taoj( 12 o4 14
for existi ny upcteial.i c;
The objective- of thli f;, t  ) wjL a1I1 nlould 1)ti 'iL,s bjy oy( ii)  jiovi ing
supplemerntal. equipment to 'i ;8is: 1 y ( r-i.oI;a   Au-2  -)c1v.o  (: I
Graphic Arts of QuiVo, T.Puiodn andi th0e. inmobile iniit.&; (ii) pi-oviding
equipment for tbe- f oil ow'.i  HOW IPW  I i ( l 1.8 r     .1 i ftC-d l e fli nfin I,
tanning at the Art:bato  6e.n. l ind-ut) i.al etout1r.oulcf-; at. CERFMN,
informatics .nX1 17 center.v,, )-kakinq Jl Q1131;o , Ciayaquil l , (clenca and
Ambato; (iii) desigqnl.-q mid i iap I omk   iAw l wm eqt1 pinet lai ntenance.
system  in  SECAP; and  (iv)  adcministration  of  the  equipment
acquisition process.
Stre_qtbhening  the  )tabow  l'Market arid Earn ingj  1 u:tormlation
System.  The objective of this activity is to provide SECAP with a
system that orients its vocational training programs so that they
respond more efficiently to the demands of the labor market.  The
National Employment Instituite (INEM), which has established
household surveys, would continuie developing with SECAP a labor
market monitoring systemii that analyzes existing labor market
information (star%ed under Ln. 2171-EC) that is collected by a
variety of institutions and which wi.l be useful for guiding and
planning of education, vocational training and national employment
programs.
The two institutions, with technical assistanice, defined the
required methodology, computed the indicators and trained the
professionals  to  perform  related  tasks.    This  work  was  a
preliminary requirement for develop>ng the necessary data base, for
the design, writing and testing the processing and analysis
programs, and for training the specialists in charge of maintaining
and operating the system in the future.
The attainment of this objective would be done by  developing
the institutional capacity for analysis and utilization of
information at INEM and SECAP, by means of trainirng analysts to
maintain the system through: (i) establishment of a data bank that
supports labor market analysis; (ii) conducting continuous analyses
of the status and dynamics of economic sectors and their effect on
the demand for labor and labor skills; and (iii) publicizing the
results for effective nse by users, among them INEM and SECAP.
Labor market studies aim to improve existinig knowledge on the
target population of SECAP, to provide feedback to the planning,
design, and pedagogical development processes and to SECAP's
overall operations.   An important objective at present is to
determine the standards of living of the population to ensure that
priority will be given to the poorest segments of the population.
A national living standards measurement survey, at the national
level will be conducted by INEM.
Maragement Information System. The objective of this activity



- 102 -
ANNEX 8
Page 13 of 14
is to provide SECAP with the basic information for planning and
operations decision-making.
This activity will involve: (i) improvement of institutional
administrative and organizational procedures; (ii) development of
a cost accounting system for decision-making on the allocation and
administration of funds; and (iii) conducting impact evaluation
studies of SECAP's target population.
Institutional improvement would be accomplished by performing
institutional analyses and, as a result, developing manuals which
would cover the programming and control of utilization of
infrastructure; the procurement of services and materials; the
programming and follow up of trainers; and the decentralized
management of funds.
The cost accounting system would be established using the
methodology developed, and partially tested, in 1990, with
international technical assistance.
The impact evaluation studies (tracer studies) would be done
using methodology developed and applied with international
technical assistance, under Ln.  2171-EC.   There would be two
studies per year, at the national level, with regional breakdowns
and by center in each of the training modalities (apprenticeship,
adult training, combined in-house and on-the-job training, basic
skills training and management training.)
ProJect Implementation
The component will have a Project Coordinating Unit (PCU)
which will report to the Executive Director of SECAP. The PCU's
responsibilities would be to coordinate and follow up on all
project's activities such as procurement of services and goods
(with the assistance of a procurement agent); and liaising with the
Bank in operational and administrative areas.
A Coordinating Committee will be created and will be composed
of SECAP's Executive Director, the PCU Coordinator and the
coordinators of the three programs.
There will be four implementation units responsible for
project activities: (a) the Informal Sector Training Directorate
that will be responsible for the Capacitacion Popular program and
will coordinate program activities with the Director of Adult
Education of NEC; (b) the Operations Directorate that will be
responsible for the support program for small manufacturing
businesses and will coordinate with CENDES and CENAPIA; (c) the
Technical Directorate will be responsible for the following
institutional strengthening activities: trainer and instructor
training, curriculum development and preparation of instructional



- 103 -
ANNEX 8
Page 14 of 14
materials and media; refurbishing of training centers; and impact
evaluation studies; and (d) the Planning Directorate will be
responsible for the management information system.
The Planning Directorate and the PCU Coordinator will be
responsible for the preparation of quarterly reports informing the
Executive Director of SECAP on the physical and financial progress
of all project activities.   Each report will also provide an
analysis of past and projected activities.



- J04 -
Annex 9
Page 1 of 5
ECUADOR
FIRST SOCIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proflect _  8Sn_n!SStg3ttoArat
Organization and Sta,ffinZg
1.   Overall management authority is vested in the office of the Minister of
Education for the Basic Education Component and in the office of the Executive
Director of SECAP for the Adult Education and Training Component
A.  Basic Education Component
2.   At the policy level, guidance would be provided by the Committee of
Directors of MEC. Day-to-day coordination of project implementation would be
provided by the Project Coordinating Unit whose head would report directly to
the Minister of Education. The Coordinating Unit would be managed by a
Coordinator and would have four consultants for technical support and an
Administrative/Accounting consultant. The technical consultants would be an
education management expert, an education quality specialist and specialists
in the areas of construction and facilities maintenance systems and legal
affairs. Other technical specialists providing support in areas such as
general education, textbook development, educational assessment and
institutional development will be housed in the respective implementing units
at MEC. Main functions include providing technical support to the
implementing agencies and facilitating coordination between MEC units and with
external public or private agencies. The Administrative Unit would have
responsibility for personnel management, accounting and financial reporting,
and procurement of goods and services (with support from procurement agents).
Responsibility for implementation varies by subcomponent: in general, policy
execution and the implementation of management improvements would be managed
by the NEC at the central and provincial levels; procurement would also be
managed at NEC's central level; pedagogical and administrative supervision
would be managed at the provincial level with technical support from NEC at
the central level, and teacher training, special education and pre-school
education programs would be managed by the school networks with support from
the responsible NEC units at the central level and from the PCU technical
staff.
Implementation Procedures
The implementation procedures for the Basic Education component are
described below (more details are in Annexes 4-7 and NEC's project proposal,
available in the Project File).
Educa.ional Facilities. The proposed 55 hub schools were selected on
the basis of detailed microplanning. Detailed costs for the five hub schools
to be constructed during the first year of project implementation were
provided during Negotiations. During the first year of implementation



- 105 -
Annex 9
Page 2 of 5
detailed planning would be completed for the remaining 15 hub schools included
in Phase Ie The experience of the first five school networks will yield
information that will be fed back into plans and procedures for those that
follow. Beginning in the first full year of implementation and continuing
throughout the second year, detailed planning would be carried out for all
remaining school networks using the enhanced planning capabilities of
Provincial Directorates resulting from the institutional strengthening
component of the project. The civil works specialist contracted by the PCU
would coordinate with the procurement agent to ensure that civil work design,
construction and supervision is implemented in accordance with agreed plans
and schedules.
Management and Teacher Training
Management Training. The training specialist housed in DINACAPED will
atssume responsibility for coordinating the development of a training program
f>r school network Directors and Deputy Directors, key individuals in the
National Directorates of Regular and Special Education and Planning,
DINACAPED, Provincial Education Departments and other relevant managerial
personnel of the MEC. To implement the program, the training specialist would
draw upon the resources of the Teacher Training Directorate (DINACAPED) of the
NEC, the experience of the IDB-financed rural quality-improvement project, the
Pedagogical Institutes (IPED) (formerly teacher training schools), and
technical assistance.
In-Service Training for Teachers. The school network Directors will be
responsible for (i) programming and scheduling the in-service teacher training
activities for all teachers in schools in their networks and (ii) assuring
that training is adequately implemented. The IPED in each Province will be
responsible for carrying out the training activities in all hub schools in the
province. The content of the training events and the training materials will
be developed by the IPEDs, DINACAPED, with technical assistance engaged by the
PCU. Training design will be done by DINACAPED staff with technical
assistance and input from IPED trainers and school network Directors.
Training material reproduction and distribution to the hub schools would also
be the responsibility of DINACAPED.
The most intense training would take place during the first year of
program implementation in a given network. Training activities will usually
take place at the hub schools in facilities provided for that purpose, or in
regular classrooms of network schools. IPED personnel will present the
training events in accordance with each network's program and with support
from the PCU's training specialist.
In addition to training for management and teachers, information will be
provided to community leaders and parents on the quality improvement program
and ways in which parents and the community can contribute to achieving its
objectives. Each school network Director will plan meetings with community
leaders, parents and parent associations. Also, informational pamphlets would
be produced and distributed in the community.



- 106 -
ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 5
Monitor'xig and evaluation of the training courses and seminars will be
coordinated by the training specialist of the PCU, vho will draw on resources
from DINACAPED, the IPEDs and technical assistance to develop and implement an
evaluation of the effects of training on teachers' knowledge and teaching
practices.
Preschool Education
Each hub school will have three new preschool classrooms. The network
Director would appoint one of the preschool teachers to be Coordinator of the
preschool program for the network. The coordinator will be responsible for
establishing a center of excellence and organizing and coordinating training
for other preschool teachers throughout the network. Training content would
be developed with assistance from DINACAPED and IPEDs.
All preschools within the low-income neighborhoods served by the hub
schools and their network of schools will be beneficiaries of the outreach
activities of the preschool program. Training, materials, manuals and teacher
quides, prepared by DINACAPED, with technical assistance, will be made
available to all teachers in the hub school's zone of influence.
The preschool program evaluation would be conducted with technical
assistance managed by the PCU training specialist.
Sgecial Education
Special Education teams composed of one psychologist, a special
education epecialist, a speech therapist, a social worker, and a general
education specialist, will report to the Directors of the school networks.
One member of each team will be designated Coordinator of the team's
activities and will assume responsibility for programming school visits,
screening and other services, arranging for transportation to schools within
the school network, and integrating the team's teacher training activities
with the broader in-service teacher training program.
Over-all programming and policy direction in the area of special
education is provided by the National Department of Special Education, under
the National Directorate of Regular and Special Education. The Department
will provide training and other inputs to the special education teams. The
Coordinator of each network's special education team will be an employee of
the National Department of Special Education.
Monitoring and evaluation of special education will be carried out by
the network Director, the PCU and by the llational Department of Special
Education.
Develo2ment. Production and Distribution of Textbooks
Responsibility for implementing the Textbook subcomponent will rest with
DINACAPED and the Editorial Council who would set policy, norms and procedures



- 107 -
ANNEX 9
Page 4 of 5
for textbook development. DINACAPED vill, with support from the PCU and
technical assistance: (a) coordinate the design and development of the new
textbooks and materials through contracts with authors; (b) contract with
private sector firms for the production of textbooks.
SNALME, one of the key entities represented on the Editorial Council,
will be responsible for: (a) collecting textbook rental fees from primary
school students in the hub schools and their networks of schools; (b)
maintaining the Editorial Fund for use in printing additional textbooks as
needed; (c) contracting and/or otherwise arranging for distribution of
textbooks to the hub schools for further distribution to the project schools
and students; and (d) selling additional copies through its distribution
centers; and inviting private sector booksellers to present proposals to
market additional copies.
National System for Measurement of Academic Achievement
Direct responsibility for implementing the system would rest with the
PCU. A Council would be formed, composed of the Minister of Education, the
Director of the Evaluation Department and the PCU Coordinator to provide
overall policy guidelines. The PCU would contract the required consulting
servicis to carry out the educational assessment program.
Reporting Reauirements
The Planning Directorate and the PCU Coordinator will be responsible for
the preparation of periodic reports to inform the Minister of Education about
the physical and financial progress of all project activities. Each report
will also provide an analysis of past and projected activities. The PCU would
submit to the Bank bi-annually project progress reports in a format to be
agreed between MEC and the Bank.
B.  BASIC ADULT EDUCATION AND TRAINING COMPONENT (ANNEX 8)
The component will have a Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) which will
report to the Executive Director of SECAP. The PCU would be staffed by one
Coordinator, three technical specialists, one technical assistant and once
administrator/accountant. Its responsibilities would be to coordinate and
follow up on all project's activities such as procurement of services and
goods (with the assistance of a procurement agent); and liaising with the Bank
in operational and administrative areas.
A Coordinating Comiittee will be created and will be composed of SECAP's
Executive Director, the PCU Coordinator and the coordinators of the post-
literacy training, support to small manufacturing businesses, and
institutional strengthening programs.
There will be four implementation units responsible for project
activities: (a) the Informal Sector Training Directorate will be responsible
for the Capacitacion Popular program and will coordinate program activities



- 108 -
ANNEX 9
Page 5 of 5
with the Director of Adult Education of MEC; (b) the Operations Directorate
will be responsible for the support program for amall manufacturing businesses
and will coordinate with CENDES and CENAPIA; (c) the Technical Directorate
will be responsible for the following institutional strengthening activities:
trainer and instructor training, curriculum development and preparation of
instructional materials and media; refurbishing of training centers; and
impact evaluation studies; and (d) the Planning Directorate will be
responsible for the management information system.
The Planning Directorate and the PCU Coordinator will be responsible for
the preparation of quarterly reports informing the Executive Director of SECAP
on the physical and financial progress of all project activities. Each report
will also provide an analysis of past and projected activities. The PCU would
be responsible for forwaring to the Bank bi-annually a progress report in a
format to be agreed upon between SECAP and the Bank.



ECUADOR
FIRST SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Monitoring Indicators and Inplementation Targets
Activities                I                t        1992         1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998
1I
I                I t   2   3   4
I                I
URBAN BASIC EDUCATION                     I                 I
I                I
Overall Management                        I                 I
..................  ~I                           I
Establish the PCU                         I                 I D
Contract a procurement agent              I                 I D
Contract firm to develop accounting manual  I               I      D
Conduct loplementation Review             INo.            7 I                     D       D       D      D       D       D
Contract independent auditor              IWo.            7 I                     D       D       D      0       D       D
I                I
Decentralized Networks                    I                 I
--  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -I               I
Select sites for Hub Schools              INo.           55 1 0   91   0   0        18X    44X    291
Buildfrehabilitate hub schools            INo.           55 1                        9X    18X    22    22X    16%    131
Procure furniture and equipment           IHub Sch       55 1                        9%    18X    22X    221    16%    13X
Select ard assign directors and staff     INetwork       55 1 0   9X   0   0        18X    22X    22    16X    13X
Train trainers, directors and NEC staff    INo.         480 115X  301  301 231
I                I 
In-service teacher training               I                 I
Adapt training programs arnd plan courses    I              1                       100X
Select and Train teachers                 INo.       17,000 I                        9X    181    221    22X    161    13X
I                I
Pre-school classes                        I                 I
Acquireldevelop low-cost didactic materials I               I                              100X
Select ard appoint teachers               I                 1                                              27X    441    29X
Develop teacher training materials        I                 I                                      100X
Plan training and train teachers          I                 I                                       27X    441    291
Conduct study to evaluate program         I                 I                                                       S       C
I                I
Special Education                         I                 I
..               .      .     ..         I                 I
Select and appoint specialists            I                 1                                       27X    441    291
Train teachers                            1          12,700 1                                       271    441    291
I                1
Development, production and               I                 I
distribution of textbooks                 I                 I
-_  -1---- -----------------------!                         I
Develop TOR for Editorial Council         I                 I D
Develop teacher guides for AMER textbooks  INo.       5.000 I 0   0  50  501    100Xa
Print and distribute AMER textbooks & guidesIXo.    135,000 1 0   0  351  151       501                                                       X
Develop guidelines and contract authors    I                I                       251    251    251    251
to design textbooks, workbooks and guides I               I                                                                             0   0
Print and distribute textbooks            INo.      567,000 1                               251    251    25X    251
Print and distribute workbooks            INc.   1,520,000 I                                25X    25X    251    25X
Print and distribute textbooks            1Mo.       60.000 1                               251    251    251    25%
--     - - - - --!-    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



I                  1        1992             1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998
Activities                   I                  I
I                  I t    2    3    4
............................................. -  -------- -------  ---------------------------------------------I---------------------
I I
Ecational Assesaent                            I                  I
..... ....... .......... ..................... ., I               I
Contract technical assistance                  I                  I 20X  302  10X    0        10t     lOX     102      102
Plan study tours for NEC staff                 I                  I 0   252  502   252
Develop training program for specialists    I                     1                  80X     202
Develop and conduct piLot tests                I                  I
Laruage and mathemtics                        Igrades 2, 6, 9   1 0   302  502   202
Lanae, nth, science  social science    Igrades 2, 6, 9   1                                 1002
Language, mth, science, social science    Igrades 2, 6, 9   1                                       1002
Achinister natioren  tests, analyze data       I                  I
disseminsto results                          ISasple   121,150 I                                                    100X
Administrative decentralization                I                  I
......... .............. ................................... .I 
Contract tefhnicat assfstance                  I                  I 0   25%  252   0         202      202      52       5%
Develop program                                I                  I                         1002
Train UEC and other Govt. agency staff         Ill.           45 1                          1002
Train school networks staff                    [No.           110 1                          50X      502
Train Provincial Directorate staff             1Io.          480 I                           502      5OX
I                  I
Budgetirg and resource allocation              I                  I
~~~~~~~~~------I                                        I
Contract technical assistance                  I                  I 0   252  25X   0         202      20X      52       52
Develop progrm  and train staff                lO.            255 1                         100I
Purchase ord distribute coWuters and           I                  I                         100X
office oeuipment for HC and provinces        I                  I                                                                                                 0
Policy analysis and 1ovations                  1
*-- *- *--*-----I                                                 I                                              S
Education Quality Evaluation                   I                  I      BPhi                        CPhl    SPh2             CPh2
BilingAl Education Study                       I                  I       8                   c
Eduation Progrm Evaluation                     I                  I              B
Consultation nSecondary Edcation               I                  I B                                  C
Consultation on Higher Education               I                  I       B                            C
ADULT EDUCATIAliN  TRAND IINING                I
Overall Nnagent                                I                  I
*---- *---- -                               I                  I
Establish the PCU                              I                  I D
Contract a procurement agent                   I                  I D
Develop accwing mwml                           I                  I      D
Conduct opLewmntation Review                   I                  I                        D        D       D        D       D       D
Contract Independent auditor                   I                  I                        D        D       D        D       D       D
Post-Literacy Training                                                                                                                                     c o
____----------------------______-----I                            I                                                                                        (D   W
Select and train teachers, voluniteers         I                  I                         1002
-d  students                                 I                  I                         1002
Conduct basic adult ecation courses            Ill.        5,675 1                           102      20X     202      202     20X      10X                 0   a
Conduct basic skills training courses          Ilo.        10,000 I                          102      202     202      202     202      102
Conduct training courss for disabled           IlO.         1,700 1                           5X      152     202      202     202      202
Conduct Capacitacion Popular courses           llo.        10,000 I                           5X      152     202      202     202      202
..... ........ _............... ................................................... ................... ..........................................   ..  



Activities                   I                   I        1992             1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998
I'      2    3    '
I                  I
Support to Smll Mnufacturing Businesses   I                        1
.. . . ..................  I
Contract technical assistance                   I                  I 0    0   401   40X        201
Provide training for mangrs and staff           I                  1                                   601      101      10X     10X      10X
Estoblish technological information            lIN.              3 1                           501     501
and conwlting centers                                            I
DeeeLop system  to charge fees for              I                  1                           201     801
services rendered                            I
Institutional strensthening                    I
- -.. . .-   . .-    . . ..-. .--. . . .
Prepare administrative and                      I                  1                           50%     501
organizational procedures mnuals             I                   I
Produce technical muals for all                Illo.            30 1                           10X     20X      201      20X     20%      1G0
specialties offered by SECAP                 I                   I
Conduct courses for trainers and                Ilo.           137 1                                  1001
technical staff                              I                   I
Curricultu  Design                              I                  I        B                          c
Update labor mrket & earnings info. system  I                      I                   D
SECAP Other Info. System                        I                  I        B                  C
Condict tracer studies of SECAP gracustes   INo.                12 I              B            C
Other lmpect Evaluation Studies                                                                B       C
Carry out LSNS                                  lo.             2 1        B                 CPhl             CPh2
..............---..-.......-......--...--...   ...---..-.   ..-..-.....--------....-..---..-    ...----.   .-----------------------------------------------------------------
o a Single activities to be started and completed within one year
B = Begimning of an activity
C    Completion of an activity
Phi - Ph2 = Phase 1 - Phase 2
0 0:



- 112 -
ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 4
ECUADOR
FIRST SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
Sucres (Thousand)                    USS (Million)                     X Total
*-----------------------------     ...........................  X Foreign         Base
Local   Foreign      Total       LocaL  Foreign    Total      Exchange      Costs
..............................     ........................... ..................... . ............... .................. .......... ..........
A. URBAN BASIC EDUCATION
1. Ed. Quality Improvement      54911.3   17141.2   72052.5          50.0     15.6      65.6         23.8       64.1
2. Instit. Strengthening         6050.9    6294.0   12344.9           5.5      5.7      11.2         51.0       11.0
.................................................................    ...........................   ....................
Sub-Total                          60962.2   23435.2   84397.5          55.5     21.3      76.9         27.8       75.1
B. ADULT EDUC. AND TRAINING
1. Post-Literacy Training       10228.0    2329.7   12557.7           9.3      2.1      11.4         18.6       11.2
2. Small Enterprise Support      1518.4    1382.8    2901.2           1.4       1.3      2.6         47.7        2.6
3. Strengthening of SECAP        7688.3    4868.7   12557.0           7.0      4.4      11.4         38.8       11.2
.................................................................    ...........................   ....................
Sub-Total                          19434.7    8581.2   28015.9          17.7       7.8     25.5         30.6       24.9
.................................................................    ...........................   ....................
Total BASELINE COSTS               80396.9   32016.4  112413.3          73.2      29.2    102.4         28.5      100.0
PhysicaL Contingencies           2972.1    1122.0    4094.0           2.7       1.0      3.7         27.4        3.6
Price Contingencies             10568.3    3227.0   13795.3           9.6      2.9      12.6         23.4       12.3
TotaL PROJECTS COSTS               93937.3   36365.4  130302.7          85.6     33.1    118.7          27.9      115.9
...................................................................................................................



- 113 -
ANNEX 1 1
Page 2 of 4
ECUADOR
FIRST SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary Account by Project Co,iponent
Sucres (Thousand)
Ed.                            Snall                                Physical           Price
Quality   instit.  Post-Lit  Enterpri  Strength                     Contingencies      Contingencies
lInprovem  Strength    eracy       se     ening of                 ....
ent      ening   Training   Support    SECAP         Total         X     Amount       X   Amount
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Works
1. Quito & Gusyaquit                10735.3        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0   10735.3        9.1      979.6     5.6      603.1
2. Other Cities                     25559.3        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0   25559.3        6.7    1718.5    14.9    3809.4
Sub-total                            36294.6        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0   36294.6         7.4    2698.1    12.2    4412.5
S. Equipment
1. Computing Equipment                126.2      284.4       16.5      21.6       84.9      533.6       2.4       12.9     2.1       11.1
2. Equipment and furniture           8619.6      453.3    2238.8        2.6    1967.6   13281.9         4.9      645.6    12.9    1709.2
......................................................................................................
Sub-total                             8745.8      737.6    2255.3       24.3    2052.5   13815.5          4.8     658.5    12.5    1720.3
C. Didactic Material                  1139.1        0.0      521.4      55.3      726.3    2442.2         5.0     122.1    14.2      346.4
0. Textbooks arnd books               5834.1       49.4        0.0      175.7      16.0    6075.2         5.0     301.3      9.1     554.6
E. Vehicles                            322.3       98.3      444.7      49.4        0.0      914.6        5.0      45.7      5.0      45.4
F. Studfes and Tech. Assist.
1. Studies     *                     2218.5    2799.9       43.9      131.0    4011.1    9204.4         0.7       67.3    11.4    1050.8
2. Local Experts                      537.4      845.5      195.0     283.3    1036.3    2897.4         0.6       16.2      9.9     287.4
3. Foreign Experts                   1 'V4.2     554.2       87.8     823.5      487.3    2997.0         0.1       3.5      7.4     220.5
..,,,,,..... ..... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .,. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5kb.total                             3800.1    4199.6       326.8    1237.8    5534.7   15098.9          0.6      86.9    10.3    1558.6
G. Training
1. Scholarships                       387.0        0.0     261.9      306.3    1221.1    2176.3         0.9       19.4      7.9     172.5
2. Short-term.on-the-Job trg          116.8       56.9        0.0       0.0        0.0      173.7        1.9       3.3      9.5      16.6
3. Teachers and instructors          3147.1        0.0       92.2       0.0      149.3    3388.7        4.5      152.4    12.5      424.6
4. Staff Training                     113.6      833.2        5.5     131.4        9.3    1093.0         0.6       6.3      8.7      95.1
......................................................................................................
Sub-total                             3764.6      890.1      359.6     437.8    1379.7    6831.8          2.7     181.4    10.4      708.8
H. Purchasing Agents &Audits             0.0    3919.9         0.0       0.0       76.9    3996.7         0.0       0.0    11.2      446.6
......................................................................................................
Total INVESTMENT COSTS               59900.6    9894.8    3907.8    1980.2    9786.1   854  .5           4.8    4094.0    11.5    9793.2
It. RECURRENT COSTS
...................
A. Human Resources
1. Teachers and instructors          2302.9        0.0    4181.8      253.0    1129.4    7867.1          0.0       0.0    14.3    1123.4
2. Professional and adsin.           4702.7    1660.2    1824.7       387.2      925.7    9500.5         0.0       0.0    14.4    1368.3
......................................................................................................
Sub total                             7005.6    1660.2    6006.5       640.2    2055.2   17367.7          0.0       0.0    14.3    2491.8
8. Office and Other Suppies           2152.0      192.1      320.2       11.4     141.8    2817.6         0.0       0.0    16.9       475.2
C. Maintenance
1. Civil Work Maintnce               1638.5        0.0       9.2        0.0        0.0    1647.7        0.0        0.0    16.5      271.8
2. Equipment Maintenance             1093.2      163.5      559.7       7.3      504.3    2328.0         0.0       0.0    17.9      416.0
3. Vehicte Maintenance                262.6       69.3      582.2      69.2        0.0      983.4        0.0       0.0    14.3      140.5
......................................;..............................................................
Suh-total                             2994.3      232.8    1151.1       76.5      504.3    4959.0         0.0       0.0    16.7      828.3
0. Other Operating Costs                 0.0      365.0    1172.1       192.9      69.6    1799.6         0.0       0.0    11.5      206.9
............. .........................................................................................
Total RECURRENT COSTS                12151.9    2450.1    8649.9       921.0    2770.9   26943.9          0.0       0.0    14.9    4002.2
Total BASELINE COSTS                 72052.5   12344.9   12557.7    2901.2   12557.0  112413.3            3.6    4094.0    12.3   13795.3
Physical Contingencies              3767.4       10.9      161.1      15.2      139.5    4094.0
Price Contingencies                 9559.4    1235.2    1503.4       131.1    1366.2   13795.3          3.3     456.4
Total PROJECT COSTS                  85379.3   13591.0   14222.2    3047.6   14062.6  130302.7            3.5    4550.5    10.6   13795.3
Taxes                                  0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Foreiln Exchange                   19985.4    6901.7    2633.7    1441. 1    5403.5   36365.4          3.4    1226.5
...................................................................................................................................



- 114 -
ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 4
ECUADOR
FIRST SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sumamry Accounts by Year
Totals Including Contingencies
US$ (Million)
.... ....... ..,.. ............. ....................................... ........... ..........   ..........................
1992      1993       1994       1995      i996       1997      1998      Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
.................................... X
A. Civit Works
1. Quito & Guayaquil                  2.8       5.5        2.9        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0      11.2
2. Other CIties                       0.0        2.0       4.5        8.4       6.7        5.9        0.8      28.3
Sub-Total                                2.8        7.5        7.4       8.4        6.7       5.9        0.8       39.5
B. Equipment
1. Computing Equipment                0 s       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.5
2. Equipment and furniture            U.4        2.5       3.3        2.6        2.5       1.6        1.3      14.2
Sub-Total                                0.9        2.6       3.3        2.6        2.5        1.6       1.3       14.7
C. Didactic Material                     0.1        0.3       0.5        0.4        0.4       0.4        0.4        2.7
D. Textbooks and books                   0.1        2.3        2.5       0.6        0.3       0.2        0.2        6.3
E. VehicLes                              0.5        0.2       0.1        0.0        0.1       0.0        0.0        0.9
F. Studies and Tech. Assist.
1. Studies                            1.0        1.4       2.3        0.8        2.7       1.0        0.3       9.4
2. LocaL Experts                      0.5        0.7       0.6        0.4        0.4       0.2        0.2       2.9
3. Foreign Experts                    0.8        0.9       0.6        0.2        0.3       0.1        0.1       2.9
Sub-TotaL                                2.2        2.9       3.5        1.4        3.4       1.3        0.6       15.2
G. Trainfng
1. Scholarships                       0.5       0.7        0.4        0.2       0.2        0.1        0.1       2.2
2. Short-term,on-the-job trg          0.0        0.1       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.2
3. Teachers and instructors           0.3        0.4       0.8        0.7        0.8       0.5        0.2       3.6
4. Staff Training                     0.1        0.4       0.2        0.2        0.1       0.0        0.0        1.1
Sub-TotaL                                0.9        1.6        1.5       1.0        1.1       0.6        0.3        7.0
M. Purchasing Agents UAudits             0.3        0.8       0.9        0.7        0.7       0.5        0.2        4.0
..... ....... ................ .................................... ......................................................................
Total INVESTNENT COSTS                   7.9       18.2      19.7       15.3       15.1      10.5        3.8      90.5
11. RECURRENT COSTS
...... ..........._ 
A. Human Resources
1. Teachers and instructors           0.7       0.9        1.0        1.1        1.3       1.5        1.6       8.2
2. ProfessionaL and admin.            0.8        1.0       1.2        1.3        1.6       1.9        2.1       9.9
.-a--naaau-a.uuusuuUuma-aaunuua:gf:ta-=uu:uuuu:uumaauauauuauu-uw,un----
Sub-TotaL                                1.5        1.8       2.2        2.5        2.9       3.4        3.7       18.1
S. Office and Other Supplies             0.1        0.1        0.3       0.4        0.6        0.7       0.8        3.0
C. Maintenance
1. CiviL Work Maintenance             0.0       0.2        0.2        0.2        0.3       0.4        0.5       1.7
2. Equipment Maintenance              0.0        0.1       0.2        0.4        0.5       0.6        0.7       2.5
3. Vehicle Maintenance                0.1        0.1       0.1        0.2        0.2       0.2        0.2        1.0
Sub-TotaL                                0.1        0.3       0.5        0.8        1.0        1.2       1.4        5.3
D. Other Operating Costs                 0.3        0.3        0.3       0.2        0.2        0.2       0.2        1.8
..,...................... .................................. .............................._
Total RECUORNT COSTS                     2.0        2.6        3.3       3.9        4.7       5.5        6.1       28.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                      9.9       20.8      23.0       19.2       19.8      16.1        9.9      118.7
UUU..380 mamar      SUin.. . .UU.l.-aCfl...UE. S   UZU.UUU.U......................



- 115 -
ANNEX 1 1
Page 4 of 4
ECUADOR
FIRST SOCIAL DEVELOPMIENT PROJECT
Projects Conponents by Year
Totals Including Contingenies
US$ (Mlillion)
1992      1993      1994      1995      1996      1997       1998     Total
A. URBAN BASIC EDUCATION
1. Ed. Quality Improvement          3.8       12.5      14.4      14.6      13.6      12.1       6.8       77.8
2. Instit. Strengthening            1.8        3.1       2.2       1.6       1.5        1.5       0.6      12.4
Sub-Total                              5.6       15.6      16.7      16.2      15.1       13.6       7.4      90.1
B. ADULT EDUC. AND TRAINING
1. Post-Literacy TraIning           1.7        1.9       2.2       2.1       1.9       1.5        1.6      13.0
2. Small Enterprise Support          1.2       1.0       0.6       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       2.8
3. Strengthening of SECAP           1.3        2.4       3.7       0.9       2.7       0.9        0.9      12.8
...... ............ . . .. . . . . . .. . . . .. . . . . .. . .. . .. . . . .
Sub-Total                              4.3        5.3       6.4       3.0       4.?       2.4        2.5      28.5
Total PROJECTS COSTS                   9.9      20.8       23.0      19.2      19.8      16.1       9.9      118.7
3.33..UUUU.3..UU.U3UUaz......g1UUU3UUUU*U3UmUU.U -                     UUUUW,U338



- 116 -
ANNEX 12
ECUADOR
FIRST SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
____-___________________________
Financing Plan
--------------
(in US$ million)
----------------------------------------------------------------__-
Category                        MEC          SECAP        Total
Civil Works                      27.5           0.0         27.5
Equipment, Furniture, and         9.0           4.5         13.5
Vehicles
Didactic Materials                7.0           1.5          8.5
Technical Assistance and         12.0           7.2         19.2
Studies
Teacher, Instructor and           5.0           2.0          7.0
Staff Training
Office and School Supplies        1.2           0.3          1.5
Operating Costs a/                5.3           6.5         11.8
Total                       67.0          22.0         89.0
a/ Includes incremental staff, travel expenditures, and maintenance
of civil works, equipment, and furniture repair.



-  117 -
ANNEX 13
ECUADOR                      Table 1
FIRST SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(in US$ million)
Bank         Quarter       Disbursed                 Dieb. as      Balance
Fiscal Year       Ending        During       Cumulative    % of          of
Quarter       Amount      Total        Loan
-----------------------------------------------------------------__ ---------__ -
92      June  30, 1992         5.0 a/         5.0        8           84.0
93      Sept. 30, 1992         0.5            5.5                    83.5
Dec.  31, 1992        0.5            6.0                    83.0
March 31, 1993        2.0            8.0                    81.0
June  30, 1993        2.0           10.0       16           79.0
94      Sept. 30, 1993         3.0           13.0                    76.0
Dec.  31, 1993        3.0           16.0                    73.0
March 31, 1994        3.5           19.5                    69.5
June  30, 1994        3.5           23.0       37           66.0
95      Sept. 30, 1994         3.5           26.5                    62.5
Dec.  31, 1994        3.5           30.0                    59.0
March 31, 1995        4.5           34.5                    54.5
June  30, 1995        4.5           39.0       62           50.0
96      Sept. 30, 1995         4.5           43.5                    45.5
Dec.  31, 1995        4.5           48.0                    41.0
March 31, 1996        4.0           52.0                    37.0
June  30, 1996        4.0           56.0       89           33.0
97      Sept. 30, 1996         3.5           59.5                    29.5
Dec.  31, 1996        3.5           63.0                    26.0
March 31, 1997        3.5           66.5                    22.5
June  30, 1997        3.5           70.0       91           19.0
98      Sept. 30, 1997         3.5           73.5                    15.5
Dec.  31, 1997        3.5           77.0                    12.0
March 31, 1998        3.5           80.5                     8.5
June  30, 1998        3.5           84.0       95            5.0
99      Sept. 30, 1998         3.0           87.0                     2.0
Dec.  31, 1998        1.5           88.5                     0.5
March 31, 1999        0.5           89.0      100            0.0
-------------------------------------- ----------------------------- __------ __
a/ Includes Special Account deposit of the equivalent of US$4.2 million and
expected retroactive financing of up to the equivalent of US$4.8 million for
eligible expenditures incurred after July 13, 1991.



- 118 -
ECUADOR                                                    ANNEX 13
FIRST SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                         TabLe 2
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
............ .......................... ............ .......................... .. ... .... ..... ......... ... .... ....
Amount of the
Category                            Loan Allocated                   X of Expenditures
(Expressed in                      to be Financed
Dollar Equivalent)
........ ............... ,............................................... .. . ....... ........... .. . .... ... ..... .....
1. Civil Works                                         23,000,000            70X
2. EquIpment, Furniture, and Vehicles
(a) NEC                                          8,500.000           100X of foreign expenditures,
(b) SECAP                                        4,000,000           1001 of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and 80X of Local
expenditures for other item
procured locally
3. Didactic haterials
(a) NEC                                          6,300,000           100X
(b) SECAP                                        1,400,000           100X
4. Tech. Assistance, Studies, and Audits
(a) NEC                                         11,000,000           100X
Cb) SECAP                                        6,500,000           100X
5. (a) NEC Teacher and Staff Training                   4,500,000            100X
4b) SECAP Instructor ard Staff
Training                                       1,800,000           100X
6. Office and School Swplies
(a) NEC                                          1,200,000            1001 until the aggregate  reaches
US$0.5 million; 601 until the
aggregate reaches reaches USS1 .1
million, and 30% thereafter
(b) SECAP                                          300,000           100X until the aggregate  reaches
USSO.1 million; 60X until the
aggregate reaches reaches USS0.2
million, nd 30X thereafter
7. Operating Costs texcl. office
and school suples
(a) NEC                                          4,800,000            1001 until the aggregate  reaches
US$1.8 million; 601 until the
aggregate reaches reaches US$4.2
million, and 30% thereafter
(b) SECAP                                        5,700.000           100X until the aggre3ate  reaches
USS2.2 million; 601 until the
aggregate reaches reaches US#5.1
mllion, and 301 thereafter
8. PPF advanc                                              640,000
9. Unallocated                                          9,360,000
Total                                               69,000,000
..........................................,................................................................. ............................................................. 



- 119 -
ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 3
ECUADOR: FIRST SOCIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE
IN THE PROJECT FILE
PROJECT DOCUMENTS
MINISTERIO DE EDUCACION Y CULTURA
A.1  Solicitud de Cr6dito al Banco Mundial:
Mejoramiento de la Calidad y Eficiencia de la Educaci6n BAsica, Julio
1991
Anexo 1: Documentos Legales de Base, Abril 1991.
Anexo 2:  Establecimiento de un Sistema de Medici6n de Logros
Acad6micos. Component. 1.1, Abril 1991.
Anexo 3: Infraestructura Fisica para la RED CEM Urbana. Sub-componente
1.2.1, Abril 1991.
Anexo 4: Capacitaci6n de Maestros. Sub-componente 1.2.2, Abril 1991.
Anexo 5: Educaci6n Pre-escolar. Sub-component. 1.2.3, Abril 1991.
Anexo 6: Educaci6n Especial. Sub-componente 1.2.4, Abril 1991.
Anexo 7: Disehlo y Produci6n de Materiales Educativos Impresos.
Components 1.3, Abril 1991.
Anexo 8: Fortalecimiento Inatitucional del MEC. Componente 2.1, Abril
1991.
SECAP
B.1  Comnonente l
Apoyo a la Pequef,a Empresa Manufacurera, Enero 1991.
- 1 Diagn6stico Sectorial
- 2 Asistancia T6cnica en Productividad y Calidad
- 3 Centros T6cnologicos
- 4 Consorcios de Exportacion
B.2  Comionente 2
Capacitaci6n para el Sector Informal, Enero 1991
- 1 Capacitaci6n Ocupacional y Educaci6n BAsica de Adultos
- 2 Capacitaci6n Popular y Fortalecimiento de Microempresas
- 3 Capacitaci6n Popular y Fortalecimiento de Microempresas,
Actualizado Mayo 1991
- 4 Capacitaci6n Ocupacional y Educaci6n Blsica de Adultos,
Actualizado
B.3  C.mnionente 3
Fortalecimiento T4cnico del SECAP, Enero 1991
- 1 Capacitaci6n y Perfeccionamiento de Docentes
- 2 Diseflo Curricular
- 3 Medios de Ensefianza



- 120 -
ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 3
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE
IN THE PROJECT FILE
(Continued)
- 4  Complementaci6n de Centros y Nuevas Especialidades
- 5 Sistema de Documentaci6n e Informaci6n
- 6 Monitoreo del Mercado de Trabajo
- 7 Planificaci6n, Evaluaci6n, y control de Gesti6n
- 8 Acciones Moviles
- 9 Control y Seguimiento de Gesti6n, revised
- 10 Evaluaci6n Impacto a Egresados del SECAP
- 11 Sistema Continuo de Monitoreo del Mercado de Trabajo
- 12 Sistemas de Procedimientos para el Control Interno del SECAP
B.4  Provecto BIRF - INEM
Encuesta de Condiciones de Vida
B.5  Informe de Actividades Cumplidas por el SECAP a Traves de Convenios,
Acuerdos y Proyectos Especificos, July 1991
B.6  Provecto:  Acuerdo de Asistencia T6cnica
"El Valot Economico de la Capacitaci6n Profesional en las Areas de
Electricidad y Electr6nica," Octubre 1990
B.7 Vera Alarc6n & Ortiz Mosquera, "El SECAP Moderno y Su Futuro," Julio 1991
BACKGROUND DOCUHENTS
CIEDC:
Cl   Diagn6stico de la Realidad Educativa Primaria Regular Rural,  Febrero
1990
C2   Estadisticas Educativas del Nivel Primario (anexo 2),  Enero 1990
C3   Formaci6n de Recureos Humanos para el Desarrollo,  Agosto 1988
CINDE:
C4   Highlights of an Evaluation of Project PROMESA,  February 1990
C5   Involving Parents in the Process of Creating Appropriate Environment for
the Healthy Development of Children at Risk: The Crucial Link Between
Families and Schools, February 1990
C6   Policies and Programs,  1988
CONUEPt
C7   Evaluaci6n de la Situaci6n Actual y Perspectivas para el Corto y
Mediano Plazo de las Universidades y Escuelas Polit6cnicas,
Mayo 1991.
IDB:
C8   Progroma de Mejoramiento de la Educaci6n B&sica,  Septiembre 1989
C9   Larrea, Carlos,  "Necesidades Basicas, Pobreza y Subempleo en el Area
Urbana del Ecuador,"



- 121 -
ANNEX 14
Page 3 of 3
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE
IN THE PROJECT FILE
(Continued)
Ministerio de Educaci6n v Cultura:
C10 Evaluacion del Ciclo Bhsico
Ministerio de Trabajo y Recursos Humanos:
C1i Encuesta Permanente de Hogares, Nacional Urbana 1989
SECAP:
C12 Evaluaci6n de la Capacidad Operativa del Servicio Ecuatoriano de
Capacitaci6n Profesional SECAP: Resumen por Regiones, Julio 1990
C13 Evaluaci6n de la Capacidad Operativa del Servicio Ecuatoriano de
Capacitaci6n Profesional SECAP: Segunda Parte: Anexos, Julio 1990
C14 Evaluaci6n de Impacto Electricidad y Electronica: Fundamentos,
Metodologia y Resultados, Junio 1990
C15 Hacia un Sistema de Informacion del Mercado de Trabajo, Agosto 1990
C16 Metodos de Formacion - Producci6n, Septiembre 1990
C1l Sobre la Situaci6n Econ6mica del SECAP, Abril 1990
UNESCO:
C18  Desarrollo Educativo:  Problemas y Prioridades,  Volumen I:
Conclusiones y Proposiciones (Resumen), Mayo 1986
C19  Desarrollo Educativo:  Problemas y Prioridades,  Volumen II:
Documento Principal, Mayo 1986
World Bank Papers:
C20 Gomez-Castellanos, L. & G. Psacharapoulos, Earnings and Education in
Ecuador: Evidence from the 1987 Household Survey, October 1989
C21 La Politica Social en el Ecuador: Problemas y Prioridades, November
1989
C22 Schiefelbein, Ernesto, "Acceso, Permanencia, Repetici6n y Eficiencia
en la Educaci6n Basica," Febrero 1989
Working Papers:
C23 Corradine R., "Physical Infrastructure for Urban Basic Education"
C24 Monge J., "Informe de la Investigacion de Mercado sobre el Uso de
Textos Escolares," July 1991.



San Lorenzo
PRlestAnD    7                      Son FranciscQ                    C       0        L       0        M        B              A
ESMERALDAS       f'                                            1'|
4  Cornarones                                         S
Atocanes          B_5                                           Alto T'mbo       N1.
M\AL5                                          9,//gi t< fiX   _! TJJLCAN
Mu,sne 0                     Cople                                                      Et Angel 7
0 San Gregorio iMscorillo                                                                    San Gabriel t
Qu.n3ricleCuicochaIAR
aN.Chomanga                               roras"- Sel)vc Alegfe                                                              C.'ejo
Bion*>u-ta                                                                                                           'Logo Agro
JAA  6t Cal~i   G labamba /o
Coren       Sa       Santo Domingo   QUITO                                      iJ                                     i     Shushufmcdl
_  Sin   ang- tLok    (rrgen            Scn Sebastion del cco{j? ECocr6n
-  > IgSA oft/                                       TombAloon                                              de  re   o Froncisco de Orellonllo\
Bahia de Coraquez a    SalVinste
S Jactirnto,R,               one               O                         C       SoqJpufm,
M\   T,gua               LATACUNGA                        I
Mantecrist,           R   VIEJ                                                C     4   PAeno
|  )_/A~~yocucho          A'        -               t~~~         
AMIBATC                                     Ao,ri
Pto de Cayo j-                            Bazar                                                               At /lo
VntoncsO                                   Ba7)os           I    -
Paian                  ~~~~~~PuebloRdue
J    tP~~~~olon        .1                                   - V el < R    Nt          tS0                                  
C                    P~~~~~~~~l1estma                       GUiARAND      .--I=
La Cadena           to$ I                           ,    Snjs            RIOBAMBA 
t                 B a l \R4Codeno  p MWgor  ide    a  Coambom                        I
Manglortlto                      DA_  E
2-   i)                     NoboltE  \S~~~~~~~~~~amboro         Chillonescl*(J         t7t                                         
szI,os<d ~ ~ ~ ~ ~        ~       ~       ~        ~       ~      ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ - E--_
Ployo  &\   Noboli                  Joci;tLO mls                                                
/      uroos^         ZGEph-
Lo                              GUAYA-                                                                                      a-
Libertad                        C
Salinas       t EIonauK Boirche                                         Trr                                                     IMf
Progreso                                                BolbaoPedo                        1
Pto  Bdevaro*umte Inate, Co  or                                                        PRCMARY  ROADS
Playasnavl   Porofillo          t                                                                   -    Paved
Q i,><uaqu    Isf"0S0asRoso  d   tc, '   -   A ZO G UE  .uolaquizo X        - - -  G ravel
A te n   >  \  SelvaAlel3ren 9   J           )                                     +     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rarlroods
{>  t s   ,   Varo5uro    IlYo'cuambjl  / ~         ~      ~                          pAirports
)   dRio Negro~                                               - \ , Bios aECUADO Rivers
)  /   S v    L    ,    i    <  ,, f    8 ,,                                           ~~~~~~~~~~PHYSI C AL REG ION S
Tenguelo,  Est~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cot
r4   f   . t  t   iumvr \4bc;uX   \                     )t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Sierra
Cazodores.                                                                                                                                .LaOA' /  IOriente       t-
5   Cenlacaes  -L: tt  .  JTama   .         wiAMORA                                                           ProvinciRl Boundaries
G7  1,'  /   X   G o n z affld sic X    ronz,che                       -   -  International  BoundorPes d
<   or  Moco  *\<   1    )                ; ,,, _                                     |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 20  40  60    F;0    00O
Sta. Isobel
?  lAr,r<DCr =;oNUmbOIO~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~in rirsmap rhas beer porepared> by' rne WOrOd Beer  Staff ericturnnti kJr Fte conveiec or
P        E       R       U                                                                                           F '  ar, Crvotrar3n s Tet dtnonrrx kn oBseid nr tie bPlSndarreN shoiDn Sn ts rr3p do rot
,nr                       P on OtT pad ai re Workd Ban v eird tr tenr or 3ramre rpo r.on  any  > gTen
S OZumba                                                                                  F.
0dQ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8
______________            ______Roilro_____ds~



