Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21171
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-34250; SCL-3425A; SCPD-3425S)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 89 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
FOR A FIRST SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT: EDUCATION AND TRAINING
November 29, 2000
Human Development Sector Management Group
Country Management Unit for Bolivia, Ecuador and Peru
Latin American and the Caribbean Regional Office
|This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their |
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bankc authorization.l



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = US dollars
FISCAL YEAR
January I -  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APRENDO              National System of Evaluation of Learning Achievement
EB-PRODEC            Project Coordinating Unit (Educaci6n Basica: Proyecto de Deesarrollo,
Efficienciay Calidad)
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
INEC                 Instituto Nacional de Estadisticas y Censos
LSMS                 Living Standards Measurement Survey
MEC                  Ministry of Education and Culture (Ministerio de Educacion y Cultura)
PIU                  Project Implementation Unit
Redes CEM            School Networks (Centros Educativos Matrices)
SECAP                Ministry of Labor Training Services (Servicio Ecuatoriano de Capacitaci6n
Profesional)
SINEC                National Educational Statistics Servie (Servicio Nacional de Estadisticas
Educativas)
UNOPS                United Nations Office for Project Services
Vice President:    David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:    Isabel Guerreo
Sector Manager/Director:    Xavier E. Coll
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    David C. Harding



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 8
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  15
6. Sustainability                                                                      18
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       18
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     20
9. Partner Comments                                                                    22
10. Additional Information                                                             31
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   32
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   35
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   37
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   38
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   40
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      41
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  42
This ICR was initiated by Mario Marcone, whose untimely death occurred a few days after his field visit to Quito.
In addition to Mario's field notes, the ICR team based this report on interviews with Ministry of Education
officials and senior project staff, project documentation, and stakeholders' comments provided in a workshop and
focus group interviews. The collaboration of Maria Elena Enriquez, who prepared the Borrower's report and
organized the stakeholders' workshop and focus group interviews, is gratefully acknowledged. Assistance in
preparation of the report was provided by Yukiko Arai, Veronica Jarrin and Antonio Gomes Pereira.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P007107                                        Project Name: EC SOC DEVT l/ED & TRG
Team Leader: David Harding                                 TL Unit: LCSHE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: December 5, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: EC SOC DEVT l/ED & TRG                          L/C/TF Number: CPL-34250;
SCL-3425A;
SCPD-3425S
CountryIDepartment: ECUADOR                                               Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: EY - Other Education
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  10/17/90                                 Effective: 06/30/92            06/30/92
Appraisal:  07/12/91                                   MTR: 07/26/96              07/09/96
Approval:  12/17/91                                 Closing: 09/30/99             12/31/99
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR/MOE; SECAP
Other Partners: National Institute of Statistics and Census (INEC)
STAFF                Current                                     At Appraisal
Vice President:      David de Ferranti                          S. Shahid Husain
Country Manager:      Isabel Guerrero                            Ping-Cheung Loh
Sector Manager:      Jamil Salmi                                 James W. Adams
Team Leader at ICR:   David Harding and Carlos Rojas            Bemardo Kugler
ICR Primary Author:   David Harding and Constance
Corbett; with substantial
contributions from Massimiliano
Paolucci
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN--Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negfigible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Peiformance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The Project's rationale was based on the conclusions of the Bank Report No. 8935-EC, "Ecuador: a Social
Strategy for the Nineties"(1989), which the Government and the Bank agreed to use as the basis for
developing the Bank's social sector lending program in the country. The Project was the first of a series of
"social development" projects, covering education and training, health and nutrition, social investment, and
rural development. Hence the Project's title, "Social Development I: Education and Training".
The Project's stated objectives were to: (a) improve the quality and effective delivery of basic education and
vocational training services targeted on the poor, and (b) strengthen decision-making and management of
public institutions involved in the delivery of basic education and vocational training programs. The
Project was originally designed with two main components: basic education, and adult education/training
programs. The first component was designed to raise learning achievement of primary school-age children
by improving quality and increasing accessibility of basic education. The second component was designed
to raise basic vocational skills of poorly educated adults, thus enhancing their productivity and earning
capacity. Both components were intended to strengthen the capacity of decentralized service providers and
to improve resource allocation and program design in the education and training sectors. Investment
criteria under the original Project targeted the poor by focusing the basic education component on children
in low-income urban neighborhoods and the vocational training component on the least educated adults.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The Project was restructured in December 1997, narrowing the scope from a broadly conceived social
development agenda to one concentrated on achieving the original objectives related to basic education:
improving the quality and effective delivery of basic education services for the poor and strengthening
decision-making and management of public institutions involved in the delivery of basic education. All
objectives and activities related to vocational training (Part B of the Project) were terminated.
3.3 Original Components:
To achieve its objectives, the project was organized in two parts (A and B), each consisting of several
components: Part A (Primary Education) supported improvement of quality and efficiency of children from
low-income urban families and the building of management capacity within the Ministry of Education
(MEC) and its provincial offices; and Part B (Adult Education and Training), which was intended to
strengthen the effectiveness of vocational training by using Ecuador's training capacity more efficiently and
reorienting the activities of the National Training Service (SECAP) so that they would respond better to the
changing economic and labor market conditions. The components of each of these parts are summarized
below.
Part A. Primary Education. (US$90.1 million, including contingencies) consisted of two
components, one focused on providing quality-improvement inputs through a system of nuclear
schools serving urban poverty zones and developing a national system for education assessment, and
the second on institutional strengthening, particularly for budgeting and sectoral management within
the Ministry of Education (MEC), promotion of decentralization of administrative authority to the
provincial education offices and the nuclear schools, and generation of information to guide future
policy decisions.
-2-



*   Quality Improvement. The fundamnental vehicle for quality improvement was the school
network organized around a nucleus, called a "hub school" (Centro Educativo Matriz (CEM),
which was to serve as the focal point for a network of 15-25 surrounding schools (escuelas de
la Red); it would both serve as administrative center for the network and as the center for
application of training and related quality-improvement activities and inputs. Once organized,
teachers in the network would participate actively in quality-imnprovement activities, such as
in-service training and decentralized pedagogical management. The network organization was
also designed to facilitate developmenit, through coordination with the Provincial Education
Directorates, of decentralized admiinistrative, teacher-supervision, planning, and school
maintenance functions.
Network for Oualitative Improvement - Redes GEM. This sub-component consisted of
the establishment of 55 decentralized urban school networks, Redes CEM) in poor,
peri-urban areas. In each network, one school was to be selected as a hub school, to be
expanded and/or rehabilitated and furnished accordingly. The project also supported
rehabilitation of schools in the network and, on a declining basis, maintenance and other
non-salary expenditures.
In-service teacher trainin. The project would finance training for all teachers in the
school networks established under the project, as well as to the teacher-trainersTraining
was to cover topics such as improved use of class time and improved use of textbooks.
Pre-school classes. Pre-school classes were to be introduced in each hub school. The
project financed development of a pre-school pedagogical model and initial operation of
the classes in the hub schools. This component was designed as a pilot experience,
evaluation of which would help determine how to meet the need for pre-school services
in low-income urban areas in the most cost-effective manner.
Special Education. All students in school networks were to be screened for learning
disabilities. The project was to support technical assistance to help develop the
screening techniques and develop special education programs, which were to be provided
at the hub school.
Educational Materials. The project was to finace the development, production, and
distribution to all schools in the school networks, of an imnproved general textbook series
for primary education (grades 1-6), covering teachers' guides plus textbooks and
workbooks in Spanish, mathemiatics, natural science and social studies.
Educational Assessment System. The project supported the design and implementation
of a systematic and standardized nation-wide testing program to assess academic
achievement of second-, sixth-, and ninth-grade public primary school students on a
periodic basis.
*   Institutional Strengthening activities supported by the project consisted of the following:
Support for decentralization of selected MEG administrative activities to the school networks
and provincial directorates in each of the provinces where a School Network is located.
Support included financing for training 635 staff members from school networks, provincial
directorates, and MEG headquarters in administration under the new decentralized structure.
-3 -



Financing on a declining basis was provided for the addition of new specialized personnel in
hub schools.
Provision of training and technical assistance to approximately 255 staff members from school
networks, MEC provincial directorates, the Ministry of Finance, the National Planning Office
(CONADE), and MEC headquarters, with respect to improved budgeting and resource
allocation techniques for public primary schools, together with provision of computer
equipment and software to facilitate the budgeting process.
Carrying out of several studies, including: (a) assessment of the quality of public primary
education in Ecuador; determination of the factors of success, failure, repetition, and dropout
and of how educational inputs can reduce risk factors; and determnination of the importance of
pre-school programs in academic achievement; (b) analysis of the demographics of indigenous
children of primary school age and on the social, cultural, linguistic and other problems they
could face as primary school students; (c) evaluation of use of classroom time by primary
school teachers and of the effectiveness of the pre-school and special education activities
carried out under the project; (d) background analysis for planned national policy deliberations
on reform of Ecuador's secondary school and post-secondary school sectors.
Part B: Adult Education and Training. (US$28.5 million, including contingencies) consisted of
three main components:
-   Post-Literacy Training, consisting of three types of activities: (a) Provision of the equivalent
of a complete primary education to approximately 113,500 literate adults who had not
completed full primary education; (b) provision of basic vocational skills training in arts and
crafts, agriculture, industry, construction, small business management and assorted trades and
services to approximately 200,000 students (plus approximately 25,500 disabled students)
through short-duration courses; and (c) provision, as part of SECAP's existing Popular
Training (Capacitacion Popular) program, of more advanced basic vocational skills training
through short-duration courses in arts and crafts, agriculture, industry, construction, small
business management and assorted trades and services to 180,000 students, together with the
provision to SECAP of 150 modular mobile workshops, 30 vehicles to transport such
workshops and 10 community instruction/production centers to complement SECAP's existing
facilities for offering such courses.
*   Small Enterprise Support, including:
- Support by SECAP (in cooperation with other institutions), on a pilot basis, for small
businesses with export potential in the clothing, leather garment, furniture and wooden parts
sectors through: (a) identification of production, design and quality control problems of such
businesses, together with provision of training and technical assistance to such businesses to
solve such problems through improved productivity and competitiveness; (b) establishment
of three technological information and consulting centers to serve as the delivery points for
such training and technical assistance and to provide access to international data bases
containing information on opportunities and techniques relating to such sectors; and (c)
encouragement of enhanced export marketing and economies of scale in such sectors.
- Provision of training to approximately 2,160 SECAP instructors in more effective technical
skills teaching techniques and course design and production of training manuals for use by
SECAP staff.
- Updating of existing curricula offered by SECAP and designing of 19 new courses (in areas
- 4 -



such as small-scale mining, tanning, industrial electronics, data processing and baking) to be
offered by SECAP, together with provision and installation of equipment for SECAP, as
well as provision of spare parts for existing SECAP equipment and of teaching materials for
SECAP (including equipment for an audio-visual materials reproduction unit in SECAP and
for the new courses to be offered by SECAP).
*   Institutional strengthening of SECAP through: (a) development and use of an information
system for SECAP (in cooperation with INEM) for the monitoring and analysis of living
standards, labor market conditions, SECAP course impact in the markets and the employment
histories of SECAP graduates, so as to allow SECAP to plan and respond effectively to the
demands of the labor market; (b) development and use of internal manuals to guide, inter alia,
SECAP's infrastructure use, cost accounting and fund management; (c) creation of a data
base, accessible nationwide through one national and four regional information centers,
containing all available vocational training documentation in Ecuador; and (d) consultation
with the private sector in SECAP decision-making.
3.4 Revised Components:
In December 1997, in response to a request from the Government, the project was restructured. The scope
of the project was narrowed to concentrate only on its primary education objectives and deepen quality
enhancement, and the undisbursed proceeds of the loan under Part B of the project (vocational training)
were reallocated to permit rehabilitation of primary schools damaged by the El Nifio phenomenon. The
restructuring plan was reported to the Board as part of a larger strategy to assist the Government with
reconstruction efforts in the wake of the El Nifio floods in 1997. The main changes and reasons for them
are summnarized below.
Reasons for the Restructuring. The Mid-term Review, carried out in 1996, concluded that, while the
infrastructure construction component was well advanced and many of the planned studies were completed
or were underway, several other key aspects lagged behind. It was further concluded that the main factors
leading to components being out of phase with each other stemmed from the design of the project rather
than from inadequate implementation. Specifically, the project design had not provided for an appropriate
sequencing of the activities needed for the organization and launching of the Redes, and training and other
aspects of quality improvement had been underestimated. It had been anticipated that both the construction
of the hub schools and the non-infrastructure organizational and quality-enhancement activities would take
place concurrently, while experience demonstrated that this was not practical; these activities were greatly
facilitated once the hub school could serve as their locus and venue. Once formed, the new organizations
required both more intensive and more sustained support (training and technical assistance) than had been
envisioned.
Second, the original plan underestimated the importance of adequate rehabilitation of the network schools,
anticipating relatively minor repairs, while in fact many of the schools lacked basic facilities (e.g.,
sanitation, drainage) and some required substantial reconstruction. Network schools' equipment and
furniture needs were also underestimated. The result of this was a stark contrast between the physical
conditions at the hub school and its surrounding network schools, leading to increased tension within the
networks, which was clearly detrimental to the development of functioning CEMs, with adequate local
participation and teamwork. The combined effect of all of these factors was that, while the additional hub
schools could be completed within the project period, there would not be enough time to conduct the
activities needed to make the corresponding networks fully functional. These issues had been discussed
prior to the El Nifio disaster, and the Borrower and the Bank had already agreed that the total number of
- 5 -



networks should be reduced from 55 to 36 (the number that had been initiated by year-end 1996), while
several aspects would be deepened: more attention would be given to the needs of the network schools and
to stepping up the non-infrastructure quality-improvement activities.
A concurrent discussion with the Borrower had been initiated regarding Part B of the Project.
Inplementation of Part B of the Project was hampered by non-compliance of the executing agency,
SECAP, with a number of key covenants, including financial accounting and auditing covenants. The
instances of non-compliance were repeatedly flagged by Bank missions and in letters from Bank
management. Finally, disbursements under Part B (with the exception of the Living Standards
Measurement Survey, which was executed by a different institution) were suspended in September 1997.
In the meantime, the El Nino phenomenon had caused extensive damage to primary schools (including
several CEM hub or network schools). Thus, the Borrower requested reallocation of the loan funds under
Part B to help with the reconstruction of primary schools damaged by the El Nino phenomenon.
Changes to the Project. The following changes were made to the Project:
-    Reduction of the number of networks/hub schools to 36.
-    Provision for reconstruction or rehabilitation, equipment and furnishing of schools in the 36
networks.
-    Provision for the reconstruction or rehabilitation, equipment and furnishing of primary schools, in
low-income areas, that were damaged by the El Nifio phenomenon.
-    Provision of training to about 55,000 primary school teachers (including, but not limited to, school
network teachers, to familiarize them with policies, programs and innovations adopted by MEC since
1995, including those developed under the Project, and including, inter alia, the reformed
curriculum; the purpose and use of educational statistics and requirements for collection of accurate
information at the school level; the purpose and use of educational assessment through nation-wide,
sample-based testing; the organization and responsibilities of school networks and criteria for
formation of new networks; and the purpose and organization of teacher study circles.
-    Increased provision for financing of textbooks, teacher guides and other educational materials.
-    Provision for continuation of financing for the Living Standards Measurement Survey, which had
been financed under Part B of the project.
-    Provision for financing of the operational costs of the Project Implementing Unit.
-    Alignment of the disbursement percentage and procurement arrangements for civil works with those
of the El Nifio Reconstruction Project (90 percent ).
-    Termination of all obligations related to the execution of Part B.
While not reflected in the formal restructuring, the revised strategy for the project intensified training for
teachers and directors in the networks, both in the hub school and the network schools. In addition to
administrative and leadership aspects, greater support was given to the teachers' study circles, an important
innovation introduced under the project that helped teachers tackle pedagogical issues, including those
related to managing the needs of students with learning difficulties.
The addition of training for all primary school teachers responded to the Govermnent's request for the
Bank's assistance to introduce several innovations in in-service training. The first was the establishment of
a National Network for Pre-service and In-service Teacher Training, which was based on the concept of the
- 6 -



Government as provider of financing, but not necessarily provider of all training services. The strategy
was to build the capacity for leadership and guidance within the MEC, while opening the provision of
training to private-sector training providers, NGOs, and universities. This approach allowed for a
relatively rapid implementation of the initial training program, which was financed under the restructured
project. The content of the initial training program responded to the perceived need for a broader and more
effective dissemination of information regarding innovations introduced by the Project, including the
reformed curriculum, the purpose and use educational assessment through nation-wide, sample-based
testing, the purpose and use of educational statistics and the requirements for collection of accurate
information, the organization and responsibilities of school networks and criteria for the formation of these,
and the purpose and organization of teacher study circles.
Educational materials: The original Project design included the provision for textbooks, reading and
reference books, and other didactic materials for basic skills (language and mathematics) for the first five
grades only. In view of several developments since effectiveness, it was considered advisable to expand the
coverage of educational materials, in terms of both subject matter and grade levels. The new curriculum
standards, which had gained wide acceptance, made it possible to consider purchasing textbooks
internationally and to cover subject matter that had been thought beyond the ability to produce within the
duration of the project. In addition, the expansion of the hub schools had expanded access to basic
secondary education, and demand at this level had grown faster than anticipated. It was therefore agreed to
increase the coverage of materials financed by the Project, to include textbooks for natural and social
sciences for grades 1-6 and for language, mathematics, and natural and social sciences for grades 7-9.
Financing the PIU's Operating Costs: The original project design made no distinction between the
temporary costs related to the management of the Project and incremental recurrent costs, and related
financing was subject to declining disbursement percentages. This resulted in inadequate financing of the
costs of project implementation. Introduction of a new disbursement category for operating costs of the
PIU corrected this problem.
Living Standard Measurement Survey (LSMS): Originally, the survey was to be carried out by INEM
(Instituto Nacional de Empleo, under the Ministry of Labor), and was associated with institutional
strengthening of SECAP. In 1995, responsibility for the survey was reassigned to the Instituto Nacional
de Estadisticas y Censos (INEC), under the Ministry of the Presidency, and assets acquired by SECAP for
the purpose of the survey were passed to INEC. Several rounds of LSMS surveys had been carried out
successfully and had greatly contributed to the understanding of poverty in Ecuador and its causes.
Adminstrative arrangements for the survey were made directly with INEC, but the activity remained under
Part B of the project. As Part B was terminated, provision for financing of the LSMS was included under
Part A.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project's quality at entry is rated unsatisfactory. The project objectives were clearly in line with the
Bank's assistance strategy for the country, and the bulk of the project was focused on developing a
promising, innovative model for quality improvement in prinary education. Nevertheless, the linkage
between project objectives and achievement indicators failed to make adequate provision to ensure its
successful implementation and for mitigation of identified risks.
The main deficiency at entry was the excessive scope and complexity of the project. Though presented in
two main "parts", the project consisted of three ambitious elements: introduction of a major innovation in
primary education, reorientation and strengthening of adult training, and design and implementation of the
- 7-



LSMS survey. These elements involved entirely different sectors, beneficiaries and institutions-both for
policy-making and for implementation. An attempt was made to compensate for the lack of relationship
among the parts and executing entities through requirement of a series of inter-institutional agreements and
periodic joint reviews of progress. Owing to the lack of functional relationship among the agencies and the
non-compliant stance of one of them (SECAP), however, these agreements could not be fully implemented,
and separate operating arrangements had to be set up. The requirements for coordination among the
various entities forced by their combination into one project greatly added to implementation costs for the
Borrower and supervision costs for the Bank; these higher costs persisted even after the formal
coordination requirements were removed.
Project design failed to make adequate provision for a number of elements crucial to successful
implementation:
-    Insufficient attention to risk assessment and consequences of risks identified. Although weak
implementation capacity and political instability were recognized by the SAR as constituting major
risks to project implementation in the short and medium-term, the project design did not incorporate
any strategies for mitigating these risks. For several identified risks, the potential impact of
mitigating measures was overestimated.
-    Inadequate design of project financial management arrangements, including project activity budgeting
and expenditure monitoring.
-    Excessively complex institutional design and inadequate provision for overcoming the weak
institutional capacity of implementing agencies. Weaknesses were to be overcome by establishment
of independent project implementation units (PIUs). In the event, three separate PIUs were set up
(one for each of the major components/activities). At various points during implementation, one or
more of the PIUs was viewed by the corresponding ministerial authority as providing technical
support for policy decisions; at other times, the PIUs were viewed as parallel to, and even
competitive with the ministry.
-    Inadequate assessment of supervision requirements.
-    Lack of adequate provision for monitoring: While the Borrower was required monitor/evaluate all
project activities, there was no plan, terms of reference or evaluation criteria developed for carrying
out such evaluations. While a long list of indicators were developed at appraisal, they were too
detailed and difficult to measure to be practical. They were focused on activities and inputs, rather
than outputs or outcomes.
-   Insufficient attention to the organizational aspects of creating Redes CEM.
-    Insufficient attention to the needs of network schools compared to the hub school.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The loan was closed December 31, 1999, after a three-month extension, having disbursed about US$82.9
million (93 percent of the original loan amount). The overall outcome of the Project, as restructured in
1997, is rated satisfactory. This rating is based on a satisfactory outcome for the restructured Project,
consisting of Part A as amended to include assistance for reconstruction of schools damaged by El Nifno
and continuation of support for the LSMS surveys. Despite many changes of Government, Ministers, and
project personnel, most of the outputs planned for Part A of the Project were completed (Annex 1). In
- 8 -



evaluating actual versus targetted outputs, it is important to consider that, while the project was reduced in
scope to target components under basic education, several activities were added or expanded (rehabilitation
of schools damaged by the El Niiio phenomenon, provision of school rehabilitation and furniture in the
satellite schools of the Redes, and introduction or intensification of several new training programs). In
addition, many outputs were more than proportional to the reduction in scope: the number of CEMs was
reduced from 55 to 36, or about 65 percent, while provision of educational materials to CEMs was over 80
percent of the original targets.
Apart from physical outputs, the Project achieved an important impact on the quality of education and
education management not fully reflected in the indicators. Among the most important of these outcomes
are: (a) the model for enhancing school governance and administration (Redes CEM) that the Project tested
in peri-urban areas became fully accepted and is considered the basis for future reform of the education
system; (b) pre-school education was introduced in hub schools, expanding access to early education in
peri-urban areas, where it had been virtually non-existent; (c) "teacher study circles", an innovative model
for in-service training intended to complement more traditional forms of training, was introduced, with wide
acceptance by teachers; (c) establishment of an education statistics system within the MEN (to date, 9
semi-annual bulletins of statistics have been published) permitted analysis of public education provision for
the first time; (d) implementation of a national education assessment program at three grade levels, with
two rounds of testing carried out, provided the first assessment of student achievement in Ecuador, yielded
analytical tools widely used by teachers, and provides the basis for establishment of a national testing
system (the program has received high praise from international experts); (e) national dialogue and
development of consensus on several important areas of reform in education, leading to the introduction of
a generally accepted, skills-based reformed curriculum at primary-secondary levels, establishment of
pre-school education as mandatory, and discussion of many reforms at tertiary level (e.g.,
performance-based budgeting); (f) analysis of organization, management and financing of education that
contributed to more general public sector reforms (e.g., simplification of salary structure); (g) introduction
and testing of a new framework for in-service teacher training and establishment of a university degree
program in leadership in education; (h) successful implementation of four rounds of the Living Standards
Measurement Survey (LSMS) and establishment of technical capacity in INEC to continue the survey; and
(i) analyses of key issues, including a profile of indigenous groups and the factors affecting their education.
Many of the innovations developed under Part A of the Project have been adopted as the basis for
developing further reforms and have a good likelihood of being sustained. Near the end of the Project, the
MEC developed specific plans for the institutionalization of these innovations, and efforts to implement
these plans are currently underway within MEC. The project provided access to primary education for the
direct beneficiaries, often for the first time, improved the quality of the education they received, and
contributed to the improvement of the quality of primary education in general.
-9-



4.2 Outputs by components:
Part A: Urban Basic Education.
1.   Education Quality Improvement - Satisfactory
The original indicators focus on the outputs of individual subcomponents and therefore fail to capture the
impact of the quality improvement component as a whole. Nevertheless, the outputs were important: over
270,000 children in marginal urban areas benefited from improved access to primary education, and 4,300
from pre-primary. About 6,500 students gained access to lower secondary education (grades 7-9). Those
children and their 5,500 teachers benefited from improved physical conditions (infrastructure, sanitary
facilities and furniture), textbooks, workbooks, teachers' guides, reading books and other learning
materials. Beyond the discrete physical outputs, this component resulted in the organization and
development of 36 Redes CEM, comprising some 700 schools (educational institutions) distributed in 260
school buildings and benefiting over 270,000 students and 5,500 teachers. Substantial assistance was
provided to help school personnel understand the new arrangements and adapt to the new organization.
Though not part of the project design, a new curriculum was validated through a series of workshops and
was subsequently widely accepted and its application begun (the textbooks purchased under the project
applied the reformed curriculum).
Teachers within the Redes reported that they felt part of a team for the first time and that the Redes
provided a collegial environment in which they could seek help to solve problems. The diffusion of the
Redes concept helped trigger a national debate on the need for an improvement of the quality of education
at the decentralized level, through the planning and management of educational services. This, in turn,
fostered the interest of local communities in participating more actively in school management. It is
significant that successive Govermnents have adopted the model as the basis for further reform in
education.
(a)  Networkfor Qualitative Improvement - Redes CEMs - Satisfactory
Most of the objectives planned in the SAR and in the subsequent Project restructuring were achieved for
this component. In line with the 1997 Project restructuring, 36 hub schools were constructed or
rehabilitated, and about 260 network school buildings benefited from some kind of physical improvement
(the number of "educational institutions" included in the 36 Redes CEM is about 750). In addition, 197
schools affected by the El Nifio phenomenon were reconstructed. About 600 schools, both network schools
and those reconstructed after El Nifio, were provided with furniture.
The Project achieved much of the objective of transferring aspects of education management to provincial
level and to the Redes, despite substantial political instability and resulting shifts in policies and priorities
during the period. A new framework for school supervision decentralized to the sub-provincial level, with
increased attention to pedagogical support and adapted to both individual schools and the Redes CEM
model, was developed and implemented. The CEMs were to play a key role in planning, gathering of
statistical information, and management (including funds for the maintenance of schools in the networks
and payment of some salaries). Much of this was achieved, though the planned transfer of funds to the
Redes has not been universal; changes in fiscal management within the Ministry of Finance, as well as
severe budget shortages, have altered the original plans. Nevertheless, most of these problems did not
prevent the Redes model from operating or from providing many benefits, according to participating
- 10 -



teachers and beneficiaries. Beginning with the Mid-Tenn Review, Bank supervision missions repeatedly
urged that the Government undertake a full evaluation of the model, as well as of the various innovations
and inputs provided under the project. Regrettably, this was not carried out. Though the terms of reference
were fully prepared and the firm selection process carried out, the work was abandoned when it became
evident that the lengthy requirements for contracting the services would not permit completion of the work
before the closing date.
The Ministry of Education decided to continue with the Redes CEM model and to expand its application.
The unique nature of the Redes required a special liaison capacity within the MEC, which would provide
an institutional anchor after project completion. Efforts to create an effective liaison in the MEC began in
the last year of implementation, though it was not fully established before project completion.
(b)  In-service teacher training - Satisfactory.
Before the Project was introduced, teachers' training opportunities were limited to the obligatory short
courses required for advancement in the salary scale. The Project provided training to the new CEM
directors, principals of the network schools, and about 5,500 teachers in various aspects of operation and
management of the newly formed networks. A school management module and pedagogical module were
developed and tested. Materials guiding the application of the modules were provided to each of the CEMs
established under the project. Training was also provided through Teacher Study Circles (Circulos de
Estudio), created to support teachers in learning as a team, exchanging ideas on dealing with classroom and
learning problems and on the improvement of quality of education, and updating their skills in an
interactive, collegial format. A total of 285 Study Circles were created, each comprising about 15 teachers.
In addition, over 700 community leaders and representatives of parents-teachers associations participated
in orientation meetings regarding the quality improvement program.
Two additional training initiatives were introduced under the 1997 project restructuring. First, a
national-level training program was targeted at 55,000 teachers, to launch and test a new framework for
teacher training, involving the participation of a variety of public and private sector training providers.
Under the program, about 5,000 teacher trainers, 200 staff of pedagogical institutes (IPEDs), and 180
provincial staff (including supervisor trainers) received training in educational planning and budgeting,
collection and use of educational statistics, and the application of educational assessment results. These
trainers then provided training to groups of teachers. The first rounds of training were so well-received that
demand for participation grew; ultimately, 98,000 teachers participated in the program. Where possible,
CEM hub schools were used as the venue for this training. Teachers reported that the training helped them
understand the various reforms that had been introduced (the training did not attempt to change pedagogical
practice of teachers); however, tests were not administered.
The second initiative introduced in 1997 was a university degree program in education leadership intended
for primary school teachers already in service. A private Bolivian university was contracted to train the
university teachers, provide materials, and supervise the initial 18-month program, which provided the
training to about 1,000 teachers selected as students. The program focused on school governance and
school-community linkages for both community and school development, as well as on innovative teaching
methodologies. The program was positively received by the teachers-in-training, participating universities,
and members of the education community, and has been adopted by the participating universities for
incorporation into undergraduate and graduate programs in education for teachers, despite having been
interrupted as a result of one of the many political changes.
- 11 -



Despite the generally positive assessment of beneficiaries of training provided under the project, no formal
assessment was conducted on the impact of the teacher development activities and the leadership program
on teacher performance and the quality of education.
(c)  Pre-school classes - Satisfactory
This subcomponent was intended to provide access to pre-school education in the targeted project areas,
where it was virtually non-existent prior to the project, to provide appropriate materials, and develop
teaching guides and training for pre-school teachers. About 165 pre-school classrooms were established
(of which 125 were attached to the 36 hub schools), furnished and provided with materials. Didactic
guides and work plans were distributed to all network schools. Following the restructuring in 1997,
activities under this subcomponent, together with those for special education and educational materials,
were integrated under a coordinated strategy to strengthen the overall pedagogical model for the Redes.
Groups of facilitators at national as well as provincial levels were created to work closely with the teachers,
and training for pre-school teachers was provided nationwide, focusing on teachers within the Redes CEM
networks. All planned activities were completed and targets achieved.
(d) Special Education - Partially satisfactory
This subcomponent was intended to provide screening by teams of experts for all children in network
schools to determine special learning difficulties, identify solutions where possible, refer cases to
specialized agencies where appropriate, and provide training to teachers in handling children with
difficulties in the classroom. The ambitious goal of universal screening was modified, focusing instead on
training teachers to recognize and manage children with learning difficulties within the classroom setting.
Two training modules for special education curriculum were developed, with participation from network
teachers, and training was provided to network teachers. Although the theoretical principles of an
appropriate teaching methodology was established; however, changes in Government resulted in a lack of
continuity in approach and interruption of implementation. The original design called for a detailed
evaluation of the impact of this intervention, including impact on academic achievement. Like the plans for
the subcomponent itself, the planned evaluation was overly ambitious, requiring several years of
implementation following development and testing of the approach and training of teachers. Nevertheless,
a systematic evaluation of the intervention is needed.
(e)   Textbooks - Satisfactory
By Project closing, because of considerable savings achieved through the process of international bidding,
textbooks and educational materials for grades I through 6 were produced and distributed by MEC at a
much lower cost than originally estimated. This led to plans, at project restructuring, for acquisition of
additional materials for teachers and students in grades 7 to 9. In the event, difficulties encountered in the
bidding process (local vested interests objected to the international bidding process) resulted in delays until
it was too late to complete the purchase. Nevertheless, the original targets for the component, adjusted for
the reduced project scope, were achieved. Since the materials were delivered close to the close of the
Project, the impact of new and revised textbooks on students' learning achievement has yet to be conducted.
(6) Educational Assessment System - Satisfactory
The Project financed the development of a student performance evaluation system, named APRENDO.
APRENDO has developed excellent materials linking a national evaluation of student learning
competencies with practical suggestions for teaching. The rigorous research has been translated into
- 12 -



attractive and informative materials for dissemination to the education community and has been well
received. The system identifies difficulties associated with the performance scores on achievement tests and
suggests remedial strategies teachers can use in the classroom to improve teaching so that the competencies
can be mastered. Student performance is disaggregated across geographical regions of the country as well
as by school setting (i.e., urban, peri-urban, etc.). In an effort to link the development of the national
assessment system to other fruitful experiences in South America (such as SAEB in Brazil, UMRE in
Uruguay, and SNEPE in Paraguay), APRENDO has used the questionnaires and conceptual framework
developed under the auspices of the Latin American Laboratory of Evaluation of Educational Quality
(OREALC-UNESCO) to link student performance on a range of competencies in tests of language and
communication and mathematics across a variety of factors and variables. These covered student
commitment, curriculum, school governance (including characteristics of the teachers and directors,
availability of learning resources, family characteristics and commitment to the child's learning at school,
institutional management (budget and quality of resources), and practical classroom pedagogy.
APRENDO has administered evaluation tests and questionnaires to both project target areas and
non-project areas (i.e. those with Redes and those with conventional school structures). However, despite
repeated urging by Bank supervision missions, there does not appear to be any baseline established by
which to compare these groups. In the future, when the CEMs are fully operational, such a baseline would
be valuable for measuring the impact of the CEMs on student achievement against those of a control group.
The system of evaluation of learning achievement developed under APRENDO will need to be fully
integrated within the MEC in order to take full advantage of its considerable potential.
2.  Institutional Strengthening.
(a)  Policy and institutional strengthening of MEC- Satisfactory
The Project aimed at enhancing the long-term capacity of MEC to make better use of its resources and to
plan and implement improvements in the sector through: (a) strengthening the budgeting and resource
allocation capacity; (b) promoting administrative decentralization; (c) strengthening provincial and local
rnanagement; and (d) fostering policy analysis and innovations.
Hardware and software were procured and 120 of MEC's officers at the national and at the provincial level
were trained on how to use SINEC (the Integrated System of Educational Statistics). The Project also
financed the design of data collection tools, and the publication of yearly education statistical reports which
have been produced for the last six years. The system has provided educational data where little or no data
existed before. There has been a significant step towards the design of an integrated system for information
management of the education sector, in which SINEC will be integrated with additional components to
provide information for management and policy decision-making. In particular, technical studies (e.g.,
design of an information system for use by CEMs, and evaluation of SINEC as part of such a system) have
been conducted.
As planned, training was provided to MEC personnel at both central and provincial levels to promote
regional decentralization and to strengthen MEC's planning and budgeting capacity. While some progress
was made, these remain areas in need of further strengthening. Since many of MEC's weaknesses are
shared by most public sector institutions, recent reforms and innovations will support continued
improvement in MEC along with the rest of the public sector. All of the analytical work and studies
originally planned were completed, as well as several additional studies and support for dialogue on several
areas of reform. In addition to building consensus on curriculum reform, the Project was instrumental in
advancing work toward reform at secondary and tertiary levels. Many of the reforms considered and
- 13-



discussed in the course of this dialogue have been adopted, and several have even been incorporated in the
legal framework (such as the Constitution of 1998, and the reformed regulations for school supervision,
which have enhanced the pedagogical aspects of that function).
In the last three years of implementation, the Project's institutional strengthening activities included efforts
to consolidate and institutionalize results achieved by the Project under all of its components, with special
attention to establishing an institutional locus within MEC for support of the Redes CEM and further
development of the CEM model and to establishment of a permanent academic assessment system within
MEC based on the APRENDO program. While changes in the structure of the MEC had not yet been put
in place prior to the closing date, they have been adopted by the MEC as key elements in its strategy for
further development.
3.   Living Standards Measurement Survey (LSMS): Satisfactory
The Project provided funding for the implementation of a Living Standards Measurement Survey (LSMS).
This component was transferred from Part B to Part A when the Project was restructured in 1997. Under
the project, four rounds of the survey were carried out and design of a fifth round was completed. The first
two rounds of the survey were conducted by INEM (an autonomous agency under the Ministry of Labor);
the third and fourth rounds were conducted by INEC (the autonomous national agency for statistics and
census). Despite the shift of institutional responsibility, consistency in approach and technical soundness
were maintained. Results of the LSMS surveys have permitted a better understanding of the extent,
characteristics and causes of poverty in Ecuador and have been instrumental in identifying interventions to
respond to the severe economic crisis that has affected the country since 1998.
Part B: Adult Education and Training: Unsatisfactory
The suspension of disbursements for this part of the Project was requested by the Ministry of Finance and
approved by the Bank in 1997. This action was taken as a result of the lack of compliance of SECAP with
legal covenants in the Project agreement with regard to administrative procedures, as well as auditing and
accounting requirements. Despite the difficulties experienced with implementation of Part B of the Project,
some satisfactory outcomes were achieved, including: (a) training programs for adults and for small
enterprises; (b) the creation of training schools co-managed with the private sector; (c) training modules on
curriculum design given to MEC and SECAP staff; (d) the first two rounds of the LSMS; and (e) a
comprehensive analysis of technical/vocational training in Ecuador (carried out by ILO under the project)
(see details in Annex 1). The study found that SECAP was unresponsive to the needs and demands of the
labor market and that its frameework for adult educational training was inappropriate. It proposed
adoption of a new framework that, inter alia, envisions far greater participation by the private sector in
service provision. This framework was widely supported by employers and employee representatives and
remains relevant as a basis for reform. Lamentably, vested interests within the Ministry of Labor and
SECAP prevented its adoption. Activities under Part B were terminated in 1997 as a result of
non-compliance by the executing agency with key financial and other legal covenants.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A. No formal assessment of Net Present Value or Economic Rate of Return was conducted at
appraisal, nor did the SAR contain any discussion of the expected economic impact of the project. (It was
not standard practice to apply quantitative economic analysis to education projects at that time. The lack
of adequate monitoring indicators or provision for collection of data during project implementation has
resulted in a lack of the data necessary to apply such analysis retroactively.
- 14 -



4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project achieved significant impacts in the MEC and the education system. For example, the project's
support was key to the reform and implementation of a new education supervision system, still in effect
today, the information system (SINEC) developed within the MEC with project support is still in operation,
training for MEC personnel at provincial level were key implementing several public sector reform
measures, including application of the 1992 budgetary reform law, and several innovations in teacher
training have been adopted by the MEC for general application (e.g., study circles, training network). The
degree program in education leadership at university level has been continued by the universities that took
part in the program; the long-term potential impact of this program is very significant, as successive
cohorts of graduates join the education workforce. The CEM model itself, along with the organizational
and administrative innovations that it comprises, has been assessed by the MEC as contributing to both
administrative efficiency and education quality; plans for creation of an institutional locus within the MEC
for continuous monitoring further expansion of its application are in process. Finally, APRENDO, the
academic assessment program, is being continued by the MEC, and plans for establishing the system within
the MEC structure on a permanent basis are also in process.
These impacts notwithstanding, some of the more ambitious institutional development goals remained
elusive, hampered by the political instability of the country. For example, the focus on overall political
decentralization shifted with each change of government; decentralization plans within the MEC were
necessarily affected. In addition, frequent tumover of staff in the MEC resulted in loss (to the MEC) of the
trained manpower--a problem frequently experienced with institutional strengthening efforts.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Project implementation was significantly affected by high political instability and economic volatility,
especially from 1995 to project closure at the end of 1999.
Political instability. The project, launched in 1992, was implemented under five Presidents and 1 1
Ministers of Education. Each change brought shifts in sector policy priorities, with corresponding changes
in staffing, strategies and even structure. Frequent personnel changes within the MEC resulted in loss of
institutional memory and an erosion of understanding within the MEC regarding the Project's objectives
and the roles and responsibilities of participants. This sometimes led to conflicting signals and confusion
for the stakeholders themselves.
Teachers' strikes. Frequent teachers' strikes resulted in some delays and/or interruption in the
implementation of the teacher training programs. At the same time, it is noteworthy that in several
instances, teachers voted to continue with planned activities (training, for example) despite an ongoing
strike, demonstrating teachers' commitment and the value they attached to the training provided.
Fiscal crisis and shortage of counterpart funds. Government spending on education declined during the
1990s, particularly as a consequence of deepening economic crises in recent years. Increasingly tight
budget constraints led to serious difficulties in provision of counterpart funds, especially those to be
- 15-



provided in the form of salaries for additional personnel. The unavailability of counterpart funds delayed
implementation of all activities, with particular impact on school rehabilitation related to the El Ninio
Phenomenon; as a result, fewer schools were rehabilitated before the closing date than had been expected.
(It should be noted that counterpart funds made available late in the project have been used following
project closing to complete the rehabilitation works.)
Fiscal crisis and its impact on school attendance. The coverage and efficiency in education deteriorated
throughout the period of economic crisis as falling incomes forced poor households to withdraw children
from school in increasing numbers. MEC reports that between April and June 1999, 0.15 million families
had stopped sending one or more children to school due to the severe economic situation they were facing.
From January to July 1999, the number of working children under age 15 had increased from 0. 15 million
to approximately 0.19 million (an increase of 21.8% at national level, 29.1% in urban areas). Within this
context, the rehabilitation of schools affected by the El Nino phenomenon undoubtedly had a positive
impact in contributing to employment generation in the poorest areas affected by the disaster.
The El Nino phenomenon. The country suffered extensive damage caused by the El Nino phenomenon in
1997-1998, and the disaster had an important impact on the Project. Many CEM schools were among
those damaged by the phenomenon (all but one of the 36 CEMs were located in affected areas), and many
more schools suffered even greater damage. The project restructuring was designed to address both of
these problems.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Political conflict, shifts in policies and changes in Project management. The shifts in priorities that
occurred with each turnover of leadership in MEC had a particularly strong impact on the Project's
institution-building goals. Thus, while the Project duly provided training for MEC staff in planning and
budgeting, the impact of that training was weakened by turnover among the staff trained, including the
elimination of whole units. Despite changes of Government and Ministers, Project Management remained
stable until 1996. Subsequently, however, the deepening political conflict, accompanied by the accelerating
turnover rate in government leadership, led to successive changes in Project Management, which reflected
the shifts in priorities and strategies within the Ministry of Education. Political intervention in the
day-to-day operation of the Project also occasionally occurred in the last few years of implementation. In
addition to untimely and unjustified replacements of PIU personnel, some procurement processes were
suspended, some contracts were suspended, and most activities were delayed. Over time, repeated shifts in
priorities caused by changes in leadership strained the enthusiasm of local authorities, teachers, and
communities; participation diminished accordingly.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Lack of management capacity. MEC's weak management capacity was identified in the SAR as one of
the most critical risks for successful implementation of the Project. In order to reduce this risk, and to
allow for appropriate capacity building for MEC, the Project allowed for: (a) the appointment of technical
and administrative consultants to assist with Project management; (b) a decentralized Project management
structure through MEC's regional offices and a small, flexible PIU composed of competent staff chosen on
a merit basis who were provided with training and career development opportunities; (c) contracting
specialized international agencies to facilitate procurement processes and improve technical assistance; (d)
creating decentralized support for the Project among potential beneficiaries and stakeholders; and (e) (for
Part B) using SECAP's project management experience.
- 16-



Project implementation bore out the initial risk assessment and demonstrated the difficulties in minimizing
the foreseen risks. Decentralization to provincial and local levels proved to be ineffective as a strategy to
compensate for weak management capacity at the center, as changes at central level were generally carried
through to lower levels as well. Establishment of the PIU was instrumental in permitting implementation to
go forward, and it even provided some degree of continuity across political changes within the MEC in the
earlier years. The independence of the PIU was protected to a high degree by the participation of
UNDP/UNOPS, provided under management service agreements. This participation was key to lessening
the political pressures on the Project and to ensuring a high degree of transparency.
Predictably perhaps, the strategy of an independent PIU was less successful in achieving the hoped-for
gains in MEC's capacity. Several components of the project (e.g., SINEC, teacher training, reform of the
supervision system) were successfully executed through the corresponding MEC departments. At times,
however, the salary differential between MEC personnel and PIU consultants led to jealousy among MEC
participants, which diminished the benefits of such collaboration. Continuous changes in MEC
administration frustrated attempts to consolidate and institutionalize the Project's innovations within the
structure of the MEC itself. This experience illustrates the trade-off that frequently exists between the goal
of institutional strengthening and the need to ensure timely execution of a project by creation of a dedicated
implementation unit. Under such circumstances, simple project design and realistic objectives are of
paramount importance.
While the independent PIU was fundamental to the achievements realized by the Project, management of
the PIU itself was not uniformly strong. The lack of a clear or complete operational manual prior to
Project effectiveness, compounded by leadership tumover, led to uneven project management. While most
activities under Part A were eventually completed successfully, Project management sometimes suffered
from weak coordination, and financial management (including internal controls and consistent
documentation of payment authorizations) was sometimes lacking. Audits found no serious accounting
problems, but management was slow in responding to supervision missions' urgings to install an updated
accounting system that could produce fully itemized accounts according to project components. An
anomalous incident occurred in 1997, when the Project Unit withdrew funds from the Special Account that
should have come from national counterpart funds, and ineligible expenditures of US$180,000 were
authorized. Following the change in government in early 1998, the corresponding amounts were restored to
the Special Account.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
At appraisal, total Project cost, including physical and price contingencies and excluding taxes and duties,
was estimated at about US$118.7 million equivalent, including US$33.1 million foreign exchange.
Incremental recurrent costs (including materials; additional teachers, technical and administrative staff;
maintenance of facilities, equipment, and vehicles; and incorporation of the new programs of education
assessment, special education, and basic skills training) were estimated at 24% of total project cost,
representing increases in recurrent costs of about US$4 million per year during the implementation period.
The Project included initial financing under the loan of these costs, with a declining disbursement
percentage, to facilitate Government financing of the increases. In the event, external factors, culminating
in a serious economic crisis beginning in 1998 and still continuing, led to a reduction in the education
budget, deferring many of the planned increases in personnel.
The Loan was to finance about 75% of Project costs, including 65% of local expenditures. Even with the
reduction of counterpart requirements introduced at the time of project restructuring in 1997, the
Government ultimately provided US$33 million (28% of final project cost) in counterpart funds, compared
- 17 -



to 25% agreed at appraisal. This resulted from the increase in infrastructure components, which accounted
for the majority of counterpart requirements.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
The Project introduced major innovations (e.g., Redes CEM, SINEC, APRENDO) into the educational
system in Ecuador. The MEC has incorporated these innovations into its strategies and is in the process of
making them an integral part of its structure. These efforts will allow strengthening and continuing
development of the role of the Redes CEM and their relationship to the MEC structure itself and will
greatly strengthen the MEC's capacity to monitor coverage and quality of the education system--key
elements in effictive policymaking. The curriculum reform introduced with assistance from the Project is
being generally applied. In addition, the project fully achieved the goals of supporting the national dialogue
on reform at the primary, secondary and tertiary levels and produced a strong public awareness of the need
for educational reform, and work begun under the Project is being used as the basis to define concrete
strategies for carrying out the reform process. Despite the declining emphasis on decentralization in the
overall political arena mentioned above (section 4.5), the MEC, based on the experience under the project,
has pursued agreements with selected municipalities to test decentralization of several areas of
responsibility. Its aim is to use the results of these pilot arrangements as the basis for a more generalized
process of decentralization.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Redes CEM organized under the project remain in operation, and several other key innovations
(APRENDO, SINEC, and teacher training) are also being continued. Part of the Redes CEM model
involves comnmunity participation in the maintenance of the schools; this practices continues. During the
ongoing economic crisis, Government provision of the additional resources needed for full operation of the
CEMs (particularly administrative personnel) fallen short of plans. While this remains a challenge, the
Government strategy to maintain the arrangement and gradually expand its application takes into account
these requirements. The Government has expressed strong interest in building on the achievements of the
project, particularly with respect to Redes CEM, APRENDO, SINEC, teacher training, and institutional
transformation. A second basic education project that would include these elements is now in preparation.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during the Project preparation and appraisal phase is rated unsatisfactory. While
the Bank provided the Borrower with adequate technical and financial assistance for project preparation,
the deficiencies in project design and other problems quality at entry should have been avoided or corrected
through appropriate analysis and application of standards prevalent at the time. First, the Project design
was overly complex and ambitious for the constraints recognized in the country at that time. The project
objectives related to areas as diverse as special education; pre-school; primary education; adult education,
vocational training and small enterprise support; teacher training; educational assessment; didactic
materials; and living standards measurement surveys. The project design required multiple implementation
agents, thus compound this problem. Such complexity should have been avoided especially in view of the
weak implementation capacity that were recognized at the time. Second, the lack of an adequate
implementation plan or operational manual from the beginning of the project, inadequate attention to risk
- 18-



assessment, lack of assessment of supervision requirements, lack of, all contributed to the difficulties of
project implementation for the Borrower and to the high cost of supervision for the Bank. Finally, the lack
of economic analysis, measurable and verifiable outcome indicators, or adequate provision for the
monitoring and evaluation of many activities required in the loan agreement, added to the complexity of the
design, made it difficult for the Borrower to maintain strong focus on the development objectives of the
Project or to track progress in achieving the desired outcomes.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance in supervision is rated satisfactory, despite some shortcomings in the early years of
implementation. Supervision missions took place regularly every six months. During each mission, the
Bank, together with the Borrower, conducted a detailed review of all Project activities, procurement and
financial management issues. Supervision reports promptly flagged real and potential problems and
identified measures to solve or avoid them. In the early years of implementation, supervision missions were
obliged to solve many problems stemming from the lack of clear definition of the procurement
arrangements prior to project effectiveness. In addition, rapid disbursement under Part A of the Project led
to very favorable ratings, but missions overlooked the growing disparity in the pace of implementation of
infrastructure and the quality-related activities. Thus, it was not until 1996 with the change of project
management and new task management in the Bank, that firm action was initiated on the part of the Bank
to refocus the Borrower's attention on the ultimate objectives of the project, culminating in the Project
restructuring in 1997. Supervision missions throughout the Project period emphasized the need to establish
measurable indicators and a corresponding evaluation system, the need for an operational manual to guide
implementation, and clear reports on project expenditures. At the time of the mid-term review (1996) the
Bank provided strong guidance and required the implementing agency to contract consultants to help
correct weaknesses in the Project's overall coordination and financial management (many of which
stemmed from the weaknesses in project design). As a result, the problems were addressed sufficiently to
allow most of the objectives to be achieved.
The Bank maintained adequate continuity in task management of the Project throughout implementation,
which allowed the Bank to partially bridge the disruptions caused by the frequent changes in Government
authorities. Despite the many changes in government counterparts, the Bank maintained a productive
dialogue with both the Borrower and the implementing agency.
7.3 OverallBankperformance:
In view of the fact that the Bank was instrumental in restoring/maintaining focus on the project's key
objectives despite the many changes in government, and responded decisively to restructure the project
when the serious nature of the flaws in project design became evident, the Bank's performance is rated
satisfactory overall.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Government's performance during identification and preparation of the Project was satisfactory.
Government engaged in a sectoral dialogue with the Bank and defined an appropriate policy framework,
which was stated in a Letter of Development Policy submitted to the Bank in January 1990. The
preparation work carried out by the Borrower formed the basis of the innovations incorporated in the
project design, which, having been tested during implementation, have been adopted by the MEC for
further development.
-19-



7.5 Government implementation performance:
Although the Government's implementation perfornance and capacity throughout the Project life cycle is
rated unsatisfactory, the reason for this rating is mainly attributable to the impact of external factors-the
unstable national political context and an increasingly precarious fiscal situation caused by successive
economic crises and natural disasters. These factors led to uneven support for the Project on the part of
the Government, which was necessary for achievement of optimal project outcomes. Delays in release of
counterpart funds led to delays in implementation. With the many changes in sectoral authorities, the
sectoral policies and priorities, clearly defined at project inception, began to blur and shift with each
Government's political agenda, leading to uneven support for the Project. At times, political considerations
influenced the appointment of some key personnel in the PIU, making it difficult, at times, for the PIU to
consistently apply technical standards. At other times, Government authorities' attempts to use the project
for political (or at least, non-project) ends were frustrated by the Bank's objections. For all of these
reasons, the MEC did not succeed in assuming full responsibility and leadership over the Project.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the two implementing agencies remaining after projecting restructuring is rated
marginally satisfactory. (SECAP's performance in implementing Part B was rated as unsatisfactory). The
performance of both the PIU for Part A (EB/PRODEC) of INEC, responsible for the LSMS surveys, is
rated satisfactory. Some delays in execution were caused by factors beyond the control of the
implementing agency (e.g., lack of readiness of the procurement arrangements and delays in receipt of
counterpart funding). Others were attributable to the PIU itself (e.g., uneven or weak coordination of
project activities, mistakes in procurement procedures, lack of complete documentation for some contracts,
and difficulties in financial management). Nevertheless, despite all of the adverse factors stemming from
project preparation and the country context, the achievements attained by the Project Unit were remarkable.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, the Borrower's performance is rated satisfactory, albeit marginally so. On the one hand, despite
the political and economic instability throughout the period and the difficulties posed by the project design
and quality at entry, the Borrower achieved most of the targets defined in the SAR and even attained some
achievements not targeted. On the other hand, the Government's (MEC's) leadership was weak through
most of the project period certainly weakened the impact of the Project's achievements. (The fact that the
Government is now adopting those achievements as the basis for further sector development mitigates the
effect of this shortcoming). The lack of a comprehensive evaluation of the Project was a flaw in Project
design; nevertheless, an evaluation could have been completed had the Borrower responded in a timely
manner to repeated urging by the Bank. Such an evaluation would have permitted an analysis of the
Project's impact on the quality of basic education in marginal urban areas.
8. Lessons Learned
Lesson learned from this Project can be grouped around five themes:
Project design. A number of important lessons to be drawn from this project relate to project design:
-    First, experience in implementation demonstrated the importance of focusing on limited, realistic, and
clearly defined development objectives, establishing a relatively short implementation period, and
- 20 -



including only the key interventions needed to achieve them. In addition, appropriate measurable
indicators that clarify the linkages between the objectives and the interventions to be undertaken-
between project outputs and the achievement of desired results-are important both to
implementation itself and to maintain focus on the desired results. Linked to this point is the
importance of designing and providing financing and terms of reference for periodic monitoring of
outputs and evaluation of outcomes or impacts; legal requirements for evaluations are, by
themselves, of limited usefulness without providing the means and guidance to carry them out,
especially in a complex project.
Second, the design of the project and its institutional implementation arrangements should be
carefully adapted to both the specific the institutional capacity and the overall institutional
environment, based on a thorough assessment of both. A realistic implementation plan is essential,
and should take into account both the resources and the time necessary to accomplish any institution
building necessary to undertake specific activities. A complete operational manual, full definition of
both procurement procedures and any special institutional arrangements for executing them, and an
adequate design of the financial management system and establishment of the corresponding capacity
should be in place prior to project effectiveness. Not only do these conditions expedite project
implementation, allowing both the Borrower and the Bank to focus on substantive issues from the
beginning, but they help the Borrower to avoid errors that can be time-consuming and costly to
correct.
Adaptability in Project Implementation. The success achieved by the Project would not have been
possible without the flexibility to adjust plans during project implementation, allowing the project to adapt
to changing circumstances and needs. Apart from the Project restructuring in 1997 and introduction of
improved accounting procedures and operational manuals, both the Bank and the Borrower periodically
adjusted plans to take into account the evolving sector dialogue and changing political climate. As a result,
the Project was able to support several innovative approaches in teacher training, on the basis of which the
MEC is planning further development.
Institutional Arrangements. A third set of lessons to be drawn from this project relates to the use of a
project implementation unit as a solution to weakness in the executing agency, in particular a weak sector
ministry. The tradeoffs and risks involved in this type of arrangement should be explicitly assessed at the
outset and the parameters for collaboration between the line agency and the PIUJ must be clearly defined.
Where there is a wage differential between the line ministry and the PIU-and low salaries are often a
major cause of institutional weakness-ministry personnel often view consultants and temporary personnel
employed by PIUs with jealousy and resentrnent. In the case of this Project, it is doubtful that the outcomes
achieved could have been attained if the Project's execution had been fully managed within the MEC. At
the same time, both the institution-building objectives and the full institutionalization of project outputs
required strong collaboration between the two. Perhaps the greatest lesson to be learned from this is, once
again, the importance of realism, both in defining the objectives of a project and in ensuring that the
objectives are suited to the institutional environment. In a country such as Ecuador, where institutional
weakness in the public sector is common, effective project implementation may continue to require use of
PIUs until the overall civil service can be strengthened. In this case, expectations of what can be
accomplished in terms of strengthening within the line ministry should take into account the limitations that
such an arrangement imposes.
Community Participation. The experience of this project also illustrates the value of stakeholder
participation. Although not anticipated in this Project's design, community participation evolved naturally
during implementation, particularly in the formation and development of the Redes CEM. As observed
-21 -



during supervision, the most effective Redes CEM are those in which there is an active collaboration among
the local community, parents and teachers. In Ecuador, parents have traditionally been called upon to
contribute to communal work days for the maintenance of the school, but parents' participation in any
other context was virtually unknown. Thus, the collegial spirit that is in evidence in successful Redes
CEM, with parents, community leaders and teachers sharing an involvement in the planning and
management of many aspects of the schools and the network, was a significant, though unplanned, project
outcome. This experience suggests that successful results could be enhanced further by incorporating
stakeholder participation more explicitly into the design of the project, with appropriate support for
development of participatory process.
Communication Strategy. Finally, the experience of the Project highlights the importance of a social
communications strategy in a project involving participation at the grassroots level. Although initially
enthusiastic about their involvement in this Project's activities, the interest and confidence of many
beneficiaries (teachers, parents, community leaders, etc.) in the Project appears to have flagged as
implementation progressed. An adequate social communication strategy, lacking in this Project, would
have allowed a steady flow of information to--and feedback from--the stakeholders, which would have
helped to maintain the energy and enthusiasm that are key to obtaining optimal results.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
A. IMPLEMENTACION DEL PROYECTO
1.   Segun lo establecido en el SAR, el prestamo del Banco Mundial para el Primer Proyecto de
Desarrollo Social, fue de US$ 89.0 millones. Para la parte "A" del Proyecto estaban destinados US$ 67.0
millones (75%) y US$22.0 millones (25%) para la parte "B". El gobiemo debia aportar con US$ 33
millones.
2.   Para la implementaci6n de la parte "A" del Proyecto, se acuerda que el MEC cree la Unidad
Tecnica MEC/BIRF/EB/PRODEC, encargada de la administracion y orientaci6n del Proyecto. La Unidad
T&cnica esta a cargo de un coordinador que depende directamente del Ministro de Educaci6n y un equipo
de consultores tecnicos. Para la ejecucion de las actividades, la Unidad se organiza en los siguientes
componentes: redes CEM, Infraestructura, Sistema de Medici6n de Logros Acad6micos, Capacitaci6n,
Adquisici6n y Distribuci6n de Materiales Educativos Impresos, Fortalecirniento Institucional y
posteriormente se incorpora un area de Evaluaci6n y Monitoreo.
3.   Para la implementaci6n de la parte "B", se crea la Unidad de Coordinaci6n del Proyecto, la misma
que depende del Director Ejecutivo del SECAP. Se conforma un comite coordinador compuesto por el
Director Ejecutivo del SECAP, el Coordinador de la Unidad y los coordinadores de los tres programas
(educaci6n y capacitaci6n para postalfabetizados, apoyo tecnico a la pequefia empresa manufacturera y
fortalecimiento institucional del SECAP). Se diseniaron cuatro unidades para el desarrollo de las
actividades: (a) el directorio de capacitaci6n del sector informal; (b) el directorio de operaciones; (c) el
directorio tecnico; y, (d) el directorio de planificaci6n.
4.   Se cre6 ademis un comite interinstitucional conformado por los jefes de las unidades coordinadoras
del MEC y del SECAP y por el Subsecretario de Cr6dito Niblico del Ministerio de Finanzas, el cual debia
mantener reuniones trimestrales para exarninar el avance de su ejecuci6n. Sin embargo, en la ejecuci6n del
Proyecto se evidencia que no hubo mayor interelaci6n entre los componentes "A" y "B".
-22 -



5.   Para las obras de infraestructura en el caso de la parte "A", se establece un convenio con el
programa de las Naciones Unidas pam el Desarrollo PNUDIUNOPS, que se encarg6 de los procesos de
licitaci6n, contrataci6n, fiscalizaci6n y supervisi6n de la construcci6n o rehabilitaci6n de 36 planteles
centrales, 85 escuelas de las redes, y 56 afectadas por el Fen6meno del Nifno. Durante la prinmera etapa del
Proyecto 1992-1996, se presentaron inconvenientes debido a diferencias entre la normatividad del Banco y
el PNUD, los cuales fueron superados posteriormente. En los primeros anios de ejecuci6n del Proyecto
adernas se estableci6 un contrato con UNICEF, mediante el cual se realizaron 355 intervenciones de
rehabilitaci6n.
6.   Para las actividades de capacitaci6n, correspondientes a la parte"A", se trabaja en estrecha
relacion con la DINAMEP, que es la instancia ministerial encargada del mejoramiento profesional de los
docentes, se establecen convenios con universidades y ONGs. El componente de Fortalecirniento
Institucional desarrolla sus actividades en conjunto con las Direcciones Provinciales de Educaci6n, con
Supervisi6n, Estadistica y Mapa Escolar.
7.   En 1997 hubo atrasos en la ejecuci6n del Proyecto debido a la insuficiencia de fondos de la
contraparte. El Ministerio de Finanzas solicit6 la cancelaci6n de fondos de la parte "B" (SECAP) y del
monto bajo la parte "A", con lo cual se reduce parcialmente el cr6dito de la parte "A". Ademas, durante
ese mismo periodo, se realizaron retiros de la cuenta especial injustificados y se efectuaron gastos
inelegibles con lo cual se incumpli6 el presupuesto codificado (US $900.000) en gastos inelegibles,
contrataci6n de personas pam cargos inexistentes (US $180.000), por un total de US $1.065.993. Por estos
motivos, fue necesario hacer un reajuste de las metas correspondientes a la parte "A" del Proyecto y se
decidi6 no iniciar obras en centros educativos matrices que no cuenten con plantel central concluido o en
ejecuci6n, consolidar las 36 redes que fueron iniciadas, en cuanto a infraestructura, mobiliario y
equipamiento fisicos, dotandoles de materiales didacticos y capacitaci6n de los docentes, de tal forrna que
las redes est6n en condiciones de funcionar administrativa y pedag6gicamente.
8.   En la parte "B", fue necesario realizar reajustes a la propuesta original desde su inicio, cuando en
1992 CENDES y CENAPIA entran en un proceso de reestructuraci6n impulsado por el gobiemo nacional.
A lo largo de su ejecuci6n, se presentaron varios inconvenientes: a) demoras en las contrataciones en el
marco de acuerdo con PNUD, b) normas diferentes entre el Banco Mundial, PNUD (Nueva York, Quito) y
el SECAP, lo que afect6 la implementaci6n de varias actividades, c) dificultad prictica en coordinaci6n con
el MEC, por falta de recursos financieros y la inadecuada estructura t6cnica operativa de la DINEPP, d)
poca claridad de la distribuci6n de atribuciones y responsabilidades entre la UCP y el SECAP, e)
inconsistencias en el pago de costos incrementales al personal del SECAP, f) reduccion de la contraparte
local, el 30% de lo aprobado para 1994 y ninguna asignaci6n correspondiente a 1995, g) adquisici6n de
vehiculos sin respetar los procedimientos del Banco y h) dificultades en aspectos financieros y contables del
proyecto. Dentro de este contexto en 1995, el Banco sefiala que no seri posible cumplir con las metas
propuestas en el SAR, se intenta hacer una revisi6n, pero en octubre de 1997 se cierra la parte "B".
9.   La parte "Al se reestructura para asurmir la Encuesta de Condiciones de Vida -ECV, ejecutada por
el INEC, que maneja todos los aspectos administrativos y financieros a traves de PNUD/UNOPS. Los
gastos de la ECV, unicainente pam aspectos contables son incluidos dentro de la parte "A" en la categoria
de Estudios, dejando insubsistente el anterior convenio con el SECAP.
10. El Proyecto debia finalizar el 31 de mazo de 1999, luego se dio una extensi6n hasta septiembre de
1999 para poder cumplir con los objetivos del mismo, de alli hasta diciembre y por iltimo un periodo de
- 23 -



gracia hasta abril del 2000, para solicitar los desembolsos relacionados con la adquisici6n de bienes o
servicios elegibles, que hayan sido entregados antes de la fecha del cierre del Proyecto.
11. En el presupuesto original del Proyecto se subestimaron algunos aspectos y no se tomaron en cuenta
otros factores necesarios para garantizar la sostenibilidad del proyecto. En un inicio se fij6 para obras de
infraestructura un techo de US$15.000 por escuela, que luego result6 ser un cilculo muy bajo, el mismo
que imposibilitaba la atenci6n a las escuelas de las redes y se lo aument6 a US$27.000. En cuanto a
dotaci6n de mobiliario el presupuesto original contemplaba atender solamente a los planteles centrales, lo
cual contribuia a los problemas de inequidad en las redes, por lo cual se aument6 el presupuesto a
US$120.000 por red CEM. En lo que respecta a los materiales didacticos, no se planific6 dotar de
materiales al preescolar, ni a 80, 90 y 100 afios, de rincones de lectura y bibliotecas tanto para docentes
como para alumnos(as). En el componente de capacitaci6n se vio la necesidad de institucionalizar algunos
logros del Proyecto a traves de una Red Nacional de Formaci6n y Capacitaci6n Docente, que se encargaria
de la capacitaci6n masiva sobre temas relacionados la Proyecto, dirigida a capacitadores, directores
maestros. Por otro lado, al reestructurar el proyecto, eliminando las actividades de la parte "B", se vio la
necesidad de colocar para prop6sitos contables la Encuesta de Condiciones de Vida bajo la parte "A".
Totalizandose un impacto en el presupuesto de la parte "A" del Proyecto de US$ millones 19.56. Por otra
parte, como consecuencia del Fen6meno del Ninlo, fue necesario reparar infraestructura construida o
rehabilitada bajo el Proyecto, principalmente en la costa ecuatoriana, por el potencial danlo de algunos
planteles al ser utilizados como albergues o en otros casos, por el impacto del fen6meno miismo. Se
contempl6 dos tipos de intervenci6n una emergente y preventiva para ejecutarse de forma inmediata y otra
prevista y definitiva a ejecutarse con posterioridad. (Ver en Anexos el cuadro N1)
12. La ejecuci6n de la parte "A" del Proyecto se podria dividir en dos periodos: 1) El primero, que
estaria comprendido desde su inicio hasta 1996, caracterizado por la estabilidad en la direcci6n del
proyecto y del equipo tecnico. Se mantuvieron las metas y los objetivos iniciales y se trabaj6 de acuerdo a
una misma linea de acci6n, a pesar de los cambios politicos. En este periodo se observa un desfase en el
desarrollo de los componentes, el sitema de medici6n de logros y la producci6n de textos sufre un retraso,
hay una buena coordinaci6n entre redes CEM y el componente de capacitaci6n, el componente de
infraestructura se desarrolla con mayor enfasis. En lo administrativo hay una estricta sujeci6n a las normas
del Banco 2) El segundo, a partir de 1996, en que predomina la inestabilidad en la conduccion del Proyecto
y el equipo tecnico, hay incidencia de factores politicos, los objetivos y metas del proyecto son
reformulados, las lineas de acci6n no son claras, al parecer se van adecuando a las circunstancias, se da
mayor enfasis a los componentes de capacitaci6n y a las obras de infraestructura, se consolida el
componente de medici6n de logros, se desarrolla el componente de textos y materiales didacticos, se
consolida el sistema de informaci6n estadistica.
B.  CONSECUCION DE OBJETIVOS - Parte "A"
13.  Resulta dificil determinar con exactitud cual ha sido el impacto del Proyecto en cuanto a la reducci6n
de las tasas de repitencia y deserci6n, que fueron los objetivos prinicipales en la parte "A" del Proyecto, ya
que no se ha realizado una evaluaci6n tecnica, que nos proporcione datos exactos. A pesar de ello,
consideramos que la incidencia del proyecto en general, ha sido positiva en los aspectos que sefalamos a
continuaci6n.
14. El Proyecto mediante la creaci6n de nucleos escolares o Redes CEM ubicados en zonas urbano
marginales de las provincias de Carchi, Pichincha, Esmeraldas, Guayas, Los Rios y El Oro, incremento el
acceso a la educaci6n basica de grupos de ingresos econ6micos bajos. Varios de estos sectores se originan
- 24 -



sin ninguna planificaci6n y por lo general no cuentan con los servicios basicos. Dentro de este contexto,
tener acceso a la educaci6n y contar con una infraestructura adecuada para ello, constituye para estos
grupos sociales un gran beneficio. Las obras son un simbolo del avance y consolidaci6n de su barrio y una
esperanza de mejores oportunidades para las nuevas generaciones.
15.  La capacitaci6n recibida por los directivos y docentes de las redes, ha sido fundamental para que
exista un cambio de actitud en el maestro(a) y mayor motivaci6n en ellos para Ilevar adelante sus tareas.
Haber logrado que los docentes tengan conciencia de la necesidad de una capacitaci6n permanente, debe ser
considerado en si un avance. De igual manera, promover el intercambio de experiencias y conocimientos en
los circulos de estudio es otro aspecto de gran trascendencia. Cabe sefialar tambi6n, que los beneficios de
los procesos de capacitaci6n y formaci6n trascendieron hacia otros grupos del sistema educativo.
16. Otro logro importante ha sido incluir en las redes CEM la educaci6n preescolar, capacitar a los
docentes y contar con materiales impresos para ello e incrementando el acceso de niiios(as) a los
preescolares. Ademas en las redes, se brinda apoyo psico-pedag6gico a los alumnos(as), siendo este un
aporte muy importante sobre todo si se tiene presente que las redes estan localizadas en zonas de alta
conflictividad social.
17.  Fue tambibn importante contar con materiales didacticos impresos tanto para docentes como para los
alumnos(as). Las limitadas condiciones econ6micas de estos grupos vuelven muy dificil la adquisici6n de
estos materiales. Los docentes consideran que los textos son id6neos para sus necesidades y garantizan la
eficiencia en el aprendizaje.
18. Otro de los objetivos del proyecto que se ha logrado obtener es que el pais cuenta ya con un Sistema
de Evaluaci6n de la Calidad de la Educaci6n-APRENDO, el mismo que nace de la experiencia desarrollada
en el componente de Medici6n de Logros Academicos del Proyecto. Este sistema pennite disponer de
informaci6n valida, sistematica, y permanente sobre los resultados de aprendizaje de las destrezas basicas y
sobre los factores que se vinculan con esos resultados, para asociarlos con programas y recursos dirigidos
a mejorar, con equidad, la eficiencia de la educaci6n basica nacional. La informaci6n sobre el nivel de
logro de destrezas fundamentales, en areas prioritarias del curriculum, que alcanzan los estudiantes de
tercero, s6ptimo y d6cimos anios se socializa mediante diferentes informes tecnicos dirigidos tanto a los
miembros del sector educativo como a la sociedad en general. ("Aprendo " Informaci6n Basica, Julio /99)
. Cabe resaltar ademas, que la propuesta fue desarrollada por un equipo nacional, con el asesoramiento de
especialistas de diferentes paises, ha sido evaluada y reconocida intemacionalmente y cumple con los
estandares mundiales de confiabilidad, validez y calidad.
19. Se logr6 fortalecer funciones primordiales del MEC, como la generaci6n de estadisticas educativas,
microplanificaci6n ysupervisi6n. Las direcciones provinciales han desempefiado un papel muy importante
en la recopilaci6n de informaci6n estadistica y se ha establecido en el MEC, el Sistema Nacional de
Estadisticas y Censos -SINEC, lo que constituye un avance y un insumo importante para la
microplanificaci6n educativa. El personal de estadistica tanto en el ambito central como provincial ha sido
debidamente capacitado y se ha cooperado con el equipamiento necesario para un mejor cumplimiento de
sus tareas. Al inicio del proyecto fue importante el trabajo realizado con la supervisi6n ya que se plante6
un nuevo rol para estos funcionarios, se les capacit6 para ello.
20. En las redes se ha consolidado un modelo de gesti6n y planificaci6n estrategica. Si bien han habido
limitaciones para la descentralizaci6n administrativa de los CEM, es importante senialar que las decisiones
en este sentido, no estaban bajo la responsabilidad del Proyecto, sino en manos de las autoridades del
MEC, cuyas estructuras tradicionales obstaculizaron los procesos de cambio.
- 25 -



21. Dentro del proyecto se ejecutaron los siguientes estudios: Mision de la Universidad Ecuatoriana para
el Siglo XXI, Las Necesidades Educativas de los Niflos Indigenas en Zonas Urbanas y Uso del Tiempo en
el Aula.
22.  Una actividad que no estuvo planificada inicialmente y que constituye uno de los logros del Proyecto,
fue contar en 1996, con el documento de Reforna Curricular Consensuada pam la Escuela Bisica. En su
elaboraci6n participaron diversos sectores ligados al sistema educativo ecuatoriano y a la sociedad civil y
con ello se dio un gran paso hacia el cambio cualitativo de la educaci6n.
C. FACTORES QUE AFECTARON LA IMPLEMENTACI(5N DEL PROYECTO - Parte "A"
23.  Factores fuera del control del Gobierno
El fenomeno natural del Ninio es un factor que estuvo fuera del control del gobiemo y que gener6 una serie
de urgencias, lo que oblig6 a que se reoriente el Proyecto. En el ano 95, el conflicto belico con el Perui,
influy6 tambien a la falta de entrega de los fondos de la contraparte, que debia destinarse principalmente al
financiamiento de obras de infraestructura.
24. Factores bajo control del Gobierno
La provisi6n de fondos de la contraparte nacional no siempre fue entregada a tiempo. El problema se
present6 especialmente por la demora en los trnmites, por parte de las diferentes instancias
gubemamentales. Un periodo critico fue en el anio 96-97, causando inconvenientes en el desarrollo del
Proyecto.
25. Factores bajo el control del Proyecto
Los catnbios de directores y del equipo tecnico del Proyecto afectaron negativamnente, por cuanto ello no
permiti6 que exista mayor continuidad en las lineas de trabajo. Se evidencia que falto un sistema intemo del
Proyecto para el seguimiento, monitoreo y evaluaci6n de las actividades de los componentes y que en
determinados periodos, en lo admninistrativo no hubo los suficientes mecanismos internos de control para
evitar que se realicen gastos inelegibles.
D. EVALUACI6N DE LOS RESULTADOS - Parte "A"
26. En general las actividades financiadas por el Proyecto han tenido un impacto positivo en los grupos
sociales beneficiados. Es indudable to que representa para nuestro pals, que los ninios(as) de los sectores
mas pobres tengan acceso a una educaci6n preescolar y bisica de mejor calidad, que los maestros esten
capacitados para la aplicaci6n de la Reformna Curricular en el aula, que los directivos apliquen en las redes
la planificaci6n estrategica, que se pueda contar con infraestructura y mobiliario adecuado en barrios
urbano marginales y que dispongan de textos para el proceso de ensefianza-aprendizaje. Todo ello cobra
mayor importancia, si tomamnos en cuenta, que estos resultados se obtuvieron durante un periodo social y
econ6micamente muy critico en el pais.
27. Se establecieron 36 Cems en zonas urbano marginales. Estos centros atienden en la actualidad a mas
de 200.000 estudiantes con aproximadamente 5.500 docentes. Se ha logrado integrar el modelo pedag6gico
en el modelo de gesti6n (con equipos en cada red), pudiendose elaborar un Plan Estrategico Institucional
donde las actividades (educaci6n especial, refonna curricular, textos, circulos de estudio) se articulan. Se
- 26 -



ha elaborado el programa Curricular Institucional PCI. Se esta aprovechando ademas informaciones como
las de logros academicos de los alumnos y otras estadisticas (repitencia, deserci6n, sobreedad, etc.) para
trazar las metas que pretende lograr cada red.
28.  Aproximadamente 5.500 docentes se capacitaron en la gesti6n escolar, reforma curricular de la
educaci6n basica, atenci6n a nifios con necesidades educativas especiales, desarrollo de cultura estetica y
cultura fisica, manejo de textos, cuademos de trabajo y guias.
29.  Se han conformado 285 circulos de estudio con la participaci6n de docentes de los planteles de la red
y 91 tutores (participaci6n de Universidades, Ongs, Institutos Pedag6gicos) en las 36 redes CEM. Los
circulos de estudio constituyen una estrategia para la autofornaci6n docente y la capacitaci6n en temas
relacionados con el mejoramiento de la calidad de la educaci6n. Los tutores realizaron los procesos de
acompafiamiento y asistencia tecnica e impulsaron los proyectos que se generaron en los circulos. Los
temas recurrentes en los circulos son comprensi6n lectora, razonaniiento l6gico-matematico y reflexi6n
sobre los hechos del lenguaje.
30. Se desarroll6 un programa de capacitaci6n en Liderazgo Educativo, al cual concurren
aproximadamente 977 alumnos, mediante un convenio con la Universidad NUR de Bolivia. Es importante
el impacto que este programa va teniendo con relaci6n a las acciones de efecto multiplicador que ejecutan
los alumnos con las comunidades y en el sistema educativo. Los alumnos sei'alan que los materiales son de
ftcil comprensi6n y un gran contenido cientifico. Los participantes sienten que han alcanzado un mejor
nivel de formaci6n moral y acad6mica, lo que les ha pernitido mejorar las relaciones con la comunidad
educativa. Actualmente se lo lleva adelante gracias al trabajo concertado de 11 universidades nacionales
estatales y privadas.
31. Se elaboraron e imprimieron varios documentos, textos, boletines, guias, cuademos de trabajo y
m6dulos, los cuales fueron distribuidos a diferentes beneficiarios tales como: docentes, supervisores,
directivos, alumnos y padres de familia. Poseen una factura adecuada que articula conceptos y
procedimientos, son una herramienta uitil pam el desempenio del docente.
32. El sistema de Medici6n de Logros aplic6 varias pruebas nacionales examninando el dominio de
destrezas a estudiantes de tercero, septimo y d6cimo grados en las areas de matematica, lenguaje y
comunicaci6n. Igualmente se realiz6 una medici6n a una muestra de planteles CEM, en la cual se
determinaron los logros de los estudiantes en las areas mencionadas. Se aplicaron cuestionarios sobre
factores asociados al rendimniento a estudiantes, padres de familia, maestros y directores de escuela. La
actividad tecnica de este componente se consolid6 en 1994, a comienzos de 1998 el MEC dio a conocer el
sistema y se lo reconoci6 oficialmente como un instrumento t6cnico y estrategico para apoyar las decisiones
de cambio en el sector educativo.
33. Dentro del componente de Fortalecimiento Institucional se desarroll6 el SINEC, gracias al cual existe
una cultura orientada a la rendici6n de cuentas e informaci6n estadistica; los funcionarios responsables de
la operaci6n del SINEC estan capacitados, comprometidos y con la experiencia suficiente para la
administraci6n del sistema, se cuenta con instrmentos y procedimientos que facilitan las labores de
registro y reporte de informaci6n en el nivel escolar; existe un mecanismo para financiar parte de los costos
recurrentes del sistema y los tiempos de procesaniiento y reporte de informaci6n son relativamente cortos.
Se entreg6 63 equipos de computaci6n, 25 para la oficina de estadistica, 25 para planificacion financiera y
13 para otras dependencias del MEC. Se capacit6 a 120 funcionarios tanto en el ambito central como
provincial. Se elaboraron instrumentos de recolecci6n de datos y se publicaron reportes anuales de
estadisticas educativas durante los uiltimos 6 aMios.
- 27 -



34.  Se construyeron y/o rehabilitaron los 36 planteles centrales de los CEMs, se realizaron 260
intervenciones en escuelas de las redes CEM y 197 en escuelas afectadas por el Fen6meno del Nifio. Al
inicio del Proyecto se realizaron 355 pequeflas intervenciones de rehabilitaci6n.
E. SOSTENIBILIDAD DEL PROYECTO - Parte "A"
35.  Una de las prioridades y compromisos de las autoridades actuales del MEC, es brindar el apoyo
necesario para garantizar la sostenibilidad del Proyecto.
36. Redes CEM: La experiencia CEM pasa a ser un referente importante para el proceso de
descentralizaci6n educativa que se llevana adelante en el pais. Los CEM dependeran de la Direcci6n de
Educaci6n Basica del MEC. Se han identificado cinco CEM demostrativos en los que el modelo se
encuentra funcionando y pueden servir de apoyo a los otros. En estas redes, los programas cualitativos se
encuentran implementados, disponen de un plan estrategico, estan conformados los equipos de gesti6n,
funciona y actfia el Consejo de Red, al igual que los Comites Consultivos Comunitarios, los tramites se
encausan a traves las instancias de la red. Ademas disponen de una infraestructura adecuada y funcional,
de mobiliario y vehiculo para las actividades propias de la red.
37. Capacitaci6n: Una de las formas descentralizadas de capacitaci6n permanente en los CEM, son los
circulos de estudio. Esta modalidad permite que exista un proceso de interaprendizaje tanto intemo entre
los docentes de la red, como mediante un intercambio de experiencias entre los circulos de las diferentes
redes. La Direcci6n Nacional de Mejoramiento Profesional-DINAMEP, ha adoptado esta metodologia, por
lo cual mediante su direcci6n se garantizari mantener la motivaci6n en los grupos, realizar el seguimiento y
tutorias necesarias para que la estrategia se mantenga e inclusive se extienda hacia otros centros escolares.
Como parte de ello se imprinmirn folletos con la metodologia para la difusi6n. El Proyecto Academico de
Maestria y Licenciatura Liderazgo Educativo, ha sido aprobado por las autoridades universitarias
competentes, lo que permite visualizar con claridad, la continuidad institucional del mismo como politica
de formaci6n de recursos humanos para el mediano y largo plazo.
38.  Materiales educativos impresos: Los docentes y niiios(as) reciben como prestamo la serie de textos"
Arbol de papel" y "Tiempo de Aprender" lo que garantiza que estos materiales permanecerin en el
establecimiento y seran reutilizados por otros estudiantes ampliandose el grupo de beneficiarios.
39.  Sistema Nacional de Medici6n de Logros Academicos: La propuesta de institucionalizaci6n del
Sistema de Medici6n de Logros Academicos, esta elaborada y al momento esta siendo impulsada por las
autoridades del MEC. El proceso de transferencia se llevari a cabo de la siguiente manera: (a) se
seleccionari un equipo de trabajo dell MEC; (b) se Ilevari a cabo una transferencia en vivo del Sistema a
los funcionarios del MEC, a traves de la aplicaci6n de pruebas nacionales a los estudiantes de septimo anlo,
para contrastar con los datos obtenidos por los mismos grupos en 1996 cuando estuvieron en tercer anio; (c)
participaran equipos de las direcciones provinciales los mismos que quedaran capacitados; (d) se procesara
la informaci6n; (e) se analizara la informaci6n; y, (f) se difundiran los resultados.
40. Fortalecimiento Institucional: El SINEC tiene sostenibilidad dentro del MEC, cuentan con el
equipamiento y se ha creado una cultura de la informaci6n.
41.  Infraestructura: En cuanto al mantenimiento de las obras de infraestructura, seri necesario que el
MEC disenie una estrategia en este sentido. La idea de que la comunidad asuma esta responsabilidad por el
momento no es lo mas viable, por la limitada disponibilidad de recursos.
- 28 -



H. DESEMPERO DEL BANCO MUNDIAL
42. El desempefio del Banco Mundial ha sido satisfactorio. Se resalta el apoyo recibido para la
elaboraci6n del disefno del proyecto. Se considera importante la relativa continuidad que hubo en el equipo
de las misiones, la confianza y flexibilidad demostrada por el Banco en circunstancias dificiles del proyecto
y del pais.
43.  Hubiera sido conveniente que en momentos como el de agosto del 96 - febrero del 97, se cuente con
una supervisi6n mas directa del Banco. Ademas se sugiere que paralelamente al seguimiento de la
ejecucion de los recursos, se ponga mayor enfasis al apoyo tecnico durante las visitas de las misiones.
I.   DESEMPENO DE LA ENTIDAD PRESTATARIA
44. Es importante seiialar ciertas caracteristicas del periodo en el que se desarroll6 el Proyecto ya que
coincide con uno de los momentos de mayor inestabilidad politica, continuos cambios de gobierno, una
acentuada crisis econ6mica, especialmente durante los ultimos cinco anios, que redujo el presupuesto del
estado y la disponibilidad de recursos para la entrega de la contraparte, problemas a los que se sumaron,
conflictos belicos, desastres naturales, factores que obligaron a reorientar recursos para atender la
emergencia.
45. De lo anterior se desprende que la entrega de la contraparte local fue una de las mayores dificultades
que debi6 enfrentar el Proyecto a lo largo de su ejecuci6n lo cual inclusive hizo necesaria su
reprogramaci6n.
J.   LECCIONES APRENDIDAS -Parte "A"
-    Se requiere de una visi6n a mediano y largo plazo para las reformas educativas.
-    Las reformas o procesos de cambio al sistema educativo que se emprendan desde los proyectos,
deben ir acompafiadas de una decisi6n politica y de reformas legales en el MEC, de lo contrario sera
dificil su consolidaci6n.
-    Para llevar adelante reformas en el anbito educativo, se requiere contar con apoyo de todos los
sectores de la sociedad. Es necesaria una campafna de aliados estrat6gicos de los diferentes sectores
sociales, a favor del proceso de cambio y de adecuadas vias de comunicaci6n y socializaci6n de las
propuestas.
-    Una reforma educativa no se hace sin la participaci6n de los beneficiarios, cualquier estrategia que se
adopte debe ser altamente participativa, asi, los procesos de descentralizaci6n se deben irse
construyendo conjuntamente con los actores sociales.
-    La inestabilidad de los equipos tecnicos repercute negativarnente en los proyectos.
-    Se requiere de una rendici6n de cuentas mas efectiva de este tipo de proyectos a la sociedad.
-    A futuro, se deberia pensar en proyectos para ser ejecutados en menor tiempo, con metas mas
especificas y que potencien lo local, como una forma de garantizar su sostenibilidad.
- 29 -



ANEXOS
CUADRO N1: Indicadores originales y revisados por componente de la parte "A" del Proyecto
Indicador                               Unidad de medida  Meta original      Meta
(SAR)      reformulada
(oct/97)
Infraestructura:                        Plantel central           55             36
Construcci6n de redes CEM
Rehabilitaciones de planteles           Escuelas                 880           1200
Aulas preescolares                      Aulas                    125              0
Estudiantes beneficiarios               Estudiantes          482.000        200.000
Mobiliario                              Piezas                60.000         100.000
Talleres                                Unidades                  55             36
Vehiculos                               Unidad                    57              0
Capacitaci6n:
Maestros redes                          Personas              12.700           5.500
Maestros instructores                   Personas               1.200           5.000
Fortalecimiento circulos de estudio     Circulos                   -            247
Redes CEM:
Acuerdos ministeriales creaci6n redes   Acuerdos                  55             36
Asignaci6n de presupuestos              Presupuestos              55             36
Designaci6n autoridades                 Nombramientos             55        36 CEM
Designaci6n autoridades                 Acuerdos                  55        36 CEM
Conformaci6n de Consejos Directivos     Conformaciones            55             36
Dotaci6n partidas basicas               Partidas por CEM           -            250
Conformaci6n organismos padres de familia Organismos padres       55             36
Conformaci6n organismos nifios          Organismos nifios         55             36
Instalaci6n preescolar en plantel central  Preescolar             55             36
Servicio Psicopedag6gico                Servicio                  55             36
(AM 11/97)
- 30 -



CUADRO N2: Resumen de Evaluaciones
A.   Logro de Objetivos           Sustancial    Parcial    Minimo  No aplicable
Politicas macro                                                   x
Politicas sectoriales                        x
Objetivos financieros                                             x
Desarrollo Institucional                     x
Objetivos fisicos                x
Reducci6n de pobreza                         x
Cuestiones de g6nero                                              x
Otros objetivos sociales                     x
Objetivos ambientales                                             x
Administraci6n sector puiblico               x
Desarrollo sector privado                                         x
B.   Sustentabilidad del Proyecto         Probable          Improbable    Incierto
x
C.   Desempefio del Banco           Altamente satisfactorio    Satisfactorio    Deficiente
Identificaci6n                                              x
Ayuda en la preparaci6n                 x
Evaluaci6n (appraisal)                                      x
Supervisi6n                                                x
D.   Desempefio del Prestatario     Altamente satisfactorio    Satisfactorio    Deficiente
Preparaci6n                                                 x
Ejecuci6n                                                   x
Cumplimiento del convenio                                   x
Operaci6n                                                   x
E.   Evaluaci6n de Resultados     Altam. Satisfac.   Satisfactorio   Altam. Insatisfac.   Insatisfactorio
x
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 31 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Indicator               Unit       Project in   Reprogrammed  Actual/Latest  Actual as %
SAR/PAD       Oct. 1997       Estimate    of Planned
Part A
INFRASTRUCTURE
Construction of Redes CEM   Hub School             55               36            36          100
Network Schools Rehabilitated  Schools            880              720           778          108
Pre-school classrooms added    Classrooms         165              107           125          117
Beneficiaries of Redes CEM  Students          482,000          200,000       200,000          100
School Fumiture             Rooms              60,000          100,000        125,000         125
Workshops                   Units)                 55               36             -}a/
Toolkits                    Units)                 -                -             36}         100
Vehicles                    Units                  57               37            26           70
TRAINING
Teachers Redes CEM          Persons             12,700           5,500          5,500         100
Teacher Trainers            Persons              1,200           5,000          5,000          100
Non-CEM Teachers            Persons                -            55,000         98,000          178
IPED Staff                  Persons               180              180           200           111
Provincial Staff            Persons               180              180            180          100
Community Leaders/Parents    Persons            2,200            2,200           720            33
Study Groups                Unit                   -                -            285            n/a
Teachers in Study Grouws    Persons                -                -           4.275           n/a
BOOKS & DIDACTIC MATERIALS
Textbooks, workbooks, guides
Language and Communication
Textbooks (grades 2-6)      Books             395,000          257,000        350,000          136
Workbooks (grades 2-4)      Books             765,000          497,000       493,000           99
Teacher's guides (grades 2-6)   Books          25,000           16,250         25,000          154
Mathematics
Textbooks (grades 3-7)      Books             395,000          257,000        350,000          136
Workbooks (grades 3-7)      Books            1,185,000         770,000       813,000           106
Teacher's guides (grades 3-7)   Books          25,000            16,250       25,000           154
Natural Sciences
Textbooks (grades 3-7)                        395,000          257,000       350,000           136
Workbooks (grades 3-5)                        765,000          497,000       493,000           99
Teacher's guides (grades 3-7)                 25,000           16,250         25,000           154
Other Printed Materials
Pre-school worksheets       Worksheets         47,000           31,000        42,800           138
Pre-school didactic guides  Books               5,000             1,000         2,000         200
Textbooks                   Books             210,000          137,000        144,000          105
Workbooks                   Books             630,000          409,000       330,000           81
Didactic guides             Books               5,000            5,000          5,000          100
Teacher Support Series: General Distrib.
Math (grades 3, 7, 10)    Books               -                             45,000            n/a
Spanish (grades 3, 7, 10)  Books                                            45,000            n/a
a/ It was agreed that toolkits would be a more cost-effective alternative than workshop construction.
- 32 -



Indicator               runt      Project in   Reprogrammed  Actual/Latest Actual as %
SARIPAD       Oct. 1997       Estimate    of Planned
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
Development of Educational Statistics System
Evaluation of Existing System   Unit                I               I             I          100
Design/implement. of SINEC    Unit                  I               1             2          200
Training in use of system   Persons               45              45            120          267
(statistics personnel)
Printing of questionnaires  Unit                  -                -    30,000 twice          n/a
yearly
Printing of school record book  Unit              -                -  40,000 per year         n/a
Printing of statistics bulletin    Unit           -                -       9 bulletins        n/a
(1,000 copies
each)
Regionalization
Training in Mapa Escolar (MEC Persons            100               -             50           50
central and provincial levels)
Software developed          Unit                   I                I             1          100
Microplanning Manual        Books                                              1,000          n/a
Published
Technical Planning
Staff Training              Persons                                             120           n/a
Publications                                                             6 (500 copies        n/a
each)
Supervision
Creation of UTES              Unit                                                151           n/a
Publications                  Books                 -                           2,000           n/a
Budgetary Planning
Training                      Persons              255                            132           52_
QUALITY ASSESSMENT SYSTEM (APRENDO)
Round I (1996)                Schools               -                             585           n/a
Students                                         46,461           n/a
Round 2 (1997)                Schools                                             872           n/a
Students                                         60,468           n/a
Round 3 (1998-Redes CEM)      Schools                                             134           n/a
Students                                         18,872           n/a
Round 4 Pilot Test (1999)                                                   Tested in 4
nrovinces         n/a
- 33 -



Indicator               Unit      Project in   Reprogrammed  Actual/Latest Actual as %
SAR/PAD       Oct. 1997       Estimate    of Planned
QUALITY ASSESSMENT SYSTEM (APRENDO)
Printed Reports
Round I                     Books                                             25,000
Round 2                     Books                                             25,000
Round 3                     Books                                             25,000
User Manual                 Books                                              5,000
Basic Information           Books                                             28,000
Results of Study (Factors
Associated with Academic
Achievement)                Books                                              5,000
Results round 4 pilot test  Books                                              5,000
LIVING STANDARDS MEASUREMENT SURVEY (LSMS)
Rounds of survey developed and  rounds               5                4             4            n/a
conducted
PART B
Post Literacy Training
Basic Literacy Training       Courses            5,765  Cancelled                1,860          32
Basic Skills Training         Courses            10,000  Cancelled               1,860          19
Training for disabled         People            25,500  Cancelled                 -              -
Capacitaci6n Popular          Courses           10,000  Cancelled               3,496           35
Small enterprise support      Technical                 Cancelled
Assistance
Institutional Strengthening
Training teachers             Courses              137  Cancelled                 102           74
Study and Proposal for New
Framework for Vocational &
Technical Training                                                           Comglete
- 34 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Costs By Components (US$ million)
COMPONENT                 Original    Expenditures      Balance   % of execution
budget       1991-1999
Infrastructure              34.0           29.0           5.0         85.29%
Redes CEM                   22.0           21.5           0.5         97.73%
Institutional Strengthening  10.0            8.1          1.9         81.00%
Technical Unit               5.5            6.8           0.0        123.67%
Subtotal                    71.5           65.4           7.4         91.50%
SECAP                       17.5            17.5
TOTAL                       89.0           82.9
Category Recap Data for Loan Number: 3425S, 34250, 3425A.
As of 14-MAY-2000
Number of Categories: 30
Sorted by Category
Category    Category Description           Totales           Category     Part A    Total Part A +
Undisb. USD    Disb. US                Part B        Part B
I           CW, PT Al(A), (B)(l)   -1,198,198.29 19,198,198.29   1      19,642,998.58
I-B         CW, PT AI(B)(II)        -629,521.62  7,629,521.62   I-B      7,629,521.62
I-C         CW, PT Al l             8,675,199.71    444,800.29   I-C                  27,272,520.20
2-A         GO PT Al-AlO            4,019,976.36  5,480,023.64  2-A      S,480.023.64
2-B         GO PT.B                 -650,659.70  1,410,659.70  2-B       1A41(0,659.70   6,890,683.34
2-C         GO PT All               1,000,000.00        0.00  2-C
3-A         TEACHING MAT PT A  9,860,060.27  4,239,939.73   3-A          4,239,939.73
3-B         TEACHING MAT PT B           1,091.43    158,908.57  3-B        158,908.57   4,398,848.30
4-A         CS-AUDITS PT A            69,642.13  14,930,357.87   4-A    14.930,357.87
4-B         CS-AUDITS PT B         -1,242,787.31  2,742,787.31   4-B     2,742.787.31  17,673,145.18
5-A         TRAINING PT A            771,094.06  7,228,905.94   5-A      7,228,9X)5.94
5-B         TRAINING PT B             -13,182.94  1,143,182.94  5-B      1,143,182.94   8,372,088.88
6           IOMC - WATCH!!!                0.00         0.00  6
6-A-1       OP PT A OFFICE SUPPY   -39,576.42    398,576.42  6-A-I
6-A-I-A     OP OTHER PAT A                 0.00    440,000.00   6-A-I-A
6-A-2       OTHER                        584.98     59,415.02   6-A-2
6-A-2-A     OTHER                         25.04       974.96  6-A-2-A      898,966.40
6-B-I       OFFICE SUPPLIES            5,430.68     34,569.32  6-B-I
6-B-2       OTHER                    -981,278.84  2,081,278.84  6-B-2    2,115,848.16   3,014,814.56
7           REFINANCEPPFS               1,288.81    528,711.19   7         528,711.19    528,711.19
8           OP PCU (M)               -276,276.35  1,476,276.35   8       1,476,276.35   1,476.276.35
CONV-SA    SA - Conversion                 0.00         0.00  CONV-SA
INELIGXP   LAS CONV                        0.00         0.00  INELIGXP
REPAIDXR  REPAID AMT CATEG.                0.00         0.00   REPAIDXR
SA-*        LOAN 3425-EC- MEC          -1,902.27     1,902.27  SA-*          1,902.27
SA-A        LOAN 3425-EC - SECAP        -899.65       899.65   SA-A           899.65
UNALLOCA UNALLOCATED                       0.00         0.00  UNALLO            0.00
UNDP-R03  ECU/91/R03              -10,278,194.52 10,278,194.52   UNDP-RO 10,278,194.52
UNDP-R04  ECU/91/R04               -2,258,563.88  2,258,563.88   UNDP-RO  2,258,563.88
UNICEF      UNICEF/3-8-91            -712,546.51    712,546.51   UNICEF    712,546.51
Totals (for all 30 Categorie 6,120,805.17 82,879,194.83     82,879,194.83  82,879,1'94.83
Total                                           89,000,000.00
- 35 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Category                           ICB         NCB          Other        NBF          Total
Civil Works                                  32.5 (22.5)   7.0 (5.0)                39.5 (27.5)
Equipnent, Furniture, Vehicles    10.6 (10.6)    3.0 (2.0)  2.0 (0.9)               15.6 (13.5)
Textbook and Didactic Material    5.0 (5.0)   2.5 (2.5)    1.5 (1.0)                 9.0 (8.5)
Studies and Technical                                     19.2 (19.2)               19.2 (19.2)
Training
Office and School Supplies                                 3.0 (1.5)                 3.0 (1.5)
Operating Costs                                            5.3 (2.5)    19.9 (9.3)    25.2 (11.8)
Totals
15.6 (15.6)  38.0 (27.0)   38.0 (29.1)  26.9 (16.3)  118.7 (89.0)
- 36 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
- 37 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.. 2 Economists. I FMS, etc.)   Implementation      Development
Month/Year    Count       Specialty                       Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
05/01/89                     5   Economist, Human Resources
Sp, Health Sector Economist,
Consultant, Education Sp.
10/22/89                     2   Education Sp, Economist
12/13/89                     1   Facilites Planner
02/12/90                     4   Education Specialist,
Micro-Finance, Infrastructure,
Planning, Cosing
9/11/90                       1   Education Specialist
11/20/90                     1   Education & Training Specialist
01/21/91                     2   Education Sp., Training Sp.
04/21/91                     4   Education Sp., Training Sp.,
Economist
Appraisal/Negotiation
06/28/91                     8   Education Specialist,
Professional Training,
Operations Officer, Project
Assistant, Architect,
Consultant
09/15/91                      1   Education & Training Specialist
02/23/92                     2   Professional Training,
Consultant
06/25/92                      7   Economist, Education Sp.,
Disbursements, Architect,
Operations Assistant, Project
Assistant
Supervision
09/03/92                      7  Economist, Architect,               HS                HS
Operations Specialists,
Project Assistant, Human
Resources Economist
12/18/92                      6  Economist, Architect, Project       HS                 S
Specialist, Human Resources
Economist, Project Assistant
06/09/93                      2  Economist, Project Assistant        HS                 S
06/30/93 *                    0                                      HS                 S
08/29/94 *                    0                                       S                 S
02/15/95                      3  Education Sp., Operations            S                 S
Officer, Architect
03/30/95                      5  Education Sp., Operations            S                 S
Officer, Operations Officer,
Architect
06/27/95 *                    0                                       S                 S
- 38 -



08/09/95                      4  Economist, Education Sp.,            S                  S
Operations Officer, Architect,
Consultant
06/10/96*                     0                                        S                 S
07/03/96 *                    0                                        S                 S
07/09/96                      6  Economist, Operations Officer,       S                  S
Architect, Education Sp.,
Institutional Strengthening,
Education Sp.
03/20/97                      3  Economist, Education Sp.,            U                 U
Operations Officer
10/18/97                      4  Architect, Economist, Education      S                  S
Sp., Operations Officer
05/13/98                      S  Economist, Financial Analyst,         S                 S
Operations Sp., Education Sp.
11/04/98                      3  Economist, Operations Officer,       S                 S
Architect
02/26/99                      4  Economist, Education Sp.,             S                 S
Operations Officer, Consultant
07/23/99                      6  Education Sp., Education Sp.,         S                 S
Economist, Operations Officer,
Education Sp., Consultant
ICR
02/11/00                      7   Education Sp., General               S                 S
Educator, Operations
Officer, Architect, Financial
Management Sp.,
Information Systems Sp.
* Updates
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
.__________________ .No. Staff weeks                        US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation               76.4                     101,50
Appraisal/Negotiation                    11.1                      21.62
Supervision                            374.58                     924.29
ICR                                     15.53                       81.76
Total                                 477.61                     1,129.15
- 39 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Z Macro policies                           O H  C SU O M  'ON  * NA
@ Sector Policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
X Physical                                 O H  O SU * M  O N  O NA
Z Financial                                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
@ Institutional Development                O H  O SU O M  O N  0 NA
Z Environmental                            O H  O SU C M  O N  * NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                 O H  O SU * M  O N  O NA
Z Gender                            O H OSUOM O N * NA
O Other (Please specify)                H  O SU O M  O N  O NA
Z Private sector development               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
@ Public sector management                 0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
El Other (Please specify)                  O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
- 40 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
X Lending                                           OHS OS * U OHU
* Supervision                                       OHS *@S  OU  OHU
F Overall                                           OHS * S  O U  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
 Preparation                                       OHS OS  OU  O HU
Z Government implementation performance             O HS O S  O U  0 HU
 Implementation agency performance                 O HS 0 S  0 U  0 HU
N Overall                                           OHS OS OU O HU
-41 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1    REPORTS PRODUCED BY EB/PRODEC
- Project Document/UNDP, February 19, 1992
- Loan Agreement 3425-EC, March 9, 1992
- Technical Unit's internal regulations, May 21, 1992
-  Agreement with UNDP for management services, June 1, 1992
- First amendment to the Loan Agreement, dated
- Second amendment to the Loan Agreement and the Project Agreement, December 23, 1997
- Technical Unit's internal regulations, August 10, 1998
- Project's Operational Manual, October, 1998
2.   BANK'S BACK TO OFFICE REPORTS, PROJECT STATUS REPORTS AND
AIDE-MEMORIES.
- Initial Supervision Report, September 2, 1992
- Supervision Mission, December 14-18, 1992
- Supervision Mission, June 1-9, 1993
- Supervision Mission, November 15-19, 1993
-  Supervision Mission, March 8-11, 1994
- Supervision Mission, June 20, 1994
- Supervision Mission, October 23-28, 1994
- Partial Supervision Mission, November 10, 1994
- Partial Supervision Mission, December 16, 1994
- Supervision Mission, July 31 to August 9, 1995
- Supervision Mission, July 9-24, 1996
- Partial Supervision Mission,
- Supervision Mission, March 4-14, 1997
-  Supervision Mission, October 1- 13, 1997
- Supervision Mission, April 27 to May 8, 1998
- Supervision Mission, October 27 to November 2, 1998
- Supervision Mission, February 22 to 26, 1999
- Delegation Visit, May 17-21, 1999
- Supervision Mission, July 12 to 23, 1999
- Partial Supervision Mission, October 13 to 19, 1999
3.   ANNUAL OPERATING PLANS, PROGRAMMING, REPORTS
- Annual Operating Plan, 1992-1993
- Progress Report, 1992
- Annual Operating Plan, 1993
- Annual Report, July, 1992 to June, 1993
- Annual Operating Plan, July, 1993 to June, 1994
- Annual Report, January to December, 1993
- Annual Operating Plan, 1994
- Progress Report, January to September, 1994
- Annual Operating Plan, 1995
-  Progress Report, January to December, 1995
- 42 -



- Annual Operating Plan, 1996
- Progress Report, July, 1992 and June, 1996
- Annual Operating Plan, 1996
-  Programming, 1998-1999
- 43 -



