Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
GRANT NUMBER H348-AF 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Expanding Microfinance Outreach and Improving Sustainability Project) 
 
between 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated March 10, 2008 
 
Page  2
-
2
-
Page  3
GRANT NUMBER H348-AF 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated March 10, 2008, entered into between the ISLAMIC 
REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”).  The Recipient and the Association 
hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to 
nineteen million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
 
(SDR 19,200,000) 
(“Financing”) to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is Dollar. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project 
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions and the Project Agreement. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
Page  4
-
2
-
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
(a) the 
P
roject Implementing Entity’s Legislation has been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any 
of its obligations under the Project Agreement; or 
(b) 
the Subsidiary Agreement has been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived without the prior approval of the Association; or 
(c) 
the Recipient or any authority having jurisdiction over the MFPs shall 
have taken any actions (including the repeal, amendment, suspension, 
abrogation, or waiver of existing legislation) which, in the opinion of the 
Association, materially or adversely affects the operations or financial 
condition of MFPs, or a considerable number thereof.  
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following, namely, that 
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Recipient and the 
Project Implementing Entity. 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the 
Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Recipient and 
the Project Implementing Entity and is legally binding upon the Recipient and the 
Project Implementing Entity in accordance with its terms. 
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
5.04. 
For purposes of Section 8.05(b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Recipient’s Minister of Finance. 
 
Page  5
-
3
-
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance 
Pashtunistan Watt 
Kabul 
Islamic Republic of Afghanistan  
 
Facsimile: 
 
93-20-210-3258 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
AGREED at Kabul, Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN 
 
By 
/s/ Anwar-ul Haq Ahady 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
/s/ Paul Edwin Sisk 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
-
4
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to achieve operational sustainability for most 
Microfinance Providers (MFPs) and help them scale up outreach of financial services to 
meet the needs and demands of the poor, especially women. 
The Project consists of the following single component: 
Microcredit Outreach and Scale-up
Provision of concessional financing to Microfinance Providers to extend and 
outreach Microcredits to eligible Microcredit Recipients. 
 
Page  7
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Subsidiary 
Agreement
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Recipient shall make the proceeds 
of the Financing available to the Project Implementing Entity under a subsidiary 
agreement between the Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity 
(“Subsidiary Agreement”), under terms and conditions approved by the 
Association, which conditions shall include: 
(a) 
the provision of a local currency denominated credit line for individual 
subsidiary loans (“Subsidiary Loans”) for up to an aggregate amount 
equivalent to the amount of this Financing, and with the foreign 
exchange risk being borne by the Recipient.  
(b) 
an administrative charge payable on the principal amount of each 
Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a 
simple administration charge not greater than one percent (1%) per 
annum; 
(c) 
a minimum amortization period of ten (10) years, inclusive of a 
minimum five (5) year grace period; 
(d) 
no penalty for early prepayments of Subsidiary Loans; and  
(e) 
the Recipient’s right to suspend or terminate the credit line set forth in 
subparagraph (a) above, and/or accelerate any outstanding amounts 
withdrawn under Subsidiary Loans, upon: (i) MISFA’s failure to perform 
any of its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement, or to comply with 
all legal and regulatory requirements applicable to its operations; or (ii) 
the Association exercising any of the remedies under Article VI of the 
General Conditions and/or Article IV of this Agreement. 
2. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement with 
respect to each Subsidiary Loan in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Recipient and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Financing.  
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, 
amend, abrogate
 
or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions. 
3. 
The Recipient shall: (a) establish a separate administration account within Da 
Afghanistan Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association 
(including appropriate protection against set off, seizure or attachment) to be 
Page  8
-
6
-
funded with the amortizations, prepayments and the administration charges paid 
by MISFA with respect to each Subsidiary Loan; and (b) use the proceeds therein 
so collected, exclusively for purposes of making new Subsidiary Loans to 
MISFA, for it  to on-lend, through MFP Sub-Loan Agreements to eligible MFPs, 
which in turn shall use such funds to extend Microcredits to MFPs Clients for the 
carrying out of Subprojects, under the same terms and conditions as set forth in 
this Agreement and the Project Agreement.  
B. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
C. Safeguards
 
1. 
The Recipient shall cause MISFA to ensure that the Project be carried out with 
due regard to sound health-safety, social and environmental practices, standards 
and principles, as reflected in the Environmental Assessment Framework and the 
Recipient’s applicable laws
 
and regulations (including the Law on the 
Preservation of Afghanistan’s Historical and Cultural Heritages – Official 
Gazette No. 828, 1383/02/31). 
2. 
The Recipient shall cause MISFA to ensure that any land required for the 
carrying out of any eligible Subproject shall have been acquired by, or otherwise 
made available to, the respective Microcredit Recipient on a voluntary basis. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Association.  Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than ninety (90) days after the end of the 
period covered by such report. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Page  9
-
7
-
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than forty five (45) days after the 
end of each calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project 
covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Recipient.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.  
2.
 
Alternative Method of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following 
table specifies the alternative method of procurement, other than International 
Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement 
Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method
 
Procurement in Loans to Financial Intermediaries 
Page  10
-
8
-
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Cons
ultants’ Services 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Alternative Method of Procure
ment of Consultants’ Services
.
The following 
table specifies the alternative method of procurement, other than Quality- and 
Cost-
based Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The 
Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may 
be used. 
Procurement Method
 
Commercial Practices 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
All contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association.
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance 100% of Eligible 
Expenditures, consisting of MISFA’s MFPs Sub-Loans to MFPs for the 
provision of Microcredits. 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 6,480,000 equivalent 
may be made for payments for Eligible Expenditures made prior to this date but 
on or after April 1,
 
2007.   
2.
 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2010. 
Page  11
-
9
-
APPENDIX 
 Definitions 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“CITES” means the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of 
Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES), signed in Washington, D.C. on March 3, 1973, 
which entered into force on July 1, 1975. 
3. 
“Concessional Financing” means the concessional credit line extended by the 
Recipient to MISFA pursuant to Section I.A. of Schedule 2 to the Financing 
Agreement, for MISFA to borrow the proceeds of the Financing under individual 
Subsidiary Loan, which proceeds shall in turn be on-lent to MFPs on 
concessional terms through MFPs Sub-Loans.  
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
5. 
“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of a 
Subproject, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social 
impacts cause by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (A) relocation or 
loss of shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources 
or means of livelihoods, whether or not such persons must move to another 
location; or (ii) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks 
and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihoods of such 
persons. 
6. 
“Environmental Assessment Framework” means MISFA’s environmental and 
social safeguard framework to be prepared pursuant to Section I.D. of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement.  
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005, (as amended 
through October 15, 2006). 
8. 
“MFPs Sub-Loans” means, collectively, the loans to be extended or proposed to 
be extended by MISFA to the eligible MFPs, under MFPs Sub-Loan Agreements, 
in order to provide Microcredits to Microcredit Recipients for the carrying out of 
eligible Subprojects; and the term “MFP Sub-Loan” means each such loan, 
individually.  
Page  12
-
10 -
 
9. 
“MFPs Sub-Loan Agreements” means, collectively, the agreements to be entered 
between MIFSA and the MFPs pursuant Section I.C.(1) of the Schedule to the 
Project Agreement for the provision of concessional financing through MFPs 
Sub-Loans to Microfinance Providers; and the term  MFP Sub Loan Agreement 
means each such agreement individually.  
10. 
“Microcredits” means, collectively, the financings extended or proposed to be 
extended by MFPs to Microcredit Recipients for the carrying out of Subprojects, 
pursuant to Section II of the Attachment to the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement; and the term “Microcredit” means each such microcredit financing, 
individually.  
11. 
“Microcredit Recipients” means, collectively, the private individuals and/or 
medium and small enterprises who are recipients, or are proposed to be 
recipients, of Microcredits for the carrying out of Subprojects; and the term 
“Microcredit Recipient” means each such individuals or enterprises, individually. 
12. 
“Microfinance Providers” and the acronym “MFPs” mean the micro finance 
service providers, eligible to receive MFPs Sub-Loan financing pursuant to the 
Operations Manual and Section I.C.(2) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, 
and responsible for the provision of Microcredits to eligible Microcredit 
Recipients; and the acronym “MFP” means each such micro finance institution, 
individually. 
13. 
“MISFA” means the Microfinance Investment Support Facility for Afghanistan 
Ltd., a non-distributive non-shareholding state owned company, established and 
operating under the Recipient’s 1955 Commercial Code, and duly registered 
under Registration No. D-24124; which company shall serve, for purposes of this 
Project, as the Recipient’s microcredit “
apex
”
institution. 
14. 
“Operations Manual” means the manual approved by MISFA’s Board of 
Directors on April 18,
 
2007, referred to in Section I.A.(2) of the Schedule to the 
Project Agreement, as amended from time to time with the prior concurrence of 
the Association, which manual sets forth: (A) MISFA’s operating policies, 
including the procedures and criteria for: (i) the taking of MISFA’s investments 
decisions (on the basis of risk diversification, performance obligation, etc.); (ii) 
the minimum requirement for MFPs to qualify for MFPs Sub-Loans; (iii) the 
applicable model contracts and standard obligations (including the standard terms 
and conditions of MFPs Sub-Loan Agreements) of MISFA’s financial 
instruments; and (iv) the rules and procedures for the management of MISFA’s 
performance monitoring systems; and (B) MISFA’s financial management and 
accounting policies and procedures, including: (i) the roles and responsibilities of 
MISFA’s financial management staff; (ii) documentation and approval 
procedures for the settlement of payments and the release of funds to MFPs; (iii) 
Page  13
-
11 -
 
maintenance of records, monitoring and reporting requirements; and (iv) quality 
assurance measures to ensure adequate internal controls. 
15. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004, and revised in 
October, 2006. 
16. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means MISFA. 
17. 
“Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation” means MISFA’s Memorandum of 
Association, dated March 14, 2006, and Articles of Association, dated March 16, 
2006. 
18. 
“Subprojects” means, collectively, the projects and/or activities eligible for 
Microcredit financing pursuant to Section I of the Attachment to the Schedule of 
the Project Agreement; and the term “Subproject” means each of such 
Subprojects, individually. 
19. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.A of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Recipient shall make 
available the Concessional Financing to the Project Implementing Entity in an 
amount in local currency equivalent to the proceeds of the Financing. 
20. 
“Subsidiary Loans” mean, collectively, the individual loans extended by the 
Recipient to MISFA under the Concessional Financing agreed to under the 
Subsidiary Agreement, pursuant to the provisions of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to 
the Financing Agreement; and the term “Subsidiary Loan” means each such loan, 
individually. 
 
