Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
GRANT NUMBER H348-AF 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Expanding Microfinance Outreach and Improving Sustainability Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
MICROFINANCE INVESTMENT AND SUPPORT FACILITY FOR 
AFGHANISTAN LTD. 
 
Dated March 10, 2008 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H348-AF 
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated March 10, 2008,
 (“Project Agreement”), entered into 
between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) and 
MICROFINANCE INVESTMENT AND SUPPORT FACILITY FOR AFGHANISTAN 
LTD. (either the “Project Implementing Entity” or “MISFA” indistinctly) in connection 
with the Financing Agreement (“Financing Agreement”) of same date between the 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN  (“Recipient”) and the Association.  The 
Association and the Project Implementing Entity hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to the Financing 
Agreement) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Financing Agreement or 
the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE II — PROJECT
 
2.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project.  To this end, the Project Implementing Entity shall carry out the Project 
in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions, and 
shall provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project. 
 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Association and the Project Implementing Entity shall otherwise 
agree, the Project Implementing Entity shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III — TERMINATION 
 
3.01. 
For purposes of Section 8.05(c) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
provisions of this Agreement shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the date of 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
4.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity
’s Representative is the Managing Director of 
MISFA. 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
4.02. The 
Association
’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 
 
4.03. 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Address is: 
 
Microfinance Investment and Support Facility for Afghanistan, Ltd.  
 
Street 13, #436 
 
Wazir Akbar Khan  
 
Kabul 
Islamic Republic of Afghanistan 
 
AGREED at Kabul, Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By  
/s/ Paul Edwin Sisk 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
MICROFINANCE INVESTMENT AND SUPPORT FACILITY 
FOR AFGHANISTAN, LTD.  
 
By  
/s/ Amjad Ali Arbab 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
SCHEDULE 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
1. 
MISFA shall at all times: 
 
(a) 
(i) 
be governed in accordance with its Memorandum of Association 
and Articles of Association; and 
 
(ii) 
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive its Memorandum of 
Association and Articles of Association or any provisions thereof 
if, in the opinion of the Association, such assignment, 
amendment, abrogation or waiver will materially and adversely 
affect 
MISFA’s performance or the implementation of the 
Project; 
 
(b) 
maintain a Board of Directors with appropriate experience and 
qualifications, satisfactory to the Association, comprising microfinance 
experts and representation from the public and private sector, which shall 
have general oversight over the Project; 
 
(c) 
retain staff, including a Managing Director, with appropriate experience 
and qualifications, satisfactory to the Association, all of whom shall have 
been appointed on merit and in a transparent and competitive manner;  
 
(d) 
retain, throughout the implementation of the Project, an independent 
external auditor satisfactory to the Association, with terms of reference 
acceptable to the Association, to carry out annual audits of MISFA’s 
Project accounts, interim unaudited financial reports and Financial 
Statements; and 
 
(e) 
keep the Association promptly informed of changes in membership of 
either the Board of Directors (including its chairman), the management 
team referred to in sub-paragraph (c) above, and/or the appointment of 
MISFA’s external auditors, and ensure that any such changes will be 
made in accordance with the procedures set forth in MISFA’s Articles of 
Association, and in terms acceptable to the Association. 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
2. MISFA 
shall: 
 
(a) 
carry out, and cause the MFPs to carry out, the Project in accordance 
with the procedures, principles and practices set forth in the Operations 
Manual and the Environmental Assessment Framework; 
 
(b) 
exercise its rights under each MFP Sub-Loan Agreement in such manner 
as to protect the interests of the Recipient, the Association and its own, 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Financing; 
 
(c) 
ensure, and cause the MFPs to ensure, that in carrying out the 
Subprojects the Microcredit Recipients comply with the provisions of the 
Environmental Assessment Framework, and the Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines; and 
 
(d) 
neither assign, nor amend, abrogate, or waive the Operations Manual and 
the Environmental Assessment Framework or any provisions thereof if, 
in the opinion of the Association, such assignment, amendment, 
abrogation or waiver will materially and adversely affect MISFA’s and 
the MFPs’ performance or the implementation of the Project or 
Subprojects. 
 
3. 
MISFA shall maintain, throughout the implementation of the Project, a 
communications unit, headed by a qualified communications specialist with 
experience in printed, website and media campaigns, to be provided with 
sufficient resources and competent staff in adequate numbers, and under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank; which unit shall be responsible for the design 
and carrying out of MISFA’s communication and public awareness campaign 
aimed at: (i) increasing the public’s and donors’ acceptance, interest and support 
to the microfinance sector; (ii) facilitating people’s access to microcredits; and 
(iii) improving communication and information sharing between/among MISFA 
and MFPs. 
 
B. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Project Implementing Entity shall ensure that the Project is carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
C. 
Provision of Concessional Financing to MFPs for the financing of 
Subproject through Microcredits to eligible Microcredit Recipients
 
1. 
In carrying out the Project, MISFA shall enter into MFPs Sub-Loan Agreements 
with MFPs, in order for MISFA to relend the proceeds of the Concessional 
Financing to MFPs for the MFPs to, in turn, provide Microcredits to Microcredit 
Recipients for purposes of carrying out Subprojects. The MFP Sub-Loan 
Page  6
-
5
-
Agreements shall have terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, 
including the following: 
 
(a) 
the principal amount to be relent to MFPs under MFPs Sub-Loans and 
out of the proceeds lent to MISFA through Subsidiary Loans under the 
Concessional Financing shall: (i) be denominated in local currency; and 
(ii) be charged a service fee on the principal amounts withdrawn and 
outstanding from time at the rate sufficient 
to cover the MISFA’s cost of 
borrowing plus a reasonable spread acceptable to the Association; 
 
(b) 
the obligation of MFPs to relend to Microcredit Recipients the proceeds 
so made available under the MFPs Sub-Loans for the financing of 
eligible Subprojects through the provision of Microcredits on the terms 
and conditions acceptable to the Association, including those set forth in 
their respective operational policies and the Attachment to this Schedule; 
 
(c) 
the obligation of MFPs to carry out, and ensure that the Microcredit 
Recipients carry out, the Subprojects with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, technical, financial, 
economic, environmental and social standards and practices acceptable 
to MISFA and the Association (including the provisions of the 
Environmental Assessment Framework, the Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
and the Recipient’s applicable laws and regulations); 
 
(d) 
MFPs’ undertakings to: (i) enable the Recipient, the Association and/or 
MISFA to inspect their Microcredit operations and any relevant records 
and documents related thereto; and (ii) prepare and furnish to the 
Recipient, the Association and/or MISFA all such information as the 
Recipient, the Association or MISFA shall reasonably request regarding 
the foregoing (including MFPs’ financial statements regarding the use 
and administration of funds provided under MFPs Sub-Loans, which 
statements shall have been audited by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association, in accordance with terms of reference and consistently 
applied auditing standards acceptable to the Association); and  
 
(e) 
the right of MISFA to: (i) suspend the respective MFPs Sub-Loan 
Agreements upon failure by an MFPs to perform any of its obligations 
under its respective MFP Sub-Loan Agreements or to comply with any 
legal and regulatory requirements applicable to its operations; and (ii) 
terminate, and/or accelerate any outstanding amounts under the MFPs 
Sub-Loans, if the MFPs’ right to use the proceeds of any such MFP Sub-
Loan shall have been suspended pursuant to subparagraphs (i) hereof for 
a
continuous period of sixty (60) days or more. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
2. 
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the MFPs Sub-Loan Agreements 
shall be made exclusively to MFPs which satisfy, and continue to satisfy, the 
eligibility criteria set forth in the Operations Manual, which shall include the 
following:  
 
(a) 
the MFPs shall be independent legal entities, duly registered and licensed 
under the laws of the Recipient; 
 
(b) 
the MFPs shall have managerial capacity and business plans for 
institutional development satisfactory to MISFA and the Association, 
and be operating pursuant to investment and lending policies acceptable 
to MISFA and the Association, including a proper and transparent 
accounting system and regular financial audits in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, 
in a manner adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the their respective MFPs Sub-Loans; 
 
(c) 
the MFPs shall be willing and able to: (i) submit regular monitoring 
reports on their microcredit portfolios to MISFA (including aggregate 
amount of financing, and the sources thereof during the period covered 
by each such report), and/or (ii) submit to the monitoring and evaluation 
of their portfolios and performance by MISFA and the Association, or by 
any third party appointed by MISFA and/or the Association for that 
purpose, as the case may be;  
 
(d) 
the MFPs shall have sound and balanced credit risk programs acceptable 
to MISFA and the Association, and be financially sustainable, or in the 
path to financial sustainability, as judged in light of their business plans 
for institutional development and the progress made towards self-
sufficiency; and 
 
(e) 
the MFPs shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable the 
Recipient, the Association and/or MISFA (either jointly or separately) to 
monitor and evaluate their Microcredits portfolio, the respective 
Subprojects and MFPs’ financial sustainability in accordance with 
indicators acceptable to the Association. 
 
3. 
With respect of the payment of interest or other charges on, or repayment of, 
principal made available to MFPs under MFPs Sub-Loan Agreements, MISFA 
shall:  
 
(a) 
open and thereafter maintain a separate account on its books in 
accordance with the financial and administrative policies and procedures 
set forth in the Operations Manual; 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
(b) 
upon receipt of each such payment or repayment, credit the same to the 
said separate account; and 
 
(c) 
utilize all amounts so credited to the said separate account, to the extent 
they are not yet required to meet MISFA’s repayment obligations to the 
Recipient under the Subsidiary Loans, exclusively to finance its 
operating costs acceptable to the Association, and/or additional 
Subprojects, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
Operations Manual, the Environmental Assessment Framework, and the 
applicable provisions of this Schedule and the attachment thereto. 
 
D. Safeguards
 
MISFA shall, by no later than six (6) months after effectiveness, prepare and 
adopt an Environmental Assessment Framework setting out, among other things: 
(i) procedures to screen and process Subprojects for significant social and 
environmental impacts; (ii) key principles for social and environmental 
management of Subprojects, and/or the mitigation of any impact thereof; (iii) 
procedures to ensure that these principles and procedures are properly applied; 
and (iv) guidelines for capacity building and monitoring, all in accordance with 
the Recipient’s applicable laws
 
and regulations (including the Law on the 
Preservation of Afghanistan’s Historical and Cultural Heritages –Official Gazette 
No. 828, 1383/02/31). 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. Project 
Reports 
 
1. 
MISFA shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project 
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Association.  Each 
such Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall 
be furnished to the Recipient not later ninety (90) days after the end of the period 
covered by such report for incorporation and forwarding by the Recipient to the 
Association of the overall Project Report.  
 
2. 
By not later than one year from the date of effectiveness of this Agreement, 
MISFA shall have designed and implemented, or caused the MFPs to implement, 
a
social performance monitoring system based on the data collected during the 
household baseline study carried out by MISFA in mid-2007, provided the 
Recipient has established a poverty line. 
 
3. 
During the period of implementation of the Project, MISFA shall: (a) carry out a 
minimum of two (2) case study based reports (at the first and third year of 
implementation of the Project), with terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Page  9
-
8
-
Association, addressing the mainstreaming of gender concerns and/or any 
existing gender barriers/disparities for women to access microcredit financing; 
and (b) upon completion thereof, promptly share each such reports with the 
Association. 
 
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall maintain a financial management system 
and prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied 
accounting standards acceptable to the Association, both in a manner adequate to 
reflect the operations and financial condition of the Project Implementing Entity, 
including the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, MISFA shall 
prepare and furnish to the Recipient not later than forty five (45) days after the 
end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project 
covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association for 
incorporation and forwarding by the Recipient to the Association as part of the 
overall interim unaudited financial reports. 
 
3. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall have its financial statements referred to 
above audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, in 
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association.  Each audit of these financial statements shall cover the period of 
one (1) fiscal year of the Project Implementing Entity.  The audited financial 
statements for each period shall be furnished to the Association not later than six 
(6) months after the end of the period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
All goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of Section III of Schedule 2 to the Financing Agreement. 
Page  10
-
9
-
ATTACHMENT TO SCHEDULE 
 
Eligibility of Subprojects and  
Terms and Conditions of Microcredits 
 
I. 
Subprojects Eligibility Criteria  
 
MFPs shall provide Microcredits to eligible Microcredit Recipients for the 
financing of Subprojects provided that such Subprojects meet the selection 
criteria set forth in the MFPs
’
own policies and procedures and the MFPs Sub-
Loan Agreements, and the following requirements:  
 
(a) 
Subproject proposals shall be technically, commercially and financially 
viable, and shall have been designed and appraised with due regard for 
public health, safety and environmental standards, acceptable to the 
Association;  
 
(b) 
Subproject proposals should have undergone an environmental screening 
and be fund eligible according to the Environmental Assessment 
Framework and consistent with the Recipient environmental regulations 
(including chance-finds procedures contemplated in the Law on 
Preservation of Afghanistan’s historical and Cultural Heritages –Official 
Gazette No. 828, 1383/02/31); 
 
(c) 
Subproject shall not require involuntary land acquisition, nor involve the 
resettlement of any Displaced Persons.  MFPs shall ensure that any land 
required for any Subproject, which shall have been acquired by, or 
otherwise made available to, an eligible Microcredit Recipient, has been  
so acquired, or made available, on a voluntary basis; and  
 
(d) 
Subproject proposal shall be ineligible for financing if:  
 
(i) 
it involves significant conversion or degradation of critical 
natural habitat, including, but not limited to, any activities within 
the boundaries of the Ab-i-Estada Waterfowl Sanctuary, the Ajar 
Valley (Proposed) Wildlife Reserve, the Dashte-Nawar 
Waterfowl Sanctuary, the Pamir-Buzur (Proposed) Wildlife 
Sanctuary, the Bande Amir National Park, and the Kole Hashmat 
Khan (Proposed) Waterfowl Sanctuary; 
 
(ii) 
might significantly damage non-replicable cultural property, 
including, but not limited to, any activities that affect: (A) the 
monuments of Herat (e.g. the Friday Mosque, the ceramic tile 
workshop, the Musallah complex, the Fifth Minaret, the Gawhar 
Shah, Ali Sher Navaii and Sha Zadehah Mausolea) and Bamiyan 
Page  11
-
10
-
Valley (e.g. Fudali, Kakrak, Shar-i Ghulghular and Shahr-i 
Zuhak); (B) the archeological site of, and monuments in, Ai 
Khanum, Ghazni, Lashkar-i Bazar and Surkh Kotal; (C) the 
Minaret of Jam; (D) the Mosque of Haji Piyada/Nu Gunbad; and 
(E) the Stupa and Monastery of Guldarra; and 
 
(iii) 
directly or indirectly requires or involves: (A) political campaign 
material or donations therefor; (B) the acquisition of weapons 
(including, but not limited to, mines, guns and ammunition); (C) 
the procurement and/or use of chainsaws, logging equipment, 
pesticides, herbicides and other chemicals; (D) motorized 
extraction of groundwater; (E) any activities on areas considered 
dangerous due to security hazards or the presence of unexploded 
mines or bombs; (F) any activities on land or affecting land that 
has disputed ownership, tenure or user rights; (G) any activity 
that will support the production and trade of any products or 
activities deemed illegal, or subject to phase-outs or bans under 
the Recipient’s laws and regulations and/or international 
agreements and conventions (e.g. radioactive material, wildlife 
and derived products  regulated under CITES, alcoholic 
beverages, unbounded asbestos fibers, certain pharmaceuticals, 
certain pesticides and herbicides, product containing 
polychlorinated biphenyls, ozone depleting substances, etc.); (H) 
gambling activities, casinos or equivalent enterprises; (I) fishing 
activities using electroshock techniques or explosive materials; 
(J) production and trade of woods and/or forestry products from 
unmanaged forest; (K) production, storage, transportation, trade 
or use of hazardous chemicals; and (L) harmful and exploitative 
forms of forced or child labor. 
 
II. 
Terms and Conditions of Microcredits
 
1. Each 
Microcredit 
shall: 
 
(a) 
bear a service charge on the principal amount thereof withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, at a rate determined by the MFP, 
sufficient to cover the full costs of lending, including administrative 
costs, costs of capital, expected loans losses, and inflation, and take into 
account positive real rates prevailing in the Recipient’s financial market; 
and 
 
(b) 
be made for eligible Subprojects, determined pursuant to the criteria and 
screening process, acceptable to the Association, set forth in MFPs Sub-
Loan Agreements, the Environmental Assessment Framework, and 
Section I of this Attachment. 
Page  12
-
11
-
2. 
Microcredits shall be made on terms whereby MFPs shall obtain, by written 
contract or any other appropriate means, rights adequate to protect its interests 
and those of the Recipient, the Association and MISFA, including the rights to: 
 
(a) 
require that the Microcredit Recipients carry out the Subproject with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, technical, financial economic, environmental and social 
standards and practices acceptable to the Association (including the 
provisions of the Environmental Assessment Framework, the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines and the Recipient’s applicable laws and 
regulations); 
 
(b) 
require that the works, goods and consultants’ services to be financed 
through the Microcredits for Subprojects be procured in accordance with 
private sector and commercial practices acceptable to the Association, 
and the principles set forth in the Procurement Guidelines and 
Consultants’ Guidelines; 
 
(c) 
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Recipient, the 
Association and/or MISFA, if the Recipient, the Association and/or 
MISFA so request, the goods, works and sites of Subprojects, and any 
relevant records and documents relating thereto; and 
 
(d) 
(i) 
suspend the respective Microcredit upon failure by any 
Microcredit Recipient to perform any of its obligations under its 
Microredit or to comply with any legal and regulatory 
requirements applicable to the respective Subprojects and/or its 
operations; and 
 
(ii) 
terminate and/or accelerate, any outstanding amounts under the 
Microcredit, if the Microcredit Recipient’s right to use the 
proceeds of such Microcredit shall have been suspended 
pursuant to subparagraphs (i) hereof for a continuous period of 
sixty (60) days or more 
 
