Page  1
Document of
 
The World Bank 
 
Report No: 58672 
 
RESTRUCTURING PAPER 
 
ON A 
 
PROPOSED IDA GRANT CLOSING DATE EXTENSION  
OF  
EXPANDING MICROFINANCE OUTREACH AND IMPROVING 
SUSTAINABILITY PROJECT (H348, P104301) 
 
January 8, 2008 
 
TO THE 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN  
 
December 20, 2010 
 
Regional Vice President:
Isabel M. Guerrero 
Country Director:
Nicholas J. Krafft 
Sector Manager / Director:
Ivan Rossignol 
Task Team Leader:
Henry K Bagazonzya  
Page  2
2
AFGHANISTAN: EXPANDING MICROFINANCE OUTREACH AND IMPROVING 
SUSTAINABILITY PROJECT (H348, P104301) 
 
The proposed project restructuring is for an extension of the closing date of the IDA
 
Grant H348 from December 31, 2010 to December 31, 2011 to enable MISFA to 
complete the ongoing consolidation exercise and support MFIs to improve sustainability 
of their operations.
Background
:
Support to microfinance service in Afghanistan began in 2003 when an 
ARTF grant ( TF 52452) for the Microfinance Support for Poverty Reduction Project  
(
hereinafter referred to as the ARTF project ) was approved in July 2003.  The main 
objective of the ARTF project was to engage MFIs to provide microfinance services to 
clients, especially women. The ARTF project provided on-lending funds to MFIs as well 
as capacity building and operational support grants for an initial period of five years in 
full recognition of the demographic and logistical constraints in Afghanistan.  The ARTF 
funding support for the project was US$ 183.3 million, of which US$ 167.9 million was 
disbursed. 
 
Based on the impressive growth of the MFIs’ outreach  over the period of 2003-2007,  
IDA Grant H 348  in the amount of SDR 19.2 million ( US$ 30 million equivalent) for  
Expanding Microfinance Outreach and Improving Sustainability Project (hereinafter 
referred to as IDA project ) was approved on January 8, 2008 and became effective on 
June 2, 2008. The development objective of the IDA project has a distinctive shift from 
the ARTF project in that it focuses on sustainability of MFIs measured in terms of MFIs 
achieving operating self sufficiency (OSS) with operating expenses fully covered by 
operating incomes
.
Project performance:
 The IDA project appraisal did not address adequately, the risk 
that deteriorating security would significantly impact on the operations of MFIs with 
regards to client growth, portfolio quality and operating costs.  The security risk proved 
to be a major factor that seriously affected the demand for and the delivery costs of 
microfinance services. As a result, the project failed to meet the original targets for 
portfolio growth and quality and   operational self sufficiency.  To address the ensuing 
portfolio quality deterioration of MFIs, and in agreement with IDA, MISFA commenced 
a
consolidation process of its partner MFIs in 2008. So far, nine MFIs are undergoing 
consolidation into three entities. Out of this exercise five MFIs namely, BRAC, FMFB, 
WOCCU, FINCA and ASA have emerged as stronger institutions to provide 
microfinance services in Afghanistan.  
 
The total sector outstanding portfolio by September 2010 was about US$ 123 million. 
The sector was supporting 435,544 active clients (of which 60 % women) with 290,776 
as borrowers (66% are women).  The portfolio at risk > 30 days has improved and now 
stands at 6.9 %, with an average operational self sufficiency of 76 %. The November 
Page  3
3
implementation support mission noted that MISFA has taken bold and proactive steps to
 
steer the processes of consolidation and liquidation, which have led to the improvement 
in the operational efficiency and performance of MFIs. As a result, the current rating for 
Implementation Performance has been upgraded to Moderately Satisfactory. The rating 
for Project Development Objective is presently rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory. The 
Bank team plans to carry out a full supervision mission in March 2011 and will revisit the 
project DO rating based on the revised timeline for the end of project targets.  
 
Reasons for Closing Date Extension:
 
The proposed one year extension is based on (i) 
MISFA’s improved project management, including being proactive and taking bold steps 
to improve performance of MFIs; (ii) the need to ensure that the microfinance sector 
continues to grow and support more Afghans in both urban and rural areas, and (iii)  the 
critical need for the Bank to stay engaged with the implementing agency to ensure that 
public funds that have been invested by donors and government in the MFIs are 
judiciously utilized to achieve project objectives. The proposed extension is necessary
 
to 
enable MISFA complete the ongoing consolidation exercise and support MFIs to
 
improve 
sustainability of their operations. The team believes that the objectives of the project 
continue to be achievable, and MISFA is prepared to steer implementation of the project 
with vigor. MISFA has also put in place an action plan to complete the project. 
 
Recommendation
:
Based on the above, we would recommend that you approve the 
proposed extension of the closing date of H348 from December 31, 2010 to December 
31, 2011. 
 
