                                            Document of
                                         The World Bank




                                                               Report No: ICR2600



                 IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                  IDA-H3480

                                              ON A

                                             CREDIT

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 19.2 MILLION
                               (US$30 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                TO

                           ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN

                                             FOR AN

 EXPANDING MICROFINANCE OUTREACH AND IMPROVING SUSTAINABILITY PROJECT


                                         December 28, 2012




Finance and Private Sector Development
Afghanistan Country Management Unit
South Asia Region
                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

             (Exchange Rate Effective as of December 28, 2012)

                      Currency Unit = Afghani (AFN)
                                    = US$1.0 = 51.07 Afghani
                               US$ = SDR 1.0 = US$1.43783

                      GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
                        March 21 – March 20

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

Af       Afghani (national currency)
AFMIS    Afghanistan Financial Management Information System
ARMP     Afghanistan Rural Microcredit Program
ARTF     Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund
ASA      Association for Social Advancement
BIH      Bosnia and Herzegovina
BRAC-A   Bangladesh Rural Advancement Committee Afghanistan
CDC      Community Development Council
CFA      Child Fund Afghanistan
CGAP     Consultative Group to Assist the Poor
CIDA     Canadian International Development Agency
DAB      Da Afghanistan Bank
DCA      Dutch Committee for Afghanistan
DFID     UK Department for International Development
EA       Environmental Assessment
EC       European Commission
EMOIS    Expanding Microfinance Outreach and Improving Sustainability
FINCA    Foundation for International Community Assistance
FMFB     First Microfinance Bank
FM       Financial Management
GoA      Government of Afghanistan
HFL      Hope for Life
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IDA      International Development Association
IFC      International Finance Cooperation
INT      World Bank’s Integrity Unit
ISN      Interim Strategy Notes
IUFR     Interim Unaudited Financial Report
MEDA     Mennonite Economic Development Associates
MFI      Microfinance Institutions
                    MFP               Microfinance Service Provider (same as MFI above)1
                    MIS               Management Information System
                    MISFA             Microfinance Investment Support Facility for Afghanistan
                    MOF               Ministry of Finance
                    MPR               Monthly Performance Report
                    MRRD              Ministry of Rural Rehabilitation and Development
                    MSPR              Microfinance Support for Poverty Reduction
                    NGO               Non Government Organization
                    NSP               National Solidarity Program
                    OM                Operations Manual
                    OSS               Operational Self-Sufficiency
                    OXUS              OXUS (Microfinance Service Provider)
                    PAR               Portfolio at Risk
                    PDO               Project Development Objectives
                    SDU               Special Disbursement Unit
                    SME               Small or Medium Enterprise
                    SOE               Statement of Expenses
                    USAID             United States Agency for International Development
                    WWI               Women for Women International




                                         Vice President:                 Isabel Guerrero
                                       Country Director:                 Robert Saum
                                        Sector Manager:                  Ivan Rossignol
                                      Task Team Leader:                  Andrej Popovic


1
 Microfinance Institutions (MFI) and Microfinance Service Provider (MFP) are essentially the same. Both terms are used as they appear in
different cited documents.
                                                              AFGHANISTAN

               EXPANDING MICROFINANCE OUTREACH AND IMPROVING
                           SUSTAINABILITY PROJECT


                                                                   CONTENTS


1. Basic Information................................................................................................................................... 1 
2. Key Dates ............................................................................................................................................... 1 
3. Ratings Summary ................................................................................................................................... 1 
4. Sector and Theme Codes ....................................................................................................................... 2 
6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design .......................................................................... 3 
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ......................................................................... 6 
8. Outcomes ............................................................................................................................................. 16 
9. Rationale for Rating of Risk to Development Outcome ...................................................................... 26 
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ............................................................................... 26 
11. Lessons Learned .................................................................................................................................. 29 
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners..................................... 30 
Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis .................................................................................................... 31 
Annex 2. Restructuring ............................................................................................................................ 34 
Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing ..................................................................................................... 35 
Annex 4. Outputs by Component............................................................................................................. 37 
Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)............................. 38 
Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes........................................ 39 
Annex 7. Detailed ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance .............................................................. 41 
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results ...................................................................................................... 42 
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any) ................................................................. 45 
Annex 10. Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .............................................. 46 
Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ................................................ 48 
Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents ............................................................................................... 49 
Map of Afghanistan .................................................................................................................................. 50 
        1. Basic Information
           Country: Islamic Republic of Afghanistan            Project name: Expanding Microfinance Outreach and
                                                               Improving Sustainability Project

           Project ID: P104301                                 L/C/TF Number(s): IDA-H3480

           ICR Date: 12/18/2012                                ICR Type:2 Core ICR

           Lending Instrument: Financial Intermediary          Borrower: Government of Afghanistan
           Loan (FIL)

           Original total commitment: SDR 19.2 M               Disbursed amount: SDR 10.4M

           Environmental category: F

           Implementing Agencies: Microfinance Investment and Support Facility for Afghanistan / Ministry of
           Finance

           Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: N/A



        2. Key Dates
                Process                  Date                  Process             Original Date         Revised/Actual
                                                                                                            Date(s)
          Concept review:           14-Dec-2006        Effectiveness:               02-Jun-2008            02-Jun-2008
          Appraisal:                 23-Jul-2007       Restructuring(s):           20-Dec-2010            20-Dec-2010
                                                                                   01-Nov-2011            01-Nov-2011
          Approval:                  08-Jan-2008       Mid-term Review:            15-May-2009            15-May-2009
                                                       Closing:                     12/31/2010             06/30/2012



        3. Ratings Summary3
        3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
        Outcome:                                                Moderately Unsatisfactory
        Risk to Development Outcome:                            High
        Bank Performance:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
        Borrower Performance:                                   Moderately Satisfactory




2
    Core or Intensive Learning (ILI) ICR.
3
    All ratings given by the ICR should use a six-point rating scale (Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory,
    Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, or Highly Unsatisfactory), except for the rating of Risk to Development Outcome that use
    a four-point scale (Negligible to Low, Moderate, Significant, High).
3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
                                                                     QAG Assessments
          Implementation Ratings                 Rating                                                Rating
                                                                        (if any)
Potential Prob. Project at any time(Yes/No):         No       Quality at Entry (QEA):                     None
Problem Project at any time(Yes/No):               Yes        Quality of Supervision (QSA):               None
DO rating before Closing/Inactive status:      Moderately
                                               Satisfactory

 4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                           Original             Actual
 Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
 1. Microfinance                                                             100                     100

                                                                      Original Priority    Actual Priority
 Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
 1. Gender                                                                    25                     25
 2. Other Financial Sector Development                                        50                     50
 3. Rural markets                                                             25                     25

 5. Bank Staff
        Positions                           At ICR                                 At Approval
Vice President:                         Isabel Guerrero                            Praful C. Patel
Country Director:                        Robert Saum                          Alastair J. Mackechnie
Sector Manager:                         Ivan Rossignol                             Simon C. Bell
Project Team Leader:                   Henry Bagazonzya                       Stephen F. Rasmussen
ICR Team Leader:                        Andrej Popovic
ICR Primary Author:                     Andrej Popovic




                                                      2
6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

6.1    Context at Appraisal:
1.     The Expanding Microfinance Outreach and Improving Sustainability (EMOIS)
project was appraised in 2007, at a time of great optimism for Afghanistan’s recovery, and
in particular steadily growing and well performing microfinance sector. By this time the
microfinance industry had already been established as a result of significant previous investment
in the sector. In the year preceding project appraisal alone, the microfinance sector added
10,000 active clients per month while loan disbursements averaged $7 million per month.
Further, rapidly expanding sector and growing demand were outstripping resources available to
Microfinance Investment Support Facility for Afghanistan (MISFA), and it was optimistically
estimated that such trends would continue in the future.

2.      The EMOIS project was designed to build on and complement the achievements
made under the previous Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund (ARTF) funded
Microfinance Support for Poverty Reduction (MSPR) project. The MSPR project supported
establishment and institutional development of MISFA and facilitated establishment of the
microfinance sector from scratch. The purpose of EMOIS project was to build on these
achievements and facilitate sustainability of the established microfinance providers. While the
two projects were complementary and closely interlocked, they had different development
objectives.

3.      Given that the project built on significant previous achievements, it is also necessary
to introduce the context which preceded the operation. By the beginning of 2002 there was
a large unmet demand for formal financial services in Afghanistan, especially for poor people
and microenterprises. Since the banking system had collapsed during the war and there were no
functioning credit cooperatives or NGO microfinance institutions, the entire country relied on
the informal financial systems. As a result, the Government of Afghanistan, in collaboration
with donors, decided to actively promote the development of microfinance services in order to
reach poor households.

4.      Subsequently, in 2003 the Government of Afghanistan established MISFA as the
vehicle to channel the available resources supporting establishment and growth of the
microfinance industry. The key objectives for MISFA were to: i) coordinate donor funding
ensuring that conflicting priorities endemic in post conflict situations do not duplicate efforts and
distort markets; (ii) help start-up microfinance institutions that would scale up rapidly and
eventually become sustainable; and (iii) build systems for transparent reporting and instill a
culture of accountability. Since 2003 the World Bank has provided funding to MISFA through
the ARTF and has been closely involved in the development of the microfinance sector. By the
time of appraisal in July 2007, MISFA had received and disbursed, or committed to disburse,
US$ 136 million, of which US$ 119 million has been provided through the ARTF. Finally, at
the time MISFA’s record was strong and it was considered a success story.

5.    At the time of appraisal in 2007, the microfinance context in Afghanistan was very
favorable and the industry was expanding. As a result of MISFA engagement and massive
donor investments, the microfinance sector was established, recorded strong growth and


                                             3
performance, and thus strengthened rationale for additional Bank engagement aimed at
supporting Microfinance Service Providers (MFPs) to become self-sustainable. By mid-2007
the sector exhibited recorded the following characteristics illustrative of its strong performance
and growth:
     15 functioning MFPs; 13 NGOs, 1 bank, 1 credit union promoter.
     Presence in 24 of 34 provinces.
     360,000 active clients (70% women); US$85 million outstanding portfolio.
     US$220 million total (cumulative) disbursements to clients.
     US$220 average loan size.
     5% portfolio at risk at 30 days.
     3 operationally sustainable MFPs. Combined, all 15 MFPs cover 89% of their operational
        costs from income earned on their outstanding loan portfolios

6.      In the optimistic context at the time of preparation, and based on strong expansion
in previous years, it was considered that the sector would continue to grow at the same
rate; unfortunately, these estimates did not materialize due to a severe microfinance crisis.
While the estimated growth projections proved overambitious in the hindsight, there was nothing
pointing out that the crisis was looming; on the contrary, the hopes were high for microfinance in
Afghanistan. According to the project technical annex, the total market size was estimated
between 3 to 5 million clients. Also, by the time of project preparation the demand had
reportedly far outstripped supply; as an example, between March 2005 and March 2006, MISFA
could have disbursed US$ 60 million to MFPs whereas it only had US$ 34 million available.
The project technical annex also estimated that outreach could have been more than 450,000
active clients by the end of 2006 if adequate funding had been made available on time.

7.      Under the said circumstances, including the previous strong sector performance, it
was considered that there was significant room to expand outreach and ultimately create
sustainable microfinance service providers that could begin to mobilize commercial funds,
thus reducing their dependence on subsidized donor funds. Bilateral donor funding
contributions were essential but not sufficient to contribute what was needed to reach these
goals. Local commercial sources of funding were still not available and the sector was not
mature enough to attract international funding at the time. Such context corroborated the
rationale for the credit line which was seen as means to temporarily fill these gaps.

8.      It was therefore estimated that the IDA credit line of US$ 30 million would make a
crucial contribution towards the sector sustainability. The period when project was being
prepared was seen as crucial for the development of the sector, and the credit line could support
taking the sector to a position of relative strength. Additional financing would be considered in
future depending on the progress achieved through this project.

9.      Finally, building on previous initiatives, the project was designed to provide support
at a time when microfinance providers had already been established. At this time, it was
deemed possible that these resources would support the MFPs to scale up and become
sustainable. To this end, the project aimed at providing additional funding for on-lending by
MISFA to existing qualifying microfinance providers. In such context, the rationale for
additional engagement aimed at strengthening the established foundations of microfinance


                                            4
industry and supporting its sustainability was well warranted.

6.2        Original Project Development Objectives (PDO):

 10.    The objective of the project was to achieve operational sustainability for most
 microfinance service providers and help them scale up outreach of financial services to
 meet the needs and demands of many poor Afghans, especially women.

 11.        To this end the Project intended to achieve the following intermediate outcomes:
           Increased sustainability of microfinance service providers that have begun the
            process of diversifying their funding sources to include commercial sources in addition
            to funds provided by Government of Afghanistan and Donors.
           Microfinance service providers are registered as Afghan companies and operating
            under relevant Afghan laws and supervision
           Scaled up outreach to many more poor people in most provinces.

6.3        Revised PDO:

 12.        The PDO was not revised.

6.4        Main Beneficiaries, original and revised:

 13.     The primary target group included the microfinance service providers which were
 supported by MISFA, with a goal to expand their outreach, improve their sustainability, and
 transform them from (international) NGOs and projects into registered Afghan institutions.
 Amongst other this was important to separate their lending balance sheets from other activities
 and improve their governance, ultimately contributing to their sustainability.

 14.    The secondary target group included poor people served by the microfinance
 service providers, and especially women who at the time of preparation represented 70% of
 microfinance clients.

 15.     The mechanism for reaching the target groups included channeling to IDA funds
 through MISFA which then provided loan funds to microfinance service providers which in
 turn retailed small loans to poor households.

6.5        Original Components:

 16.     This project had only one component which envisaged that the entire IDA
 allocation of $30 million would be loaned by MISFA to the microfinance service provider
 organizations. The IDA grant funds were to be provided to the Ministry of Finance (MOF)
 and made available to MISFA for on-lending through a subsidiary agreement between the MOF
 and MISFA. The funds were to be provided in local currency to be repaid beginning five years
 after disbursement and entirely repaid in ten to eleven years. MISFA would provide loans to
 microfinance service providers under already established criteria and based on business plans
 that have been negotiated with and approved by MISFA.


                                               5
6.6    Revised Components:

 17.    The Project Component was not revised.

6.7    Other significant changes:

 18.    The project was restructured twice. This included a cumulative extension of closing
 date by 18 months and cancelling the undisbursed balance of SDR 8,781,966.57 (equivalent to
 US$ 13,801,211).

 19.    The first restructuring included the extension of the original closing date from
 December 31, 2010 to December 31, 2011. This was done due to the fact that since 2009,
 following a sector wide repayment crisis, MISFA management had been engulfed in leading a
 process to consolidate the operations of its partner MFIs and to ensure that the remaining
 partners’ internal systems, accountability levels, and support from their parent organizations
 were guaranteed.

 20.    The second restructuring included another extension of the closing date from
 December 31, 2011 June 30, 2012 and cancellation of remaining undisbursed balance of
 US$ 13.8 million. The extension was required to complete planned disbursements, while the
 cancellation of undisbursed balance was a result of crisis in the microfinance sector and
 subsequent consolidation which reduced the total number of borrowers by over 31,000 in the
 period from August 2010 to August 2011. This in turn lowered the demand for funds, and
 increased the risks for lending.

7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

7.1    Project Preparation, Design Stage, and Quality at Entry:

 21.      The EMOIS Project was designed to build on the achievements of ARTF funded
 MSPR project which established MISFA and facilitated creation and development of
 microfinance sector in Afghanistan. The MSPR project initiated development of the
 microfinance sector from scratch with vigorous support to existing microfinance providers and
 facilitating establishment of new ones. The EMOIS project on the other hand, aimed to support
 already established and qualified MFPs to achieve sustainability and gradually commercialize
 their operations, thus supporting the second stage of development of microfinance sector in
 Afghanistan.

 22.     The design of the MISFA mechanism was based to a large extent on the World
 Bank funded Local Initiatives Project in Bosnia and Herzegovina (BIH) and it also
 incorporated lessons learned from projects in Bangladesh and Pakistan where the World
 Bank supported large microfinance apex institutions. Based on these experiences, three key
 lessons were integrated in the project designs: i) setting clear objectives and instituting
 performance based funding for microfinance organizations which should be monitored against
 specific targets; ii) developing a market integration strategy which would lead to development



                                           6
of sustainable MFIs that could eventually transition from subsidized to commercial funding;
and iii) building local institutions and capacity by facilitating transition from international
implementing organizations to local companies with a long-term perspective and commitment.

23.     It is also important to note that given the limited resources of US$ 30 million of
IDA funding, the project planned on relying on additional donor and government funding
to reach its intended outcomes. Specifically, according to the project technical annex at the
time of preparation in 2007, it was estimated that at least $60 million of additional funding
would be required before the end of 2009 for the EMOIS to reach its intended outcomes. In this
regard, while it was directly and objectively recognized at the design stage that the IDA
resources alone would not be sufficient to achieve all of the intended objectives, it was
considered that this operation would provide the important and timely support to take the sector
to the next level.

24.     During preparation, the team properly identified three risks associated with the
development of microfinance sector, including: i) high service costs and charges associated
with microcredits and conformity with Islamic principles; ii) deteriorating security
environment; iii) balancing MFP growth and their soundness. In regards to the first risk,
the mitigation measures included MISFA’s efforts to strengthen public awareness and build
better understanding of these issues. The second risk was to be mitigated by supporting MFPs
reach sustainability as quickly as possible in more stable regions, before they would potentially
expanding to less secure ones, and gradually become less dependent on expatriate staff who
face more security challenges. Finally, the third risk was to be mitigated with MISFA’s support
to MFP capacity building and increased supervision.

25.     The overall project risks were properly identified and recorded, along with
adequately proposed mitigation measures. The key risks were related to accounting,
financial management, auditing, perceived corruption, and capacity of implementing entities. In
this regard, the proposed mitigation measures included internal controls and audits, maximizing
direct payments to financial institutions, new management staff, and capacity building for
implementing entities, and so forth.

26.     As a part of the project preparation process, the team conducted a review of
MISFA’s operations and capabilities and confirmed its eligibility to serve as conduit for
on-lending funds to MFPs in line with World Bank’s policy for line of credit operations
(OP 8.30). The review confirmed that MISFA’s operations as a financial intermediary were
viable and that it included: i) adequate profitability; ii) sufficient prudential requirements of
capital adequacy (c) acceptable credit quality; and (d) the institutional capacity and systems to
manage the current business and, with due organizational strengthening and skill development,
future business growth.

27.     As a result, the decisions about lending to MFPs were delegated to MISFA, in line
with its Operations Manual (OM) which was deemed satisfactory. The OM specified
selection criteria for new MFPs, performance monitoring systems and criteria, and contract
formats and obligations which were deemed satisfactory and in line with sound commercial
practices of appraisal, risk diversification, and performance obligations. Further, significant



                                           7
           capacities were built in MISFA over the years, and partner MFPs exhibited strong progress.
           This approach was in line with the World Bank rules and a common practice when apex
           institutions are involved.

           28.     In addition, the team appraised a sample of four potential partner MFPs in 2007,
           concluding that at that time they were eligible to participate in the project. The sample
           included ARMP, BRAC-A4, PARWAZ, WWI. BRAC-A was ultimately the only beneficiary
           under the IDA project. Of the four appraised MFPs, one (ARMP) had already achieved
           operational self-sufficiency, while the projected performance of the other three indicated that
           they could become operationally self-sufficient in 2-3 years. Based on their performance at the
           time of appraisal all four sample MFPs were considered as “acceptable credit risk? for MISFA.
           The appraisal also highlighted key risks which included: (i) availability of local talent to build
           their institutional capacity to support their growth plan; and (ii) high security cost impacting
           their operational cost. The appraisal went on to conclude that deterioration of security situation
           would increase MFPs already high operational cost and slow down their operations, thus
           adversely impacting their operational viability, which could in turn affect MISFA’s future
           operations and viability.

           29.     Due to a previous strong sector performance with practically doubling annual
           outreach figures, the team relied on what turned out to be overly optimistic growth
           projections. For example, the project technical annex set a target of 625,000 clients by the end
           of the third year of the project, which was more than double the baseline figure. While it has to
           be recognized that the cited estimates were a reflection of an overall growth and progress of the
           microfinance sector at the time of preparation, in a complex implementation environment such
           as Afghanistan, a more conservative approach may have been more realistic.

           30.     Overall, under the circumstances, the project was designed to respond to the
           existing demand in the microfinance sector in Afghanistan at the time of preparation.
           Following four years of previous support to microfinance sector and continued growth, the team
           wanted to build on the existing momentum and channel the needed resources to qualifying
           MFPs. The funds were passed through MISFA, still on subsidized basis but moving closer to
           market rates than under previous projects, to support MFP capital formation and contribute to
           their long term sustainability and growth.

          7.2    Implementation Stage:

           31.     During the period of project implementation the microfinance sector went through
           a severe crisis and subsequent consolidation, which made the implementation phase
           extremely challenging. The crisis resulted from a combination of factors, including the
           previous massive and fast growth of the microfinance sector, as well as external factors such as
           deteriorating security situation, inflation in 2008 due to increase in food prices, and a severe
           drought the same year. Also, while the impact of the global crisis cannot be fully gauged, it
           cannot be underestimated either, as it had an indirect link to microfinance sector in several
           countries.


4
    BRAC Afghanistan


                                                      8
             32.     According to conducted interviews with a variety of stakeholders and MISFA’s
             final report, at least a portion of previous rapid growth of MFPs in Afghanistan - prior to
             and unrelated to the World Bank IDA operation - was based on some donors’ heavy
             emphasis on disbursement and outreach which in many cases proved unsustainable. Due
             to the Afghan post-war context and persistent sporadic conflict, some donors used development
             projects, including microfinance, as stabilization and counter-insurgency measures by
             attempting to ensure quick results and demonstrate their commitment to Afghanistan. These
             projects were often focused on remote but politically important areas, and insufficient
             consideration was given to particularity of microfinance as opposed to other more traditional
             operations which relied on pure donations. Microfinance on the other hand relied on lending,
             customer education and their obligation to repay, which required complex methodologies, close
             relationships and regular interaction with the clients which could not always be achieved due to
             high security risks. As a result, instead of promoting slower but more sustainable growth, the
             microfinance sector was provided with abundant donor resources and, what seems to have been,
             excessive focus on disbursements and client outreach. This resulted in imprudent lending, and
             in some instances certain MFPs were encouraged to penetrate dangerous areas for the
             previously cited political reasons; this ultimately led to collapse of their portfolios in those
             regions due to lack of adequate infrastructure and high security risks. As an illustration of this
             massive growth, the outstanding portfolio and number of borrowers increased from $42.5
             million and 175,000 to $107 million and 373,000 respectively from early 2006 to 2008. Such
             rapid growth, with likely weak internal controls resulting from pressure for a strong client
             outreach over a short period and combined with high security risks, proved unsustainable.
             MISFA on the other hand was set up to build capacity, monitor performance, and operated
             under a strategy to mitigate such risks.

             33.      It is also important to note that Afghanistan was not the only country to suffer
             from a repayment crisis following strong growth. According to the CGAP’s Focus Note
             Growth and Sustainability in Microfinance5 from 2010, the unprecedented global microfinance
             growth occurred from 2004-2008 – the same period when Afghan microfinance sector was
             established and recorded growth - and microfinance was recognized as a widespread
             international development tool, resulting in increased funding channeled towards microfinance.
             The Note also explored the cases of four different countries – Nicaragua, Morocco, Bosnia and
             Herzegovina, and Pakistan – all of which exhibited repayment crisis following a period of
             strong growth. The Note found three shared primary vulnerabilities including concentrated
             market competition and multiple borrowing, overstretched MFP systems and controls, and
             erosion of MFP lending discipline. In the case of four countries growth was led by abundant
             funding – both donor and debt related – which translated in growth and client outreach with
             initially solid financial performance, and later rising delinquencies and deteriorating portfolio.

             34.    While the exact conclusions about the reasons for the crisis in Afghanistan would
             warrant separate analysis, certain similarities to vulnerabilities identified in four cited
             countries could be observed. Specifically, growth of the microfinance sector was fueled by
             abundant donor funding which translated in strong outreach and initially very satisfactory MFP
             performance. Further, cases of multiple borrowing were reported in Afghanistan, and strong
             growth may have likely resulted in overstretched internal systems and controls as the MFPs
5
    http://www.cgap.org/sites/default/files/CGAP-Focus-Note-Growth-and-Vulnerabilities-in-Microfinance-Feb-2010.pdf


                                                                   9
             were encouraged to rapidly expand their operations. Also, as some donor funding was
             conditioned with disbursement and outreach, this may have fueled unhealthy competition
             amongst MFPs with inadequate assessment of risks. On top of everything, MFPs in
             Afghanistan had to manage severe security risks which affected their performance.

             35.     By 2008, the security situation has significantly deteriorated which resulted in
             shrinking or exit from previously robust areas of operation, both for MISFA partners as
             well as other MFPs. Further, due to security challenges, the southern part of Afghanistan -
             including the second largest city of Kandahar which had a significant potential – were never
             significantly penetrated by MFPs. As an illustration, Child Fund Afghanistan (CFA), which
             was headquartered in Kunduz, also a high risk area, lost over 50% of its client base and
             portfolio over the last two years, and was ultimately consolidated into Mutahid6.

             36.    Overall, a conjunction of internal and external factors affected MFP performance.
             On one hand, rapid growth with weak internal controls and limited capacities affected MFP
             performance, and reliance on self-reported data in assessing MFPs, in part due to security
             challenges and remote operating areas. On the other, the drought, high food prices, overall
             increased inflation in 2008, and deteriorating security exacerbated client repayment problems.

             37.     As a result of the sector crisis, a total of 9 MFPs have collapsed or were
             consolidated, and as of more recently additional 2 MFPs are expected to exit the market.
             Following the sector crisis and the first wave of consolidation after 2009, the expectation was
             that the sector was cleaned up and that it would start to recover gradually. However, additional
             problems were experienced by two institutions which were considered to be strong – BRAC-A
             and ASA – considering their parent organizations and clean audits. Both institutions have
             recently announced exit from the Afghan market.

             38.     Sector crisis and subsequent consolidation reduced MISFA portfolio from a peak
             of $127 million in 2009 to $87.6 million in 2012, currently dominated by a single MFP.
             The first wave of consolidation reduced gross portfolio to $107.7 million and 6 MFPs with
             315,000 active clients and 203,000 active borrowers. As a result of BRAC-A and ASA’s exit,
             portfolio was further reduced to $87.6 million and 4 partner MFPs with 130,500 clients, 72,000
             borrowers. Finally, FMFB dominates the residual market with a portfolio of $78.5 million,
             115,700 clients, and 67,700 borrowers.

             39.     With the active support of the World Bank, MISFA played a significant role in
             rectifying the impact of the sector crisis to the extent this was possible. As an institution,
             MISFA evolved together with the sector, and received significant institution building support
             since its inception which helped improve its operational capacity over time. In 2008, coinciding
             with the commencement of IDA project, MISFA appointed a new management team, focused
             on internal capacity building and started operating as a sustainable financial institution.
             Further, it expanded its de-facto supervisory authority and conducted a portfolio audit of all of
             its MFP partners, which revealed gross under-reporting of portfolio problems. For example,
             one MFP self-reported portfolio at risk over 30 days was 37%, while in reality it was over 80%.
             In 2009, the new management hired new and more experienced finance director to boost its
6
    Newly established MFP set up by MISFA as a crisis response measure.


                                                                  10
internal capacity; in 2010, it established monitoring and supervision department, and introduced
performance standards and benchmarks for MFPs. Amongst the key measures MISFA
undertook following the crisis was to recall over $64 million of previously awarded resources,
shut down two MFPs, and consolidate 6 troubled MFPs - by converting debt to equity – into a
Mutahid, a single MFP wholly owned and operated by MISFA. While this may have been an
unorthodox solution, there was no other feasible option at the time. This exercise was intended
to try to partially preserve the healthy portfolio, build up Mutahid, and ultimately privatize it.

40.     The project development objective was to facilitate reaching of operational
sustainability of most MFPs supported by MISFA under the IDA credit line; ultimately
the EMOIS project supported 4 MFPs from IDA credit line. These included BRAC-A,
OXUS, HFL, and FMFB. BRAC-A experienced severe portfolio quality issues and announced
exit from the market. FMFB is fully sustainable, while OXUS and HFL are on the path towards
operational sustainability.

41.     Disbursements under IDA project were initially preceded by MISFA’s due-
diligence of potential partner MFPs business plans and self-reported Monthly
Performance Report (MPR). MPRs included information on outreach, productivity,
efficiency and sustainability indicators. Any decision on disbursement was conditioned with
satisfactory conclusion of MPR review. Due to previous capacity issues, it was not until late
2010 that MISFA management introduced another layer of due-diligence of MFPs, a more
thorough gap assessment tool. The gap assessment tool included a comprehensive set of 22
operational and financial performance guidelines and standards, aimed at assessing the needs of
each partner institution on individual and customized basis. These reviews covered areas such
as governance, management, service delivery, financial management, accounting systems, and
portfolio management. Though this initiative materialized late in the project implementation, it
was an important step in right direction.

42.      Out of the four MFPs which received IDA funds, three (FMFB, OXUS, and HFL)
were subject to gap assessment prior to disbursement; the fourth partner MFP – BRAC-
A, which ultimately experienced severe portfolio quality issues - was not assessed prior to
receiving funds given that gap assessment tool had not been institutionalized by that time.
This is not to say that the gap assessment would necessarily have guaranteed discovery of
information leading to disqualification of BRAC-A. In fact, the gap assessment was ultimately
completed for BRAC-A as well and, while raising some red flags not uncommon in the
assessment of other MFPs as well, the overall risk level was rated medium; such finding would
not necessarily prevent BRAC-A from participating in the project. Further, BRAC-A was
subject to all required procedures available at that the time prior to gap assessments, including
consistently clean audits by independent auditors and strong early performance, which
confirmed its eligibility. It was also a partner institution under the previous ARTF project and
its initial eligibility was confirmed by the Bank’s OP 8.30 assessment of sample of MFPs in
2007. In fact, according to options for repayment analysis during the assessment of 2007, it
was indicated at the time that BRAC-A would have adequate cash surplus to repay the loans
availed from MISFA within 15 years from the date of availment inclusive of a start-up period of
5 years. In addition, BRAC-A was affiliated with a highly successful microfinance institution
in Bangladesh, had positive initial record in Afghanistan, and thus commanded institutional



                                           11
 clout which was hard to dispute.

 43.     The team recognized implementation challenges resulting from the crisis and
 restructured the project; however, no changes to ambitious PDO were proposed due to
 approaching closing date. The EMOIS project was prepared at the peak of microfinance
 sector growth, while the implementation coincided with the sector crisis and subsequent
 consolidation. Due to sector consolidation, decrease in portfolio and client base, and recall of
 funds from MFPs, there was no demand for additional resources for on-lending purposes. As a
 result, the restructuring included cancellation of almost $14 million, or nearly half of the
 originally planned resources. Due to the severe sector crisis, and both team and MISFA’s
 firefighting mode of operation aimed at minimizing the negative impacts, the procedure of
 formally amending the PDO was not undertaken. The so-called level one restructuring (which
 includes changing of PDO) would require approval of the World Bank Board, and could take
 months to complete. From practical point of view, given that the project was closing in
 approximately 6 months, at that time such exercise was not considered feasible as it would not
 have changed the situation on the ground or operational mode.

7.3    Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

 44.     The results framework included clearly defined, measurable, and quantifiable
 project and intermediate outcome indicators which were directly aligned with the Project
 Development Objective (PDO) and intermediate outcomes. The PDO aimed to achieve
 operational sustainability of most microfinance providers and help them scale up outreach of
 financial services to meet the needs and demands of many poor Afghans, especially women. To
 this end, the project tracked the following outcomes: i) sustainability via operational self-
 sufficiency ratio for each MFP and resulting ability to diversify funding sources, portfolio at
 risk, and registration of MFPs as Afghan companies which was important in order to separate
 their lending balance sheets from other non-lending activities; and outreach measured with the
 increase in number of active clients, including women, growth of portfolio, and expansion to
 different regions.

 45.     From today’s perspective, and due to severe sector crisis which objectively could
 not be forecasted, the intended PDO and outcome targets were very ambitious. This is
 especially true for the target values related to the number of active clients and the amount of the
 outstanding loan portfolio which were supposed to increase from 300,000 and $65 million
 respectively to 650,000 and $175 million by the end of the third year of implementation
 (compared to a baseline of 300,000 and $65 million respectively). In light of the crisis these
 targets proved to be unattainable. It has to be recognized though, that the estimates were made
 in times when the sector had been experiencing annual doubling of client numbers in previous
 years; by the same token, the PDO and outcome targets were set at the time when available
 indicators pointed to continued progress.

 46.     The proposed monitoring arrangements at the design stage were adequate. The
 monitoring of indicators in the results framework relied on MISFA’s already existing system of
 collection, calculation, and reporting on semi-annual basis. Further, gender mainstreaming
 concerns were to be addressed through at least two case study reports, once in the first and once



                                            12
           in the third year. In addition, based on a baseline study7 which was being finalized during the
           time of preparation, and based on a sample of 1,019 households selected from all over
           Afghanistan, it was planned for MISFA to develop and introduce a social performance
           monitoring system. The baseline study had four objectives: establish baseline socio-economic
           and credit status of clients with the aim to evaluate and assess the effectiveness of microfinance
           at a later date; ii) assess the initial impact of microfinance program since inception; iii) examine
           dropout clients and underlying reasons; and iv) identify socio-economic indicators that can be
           used by MFPs to monitor progress at household level. Finally, the intention was for MISFA to
           collect household data for a follow up to the baseline study, and report on impact at the
           household level at the end of the project.

           47.     While planned monitoring arrangements were largely observed, including the
           baseline study and impact assessment of gender mainstreaming, MISFA’s initial
           monitoring capacity was limited though it has significantly improved during the course of
           the project, and the follow up to the baseline study was never done due to security
           concerns and the sector crisis. MISFA had previously only relied on reviewing the self-
           reported numbers of MFIs, which in many case proved to be misleading. In mid-2008,
           coinciding with the project effectiveness, the newly appointed management decided to conduct
           a comprehensive portfolio audit of most of its partner MFPs; the audit was conducted with the
           assistance of external consultants and it indicated significant issues in MFPs performance.
           Specifically, the audit discovered gross understatement of self-reported PAR at 30 days levels
           which resulted in a more intensive review of MFP operations, which ultimately led to the
           establishment of separate Monitoring and Supervision Team within MISFA by mid-2010.
           Subsequently, with the donor assistance (i.e. Mennonite Economic Development Associates-
           MEDA), MISFA developed a set of 22 performance standards used as benchmarks for
           assessment of MFPs, identification of gaps, and prescription of remedial actions. The baseline
           study was completed prior to the commencement of the project, and suggested that participation
           in microfinance programs has led to economic betterment. Further, one gender mainstreaming
           study was prepared during the time of project implementation, and based on a sample of 800
           respondents and utilizing control groups, and concluded microfinance’s positive impact on
           social and economic empowerment of women in Afghanistan. Unfortunately, the planned
           follow up to the baseline study aimed at gauging impact on household level was never done,
           because the consultants backed out of the agreement due to security concerns; given the
           consolidation issues and MFP closures this was no longer considered a priority and was not
           pursued further.

         7.4       Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance:

           Safeguards
           48.     During the project implementation, MISFA conducted several training and
           awareness raising events on social and environmental safeguards for MFPs and relevant
           clients on the regional level.

7
 Microfinance in Afghanistan: A baseline and initial impact study for MISFA, by Martin Greeley, PhD Mohit Chaturvedi, Institute of
Development Studies (IDS) University of Sussex, 2007




                                                                  13
Environmental
49.    The environmental assessment (EA) framework was prepared in accordance with
World Bank EA OP4.01 and pertinent to the Afghan laws and regulations with a purpose
to ensure that all activities supported by microloans were environmentally sound. Given
that microloan subprojects were limited to activities that had no or little environmental impacts,
no formal environmental assessment was required. MISFA was tasked with ensuring
compliance with relevant local laws and regulations and World Bank guidelines. No
environmental issues were reported or investigated during the project.

Social
50.     The project did not trigger any of the World Bank social safeguard policies.
However, on one occasion project supervision mission (Nov-Dec. 2011) observed and raised
two potential issues. One was related to employment of children in some microfinance funded
enterprises (e.g. bakery, handicraft, etc.), and the other to what seemed to be inadequate
ventilation and health hygiene in some of the family run enterprises. In this regard, MISFA was
encouraged to develop a policy on child labor, in line with Afghan laws, as well as to initiate
measures related to occupational health safety via training of credit officers and potential study
capturing these issues and devising appropriate standards in line with the local context.
Overall, no significant social issues were reported.

Fiduciary Compliance
Financial Management
51.    The project operated under the steadily improving Project Financial Management
reforms under implementation by the Government of Afghanistan and with the World
Bank assistance. Under these reforms, proper records of grants received and disbursements
through the designated accounts were maintained by the Ministry of Finance, Special
Disbursement Unit (SDU). This was initially a manual process and later migrated to
Afghanistan Financial Management Information System (AFMIS). The fund flow to the project
was timely.

52.     Proper records of eligible expenditures for various components and activities were
maintained by the implementing agency – MISFA. The internal controls were adequate.
Internal audit of the project’s activities were carried out and periodic reports on the outcomes
were prepared and submitted to management for follow up actions. The internal audit reports
were also shared with the Bank. There were no serious issues highlighted in the reports and
remedial actions were taken on time to address the auditor’s concern. Regular interim unaudited
financial reports (IUFRs) in the agreed format were submitted during the life of the project.

53.     Annual audited financial statements were submitted regularly by the due date
except for the first year audit (i.e. SY 13871) which was submitted four months after the
due date. The audit opinion of the Control and Audit Office of Afghanistan was unqualified
(clean) for all years. All audit observations up to SY1389 were promptly resolved. No audit
was required for SY 1390.



                                           14
 54.     In 2011, the World Bank’s Integrity unit (INT) received a complaint alleging the
 misuse of interest income generated from bank deposits by MISFA. The Bank’s financial
 management (FM) unit conducted a review of this matter and concluded that all interest income
 was eligible expenditure used to fund operational expenses of MISFA. The issue was resolved
 satisfactorily and INT’s case was closed as unsubstantiated.

 55.     The financial management capacity strengthened during the course of the
 implementation of the project. The Bank’s FM unit participated in all supervision missions
 and provided guidance and support to strengthen the FM arrangements. The project closed with
 a ‘Satisfactory’ FM supervision rating.

 56.     Finally, the issues concerning alleged manipulation of BRAC-A’s management
 information system (MIS) to show better than actual performance were reported to the
 INT for further review. The reported alleged issues were beyond the direct scope of the
 project and apparently related to specific actions by BRAC-A’s local management.

 Procurement
 57.     No procurement issues were reported and/or investigated during the project
 implementation. Under the project’s credit component of US$ 30 million, MISFA was on-
 lending funds to microfinance providers which then retailed them to their clients. The average
 loan sizes to final beneficiaries were around US$ 250 while the maximum loan size was in the
 range of US$ 1,500. No funds were intended for procurement of goods and consultant services,
 and the procurement arrangements were designed in accordance with paragraph 3.12
 (Procurement in Loans to Financial Intermediaries) of the Bank’s Procurement Guidelines.

7.5    Post-completion Operation/Next Phase:

 58.     Following the crisis and consolidation of the sector the next phase would include
 devising ways to provide additional support to ensure full sustainability of remaining
 MFPs in the medium term, taking into consideration lessons learned from the previous
 stage. In this regard MISFA will continue to build its internal capacity, especially in regards to
 monitoring and supervision of partner MFPs and provision of necessary credit support. MISFA
 currently has sufficient resources for these activities and it is estimated that no additional
 funding will be required until 2016.

 59.    Additional activities will include capacity building and business development of
 Mutahid with a goal to achieve operational sustainability and fully divest MISFA’s stake
 in the company. The purpose of this exercise was to salvage significant investments made
 over the previous years to MFPs which have been ultimately restructured and consolidated into
 Mutahid.

 60.     Further, MISFA has prepared a Strategic Plan for 2013-2015 aimed at its further
 institutional strengthening and development. According to the Plan, MISFA’s strategic
 priorities for the next few years will fall within three primary areas of focus: i) continuing
 growth of MISFA as a strong institution; ii) deepening MISFA’s core business of Access to
 Finance; and iii) expanding development activities that will complement and expand the market


                                            15
 for the core work.

 61.      Finally, the World Bank will continue dialogue with the authorities in the area of
 microfinance and consider additional operational support. In particular, the potential
 activities that may be considered include: i) support to MISFA to implement its Strategic Plan,
 providing additional capacity building and supporting development of innovation fund to test
 new approaches and products, including investments in technology, with partner financial
 institutions; ii) assistance to Afghanistan Credit Support Program with options including a
 guarantee fund, technical assistance for new products development and regional expansion; and
 iii) support to Ministry of Finance for development of financial development strategy.

8. Outcomes

8.1    Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation:

 Relevance of Objectives

 62.      The development objective of the project was to achieve operational sustainability
 for most microfinance service providers and help them scale up outreach of financial services
 to meet the needs and demands of many poor Afghans, especially women. Despite significant
 initial funding of around $136 million - primarily under the previous ARTF funded project (and
 other donor activities) which established the microfinance sector and contributed to significant
 sector growth - most of the supported MFPs were still highly dependent on donor funds and had
 not reached operational sustainability. In this regard, the initiative to support activities aimed at
 sustainability of the sector, improve corporate governance by registering as local institutions
 (primarily to separate the lending balance sheet from other NGO related activities), and scale up
 was sound.

 63.     The relevance of project objective was confirmed with the Interim Strategy Notes
 (ISN) for FY07-08, FY09-11 and FY 12-14, the baseline study on the microfinance sector,
 and subsequent gender mainstreaming impact assessment. The ISN for FY07-08 confirmed
 progress in the area of microfinance achieved since 2003, which at the time reached 119,000
 clients of which 85% were women, and included microfinance as one of the areas to be
 supported under the ISN’s third pillar Supporting growth of a formal, modern and competitive
 private sector. The subsequent ISN for FY09-11 declared that the microfinance activities
 implemented through MISFA were very successful in assisting microfinance service providers
 in scaling up to 445,000 clients, especially women, and progressing towards sustainability.
 Further, it included access to finance and microfinance as one of the key areas to achieve the
 stated third pillar of the ISN: Progress in improving the enabling environment for private sector
 development and foreign direct investment. Finally, the most recent ISN for FY12-14, amongst
 other, highlighted micro and SME finance as one of the activities to be supported under the
 Equitable Service Delivery theme of the of the World Bank’s program.




                                             16
64.     Further, the study commissioned by MISFA aimed at establishing a baseline
database of clients to assess the impact of microfinance program in Afghanistan since its
inception, confirmed that participation in microfinance program has led to economic
betterment. As an illustration, 72% of the clients reported improvement in their economic
situation (compared to 51% of non-clients), while 46% of client households reported savings
(compared to 31% of non-clients); further, more than 80% of the loans were used for starting or
expanding a business, and 64% of women clients and 74% of men generated employment for
themselves. Finally, the gender mainstreaming impact study confirmed positive impact of
microfinance on economic and social empowerment of women. Based on the client survey,
women clients reported contributing to business decisions, and being consulted on issues such
as business expansion, changing of business or its location; in addition, more than 90% of
respondents said that there was a positive improvement in the following areas of social
empowerment: mobility, purchasing decisions, self-confidence, self-respect, respect within the
household, within the neighborhood and amongst the relatives.

65.     The project development objective continues to be relevant today. Despite the
sector crisis which was caused by previous unsustainable pace of expansion as well as
deteriorating security situation, MISFA partner MFPs (excluding BRAC-A) continue to serve
approximately 145 thousand clients, while approximately an additional 125 thousand are served
by MFIs operating outside of current MISFA scope, bringing the total to some 270 thousand
clients. Also, following exit of BRAC-A, some of its 166 thousand clients may turn to other
providers. Moreover, following sector consolidation, there is a clear need to continue with the
technical support to salvage the previous investments in the sector which, if supervised
properly, may be able to reclaim the previous outreach levels, but over a longer period of time.
Finally, the objective’s continued relevance was confirmed in the latest ISN (FY 12-14) as cited
in paragraph 63 above.

66.    Rating: Based on the information provided above, the relevance of objectives is rated
highly satisfactory.

Relevance of Design and Implementation

67.    The project was designed with a single component aimed at providing a line of
credit with subsidized terms through MISFA for on-lending to qualifying MFPs. At the
time of design this was seen as essential for further development of microfinance in
Afghanistan. Subsidized terms were still necessary in order to develop MFPs’ capital
formation, and thus contribute to their sustainability and growth. However, while still
subsidized, the interest rates were intended to move closer to the market rates than was the case
under ARTF and other related donor operations, with a principal goal to gradually improve
MFPs operational sustainability. While MFPs assumed the credit risk and were thus allowed to
select clients in line with their policies, MISFA had the power to screen MFPs before
supporting them.

68.   Under the credit line the funds would be readily available for on-lending, thus
immediately responding to the existing needs on the ground. Under the project MISFA
would provide the funds to MFPs under already established criteria and based on MFP business



                                          17
 plans previously negotiated and approved by MISFA. Further, MISFA’s operational
 procedures and capacities were appraised during the design stage and found to be satisfactory.
 As a result, the selection of MFPs and investment decisions were delegated to MISFA which is
 a common practice when apex institutions are involved.

 69.     The project was designed to supplement the existing donor activities in the area of
 microfinance, especially related to capacity building of MFPs. This approach included the
 existing ARTF funded MSPR project, as well as other donor activities, and overall intended to
 complement other initiatives and thus make efficient use of existing resources.

 70.      The implementation relied on established MFPs with a successful track record and
 meeting of MISFA’s previously established performance criteria. This is a common way to
 design line of credit operations. Ultimately, the implementation was stifled as a result of sector
 crisis, security issues, as well as indirect impacts of global financial crisis (e.g. as was the case
 in India and other countries).

 71.     Rating: Based on the above, the relevance of design and implementation is rated
 satisfactory.

 72.     Overall Rating: Overall, based on highly satisfactory relevance of objectives, and
 satisfactory relevance of design and implementation, the overall relevance is rated
 satisfactory. More weight was placed on relevance of design and implementation as it had
 more impact on project execution.

8.2    Achievement of Project Development Objectives:

 73.    The objective of the project was to achieve operational sustainability for most
 microfinance service providers and help them scale up outreach of financial services to meet
 the needs and demands of many poor Afghans, especially women. To this end the Project
 intended to achieve the following intermediate outcomes:
      Increased sustainability of microfinance service providers that have begun the process of
        diversifying their funding sources to include commercial sources in addition to funds
        provided by Government of Afghanistan and Donors.
      Microfinance service providers are registered as Afghan companies and operating under
        relevant Afghan laws and supervision
      Scaled up outreach to many more poor people in most provinces

 74.    While the PDO omitted to explicitly state that the intention was to achieve
 operational sustainability of most MFP providers supported by MISFA (in the context of
 IDA credit line), this was clarified in the definition of primary target group (i.e. “primary
 target group are microfinance service providers which were supported by MISFA?. In this
 regard, the assessment of achievement of project development objective focuses on the four
 MFPs which were the direct project beneficiaries.

 75.   Four MFPs – BRAC-A, OXUS, HFL, and FMFB – received the funds from the
 IDA credit line. These four beneficiaries combined accounted for over 70% of entire sector


                                             18
gross loan portfolio as of June 2012. It may also be relevant to note, that in addition to direct
project beneficiaries, following sector consolidation there were five other MFPs which were
active by the end of the project – ASA, FINCA, IIFC Group, Mutahid, and Paiwand – though
they were not beneficiaries of IDA credit line. Mutahid is a special case, resulting from
consolidation of 6 troubled MFPs, as a part of MISFA’s response to the crisis.

76.     Of the four supported MFPs, one is fully sustainable, two are demonstrating
increased self-sufficiency, and one is exiting the market. With operational self-sufficiency
(OSS) of 128%, portfolio at risk (PAR) at 30 days of 0.2%, and capital adequacy ratio of
20.1%, FMFB, which is also a licensed commercial bank, is the only MFP in Afghanistan that
has reached and preserved operational sustainability despite the crisis. In addition, with OSS of
80.8% and 73.3% respectively OXUS and HFL have significantly improve their operations as a
result of the project, and are on the path of reaching operational self-sufficiency, expected in
2013. OXUS’ capital adequacy ratio of -4.4% is an indicator of its excessive reliance on debt to
fund its operations, as opposed to equity which is the foundation for growth; OXUS’ negative
capital is a heritage of losses in the past as well as insufficient capital contribution by its
shareholders. However, OXUS has completely turned around over the last few years, in part
due to the project support. Finally, due to portfolio quality issues BRAC-A has announced exit
from the Afghan market by the end of the year. For basic indicators of the MFP’s which
benefited from IDA resources, see Table 1 below:

                                Table 1: Basic Indicators on IDA Portfolio
                As of July 2012            BRAC-A          FMFB          HFL        OXUS

         Provinces                             22            14               1       7

         Active Clients                     173,100       115,746        2,997      7,792

         Active borrowers                   121,322        57,544        2,997      7,792

         Client dropout (YTD)                22,890        5,007             416    1,405

         Gross Loans outstanding, $        18,958,451    78,492,752    1,001,719   7,144,843

         Women as % of Total Clients          83%           17%              53%     29%

         Repayment rate, %                   12.3%         98.5%         94.7%      95.3%
         Monthly yield on portfolio %
         (annualized)                        19.4%         23.5%         42.1%      42.7%

         PAR (>30 days), %                   70.4%         0.2%          0.4%        1.5%
         Operational Self-Sufficiency,
         % (YTD)                             39.5%        128.1%         73.3%      80.8%

         Capital adequacy ratio, %          -178.0%        20.1%         75.2%      -4.4%




                                              19
77.      There is strong indication that the project has contributed to improving
operational self-sufficiency of two beneficiary MFPs – OXUS and HFL - and is likely to
have mitigated against their further decline by supporting post crisis recovery (as it
provided them with necessary funds). FMFB reached operational self-sufficiency even prior
to the commencement of the project with an OSS ratio of 124 since early 2007. While it had
received IDA funds only in 2012, the project support reinforced its good performance. OXUS
started receiving IDA support in early 2011 which coincided with a drop in its OSS to 39%, and
by the end of the project it had recovered and improved OSS to 84%. Similarly, HFL also
started receiving funds from IDA credit line when its OSS deteriorated to 53%, and has also
made considerable improvement by the end of the project when its OSS reached 73%. Overall,
it can be concluded that the project had a significant positive impact on OXUS and HFL, and
that it may have been a crucial contributor supporting their navigation out of the crisis. Finally,
with the support to FMFB the project has further supported its growth and stability. For details
of turnaround in OSS number since 2011, see Table 2 below.

                        Table 2: Operational Self-Sufficiency of IDA beneficiaries
               March      March      March       March      March      March       March
      MFP       '06         '07        '08         '09         '10       '11        '12    June '12
     OXUS       3.30%       23%        58%         73%      53%        39%        53%       84%
      HFL        62%        66%        89%         63%      51%        53%        69%       73%
    BRAC-A       55%        69%        85%         81%      91%        96%        47%       44%
     FMFB        98%       124%       123%         117%     91%        114%      121%       127%



78.     The three stated intermediate outcomes were partially met despite the severe crisis.
First, as previously discussed, FMFB is sustainable, while OXUS and HMF made significant
improvements to this end as a result of the project support. Further, being a commercial bank
FMFB is the only MFP capable of relying on commercial sources of funding. Second, all four
IDA beneficiaries were registered as Afghan companies, which was important to separate their
lending balance sheets from additional activities they may have been engaged and thus improve
corporate governance. Third, the sustainability of significant scaling of operations and outreach
was prohibited by the sector crisis which was beyond project control. Over the last four years
(2008-2012) the outstanding loan portfolio for four IDA beneficiaries did in fact increase by
75% and currently stands at some $105 million, while the outreach, in terms of active borrowers
increased from 183.5 thousand in 2008 to 191.9 thousand in 2012. The total number of active
clients went from 234.7 thousand to 302.4 thousand in the same period. The number of women
clients dropped by some 2 thousand, but at 56% of active clients it nevertheless remains
significant. Also, in terms of accessibility, the number of branches has increased from 185 to
209 over the four years. Finally, the portfolio at risk has deteriorated as a result of the crisis
from 3.7% to 12.7%. It is important to note that these numbers also include BRAC-A which is
exiting the market; however, it is expected that a significant number of its clients will remain
active with other providers, though the exact number has yet to be determined. For details see
Table 3 below.




                                              20
                       Table 3: Outreach and Portfolio Indicators for all four
                       IDA beneficiaries (OXUS, BRAC-A, FMFB and HFL)
                       Key Indicators          Mar-08               Jun-12
                             Active Clients        234,771          302,420
                         Active borrowers          183,556          191,925
                              Gross Loans
                        outstanding (AFN)      3,048,218,707     5,358,325,933
                           Women Clients           173,183          171,016
                                  Branches           185              209
                                 PAR>30             3.7%             12.7%
                    Source: MISFA

79.     If the performance of IDA beneficiaries is observed excluding BRAC-A (see Table
4 below), the data indicates significant improvements across all categories in the same
period (2008-2012), though with significantly lower absolute outreach. In the observed
period the outstanding portfolio expanded nearly 150%; the number of active clients more than
doubled to 124 thousand and number of active borrowers increased by over 50% and reached
almost 67 thousand, while the number of women clients actually expanded by 7,500 thousand
and stands at 56% of active clients. Finally, combined portfolio at risk at 30 days decreased
from 1.7% to 0.3 which an excellent indicator, especially given the crisis.

                             Table 4: Outreach and Portfolio Indicators
                                       (excluding BRAC-A)
                        Key Indicators         Mar-08              Jun-12
                             Active Clients        56,809          124,072
                                    Active
                                 borrowers         43,524           66,678
                              Gross Loans
                        outstanding (AFN)     1,732,485,208     4,287,662,567
                           Women Clients           16,051           23,511
                                 Branches           22                46
                                PAR>30             1.7%              0.3%
                   Source: MISFA

80.     Rating: The PDO intended to achieve operational sustainability of most
microfinance providers supported by MISFA under the credit line, and significantly
increase outreach, especially to women. The full attainment of this objective was derailed by
the severe sector crisis, and as a result, only one MFP - FMFB - is operationally fully
sustainable. At the same time, two additional MFP – OXUS and HFL - have recorded an
impressive turnaround in performance, as illustrated with their OSS before and after exposure to
IDA credit line (i.e. which moved from 33% to 84% for OXUS, and from 53%-73% for HFL).
Further, both are expected to reach operational sustainability by 2013; under the circumstances,
which included a severe sector crisis which significantly affected their performance, this is an
impressive achievement. In addition, the post-crisis response is commendable with successful
recall of portion of funds, and consolidation of 6 failing MFPs into Mutahid. It is important to
note that had it not been for the project, both in terms of available capital and the team’s


                                              21
 support, the impact of the crisis may have likely been more severe on the beneficiary MFPs.

 81.     World Bank and MISFA were central for the success of the consolidation process,
 and this needs to be acknowledged when assessing project achievements. Further, while the
 number of active clients and active borrowers increased over the last four years by 67,000 and
 8,500 respectively, and outreach to women stands at 56%, the exact impact of BRAC-A’s exit
 has yet to be determined; it is however expected that a significant number of is clients will be
 served by other MFPs. It is also important to reiterate, that BRAC-A’s exit is primarily a result
 of external factors which were largely beyond the control of the project team and
 implementation unit. Also, so far BRAC-A has been servicing all of its obligations to MISFA,
 including those related to IDA loan. At the same time, the positive outcomes, including
 project’s post crisis support, were invaluable given the complex implementation context marked
 by crisis and complicated with security challenges. While the stated PDO could not be
 achieved to the letter, the project’s impact to supporting the sector in times of unexpected crisis
 must be recognized. However, despite accomplishments in the time of crisis, and due to less
 than full attainment of development objectives and the fact that half of the IDA credit had to be
 cancelled, the achievement of PDO is rated moderately unsatisfactory.

8.3    Efficiency:

 82.     As discussed above, the project faced significant obstacles which negatively
 affected implementation. This was primarily related to the sector crisis which made it
 impossible to fully achieve the development objective. In addition, the permanent state of
 conflict and associated uncertainty affected operations of MFPs in rural areas and negatively
 affected scaling up. Facing these challenges to the PDO, the implementation activities were
 refocused on assistance aimed at minimizing the cost of the crisis, as the full extent of initial
 objectives ultimately became unattainable.

 83.      The project was extended by a total of 18 months and disbursed slightly over 50%
 of the originally planned amount. Since 2009, MISFA management was engulfed in the
 process of consolidating operations of failing MFPs which led to a decrease in active borrowers
 by over 31,000, and ensuring that remaining MFPs internal systems, accountability and parent
 organization support was guaranteed during this period. This required the initial 12 month
 extension. The second extension of 6 months was deemed necessary as the sector statistics,
 such as OSS and PAR, indicated improvement. Further, given that MISFA had been able to
 utilize only 54.4% or $16.3 million of the planned $30 million under the IDA credit line, the
 team has restructured the project and the remaining funds were cancelled. Given that it was not
 considered earlier, this stage may have also been a good opportunity to consider revision the
 PDO, as well as related indicators, tailor it to operational circumstances, and make more
 realistic and attainable. At the same time, it is well understood how much time project
 restructuring involving formal amendment of the PDO could take at a time when every effort
 was necessary to deal with the impact of the crisis.

 84.    The project design did not include a traditional cost benefit analysis resulting in
 calculation of economic rate of return. This is not unusual for line of credit operations as it is
 hard to determine the exact use of funds for the subprojects in advance. Moreover, the



                                            22
challenging context in Afghanistan made it difficult to make reliable quantitative assumptions.
In this regard, the efficiency and the “value for money? of this particular operation could be
appraised by reviewing to what extent have the utilized funds contributed to achieving
operational sustainability (as measured by OSS) of beneficiary MFPs.              The relevant
information is summarized in the Table 5 below:

                       Table 5: IDA disbursements per MFP and resulting OSS

                                 Amount Disbursed
                    MFP              (AFN)          % of Total Amount     OSS
                   BRAC-A           559,813,152            65%           39.50%
                    OXUS            158,534,169            18%           80.80%
                     HFL            12,500,000             1%            73.30%
                    FMFB            130,307,513            15%          128.10%
                         Total      861,154,834

85.     As previously established, FMFB is the only one of the supported MFPs that
achieved operational sustainability, and yet it benefited from only 15% of the project
funds. At the same time, the MFP that consumed 65% of the disbursed IDA resources (i.e.
BRAC–A) is exiting the market. It is also important to note that with some 166,000 clients and
prior strong performance BRAC-A was considered able to make a significant positive
difference. Further, and related to high exposure to BRAC-A, it should be noted that when
MISFA authorized the disbursement the IDA pool was not viewed as separate from the rest its
funds; in this regard, the exposure was not perceived as high at the time. The remaining two
beneficiaries – HFL and OXUS – improved their performance and are on the path towards
operational sustainability. In terms of efficiency of project implementation it could be narrowly
concluded that 34% of utilized funds had a measurable productive impact, while the majority of
project resources which were disbursed to BRAC-A did not meet their objective, though due to
reasons which were beyond the project control. However, in order to avoid purely dogmatic
assessment of efficiency, the successful response to a severe crisis, impressive turnaround of
project beneficiaries, sector consolidation, and gradual recovery are all facts that have to be
acknowledged, though they cannot be properly measured in terms of traditional efficiency.
Nevertheless, it is likely that in the absence of the project, the impact of the crisis on the MFP
sector would have been more severe.

86.     Rating: Overall, it should be acknowledged that a portion of the used resources
resulted in significant positive outcomes in a very challenging context, and that its impact
extended beyond initial objectives. Specifically, the project supported FMFB’s continued
sustainability, and assisted OXUS and HFL turnaround and their significant progress towards
operational self-sufficiency which is expected in 2013. Most importantly, it ensured a
successful response to a severe crisis and helped put the microfinance sector back on track.
Unfortunately, the majority of project resources could not meet its purpose due to reasons
which were beyond the Bank team or MISFA’s control. On the basis of these factors,
efficiency is rated moderately unsatisfactory.




                                            23
            8.4        Justification of Overall Outcome Rating:

             Rating:     Moderately Unsatisfactory

             87.     While the full attainment of the project objective was derailed by the severe sector
             crisis and significant security risks, this highly relevant project has nevertheless played a
             crucial role in supporting improved sustainability of microfinance providers with limited
             resources, and facilitated successful consolidation exercise and gradual recovery following to
             the crisis. In conclusion, based on satisfactory relevance, moderately unsatisfactory
             achievement of PDO, and moderately unsatisfactory efficiency, the overall outcome rating is
             moderately unsatisfactory.

            8.5        Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts:

            (a)        Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

             88.     While there is no ex post empirical evidence confirming poverty and social impact,
             based on earlier impact studies it could be assumed that microfinance had an overall
             positive impact on social development in Afghanistan. The previously mentioned household
             baseline study intended to evaluate the effectiveness of microfinance suggested that
             participation in microfinance programs has led to economic betterment in Afghanistan.
             Unfortunately, the initially planned follow up study was never done, primarily due to security
             concerns. Further, the gender mainstreaming study was prepared during the time of project
             implementation, therefore gauging some project impact; based on a sample of 800 respondents
             and utilizing control groups concluded microfinance’s positive impact on social and economic
             empowerment of women in Afghanistan. Finally, according to a report8 commissioned by
             MISFA and examining the demand for savings services among microfinance conducted during
             the time of project implementation, about 80% of the clients produced enough income to cover
             their expenses and had a surplus that they either put aside (saved) or reinvested in their
             business. Further, 14% of MFI clients saved formally and, if given the opportunity, more of
             them would save.

             89.    In addition, according to CGAP’s Donor Brief “The Impact of Microfinance?9
             previous impact assessments have demonstrated that financial services for the poor
             improve people’s lives by increasing their incomes and improving their capacity to pay for
             social services. While the Brief also stated that microfinance is not a magic bullet, it is an
             important catalyst for poverty reduction. The Brief cites the following impacts:
                  Microcredit leads to an increase in household income.
                  Access to financial services enables clients to build and change their mix of assets.
                  Access to microfinance enables poor people to manage risk better and take advantage of
                    opportunities.
                  For women, money management, greater control over resources, and access to
                    knowledge leads to greater choices and a voice in family and community matters.
                  Microfinance clients tend to have higher levels of savings than nonclients.
8
    Assessing the Demand for Savings Services Among Microfinance Clients in Afghanistan, by Ximena Arteaga, 2009.
9
    CGAP Donor Brief No. 13 Helping to Improve Donor Effectiveness in Microfinance, The Impact of Microfinance, July 2003.


                                                                  24
                   Enterprise revenues rise as a result of microfinance services, but not always where
                    expected.
                   Job creation in single-person enterprises appears negligible. However, when the total
                    number of enterprises is combined, client households often create work for others.

           90.    A 2011 CGAP publication10 citing more recent experimental evidence on impact of
           microfinance suggested more modest outcomes of access to credit and for some people
           only. Some of the cited examples included creating new businesses and tipping consumption
           away from temptation goods, (e.g. alcohol, tobacco, etc.) allowing households to invest in their
           businesses or buy more durable goods. Further, the cited results of these randomized
           evaluations include little, if any, evidence of impact on use of healthcare (other than dealing
           with health shocks), education, or female empowerment.

           91.    Based on these early findings directly related to the project, as well as more general
           impact assessment of microfinance, and in particular in the context of severe crisis, it
           could be assumed that the support provided under the IDA credit line provided general
           benefits to microcredit clients.

         (b)       Institutional Change/Strengthening:

           92.      Despite implementation challenges and microfinance sector crisis, MISFA’s
           capacity has significantly improved since the beginning of the project. As of end 2010
           MISFA started to develop three and six year strategic plans mapping out specific activities over
           the medium to long terms. Additionally, it introduced novel supervision mechanisms such as
           gap assessment tools. Further, significant capacity building measures were undertaken related to
           policies procedures, and staffing has been enhanced. As a result, MISFA has upgraded its
           institutional provisions and governance and has a credit, asset liabilities, and finance and audit
           committees, and written manuals related to governance, administration, finance, risk
           management, monitoring and supervisions, performance standards, and so forth. Further,
           during the course of 2012 MISFA has also reorganized its corporate structure, and committed to
           strengthening monitoring and supervision capacities by dedicating significant resources related
           to staff training. Overall, while MISFA is a relatively strong institution in a very complex
           environment with sound governance, these developments are expected to further improve its
           capacity in the future.

         (c)       Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive and negative):

           N/A

         8.6       Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

           93.   No beneficiary survey or stakeholder workshops were conducted post completion.
           The results of beneficiary surveys/impact assessments conducted during the project
           implementation are summarized in Annex 8.
10
  Latest Findings from Randomized Evaluations of Microfinance by Jonathan Bauchet, Cristobal Marshall, Laura Starita, Jeanette Thomas,
and Anna Yalouris. Access to Finance Forum. Reports by CGAP and Its Partners No. 2 December 2011.


                                                                 25
9. Rationale for Rating of Risk to Development Outcome

 Rating:     High

 94.     The risk to development outcome is rated high given the uncertainties related to
 the pace of recovery of the microfinance sector and the volatile security situation. It is
 important to keep in mind that Afghanistan is still a conflict affected area, and that the security
 situation has been steadily worsening in the last few years and has already affected
 microfinance operations, especially in rural areas. Further deterioration could result in sector
 stagnation. In either case, the sustainability of MFPs would be affected.

10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

10.1       Bank

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry:

 Rating:     Satisfactory

 95.     The project was designed to respond to existing demand and key issues affecting
 the growing microfinance sector at the time. At the time of preparation, the microfinance
 sector in Afghanistan demonstrated strong growth, and the principal issue was related to
 ensuring its sustainability. As a result the team responded with a credit line which, with its
 terms, was gradually preparing the MFPs for funding its operations from commercial sources
 and thus contributing to their sustainability. In addition, the credit line was also intended to
 support the MFPs in scaling up. Further, the project leveraged the existing donor initiatives,
 such as the ARTF financed MSPR project, and thus prudently utilizing existing resources and
 lowering overall costs. The design was based on lessons learned from other global projects
 (i.e. Bosnia and Herzegovina, Pakistan, etc.). The project risks were properly recorded, and
 included adequate mitigation measures. Monitoring arrangements were adequately designed,
 and envisaged empirical studies to follow progress.

 96.     Due to a previous strong sector performance with practically doubling annual
 outreach figures, the team relied on what turned out to be overly optimistic growth
 projections. In this regard the background analysis in the technical annex could have
 benefitted from more rationale for such ambitious estimates and projections.

 97.    The results framework included clearly defined, measurable, and quantifiable
 project and intermediate outcome indicators which were directly aligned with the Project
 Development Objective (PDO) and intermediate outcomes.

 98.    The team conducted detailed due-diligence of MISFA during the design stage, as
 well as a sample of MFPs, and confirmed its eligibility to intermediate financial resources to
 MFPs.




                                            26
 99.     The project objective was and continues to be highly relevant to the country’s
 development priorities. This was reflected in all ISNs from prior to project preparation up
 until the most recent one.

(b) Quality of Supervision (including of fiduciary and safeguards policies):

 Rating:   Moderately Satisfactory

 100. Ever since the inception the team conducted regular field missions, prepared
 detailed Aide Memoirs, and regularly filed Implementation Supervision Reports (ISRs),
 with project ratings adequately reflecting performance, though the last ISR project rating
 was too optimistic. Due to the sector crisis and resulting slow progress towards the stated
 monitoring indicators and project objective, the project was rated moderately unsatisfactory
 from January 2010 to February 2011 when it was upgraded to moderately satisfactory, a status
 it retained until the end of the project. Following the crisis and consolidations process MISFA
 was very active in supporting its partner MFPs and some of the performance indicators started
 to improve gradually which warranted the upgrade. The last ISR ratings (April 2012) indicated
 moderately satisfactory progress towards the PDO and overall satisfactory implementation
 despite the fact that only one MFP beneficiary had become fully sustainable; it is understood
 that given the circumstances under which the operation was implemented, including gradual
 improvement following massive sector crisis and consolidation process, the team considered
 moderately satisfactory rating reasonable.

 101. Fiduciary and safeguards supervision was adequate. During the implementation
 phase the FM team conducted a review of a complaint submitted to INT, which was found to be
 unsubstantiated. No procurement and safeguard issues were reported or investigated.

 102. Due to objective challenges caused by the crisis, it may have been beneficial if the
 PDO was revised early on. This would have reflected the deteriorating sector context and
 formally adjusted the project, as well as expectations, to operational circumstances. Further,
 while this would not change the situation on the ground, it would have better reflected the
 team’s immense effort to support MISFA to deal with the crisis.

 103. Finally, implementation was hampered by the sector crisis and deteriorating
 security situation which were objectively beyond the Bank team’s control. Overall, the
 team’s effort to provide implementation support to MISFA in dealing with the crisis is
 commendable.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance:

 Rating:   Moderately Satisfactory

 104. Based on satisfactory quality at entry and moderately satisfactory quality of supervision,
 overall Bank performance is rated moderately satisfactory. More weight was placed on the
 quality of supervision as it had more impact on project implementation.




                                           27
10.2       Borrower

       Click here if the Government and the Implementation Agency is the same or indistinguishable


(a) Government Performance:

 Rating:     Satisfactory

 105. The role of the government included providing strategic direction to MISFA and
 disbursement activities. The state entities responsible to support implementation included
 Ministry of Finance – SDU which was responsible for disbursement and Da Afghanistan Bank
 where the designated account was opened. Further, the Government ensured sound governance
 of MISFA, as well as its operational independence which is commendable. Overall, both
 entities were highly supportive of the project.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance:

 Rating:     Moderately Satisfactory

 106. The principal implementing entity for the project was MISFA which has
 significantly improved its capacity over the course of project implementation. Prior to
 2008 and the IDA project, MISFA’s capacity to supervise project implementation was limited
 and its supervision activities largely relied on review of business plans and self-reported
 numbers of MFPs. Following change in management in 2008, which coincided with project
 effectiveness, a more robust approach was taken and the review process was enhanced, albeit
 late in project implementation, ultimately resulting in the establishment of a monitoring and
 supervision team in 2010 and introduction of gap assessment tool. This was followed by further
 strengthening of its structure and governance, and overall operational enhancement.

 107. Overall, MISFA actively responded to mitigate the impacts of the sector crisis.
 This is evident in its spearheading of the consolidation process aimed at salvaging its previous
 investments. While the full outcome of this process has yet to be determined, its efforts are
 commendable.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance:

 Rating:     Moderately Satisfactory

 108. Based on satisfactory government performance and moderately satisfactory
 implementing agency performance, the overall borrower performance is rated moderately
 satisfactory. More weight was placed on implementing agency performance as it was
 principally responsible for project implementation.




                                                  28
11. Lessons Learned

    109. Overreliance on a single credit institution (i.e. MFP) should be avoided despite its
    perceived strength. In this regard it may be prudent to establish certain limitations related to
    the funds that could be drawn against the credit line. For example, as a precautionary measure,
    the loans could be capped against equity of participating MFPs or by the absolute amount to
    limit excessive exposure towards a single MFP from a single credit source.

    110. Security is a significant factor to consider for the viability of micro or SME
    lending. As demonstrated in Afghanistan, the security situation can have a direct negative
    impact on portfolio quality. As a result, careful assessment should be made prior to rolling out
    operations in less secure areas.

    111. As a precautionary measure in fragile countries it may be a good idea to provide
    additional support to the qualified apex institution in determining eligibility of partner
    financial institutions due to changing dynamics in the financial sector. While the principal
    authority may rest with the implementing apex, as a part of supervision process and under
    certain circumstances the Bank team could consider conducting or commissioning additional
    independent verification of financial institutions’ eligibility to intermediate Bank funds prior to
    initial disbursements, which could be updated annually.

    112. Established international microfinance models may not necessarily warrant
    success without adjustment to country context. Both BRAC-A and ASA have well
    established and successful microfinance operations in Bangladesh and other countries, and yet –
    despite very significant early successes in the case of BRAC-A - both ultimately failed to
    develop a sustainable model in Afghanistan and are exiting the market. One of the reasons may
    be sole replication of the model from Bangladesh and overreliance on expatriate staff which
    may not have sufficient familiarity with the local context or tolerance for the poor levels of
    security. At the same time, FMFB, which was a part of international Aga Khan network, was
    highly successful, as it has, amongst other, better adjusted to the local context.

    113. Governance structure of microcredit providers is crucial for success. It is
    interesting to note that the only MFP that is operationally and commercially sustainable is
    FMFB, which is also a commercial bank, registered in line with banking regulations, and as
    such subject to all relevant prudential norms and related supervision. While its stability (and
    success) cannot be solely credited to the fact that it is supervised by DAB’s (Kabul Bank was
    also supervised by DAB, and yet it failed) it seems that certain measurable standards, such as
    prudential norms, may promote shareholders’ commitment and more responsible management
    practices. In addition, it received significant support from its founders – Aga Khan network –
    and was able to access international network resources and standards. It also benefitted from
    other investors, such as the IFC, which in order to safeguard its investment, appointed a
    representative on FMFB board to participate in the decision making process. These factors
    have likely resulted in higher level of internal supervision and thus better overall governance.
    Finally, FMFB also took a cautious early approach to growth and expansion – another lesson on
    the potential of microfinance to be a quick response post conflict.



                                               29
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a)    Borrower/implementing agencies:

 N/A

(b)    Cofinanciers:

 N/A

(c)    Other partners and stakeholders (e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society):

 N/A




                                           30
                                                      ANNEXES


Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objective (from Project Appraisal Document):

   The objective of the project was to achieve operational sustainability for most microfinance
   service providers (MFPs) and help them scale up outreach of financial services to meet the
   demands and needs of many poor Afghans, especially women. This was to take place through: -
   Increased sustainability of MFPs that have begun the process of diversifying their funding sources to
   include commercial sources in addition to funds provided by the Government of Afghanistan – MFPs
   are registered as Afghan companies and operate under relevant Afghan laws and supervision - Scaled
   up outreach to many more poor people in most provinces.

Revised Project Development Objective (as approved by original approving authority):

   The Project Development Objective was not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s) ─ from Project Appraisal Document

Baseline Values from Project Outcome Indicators/Date of Value:

The indicators below monitored progress of all six MISFA partners and therefore extend beyond
the direct IDA beneficiaries. Specifically, in addition to four IDA beneficiaries (OXUS, FMFB,
BRAC-A, and HFL) the indicators cover ASA and Mutahid as well.


   Intermediate               Baseline Value         Original Target            Revised Target        Actual Values
 Outcome Indicator                                       Values                     Values               Achieved
                                                     (from approval            (as approved by       at Completion or
                                                       documents)             original approving       Target Years
                                                                                  authority)
Indicator 1:               Percent of loan portfolio outstanding that is accounted for by MFPs with OSS>100%.
                  Value
        (quantitative or           51%                     85%                                            71%
           Qualitative)
         Date achieved          12/31/2006                                                            30-June-2012
            Comments
 (incl. % achievement)
Indicator 2:               Number/% of MFPs registered as separate legal entities under Afghan law - as corporations,
                           companies, banks, or any other recognized legal form for financial service providers.
                  Value
        (quantitative or           0/0%                   15/100                                         5/83%
           Qualitative)
         Date achieved          12/31/2006                                                            30-June-2012
            Comments
 (incl. % achievement)



                                                           31
Indicator 3:               Number of active clients of MFPs.
Value
(quantitative or                  300,000                 625,000                                          319,150
Qualitative)
Date achieved                   12/31/2006                                                             30-June-2012
Comments
(incl. % achievement)
Indicator 4:               % of active clients who are women
Value
(quantitative or                   70%                     65%                                             62%
Qualitative)
Date achieved                   12/31/2006                                                             30-June-2012
Comments
(incl. % achievement)
Indicator 5:               Increase in amount and percentage of loan portfolio outstanding relative to base year
Value
(quantitative or                  $65 mn               $175mn/270%                                    107.7m / 165.7%
Qualitative)
Date achieved                  31-Dec-2006                                                             30-June-2012
Comments
(incl. % achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s) - from Project Appraisal Document
Baseline Values from Project Outcome Indicators/Date of Value (from approval documents)

   Intermediate               Baseline Value          Original Target         Revised Target          Actual Values
 Outcome Indicator                                        Values                  Values                 Achieved
                                                      (from approval         (as approved by         at Completion or
                                                        documents)          original approving         Target Years
                                                                                authority)

IO Indicator 1:            Number / % of MFPs with an OSS (operational self sufficiency ratio) of more than 100% that
                           do not require any more grant subsidies for operational deficits.
                  Value
        (quantitative or          3/20%                   10/67%                                          1/16.6%
           Qualitative)
         Date achieved          12/31/2006                                                             30-June-2012
            Comments
 (incl. % achievement)
IO Indicator 2:            Number / % of MFPs with PAR 30 (portfolio at risk greater than 30 days) of less than 5%.
                  Value
        (quantitative or          13/85%                  13/85%                                          4 /66%
           Qualitative)
         Date achieved          12/31/2006                                                             30-June-2012
            Comments
 (incl. % achievement)
IO Indicator 3:            Amount of funds on the balance sheets of MFPs from sources other than MISFA
                  Value
        (quantitative or          $14 mn                  $40 mn                                          $15.3mn
           Qualitative)



                                                            32
         Date achieved         31-Dec-2006                                                         30-June-2012
            Comments
 (incl. % achievement)
IO Indicator 4:            Number / % of MFPs with a capital adequacy ratio above 12%.
                  Value
        (quantitative or          5/33%                 13/85%                                         2/33%
           Qualitative)
         Date achieved         31-Dec-2006                                                         30-June-2012
            Comments
 (incl. % achievement)
IO Indicator 5:            Number / % of MFPs with Afghan board members / directors in addition to international
                           experts and owner representatives.
                  Value
        (quantitative or          0/0%                  15/100%                                        1/17%
           Qualitative)
         Date achieved         31-Dec-2006                                                         30-June-2012
            Comments
 (incl. % achievement)
IO Indicator 6:            % of middle and top management positions held by Afghans
                  Value
        (quantitative or           50%                    85%                                           60%
           Qualitative)
         Date achieved         31-Dec-2006                                                         30-June-2012
            Comments
 (incl. % achievement)
IO Indicator 7:            Number of provinces in which MFPs are providing services
                  Value
        (quantitative or            21                     32                                           22
           Qualitative)
         Date achieved          12/31/2006                                                         30-June-2012
            Comments
 (incl. % achievement)




                                                          33
Annex 2. Restructuring

Restructuring     Board            ISR Ratings at            Amount Disbursed          Reason for Restructuring &
Date(s)           Approved         Restructuring              at Restructuring            Key Changes Made
                                                                  in US$m
                                   IP            DO

  20-Dec-2010       N/A        Satisfactory   Satisfactory        17.67          Extension of the original closing date from
                                                                                 December 31, 2010 to December 31, 2011.

                               Moderately     Moderately                         Extension of the closing date from
                               Satisfactory   Satisfactory
 01-Nov-2011         N/A                                           16.33         December 31, 2011 June 30, 2012 and
                                                                                 cancellation of remaining undisbursed
                                                                                 balance of US$ 13.8 million.


 If PDO and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original approving body) enter ratings below:
                                                        N/A
                                                                                 Outcome Ratings

Against Original PDO/Targets

Against Formally Revised PDO/Targets

Overall (weighted) rating




                                                             34
Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing

(a)        Project Cost by Component

                                           Appraisal Estimate         Actual /Latest Estimate         Percentage of Appraisal
             Components
                                             (US$ million)                (US$ million)
      1.   On lending to MFPs                     30                          16.33                            54.4
                 Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies
Price Contingencies
                 Total Project Costs              30                          16.33                            54.4
Project Preparation Facility (PPF)
Front-end fee (IBRD only)
           Total Financing Required               30                          16.33                            54.4




(b)        Co-financing

                                                            Appraisal                 Actual/Latest
                                                                                                              Percentage of
   Source of Funds           Type of Financing              Estimate                    Estimate
                                                                                                               Appraisal
                                                          (US$ million)               (US$ million)
       Government
       IDA Grant                     FIL                             30                   16.33                   54.4




                                                                35
(c)   Disbursement Profile




                             36
Annex 4. Outputs by Component

N/A




                                37
Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)

N/A




                                              38
Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

   (a) Task Team members


Name                          Title                                   Unit
Lending
Marjorie Penesa Espiritu      Program Assistant                       MNSF1
Deepal Fernando Senior        Procurement Specialist                  ECSO2
David C. Freese               Senior Finance Officer
Md. Reazul Islam Senior       Private Sector Development Spec.        SASFP
Sheila Braka Musiime          Chief Counsel                           LEGES
Kenneth O. Okpara             Sr Financial Management Specialist      SARFM
Asta Olesen                   Senior Social Development Specialist    SASDS
Rubina Geizla Quamber         Program Assistant                       SASHD
Stephen F. Rasmussen          Lead Specialist                         CGP
Mohammad Arif Rasuli          Senior Environmental Specialist         SASDI
Niraj Verma                   Sr Financial Sector Spec.               SASFP
Supervision/ICR
Nazir Ahmad                   Research Analyst                        SASFP
Muhammad Wali Ahmadzai        Financial Management Analyst            SARFM
Henry Bagazonzya              Sr. Financial Sector Specialist         SASFP
Abdul Mohammad Durani         Social Development Specialist           SASDS
Deepal Fernando               Senior Procurement Specialist           ECSO2
Guillemette Sidoine Jaffrin   Sr. Private Sector Dev. Specialist      SASFP
Asila Wardak Jamal            Consultant                              SASDI
Abdul Qadeer Jawad            Consultant                              SASFP
Suhail Kassim                 Private Sector Development Specialist   FCDKP
Parwana Wawreena Nasiri       Program Assistant                       SASFP
Kenneth O. Okpara             Sr Financial Management Specialist      SARFM
Asta Olesen                   Senior Social Development Specialist    SASDS
Rubina Geizla Quamber         Program Assistant                       SASHD
Aza A. Rashid                 Program Assistant                       SASFP
Stephen F. Rasmussen          Lead Specialist                         CGP
Mohammad Arif Rasuli          Senior Environmental Specialist         SASDI
Vinod Satpathy                Program Assistant                       CFPMI
Niraj Verma                   Sr Financial Sector Spec.               SASFP
Rahimullah Wardak             Procurement Specialist                  SARPS




                                                     39
   (b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


           Date ISR                                                                      Actual Disbursements
 No.                                  DO                                IP
           Archived                                                                         (USD millions)
  1       06/06/2008              Satisfactory                     Satisfactory                      0.00
  2       12/22/2008              Satisfactory                     Satisfactory                     10.00
  3       06/19/2009              Satisfactory                     Satisfactory                     17.67
  4       01/05/2010         Moderately Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     17.67
  5       06/25/2010        Moderately Unsatisfactory        Moderately Unsatisfactory              17.67
  6       02/12/2011        Moderately Unsatisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory               17.67
  7       08/14/2011         Moderately Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory               16.33
  8       04/21/2012         Moderately Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     16.33




(c) Staff Time and Cost

                                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
       Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Staff Weeks                        US$ Thousands
                                                                           (including travel and consultant costs)
Lending
               FY07                                                                        64.98
               FY08                                                                        41.02
                           TOTAL:                                                          106.00
Supervision/ICR
               FY07                                                                          0
               FY08                                                                         6.55
                            TOTAL                                                           6.55




                                                        40
Annex 7. Detailed ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

             Bank                   Ratings                      Borrower                     Ratings
 Quality at Entry:                Satisfactory         Government:                          Satisfactory
 Quality of Supervision:     Moderately Satisfactory   Implementation                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                       Agency/Agencies:
 Overall Bank Performance:   Moderately Satisfactory   Overall Borrower Performance:   Moderately Satisfactory




                                                       41
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results

1. Gender Mainstreaming in Afghanistan’s Microfinance Sector: An Impact Assessment Study11

The study was commissioned by MISFA to assess the impact of microfinance on the economic and
social empowerment of women clients through the services provided by its partner microfinance
institutions (MFIs). The findings of the study suggested that microfinance has had a positive impact on
the social and economic empowerment of women in Afghanistan, as seen in many parts of the world.

The study sample consisted of three groups: clients, dropouts and non-clients. Data was collected
from the active and dropout clients of eight MISFA MFI partners. In addition, non-clients were
interviewed in the areas where these eight MFIs are operating to provide a basis for comparative
analysis. A total of 800 respondents were interviewed, out of which 400 were clients, 200 were
dropouts and 200 were non-clients. All the respondents were selected randomly by the survey team,
assisted by MFI employees.

The first part of the survey was designed to determine the respondents’ literacy level. The data
indicated that 73 percent of the respondents were illiterate, and a major portion of the remaining 27
percent had primary level education. Very few of the respondents had education of 10 years or more.
The next section studied the seasonality in business, which showed that clients had the highest ratio in
having permanent businesses than dropouts and non-clients. As for dropouts, the major reasons offered
by respondents for leaving the program are: their need was fulfilled; the lending program was not so
productive; and because the loan was used mainly for consumption smoothing or an emergency need at
the time it was borrowed. Other reasons given pertain to: the process of applying for a loan being
complicated; high interest rate; and long loan terms.

Five indicators of access to basic services were used as proxy indicators for measuring the impact
of microfinance on the economic development of households. These indicators were electricity,
access to health facilities, access to education, cooking fuel and clean drinking water. The data showed
that clients’ access to electricity has improved after joining a microfinance program, with 84 percent of
the respondents obtaining electricity from various source - up from 63 percent before the loan.

Access to clean drinking water also improved with more microfinance clients using safe sources of
drinking water. Furthermore, access to health facilities and education increased with the improvement
in the economic condition of the clients. The data for economic empowerment showed that gender
mainstreaming had a positive impact on the lives of female borrowers and their families. Women clients
reported contributing to business decisions, being consulted on the following: selection of a business,
expansion of business, changing of business and changing the location of business.

There was also a positive impact on women clients’ participation in the household economic
decision-making, particularly when it comes to expenses on food, utilities, health, education and
clothing. Improvement was also seen in client savings, with 69 percent of clients saving money,
compared to only 34 percent before taking the loan.

11
     Conducted by Afghan Management and Marketing Consultants (www.ammc.com.af)


                                                              42
There was also a positive impact on assets. As the data indicate, the assets of more than 70 percent of
the clients have increased after utilization of the loan.

To add another dimension to this research, a section was added to assess the standard of living of
the three sample groups, through the enumerators’ observations. Enumerators were tasked to rank
the respondents’ standard of living based on their overall appearance and environment. Four indicators
— housing, clothing, jewelry and living condition — were used to rank the respondents’ standard of
living on five scales: Worse, Below Average, Average, Above Average, Good.

The enumerators’ general observations of the respondents’ housing, living conditions, clothing
and jewelry conveyed that the client group’s households appeared to have a higher standard of
living. This seemed consistent with the results of the rest of the survey. However, the indicators used to
gauge standard of living are not comprehensive, by any means. Further study is required, particularly to
ascertain causality and initial conditions upon entering the program (i.e. are clients becoming better off,
or are better off clients using the products?)

The data for social empowerment also indicated a positive impact on the social status of the
clients. The data showed that clients were participating more in decisions, such as education and
marriage of children, as well as the family’s participation in social events. Other indicators for social
empowerment were mobility, purchasing decisions, self- confidence, self-respect, respect within the
household, respect in the neighborhood and respect in the eyes of relatives. More than 90 percent of the
respondents said that there was a positive improvement in all of these areas.

This qualitative case study indicated that microfinance appears to be having a positive impact on
the economic and social empowerment of women in Afghanistan, but there is a need to expand these
programs to enable more people to receive these benefits. One area that needs to be investigated is the
reasons for dropouts. Dropout clients interviewed for this study provided varying reasons, including the
cultural practice limiting—if not banning—interactions between men and women. Having knowledge
of the real reasons for clients dropping out could help in developing loan products and a lending
methodology in accordance with local norms to enhance the acceptability of the programs.

2. Assessing the Demand for Savings Services Among Microfinance Clients in Afghanistan12

Financial services in general and Microfinance in particular have been growing steadily in
Afghanistan since 2003. Microfinance Institutions (MFIs) had about 12 times more credit clients than
all commercial banks combined; however, unlike banks, they did not have depositors. In clear contrast,
banks had about 23 depositors for every borrower. The disproportion in the number of borrowers and
savers in the banking system was a clear indication that MFIs could provide a valued service to their
current clients and perhaps gain new savings clients.

This study13 investigated the demand for savings services among microfinance clients in urban
and peri?urban areas of Kabul and Mazar?e?Sharif. Primarily the study focused on the ability and
willingness of clients to save formally. Formal savings were defined as deposits in a financial institution.
Additionally, it was important to explore the habits, perceptions, and attitudes that influence savings.
12
     By Ximena Arteaga, 2009.
13
     The participants in the study included clients of BRAC-A, OXUS, AFS, and FMFB.


                                                                  43
The study also attempted to understand how widely savings is spread among microfinance clients
through equivalent informal practices such as purchasing inventory or gold.

The research used mixed methods including limited literature review, focus group discussions
(FGDs), and structured interviews with a questionnaire. Data collected through FGDs was analyzed
individually for each focus group. Questionnaires were applied to a client sample selected randomly.
Data obtained through questionnaires was analyzed using descriptive inferential statistics and a
regression model.

The key finding of the study is that 14% of MFI clients save formally and, if given the
opportunity, more of them would save. About 80% of the clients produced enough income to cover
their expenses and had a surplus that they either put aside (save) or reinvested in their business. Saving
was considered a good habit and people understand that monetary savings are the best option to cope
with unexpected situations. Most people consider a bank a safe and accessible place to make deposits
but they would definitely go to an MFI if they needed a loan quickly. The study also showed that the
perception of not having enough money to save is the largest impediment to save. Thus, the point that
needs attention is how to address the perception of what is an appropriate savings amount.

The study offered several lessons for the design of savings products. For example, people value
convenience more than safety; therefore, a mobile banking scheme would be welcome. Moreover, this
study showed that women are by far less informed about financial services and they could greatly
benefit from savings.




                                                   44
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)

 N/A




                                            45
Annex 10. Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

  MISFA’s implementation completion report combined two projects - Microfinance Support for
  Poverty Reduction (MSPR) and Expanding Microfinance Outreach and Improving
  Sustainability (EMOIS) – as well as their objectives and ratings. Further, the focus of the
  completion report seems to have primarily been on the MSPR project, while the EMOIS project was
  essentially introduced as support activity aimed at reinforcing the MSPR. In this regard, it is difficult
  to clearly distinguish and appraise the EMOIS project issues and achievements based on the
  completion report and separate it from MSPR project. Below is a brief summary of some of the key
  messages related to design, implementation, and ratings.

  Building on the MSPR Project, in 2008 the EMOIS Project was established to provide
  additional funding for on-lending by the 15 microfinance service providers (MFPs) partnered
  with MISFA at that time. The report acknowledged that at the time of preparation there was a high
  demand for further engagement in the microfinance sector, as the existing bilateral donor resources,
  including the ARTF project funds, were deemed insufficient to meet the projected sector growth
  requirements. For example, it indicated that planning projections in March 2008 indicated a potential
  market of 3.5 million and a need for on-lending funds of US$201.7 million by March of 2011. The
  report also questioned the reliability of growth projections which turned out to be too ambitious.
  Further, as one of the distinguishing characteristics the report stated that the EMOIS Project more
  directly focused on the needs of women and people living in areas with significant opium production.

  The report cited a number of external factors that contributed towards a reduction in impact
  and efficacy, including increased anti-government violence, inflation in 2008 due to increases in
  world food prices and a severe drought that same year impacting the livelihoods of many of the
  current and potential microfinance clients. The deteriorating security climate has led to previously
  robust areas of operation either shrinking or the wholesale exit of MISFA partners from those
  regions. In response, MFIs have pulled back operations from a number of areas and it is anticipated
  that provincial coverage will decline from a high of 26 provinces in 2009/2010 to 22 provinces or less
  in 2012.

  By mid-2008 (at a time when EOIS project started) it became apparent that significant issues
  were beginning to emerge in regard to MFI performance, delinquency, growth and thereby
  sustainability. Following the crisis, MISFA rectified this situation beginning in 2009/2010 and
  recalled in excess of US$64 million for future use to support its partners. The recall, placement of
  funds and management of these assets has been reviewed by the World Bank and found to be
  properly conducted and managed.

  The report particularly emphasized BRAC-A’s serious portfolio quality and other institutional
  issues. As a result, MISFA has been in discussions with BRAC-A since October 2011 but a work-
  out agreement has yet to be finalized between the two parties.

  The report stated that semi-annual missions were conducted by the World Bank with Aide
  Memoires providing progress reports, recommendations and justifications for continuation of
  the project(s). Further, the EMOISP was extended twice without modification.


                                                   46
In terms of relevance, the report states that the project(s) components remain relevant and
form the foundation for the establishment of a permanent apex supporting strong and
independent developmental financial institutions mainly MFIs. The report also raises issues with
the quality of design and implementation, though emphasizing that this was an issue until 2008, that
is before the EMOIS project. Overall, in terms of relevance the report stated that microfinance
continues to play a key role in the developmental strategy for Afghanistan and that has been
highlighted as a developmental priority in the Afghanistan National Development Strategy.

The report rated overall outcome anywhere between Unsatisfactory to Moderately Satisfactory,
given that intended outcomes were relatively unmet by most standards, though it acknowledges
that the overall rating is difficult to assess. This rating process is additionally impacted by the
benchmarks one might use e.g. other programs worldwide, programs in Afghanistan or non-existent
counterfactual uses of funding. It goes on to state that while past performance may be categorized as
moderately unsatisfactory it is anticipated that if the current approach and activities remain on track,
with fewer MFIs and more focused efforts in institution building and governance strengthening, there
is the possibility that in the future the project could be judged as moderately satisfactory, but at
significant cost in both time and money. Given the emphasis on the creation of sustainable MFPs in
both the ARTF and IDA agreements and the fact that to date only one has reached sustainability after
almost a decade of operations and the exit of BRAC-A and ASA from the Afghan microfinance
sector, the overall rating is moderately unsatisfactory at best (although it can be reiterated that
valuable lessons “may have been learned?).

The overall Bank performance (for both projects) was rated moderately unsatisfactory, citing
unattained outcomes, moderately unsatisfactory rating for quality at entry, and quality of
supervision which was not considered strong. The report acknowledged that this ranking reflected
the entire tenure of the project and that the performance has improved considerably over the past two
to three years (which coincided with implementation of EMOIS project). The report concluded that
there is still a good possibility for achieving many of the outcomes following project closure, and that
if ratings were based on recent performance only, they would be moderately satisfactory at a
minimum.

Overall borrower performance was rated moderately satisfactory. At the same time the report
acknowledges that there were periods when this ranking would have been significantly lower. The
historical and current support provided by the government to both MISFA and its partners generally
outweighs the technical issues and capacity constraints in regard to this project. Taking into account
the operational, sector, and country context, and despite the fact that certain aspects may not have
been satisfactory, overall government performance was ranked as moderately satisfactory. In regards
to implementing entity performance, it was rated moderately satisfactory with certain aspects such as
fiduciary compliance could be satisfactory at a minimum. The report stated that since 2008/2009
MISFA has undergone a significant restructuring exercise both internally and externally, and that
while capacity building and restructuring continue, a framework and approach is now in place to
address previous gaps and deficiencies and ensure sound microfinance practice.




                                                 47
Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

 N/A




                                           48
Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents

     1. Project Concept Note (December 2006)
     2. Project Technical Annex (November 2007)
     3. Implementation Status Reports (Seq. No. 01 - 06-Jun-08; Seq. No. 02 - 22-Dec-
         08; Seq. No. 03 - 19-Jun-09; Seq. No. 04 - 05-Jan-10; Seq. No. 05 - 25-Jun-10;
         Seq. No. 06 - 12-Feb-11; Seq. No. 07 -14-Aug-11; and Seq. No. 08 - 21-Apr-12)
     4. Restructuring Paper, Nov. 2011, Report #64853
     5. Restructuring Paper, Dec. 2010, Report #58672
     6. Aide Memoirs and Management Letters
     7. MISFA Implementation Completion and Results Report (July 2012)
     8. MISFA Reports (progress reports, gap assessment reports, etc.)
     9. Gender Mainstreaming in Afghanistan Microfinance Sector: An Impact
         Assessment by Afghan Management and Marketing Consultants
     10. Assessing the Demand for Savings Services Among Microfinance Clients in
         Afghanistan, by Ximena Arteaga (2009)




                                                   49
                       60°E                                                                                       65°E                                                                                                               70°E                                                                               75°E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                                                        U Z B E K I STA N                                                                                 Dushanbe                                                   hob




                                                                                                    Am
                                                                                                     uD
                                                                                                          ar y                                                                                                                                                                                  Murg
                                                                                                              a
                                                                                                                                                                                                       TA J I K I STAN
                                                                                                                             To
                                                                                                                          Chardzhev                                                                                      To                                                               TAJ IK IS TA N
                                                                                                                                                                   To                                                    ˘
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Kulob                                                       To Shazud
                                                                                                                                                                Dushanbe                      To
                                                                                                                                                                                          ˘
                                                                                                                                                                                         Qurghonteppa
                              AFGHANISTAN                                 TUR KM E N I S TA N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Faisabad
                                                                                                                                                                                                              h
                                                                                                                                   ¯
                                                                                                                                   ¯
                                                                                                                              JAWZJAN                                                                    ndz
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Pya
                                                                                                                                                           BALKH                                     ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                 KUNDUZ                                                                          mi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Taloqan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ¯ ¯                                              Pa
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Kunduz
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Kondoz
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ¯                                                                                             h
                                                                                                                                    Sheberghan
                                                                                                                                            ¯                     Mazar-e
                                                                                                                                                                    ¯
                                                                                                                                                                  Sharıf
                                                                                                                                                                      ¯                                                     TAKHAR                      ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BADAKHSHAN
                                                                                                                                       Saripul                                                                                                                                        u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Tirich Mir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (7690 m)
                                                               To
                                                                                                                                                                        Samangan
                                                                                                                                                                              ¯                                   Baghlan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ¯                                                  K
                                                                                                                  Meymaneh
                                                             Mary                                                                                                        ¯
                                                                                                                                                                   SAMANGAN                                         ¯N
                                                                                                                                                                                                               BAGHLA
                                                                                                     ¯ R YA
                                                                                                    FA    ¯B                                                                                                                                                u
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ndu
                                                                                                                                                                                                          z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I R      d                           To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SH
                                                                                                                                                                                                 ¯o
                                                                                                                                                                                               eQ                                    J                                         Chitral
                            To
                                                                                                                                SAR IP UL
                                                                                                                                SARIP                                                      y                                              n
               35°N
                        Mashad
                                                                                                            Mor
                                                                                                                  gh¯                                                            Da
                                                                                                                                                                                  ¯   ry
                                                                                                                                                                                         a-                         Bazarak
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       H        PAiN             ¯    ¯¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NURISTAN
                                                                                                                    ab
                                                                                     ¯ D G H¯
                                                                                    BA      IS                                                                                                          ¸ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Mahmud-e Raqı
                                                                                                                                                                                                                ¯¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ¯ ¯ ¯ Nuristan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       KAPISA     ¯ ¯ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        35°N
                                     P                                                                                                                                                              ¯
                                          a                    Qal‘eh-ye Now                                                                                             Bamyan
                                                                                                                                                                          ¯ ¯¯                 PARWAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ¯                                       Asadabad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ¯ ¯
                                               r o                                                                                                                                                                  Charıkar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ¯¯ ¯   LAGHMAN KUNAR         To
                                                   p a                          e                                                                                                                                    ¯
                                                                        R a n g                                                                                  ¯N
                                                                                                                                                            ¯ M YA
                                                        m i s u s                                                                                                                                              ¯    KABUL        Mehtarlam
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ¯          Mardan
                                                                                                                        Chaghcharan
                                                                                                                                 ¯                         BA                                                 KABUL
                                                      Herat
                                                         ¯
                                                                          Har¯
                                                                               ud
                                                                             ır¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Jalalabad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ¯¯ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PAK IS TAN
                                                                                                                                                                               WA R D A K                             ¯ Shahr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Meydan




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      INDIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ¯                       Khyber Pass
                                    ¯T                                                                                                                                                                            LOGAR                NANGARHAR
                                 HERA                                                               GHOR                                                                                                                                                                 To Peshawar
                                                                                                                            DAY KUNDI                                                                                 Pol-e ‘Alam
                                                                                                                                Nili                                                                                        PAKTIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Ghaznı
                                                                                                                                                                                                             ¯              Gardız
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ¯




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    us
                                                                                                                                                       d
                                                                                                                                                    an
                                                                                                                                                                 G H A Z N¯




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ind
               ISLAMIC                                                                                                                         He
                                                                                                                                                  lm                      I                                                       KOWST                  To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Kowst          Kohat 0          50              100     150 Kilometers
               REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                                                                        Sharan
                                                                     ¯h
                                                                  Fa
                                                                    ra                                                     ¯ZGAN
                                                                                                                         URU
               OF IRAN                                                      ¯H
                                                                       FA R A                                              ¯ Kowt
                                                                                                                        Tarın
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0                  50             100 Miles
                                         ¯t
                                                                                                                                                                                          P A K T¯ ¯
                                         u
                                      ¯r
                                     Ha
                                                          Farah
                                                             ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                 IKA
                                                                                                                                                   ¯ BUL
                                                                                                                                                  ZA
                                                                                                                                                   Qalat
                                                                                                                                                      ¯
                                                                              h
                                                                              as
                                                                            Kh¯




                                                                                                                                              ak
                                                                                                                                            rn¯
                                                                                                                                          Ta

                          Hamun-e
                           ¯ ¯
                            Saberı
                            ˛¯ ¯
                                                                                      Lashkar Gah
                                                                                               ¯           Arghandab
                                                                                                                    Kandahar
                                                                                                                          ¯

                                                                                                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AFG H ANISTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                Zhob

                                                          Dasht-I Margo                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                                 Zaranj
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                               N¯  ¯Z
                                                IMRO                         HILMAND                       ¯R
                                                                                                     KANDAHA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RIVERS
                                                  Helm                                                                                                 To
                                                       and                                                                                             Quetta                                                                                                                              MAIN ROADS
               30°N
                                              Gowd-e                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RAILROADS
                                               Zereh




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IBRD 33358R1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                30°N
OCTOBER 2011




                                                                                                                                                         This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                   PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                         The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                         shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                         Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                60°E                                         PA KI S TA N                                65°E
                                                                                                                                                         endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         70°E
