                   Document of
                The World Bank


                                                Report No:   64853 v1


             RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                     ON A

   PROPOSED IDA GRANT CLOSING DATE EXTENSION
                       OF
EXPANDING MICROFINANCE OUTREACH AND IMPROVING
      SUSTAINABILITY PROJECT (H348, P104301)

      BOARD APPROVAL DATE JANUARY 8, 2008

                    TO THE

       ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN


                 November, 2011
                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


MFPs    Microfinance Service Providers
MFIs    Microfinance Institutions
MISFA   Microfinance Investment Support Facility for Afghanistan
MoF     Ministry of Finance
PDO     Project Development Objective




           Regional Vice President:        Isabel M. Guerrero
                  Country Director:        Nicholas J. Krafft
          Sector Manager / Director:       Ivan Rossignol
                 Task Team Leader:         Henry K. Bagazonzya



                                       2
                                AFGHANISTAN

     EXPANDING MICROFINANCE OUTREACH AND IMPROVING
                 SUSTAINABILITY PROJECT

                         (IDA GRANT H348, P104301)

                          RESTRUCTURING PAPER


Summary
 1. This Restructuring Paper seeks approval to extend the closing date of the IDA
    Grant for the Afghanistan Expanding Microfinance Outreach and Improving
    Sustainability Project from December 31, 2011 to June 30, 2012. This proposed
    second extension, bringing the cumulative extension period to 18 months, is
    required to provide adequate time to complete the remaining project activities and
    thus allow full completion of the Project Development Objective (PDO). The
    activities have been delayed due to several factors, some of which have been
    outside the control of the project implementing agency, Microfinance Investment
    Support Facility for Afghanistan (MISFA). The project background, reasons for
    the proposed extension and the task team’s recommendation are provided below.


Background
 2. IDA Grant H348 in the amount of US$30 million for the project was approved by
    the Board on January 8, 2008; the grant agreement was signed on March 10, 2008
    and the project became effective on June 2, 2008. The PDO is to achieve
    operational sustainability for most microfinance service providers (MFPs) and
    help them scale up outreach of financial services to meet the demands and needs
    of many poor Afghans, especially women. This will take place through: increased
    sustainability of MFPs that have begun the process of diversifying their funding
    sources to include commercial sources in addition to funds provided by the
    Government of Afghanistan and scaled up outreach to many more poor people in
    most provinces.

 3. At the time of project approval, the original closing date was December 31, 2010.
    The closing date was later extended by another 12 months to December 31,
    2011due to the fact that since 2009, MISFA management had been engulfed in
    leading a process to consolidate the operations of its partner MFIs and to ensure
    that the remaining partners’ internal systems, accountability levels and support
    from their parent organizations was guaranteed. This would ensure the
    sustainability of the operations.


                                         3
  4. Therefore the initial extension request was based on: (i) MISFA’s improved
     project management, including being proactive to improve performance of MFIs;
     (ii) the need to ensure that the microfinance sector continued to grow and support
     more Afghans in both urban and rural areas; and (iii) the critical need for the
     Bank to stay engaged with the implementing agency to ensure that public funds
     that were invested by donors and government in the MFIs were used judiciously
     to achieve the project objectives.


  5. Over the last several years, MISFA has matured as an agency by narrowing its
     focus, developing a financial institution approach and insisting on accountability
     both internally and externally. MISFA has worked diligently with partner MFIs to
     assist them in their staff development and operational efficiency. MISFA is also
     reducing its own dependences on expatriate staff through the recruitment of
     Afghans as head of the Monitoring and Supervision and Rural Finance
     Departments. The positions of the Director Operations and that of Finance will
     also be headed by Afghans by March 2012.

  6. The recent risk assessment of MISFA’s operational risks indicated that the
     presence of donors provides protection, especially against arbitrary imposition of
     rules, regulations or government fiat detrimental to MISFA and/or its partners.
     Political interference falls under this risk category.




Implementation Status and Progress towards Achieving
PDO
  7. Overall implementation progress of the project has been slow over the last few
     years. Since approval in 2008, MISFA has been able to utilize 54.4% of the total
     approved funds (US$16.33 million).

  8. However, the consolidation process has now been completed and MISFA is
     continuing to work with its remaining partners, the founders and MFI parent
     international organizations to make the required capital contributions to show
     their commitment to the microfinance sector in Afghanistan. MISFA is working
     towards ensuring that their partners are providing realistic business plans as the
     basis for further support in terms of funding and capacity building.

  9. Overall from August 2010 to August 2011, this consolidation process led to a
     decrease in the total number of active borrowers by 31,456. Likewise the total
     outstanding portfolio by August 2010 was about AFN 5.056 billion which showed
     a reduction during the consolidation process and since then has risen back to AFN
     5.518 billion as of August 2011.


                                          4
   10. Despite delays in implementation, the PDO is on track to being fully achieved by
       the proposed extended closing date. Initial statistics resulting from the
       consolidation process indicate a positive trend in terms of both delinquency and
       the operational self-sustainability (OSS) in the surviving MFIs for the longer term
       development of the entire sector. As of March 2011, the portfolio at risk (PAR)
       greater than 30 days overdue decreased by about 13% from 6.9% in September
       2010 to 6.01% in March 2011. Also the reported overall annual OSS increased by
       nearly 14% to 86.4% in March 2011 from 76% in September 2010. By March
       2012, MISFA partners will have achieved or surpassed the August 201 outreach
       level of 5.5 %.

   11. The initial one year extension allowed the Bank to manage the risk of not seeing
       significant progress and therefore supporting a project that would not deliver its
       intended PDO. This final extension request will bring the overall project
       implementation period to four years, which is a reasonable time frame considering
       the extent of what was required to allow MISFA to manage the sector given the
       circumstances being dealt with in Afghanistan. We are now confident that
       implementation can happen within the current project structure and that the funds
       currently being held by MISFA will all be disbursed to the partner organizations
       and utilized by March 2011.


Factors Contributing to Poor Implementation Progress

   12. Though MISFA management has been very proactive and decisive in concluding
       the MFIs consolidation process, the project itself has suffered significant delays
       due to this process. Recent assessment of the project’s rating is Moderately
       Satisfactory (MS).

Government Request for Closing Date Extension and Cancellation of undisbursed
funds.

   13. The Government has submitted a request for a six month extension to the closing
       date, from December 31, 2011 to June 30, 2012. As part of its request it has also
       provided a Work Plan for the extension period, setting out how implementation
       will be completed. The Government has further requested that the remaining
       balance of undisbursed funds in the amount of XDR 8,781,966.57(equivalent to
       USD 13,801,211) be cancelled, and recommitted to other purposes in
       Afghanistan.

MISFA’s Commitment and Work Plan

   14. Over the last year, MISFA has undergone a fundamental realignment and
       narrowing of focus in line with its strategic objectives and plans for the next 5
       years. Going forward an emphasis will be placed on MISFA and its partners’
       direct contribution towards building stable financial institutions that contribute
       towards financial inclusion in Afghanistan.

                                            5
  15. With regards to this project, MISFA has prepared a strategy for utilizing the
      remaining funds by March 2012. During most of 2011 and again during 2012,
      MISFA and its partners will focus on strengthening the organizational capacity
      and moving towards sustainability. By March 2013, five of the expected seven
      surviving MFIs are expected to have achieved Operational Sustainability.

  16. By 2013, MISFA will require additional funding to support both on lending and
      developmental activities of its partners and others who may enter the sector. This
      funding will be essential to ensure that the maturation process of both MISFA and
      its MFI partners is not jeopardized.



Recommendation

  17. In view of: (i) the PDO remains achievable; (ii) MISFA has submitted a work
      plan for the extended period acceptable to the Bank that will ensure that all funds
      currently with MISFA that has not been lent to MFIs will be utilized; and (iii)
      some of the factors causing implementation delays are now on track and being
      resolved; we recommend approval of extension of the grant closing date from
      December 31, 2011 to June 30, 2012 and cancellation of remaining balance of
      undisbursed funds in the amount of SDR 8,781,966.57, which will be
      recommitted to other purposes in Afghanistan.




                                           6
