Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23412
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ONA
GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 11.61 MILLION
TO THE
WEST BANK AND GAZA
FOR AN
Emergency Response Program
February 19, 2002
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Group
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 18, 2001)
Currency Unit = US$
1 NIS = US$ 0.236
US$ 1 = NIS 4.229
FISCAL YEAR
2001    -  2002
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CDP             Community Development Project
CIDA            Canadian International Development Agency
DANIDA           Danish Intemational Development Assistance
DFID             Department For Intemational Development
ERP              Emergency Rehabilitation Project
ERSP             Emergency Response Program
ESSP             Emergency Service Support Project
GZ               Gaza
Holst            Namne of Former Foreign Minister of Norway
ICR              Implementation Completion Report
IDA              International Development Association
IDB              Islamic Development Bank
LEG              Legal Department
LGU              Local Government Units
MAS              Palestinian Econoznic Policy Research Institute
MLG              Ministry of Local Govermment
MOE              Ministry of Education
MOH             Ministry of Health
MRP             Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of the international
Development Association
NGO             Non Governmental Organizations
PA               Palestinian Authority
PEACE Facility   Palestinian Economic Assistance and Cooperation Expansion Facility
PECDAR           Palestinian Economic Council for Development and Reconstruction
QAG              Quality Assurance Group
WB               West Bank
WBG             West Bank and Gaza
WAC              Welfare Association Consortium
Vice President:  Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director:   Nigel Roberts
Sector Manager/Director:  Emmanuel Forestier
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Majed M. El-Bayya



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
WEST BANK AND GAZA
Emergency Response Program
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   4
6. Sustainability                                                                       6
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        6
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      8
9. Partner Comments                                                                     9
10. Additional Informnation                                                            14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   21
Annex 5. Ratings for AchieVement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   22
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      23
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P073538                                     Project Name: Emergency Response Program
Team Leader: Majed M. El-Bayya                          TL Unit: MNSIF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                      Report Date: February 28, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: Emergency Response Program                   LIC/TF Number:
Country/Department: WEST BANK AND GAZA                                Region: Middle East and North
Africa Region
Sector/subsector: MY - Non-Sector Specific
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   11/27/2000                            Effective: 12/06/2000        12/06/2000
Appraisal:  11/28/2000                              MTR:
Approval.  12/05/2000                            Closing. 03/31/2001         08/31/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: PECDAR/PECDAR
Other Partners:  Ministry of Local Government, Welfare Association Consortium
STAFF                Current                                 At Appraisal
Vice President:     Jean-Louis Sarbib                        Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager:     Nigel Roberts                           Joseph P. Saba
Sector Manager:      Emmanuel Forestier
Team Leader at ICR:  Majed M. El-Bayya                       Kanthan Shankar
ICR Primary Author:  Majed M. El-Bayya
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                     S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
This project was presented to the Board as a Memorandum and Recommendation of the President (MRP)
on December 1, 2000. Although not explicitly stated as an objective in the MRP, the purpose of the project
was to provide funding for emergency employment generation programs in the West Bank and Gaza to
targeted unemployed workers through labor intensive, emergency employment activities over a three to four



month period.
The project objective was clear and highly relevant to the existing crisis in the West Bank and Gaza. It
was consistent with the "Emergency Assistance Program for the Occupied Territories" dated December
1994 (the latest available). This program supports employment generation measures in the West Bank and
Gaza. The objective was also compatible with the efforts of other donors who were planning similar
initiatives which, in the aggregate, would reach a much larger scale (see section 4.1).
Because the project was to be implemented rapidly, complexity of design was kept to the minimum.
Institutional capacity was assessed to be adequate to meet project demands and the MRP correctly
identified further travel restrictions and an escalation of existing turmoil as being the major risks but little
analysis was undertaken to determine strategic altematives if these risks should eventuate. The project's
objectives and design provided sufficient flexibility to ensure it could be implemented within a very difficult
environment through collaboration with local governments, NGOs and existing funding arrangements.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objective was not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The project comprised employment generation components to be implemented through two types of
agencies. These components were determined by mutual agreement between the Bank and the implementing
agency.
(i) Local Govemment Units. (US$ 10.41 million). The project provided grants to local govemment units in
the West Bank and Gaza to implement different types of labor intensive infrastructure projects. This
included investment in physical infrastruacture such as roads, water supply and sanitation and in social
infrastructure such as schools and health centers.
(ii) Local NGOs (US$ 1.00 million). The project provided grants to local NGOs to implement similar labor
intensive projects in the West Bank and Gaza.
Project management and incremental costs of US$ 0.20 million were covered by the Palestinian Economic
Council for Development (PECDAR).
3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry was reviewed by the Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG) which assessed it to be
satisfactory with elements of good practice. The main features commended by QAG were: (i) the speed at
which the project was prepared under the prevailing conditions in the West Bank and Gaza; (ii) channeling
Bank resources through the Johan Jorgen Holst Peace Fund so an existing mechanism for disbursement and
financial management could be used; (iii) extending the closing date of the fund in order to complete the
project in the time frame available; and (iv) the flexibility of project design that made it possible to take a
number of pragmatic decisions to expedite implementation.
- 2 -



The ICR confirms QAG's assessment for quality at entry.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Achievement of development objective (outcome) is rated satisfactory.
The project was successful in achieving its objective of providing temporary employment for unskilled and
semi-skilled laborers in WBG. More than 246,000 person-days of employment were generated over a
period of eight months. About 126,000 and 120,000 person-days of employment were generated in Gaza
and the West Bank, respectively. Using an average labor rate of US $ 13 per-day, the labor content of the
project was about 28% and the cost per person-day was US$ 47.20. This compares favorably with other
projects funded by other donors during the period 1989 to 1996 which had costs per person-day ranging
from US$ 55.00 to US$ 102.62. Only three earlier emergency projects assisted by the World Bank and
UNRWA had lower costs per person-day ranging from US$ 10.83 to US$ 14.74 (see Section 10). The
success of this project was due to: (i) the commitment of local authorities to use labor intensive techniques
in executing the sub-projects; (ii) ownership of the project by the local authorities; and (iii) the design of the
project with decentralized, streamlined implementation procedures and close monitoring of employment.
The project assisted Palestinians directly and indirectly. Direct payments to workers and to local suppliers
who provided materials needed for executing the sub-projects impacted on the economy and indirect
benefits included flow on employment in local factories and other suppliers. Local contractors and local
consulting firms executed all sub-projects. The project also helped provide some momentum to the
economy at a time when virtually all donor-aided programs had stopped. One shortcoming of the expedited
project preparation was that some opportunities to maximize economic benefits may have been missed. For
example, there was little analysis of indirect employment generation and ways to reduce the leakage of
economic benefits to areas outside the West Bank and Gaza. The broader goal of the job creation program
whereby a larger donor community contribution would invest to create a much greater percentage of the
needed employment was not fully achieved. A joint review is scheduled by the Bank and other donors to
evaluate how more can be achieved through the job creation program and how the created employment can
be scaled up.
Improvement of Basic Services. Although not a stated objective of the project, more than 209 localities
with more than 1.3 million people benefited directly from physical improvements under the project (see also
Section 4.2). The project improved service delivery in the education, health, water supply, sanitation, and
road sectors. New classrooms reduced crowding, improved environmental/health conditions and facilitated
school access, especially for girls who otherwise might choose not to attend school. The rehabilitation of
water supply systems, mainly in Gaza, helped to provide clean water, reduce leakages and increase water
pressure.  The rehabilitation of sewerage systems improved health conditions, reduced the cost of
desludging cesspits, and reduced flooding during the rainy season. Hookup fees improved local government
revenues. Road rehabilitation reduced travel and car maintenance cost and increased accessibility to cities
and villages and to social infrastructure. The construction of sidewalks improved the safety of children.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Local Government Units: A total of 209 sub-projects were implemented. These included: (i) the
rehabilitation of about 70 kilometers of the road network; (ii) the rehabilitation of 18 kilometers of fences
- 3 -



and 2 kilometers of retaining walls; (iii) the construction of about 60 kilometers of sidewalks; (vi) laying
about 29 kilometers of sewerage pipes; (vii) the construction of 204 classrooms and about 160 community
rooms and clinics were constructed. Project design was appropriate for the achievement of the component
output and the achievement of the component is rated satisfactory.
Local NGOs: Local NGOs implemented a total of 33 sub-projects. About 504 donums of land were
rehabilitated, 31,740 seedlings and trees were planted, 41 water wells were constructed and 67 kilometers
of rural roads were rehabilitated. To increase production and income generation, domestic products were
produced, particularly by women, such as bottled household products and packaged and frozen products.
Sixteen houses were rehabilitated for poor families, and 36 kindergartens were built or renovated. Other
outputs are listed in Annex 1. Project design was appropriate for achieving outputs and the achievement
of the component is rated satisfactory.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Given the emergency nature of the project, the small-scale nature of the works and the limited capacity of
the implementing agencies, the economic rate of return of the project was not calculated for the ICR.
Nevertheless, as noted in paragraph 4.1, it is clear that the project was implemented effectively when
compared to similar projects. The projected economic return from the project was not calculated in the
MRP.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Although the project did not include an institutional development objective, some institutional
strengthening was achieved. There were, for example, improvements in project management capacity in
the participating LGUs including improved capacity in sub-project identification, preparation of bidding
documents, procurement and supervision. This was the first time LGUs, at large scale, had taken up these
responsibilities in Bank financed projects.  They adapted quickly to the new responsibilities of
management and to using local consulting firms for project monitoring. In addition, due to the fast
disbursement of the project, some of the larger municipalities were able to streamline their procedures to
speed up approvals for contractor payments. Other donors are now using this model of working directly
with the LGUs, with the Bank only providing technical assistance. Palestinian Economic Council for
Development and Reconstruction (PECDAR) also streamlined its procedures to cope with the required
fast disbursement and the accelerated payments to LGUs, contractors and consultants during the later
stages of the project. The project also gave local consulting firms the opportunity to develop their
experience in project management.
Local NGOs improved their capacity to manage micro project implementation from identification to
completion. They adapted to the requirement of labor intensity and adjusted to the emergency situation.
This experience has resulted in other donors implementing projects through NGOs.
5-. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Closure of the border of West Bank and Gaza with Israel, intemal closure of the Palestinian towns and
social destruction contributed to completion delays in some sub-projects. Road projects experienced longer
-4 -



implementation delays, especially in Gaza, than water and sanitation projects. Border closure with Israel
was an especially critical factor for the implementation of projects in Gaza as it prevented raw materials
from being delivered to project sites. As import procedures between Gaza and Israel became more
difficult, shortages of building materials occurred and prices of some building material increased. These
factors affected the planned scope of works of certain road and building sub-projects. In the West Bank,
intemal closures imposed on Palestinian towns and the many military checkpoints on main roads were the
main factors in the delays. Gaza and the West Bank were under partial internal closure for about 95% and
35% of the project period, respectively.
Border and internal closures also resulted in delayed payments to contractors. The PECDAR office which
issued checks is located in EL-Ram, West Bank, and it was difficult for PECDAR staff to move from one
location to another and to send checks to Gaza during severe border closures. As a result of the delay of
implementation, disbursement was delayed and thus the closing date of the project was extended to August
31, 2001. Nonetheless, about 99% of the available funding was disbursed within six months of project
start.
The simplified procurement procedures cleared by the Bank and the flexibility provided to the task team in
the project design were important factors in completing the project within the available time frame and
achieving its objectives in spite of the noted constraints.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Govemment decision to decentralize the identification of priorities, selection, preparation, and
implementation of sub-projects, and to assign these responsibilities to village councils and municipalities
was a key factor in the speed of implementation, even under the closures noted in section 5.1 above.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The commitment of the managing agency, PECDAR, to streamlining its disbursement procedures to
expedite payments to contractors, consultants and local govemment units was a determining factor in the
success of the project.
The streamlined and decentralized project implementation arrangements were slow at the beginning and
may have caused some delays. However, once the arrangements were in place they speeded up project
completion. Also, payments to contractors and LGUs experienced some delays beyond the agreed period of
six days (the average period for payments in Gaza was 13 days).
PECDAR's intervention in sub-project selection led to delays in a limited number of cases.
The experience of PECDAR in project management gained through earlier Bank-assisted projects such as
the Holst Fund, ERP and CDP, was a factor in the success of project implementation. The experience of
the WAC in project management gained through Bank financed projects and the capacity of the local
NGOs was also a factor in project success.
___Coordination between the LGUs and the Ministry of Local Govemment in sub-project selection and the
capacity in project management of selected municipalities gained through earlier Bank financed projects
were also factors in the project success.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
-5 -



The project was completed within budget with no overrun. Although it was not expected that LGUs would
contribute, in some cases they contributed financially to sub-projects, especially in the West Bank in order
to expand the planned scope of work of these sub-projects. Because of the project's success, it was
possible to generate US$ 26.24 million in cofmancing from other donors for employment generation under
the PEACE facility using a mechanism similar to this project - CIDA (US$3.2m), DANIDA (US$3.44m),
IDB (US$7.0m), DFID (US$2.1m) and Italy (US$10.5m), although this was short of the much larger
combined amount initially targeted.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating.
Sustainability is rated as likely.
As noted, the project was designed to provide emergency relief to Palestinian people in the West Bank and
Gaza. By its nature, temporary employment was not intended to be sustainable. However, some of the
project achievements are likely to be sustainable. Infrastructure sub-projects such as road construction,
water and sanitation improvements and classroom and building construction have minimal maintenance
requirements in the short term. LGUs are capable of providing some maintenance for them. In some cases
communities will contribute to maintaining projects such as classrooms. The project built capacity in the
LGUs, the local NGOs, PECDAR and the private sector, some of which will be useful for future such
endeavors. Many of the income generating sub-projects implemented by local NGOs are also likely to be
sustainable.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The local government units will maintain the various sub-projects implemented in different sectors. Some
personnel from LGUs have been trained in maintenance of small projects through the CDP. Most of the
sub-projects are for basic services (water and sanitation, education and health) which the LGUs have a
large incentive to operate and maintain. Donors, including the Bank, are assisting the LGUs, MOH and
MOE to maintain their basic services through the Emergency Service Support Project (ESSP) and other
programs.
Under present conditions in WBG, temporary employment opportunities are likely to be needed for some
time. This need is being met, in part, through the newly contributed funds under the PEACE facility (see
section 5.4), and through other ongoing donor funded projects. The Bank is preparing TORs for the
evaluation of the employment generation program by extemal consultants in the West Bank and Gaza.
This will include the evaluation of donor assisted job creation programs, including World Bank assisted job
creation programs, in order to design improved employment generation programs and projects in the future.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance is rated satisfactory. The Bank moved quickly to respond to an urgent problem in a
very difficult situation. It took the lead in initiating dialogue with the Palestinian Authority, the Ministry of
Local Government, PECDAR, labor unions and other concerned parties in order to address the employment
issue in the current crisis. The Bank used an existing vehicle (Holst Fund) to speed up the process and
- 6 -



project documents were prepared in a very short period of 3 days. The project was in line with the existing
emergency assistance program. The task team took a strong initiative in seeking senior management
support and advice in project processing. Additionally, the cost of project preparation was very low.
7.2 Supervision:
Performance is rated highly satisfactory. The task team was in the field for the entire project period and
worked closely with the clients in spite of a difficult and unsafe environment. This enabled the team to
learn and react quickly to changing circumstances. At the start of implementation two workshops were
held to explain project design and implementation arrangements. The task team identified issues in advance
that could constrain the implementation of the project, and it worked closely with clients to improve project
achievements. Despite the short implementation period and to comply with Bank guidelines, the task team
conducted a fiduciary post review. The review was a learning instrument for the task team in the
implementation of the PEACE facility projects. The task team interacted and consulted frequently with
senior management on ways to accelerate implementation, especially at times of severe closure and
restriction of movement of building materials and staff The task team comprised mixed skills in different
sectors: construction, water and sanitation, environment, urban planning, poverty, and procurement. The
team also used local consultants for sub-project appraisal under the PEACE facility.
A study on the incidence of poverty was also conducted to improve the distribution of the newly contributed
funds from donors and the Bank. This study was intended to lead to the equitable distribution of funds
among LGUs in the West Bank and Gaza. The task team reviewed reports from clients and consultants
and provided them with advice for improving the quality of work. In addition, it visited many of the
sub-projects and advised LGUs and contractors on ways of improving the quality of work and achieving
the required level of employment.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Performance is rated satisfactory because of: (i) rapid project preparation and the Bank's response to client
needs through close community consultation; (ii) the decision to channel project funds through the Holst
Fund; (iii) the design of the decentralized project that facilitated quick and effective implementation and
disbursement; (iv) close, effective, and flexible supervision from the field under very difficult circumstances
which encouraged creativity; and (v) the fact that the project achieved its core objective and built capacity
in LGUs, NGOs and the private sector.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance is rated satisfactory. A responsibility matrix clearly outlining each player's role
was prepared and agreed upon by all counterparts before the start of the project. Municipalities, village
councils and Welfare Association Consortium (WAC) cooperated well with the Ministry of Local
Government (MLG) and PECDAR in expediting project preparation. The sub-projects identified by the
LGUs or the local NGOs responded to community needs and were designed to fit the capacity of the
participating municipalities, village councils and NGOs.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Performance was rated satisfactory. The government kept its commitment to the objectives of the project
and to the implementation arrangements. After conducting the workshops on employment generation with
- 7 -



Bank support, the government took the lead through the Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation
in following up on job creation. Several workshops were conducted to streamline job creation
arrangements and to improve cooperation among the concerned government agencies.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Performance of the local government units is rated satisfactory, especially given that this was the first time
they were responsible for most phases of project implementation. They showed ownership of the project
and worked closely with all stake holders. They produced good quality work within the required time.
Performance of the WAC and the NGOs was judged to be highly satisfactory. PECDAR and MLG
performance was judged to be satisfactory. PECDAR took the lead and bore the responsibility for the
overall implementation of the project. The Ministry of Local Govermment took the lead in municipal level
project selection, and the WAC took the lead in the implementation of the NGO component. PECDAR
hired local consulting firms to assist the municipalities and village councils in project preparation,
procurement and monitoring of the sub-projects. Progress reports prepared by PECDAR and WAC and
audit reports prepared by an international auditor were submitted to the Bank in a timely manner.
Monitoring of the project was conducted by PECDAR with the assistance of local consulting firms. In
some cases the work conducted by the local consulting firms was duplicated by PECDAR for more control
by PECDAR. Consulting firms were not adequately supervised by PECDAR as the reports produced by
some of the consulting firms were poor at early stages of the project. Payments to contractors experienced
some delay beyond the six days agreed on in the responsibility matrix due to reasons such as border closure
and internal control within PECDAR.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory because of government support for rapid preparation of
the project and the quick grasp by the implementing agencies of a new system for project identification and
implementation, the issues associated with the implementation of the project and their capacity to
implement the project successfully within a particularly tight time frame. The few minor weaknesses noted
were not sufficient to detract from this overall rating.
8. Lessons Learned
Using existing and well functioning programs to channel funds for emergency operations can be effective.
The use of existing mechanisms for disbursement and financial control can give a project immediate
impetus and reduce the time needed for preparation.
Decentralized assistance to the client by the Bank can be a determining factor in project success. It is
especially useful for task teams to be close to the client in emergency projects with short implementation
periods.
Statistics on employment generation can be misleading and need to be carefully interpreted.
Quick implementation of emergency community projects requires decentralized, streamlined
implementation procedures. Simplified procurement methods and disbursement procedures can be a major
factor in speeding up project implementation.
Strong project ownership is a determining factor for success.
-8 -



In.emergency operations, detailed analysis of the longer terms issues related to sustainability and risk
should be done at project preparation.
More needs to be done to evaluate the history ofjob creation efforts in WBG, involving the Bank and other
donors. A quantum leap is needed to increase employment generation to accommodate the estimated
100,000 people being added annually to the labor market. A review should be taken soon with other donors
to assess how these types of projects can be scaled up and how they can have a greater impact. It should
also assess how to reduce the leakage of economic benefits outside of the WBG area.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
PECDAR comments:
The Emergency response program was lunched after President Arafat had asked the World Bank to
help and to participate in solving the situation evolved because of the Israeli occupation and the closure of
Gaza and West Bank which had contributed in raising the unemployment rates and destroying the few
existing economic and social infrastructure units in Gaza and West Bank. The World Bank donated (US$
11,610,000) to the Palestinians through the Emergency Response Program to alleviate economic hardship
by creating temporary job opportunities through rehabilitating and executing small infrastructure projects.
PECDAR and Ministry of Local Government (MLG) joined efforts with the World Bank and formulated
the Emergency Response Program (ERSP). The program was launched in December 2000 to create jobs in
the West Bank and Gaza.
Program Objectives: The main goal of ERSP is to increase temporary job opportunities for unskilled and
semi-skilled laborers and demand for local suppliers and contractors through the rehabilitation works. The
program was developed to execute small infrastructure projects, which had been proposed by municipalities
and village councils in coordination with the Ministries of Local Government, Public Works, Labor, Health
and Education. The program was developed in order to encourage the local government communities to
increase their managerial capabilities for micro projects preparation and implementation in addition to
encourage the attitude of self-help. It is worth mentioning that (ERSP) was in response to emergency
conditions; it is strictly a stop-gap initiative designed to alleviate economic hardship and lessen the risk of
destabilizing social unrest.
Obiectives Achievements and Outcomes: It is quite fair to say that the Emergency Response Program had
widely succeeded in targeting the goals and objectives, the following indicators will emphasize the above
statement.
*   ERSP through PECDAR implemented projects had generated 156,099 direct job opportunities for
skilled and unskilled labors, supervision engineers, and consultants staff in Gaza and the West Bank.
The number of job opportunities was obtained from the LGU's who had supervised the implementation
of the works and from the hired consultants. According to PECDAR's previous experience in such
programs, the number of job opportunities reported by the LGU's for projects implemented by
contractors are exaggerated..
*   ERSP had benefited more than 1,105,900 inhabitants, which had been served directly, and indirectly by
these projects.
*   209 villages had been served by this scheme which were distributed fairly all over West Bank and
Gaza.
*   ERSP had constructed about 204 classrooms, 70 km of roads, 60km of side walks, 29 km of sewage
-9-



networks and more than 160 rooms of public buildings in West Bank and Gaza..
* ERSP had helped the local government units improve its capacity by training these units in the
following up with the implementation of the ERSP projects.
Evaluation of Performance
The Program
The flexibility of the program made it successful.
The approach of the program to address the need for creating job opportunities and in the
meantime restoring basic infrastructure units made the program successful.
The Bank
*   The simplified procurement procedures, which the bank allowed to follow, assisted in the success of the
program.
*   The close follow up and quick response of the bank on every issue concerning the program made it
successful.
*   The post review procedures which was followed by the bank assisted in the fast implementation to the
program. Overall, the performance of the World Bank is satisfactory.
The parties
*   MOLG and PECDAR worked as one team to implement the program and followed the responsibility
matrix in their relationship which prevented duplication in the works.
*   The mobility and allocation of PECDAR's Engineers through out the districts offices allowed the
program to overcome the closures imposed by the Israeli's forces and complete the implementation of
projects.
*   MOLG performance is highly acceptable.
*   LGU's performance is acceptable.
*   The consultants didn't carry out the assigned activities as were expected due to lack of budget and
deficiency in the assigned responsibilities and staffing.
*   The implementation of the projects by local contractors and suppliers made the program successful.
Program Obstacles
-      Restriction on the mobility of workers, materials, and engineers has delayed the implementation of
projects especially in the remote villages in the West Bank and in Gaza.
-      Shortage of construction materials especially in Gaza has delayed the implementation of some
projects, moreover some projects were replaced because of the same reasons.
-      Dramatic increase of prices of construction materials lead to decrease of the original planned scope
of works implemented for some projects.
Lessons Learned
The use of existing implementation agencies and running programs such as Holst fund was a good choice
for moving funds quickly.
The close cooperation between implementing agencies, Ministry of Local Government, and Local
Government Units made the program successful and had speeded up the implementation.
Moving Restrictions and shortage of construction materials were  the main obstacles for the
implementation of the program.
Fast fund disbursement, simple and flexible systems, and simplified procurement methods made the
program successful.
The hiring of the consultants was not proper for this program since the existing implementation agency has
- 10 -



the capacity and methodology to carry out the assignment successfully.
MLG comments:
In the light of the 11.61 million US dollars grant funded by the World Bank to the Palestinian
Authority, it is of great pleasure for the "MLG" to send this evaluation together with great thanks to the
World Bank and those who did their best to achieve the objectives of the program, which mainly focus on
creating jobs for those who lost their job opportunities due to the continuous Israeli closure and other
punishment measures since 28/9/2000.
In this great project the following have been achieved through the MLG component:
1. Implementation of 211 physical sub-projects in the West Bank and Gaza with a total of US $ 10.28
million, this in turn helped to develop the damaged infrastructure and played an important role in the
rehabilitation of different services sectors in the Palestinian community, moreover the program helped
in reducing poverty through the creation of temporary job opportunities for citizens directly and
indirectly.
2. The program gave the opportunity for the local government units to participate in managing and
implementing their sub--projects. So their active participation developed their ability to carry out
responsibility towards Palestinian community.
3. Through the real participation of MLG, PECDAR, LGU's, and the World Bank, the project gave a
good chance to strengthen the relation between these institutions to achieve best results .
4. Because of the limited financial resources of the project, some urgently needed sub-projects in different
sectors were not possible to implement.
5. The project also helped in developing the capacity of the local companies, contractors, consultants and
their abilities and effectiveness.
6. The program strengthened the relationship between the LGUs and the citizens they serve.
7. The project with the flexibility on the side of procurement made it possible to speed up implementation
and reduced the overhead cost in some of the sub-projects. Overhead in this case, was taken up by the
LGUs staff.
Regarding accounting of the project, we in the (MLG) propose that future project accounting and
administration be under the responsibility of MLG to avoid continuous delays in payments to contractors
and LGUs and some other difficulties.
Finally great thanks should be sent to the World Bank for all facilities and responsibilities he carried out
and we are waiting hopefully for other generous funds to cover the damages and catastrophe in the
Palestinian community due to the crisis.
(b) Cofinanciers:
NA
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
WAC comment:
1.    Introduction
On 6th December 2000, the World Bank issued a press release announcing the approval of a grant to the
Palestinian Authority of US$ 12 million of an Emergency Response Program (ERSP), managed by the
Palestinian Council for Development and Reconstruction (PECDAR), to "... offset the effects of the
current economic crisis in the West bank and Gaza," with funds focused primarily on employment
generation projects. The grant contribution comes out of the accrued interest income of the Trust Fund for
- 11 -



Gaza and the West bank (TFGWB) through the Bank-administered Johan Jorgen Holst Peace Fund to
PECDAR.     From  the US$ 12 million, US$ 1 million was allocated for distribution using the
implementation mechanisms of the local NGOs. On 7 December 2000, the Welfare Association
Consortium's (WAC) Project Management Organization (PMO) for the PNGO Project formally agreed to
assist in the solicitation, appraisal and recommendation of suitable NGO projects in consultation with the
PNGO Project stakeholders. On the 13th December the World Bank and the WAC agreed that the PMO
would additionally be responsible for the financial management and monitoring of the NGO projects.
2. Program Objectives
The main objective of the ERSP is to generate temporary employment opportunities to alleviate economic
hardships resulting from the Israeli occupation and the closure of Gaza and the West Bank after the
eruption of the Intifada in September 2000. In addition the ERSP intended to encourage the NGO
community to increase their managerial capabilities for micro-projects preparation and implementation, and
promotion of self-help. The component planned for NGOs, intended to utilize NGOs to deliver needed
services under the emergency situation with the main goal of employment generation. NGOs have a vast
experience in adjusting to the continuously changing environment and proved very successful in responding
to the emergency situation and the goals of the ERSP.
3.     Achievement of Objectives and Outcomes
The component of the Emergency Response Program implemented by NGOs was very successful in
achieving its objectives and goals. The following indicators measure the success of the program:
* Of the total US$1 million, an amount of US$ 682,205, or 68% was spent on salaries for workers,
generating 53,917 person-days work.
* Of the US$600,000 spent in the West Bank, 65% of the amount was spent on workers salaries creating
27,391 person-days work. In Gaza, out of the US$ 400,000 worth of projects, 73% was spent on
workers salaries, creating 26,526 person-days work.
* An estimated number of 21,000 beneficiaries benefited from the outputs of the program.
* 33 NGOs implemented 33 projects, of which 12 projects are in Gaza and 21 in the West Bank.
* Various outputs were achieved from the implementation of the ERSP including land rehabilitation and
development, development of football fields and school playgrounds, construction of public buildings,
renovation and development of kindergartens, education compensation programs, production of
garrments and traditional Palestinian embroidery pieces, home products by women and psychological
counseling. For details see the summary table on achievements.
* 14.6% of the workers targeted were women. The percentage in the West Bank was 16.8% and in Gaza
it was 10.5%.
4.     Evaluation of Performance
The Program
* The program was very successful in targeting the needs of the poor communities under the emergency
situation.
* The program achieved its objective in creating temporary employment to workers who lost their jobs.
* The flexibility of the Program allowed for quick implementation and the successful achievement of
results.
The Bank
* The Bank introduced simplified procurement guidelines, though still cumbersome in some cases.
* The Bank staff assisted in resolving arising issues and worked as one team with the Project
- 12-



Management Organization (PMO).
PECDAR
* Reporting requirements were excessive. In similar programs reporting should be minimized to
bimonthly rather than monthly.
* A spirit of partnership and cooperation with PECDAR prevailed.
NGOs
* NGOs responded quickly to the program and submitted profound proposals in response to the
emergency situation.
* NGOs proved to adapt to the continuous changing environment and needs and implemented the projects
in a timely manner.
* NGOs adhered to all the implementation procedures advised by WAC
WAC
* WAC's past and long experience with the NGO sector was a major factor to the success of the
program.
* The professional and qualified staff assisted the NGOs to fulfill the requirements of the program and
the parties involved.
* Every project was closely monitored and visited by the Program Officers. The PMO, in locations
unreachable by its Program Officers, appointed external consultants for monitoring and visiting the
projects.
Program Obstacles
* Restriction on mobility delayed the implementation of some projects
* Closures affected the importing of construction material especially in Gaza, which also led to the
increase in the prices of the material.
* The involvement of too many parties in the implementation of the program (the World Bank,
PECDAR, WAC and the NGOs).
Lessons Learnt
The Welfare Association Consortium would like to record the following lessons, for future implementation
of similar programs:
i      The success of emergency programs is based on the quick response to the needs of the
communities.
ii     The project approval process should be minimized, and long bureaucratic procedures should be
streamlined and simplified, especially if we are talking about a quick response and work with small NGOs.
iui    Difficult, ambiguous and lengthy procurement procedures should be simplified.
iv     Disbursement procedures should be streamlined, made simpler and quicker.
v      What matters is that the end target beneficiaries are the unemployed workers. The equitable
distribution of grants among NGOs should not be a primary concern.
vi     The emergency program, in addition to employment generation, can respond to other rising
emergency needs.
vii    Eligibility criteria should be communicated better to NGOs and made clearer before the launch of
the program. For example, if the targets are only unskilled labor, this should be clarified from the
beginning.
viii   Field monitoring under the emergency situation cannot be as effective as under the normal
circumstances. Due to difficulty in mobility, regular field visits could not be carried out as anticipated. The
- 13-



PMO had in some cases to rely on the use of external consultants from the same geographic area and on the
confidence built with the NGOs.
ix     Large NGOs with higher grant amounts can more effectively achieve the objective of the program.
Yet this requires the presence of local committees in the communities and high coordination with the local
councils.
x      In the case of remote and isolated areas, small NGOs can be more effective, provided that they are
assisted in targeting their programs.
xi     Compared to other programs, the implementation rate of emergency projects is quicker.
10. Additional Information
Direct/Indirect impact of closure on lost jobs in Israel.
Figure 1: Palestinian Employment in Israel, 1999-2001
1,000 persons            Employment in Israel
140-
120 -
100Q
80
60-
40-
20.
0                                                   -
Q2 99 Q3 99 Q4 99 01 00 02 00 03 00 Q4 00 01 01 Q2 01
| 5_WB   -. G
14 -



Figure 2: Palestinian Employment in WBG, 1999-2001
1,000 persons                  Employment within WBG
350 
200-
150                 ~~. .... ...... ..i
100
Q2 99    Q3 99    Q4 99   Q1 00    Q2 00    Q3 00   Q4 00    01 01    Q2 01
-   - WB    --   , G
Comparison of Employment Generation Programs (1989-2001 *
Program                               Project               Budget      Person      Cost per       FIE*
(USS)        day      person-day
._____________________________I_          (USS)   '
Emergency EGS (April 96-June 96)            World Bank Diuect-hire (GZ)     1.443 m     133,200       10.83         1,776
Emergency EGS (April 96-June 96)            World Bank Direct-hire (WB)     2.704 m     232.675       11.62         3,102
Emergency EGS (April 96-Sep. 96)            UNRWA Gaza EEGS                  5.00 m     338.260       14.74         2,255
World Bank (Dec.00-Aug. 01)                 Emergency Response program      11.61 m     246,000       47.20        1,093
Save the Children Federation (Oct.93-Sep.94)  EGS                            4.80 m      87,279       55.00          114
Shelter Rehabilitation Program (Nov.94-Sep.96)  UNRWA-WB                    11.00 m     170,774       64.41          311
Sectoral Working Group (Nov.94 - Nov.95)    Parks Re-Transformation          2.20 m      33,398       65.87          113
Sectoral Working Group (Sep.95 - Sep.96)    EGP                              3.00 m      33,389       89.85          112
Sectoral Working Group (May 95 - Aug.96)    Japan Tiles                      5.00 m      52,292       95.62          139
Shelter Rehabilitation Program (May 89-Nov.94)  UNRWA-Gaza                   7.00 m      70,321       99.54          105
Sectoral Working Group (Sep.94-Dec.94)      Gaza Clean-Up                   5.00 m      48,725       102.62          487
* Extracted from MAS report except for the ERSP information.
**Full-time equivalent (FTE) is derived by dividing the total number of person.days created by a program by the number of work days
per month (25) and the number of months of the program.
- 15-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Objective                      Target (indicator)                   Achievement
1. Roads                         Roads(km) NA      69km of networks rehabilitated
Rehabilitation and
improvement of networks        Sidewalks (kin) NA  60 km. Constructed
2. Water & Sanitation           Sewage (km) NA     28 km constructed
Rehabilitation and improvement
of networks
3. Education and Health        Classrooms (no.) NA  204 classrooms constructed
Construction and Rehabilitation
of physical facilities          Health clinics NA   14 clinics constructed
4. Public Buildings & Others     Rooms (no.) NA     160 rooms were rehabilitated and constructed
Rehabilitation and construction o
buildings
5. Others                     Fences/Walls (km) NA  18km  of fences and 2km  of retaining walls
Construction of fences, retaining                 constructed
walls
6.Employment                  Person-days (no.) NA  Total of 246,000 person-days created
Increase in Employment
opportunities
7. Projects implemented       Projects (total no.) NA  134 in WB, 108 in Gaza, total 242
8. Beneficiaries              Beneficiaries (no.) NA  1,300,000
9. NGO's
9.1 Agriculture                       NA           504 donums were rehabilitated, 7,000 m of terraces
built, 31,740 seedlings planted. 40 water wells
completed. 65 Km of agricultural roads cleaned, 7
donums of schools playgrounds re-developed, and a
water well and reservoir for a school completed.
13,200 square meters of retaining walls built. 2
Km of agricultural roads rehabilitated, 600 m2 of
retaining walls built, three springs developed.
bout 1000 workers involved in the picking of
crops in Rafah. About 1200 Kg of fishing nets
produced for fishermen in Gaza. Hundreds of
donums of agricultural land cleaned in the Gaza
Strip. Fruit and flower farms in Beit Hanoun
cleaned and made ready for the new season.
9.2 Production and Income             NA           Thousands of pieces of embroidery, a variety of
Generation                                        sizes, produced by rural women. Production of
household and NGO income generating products
such as jams, medical herbs, frozen vegetables,
- 16 -



. cheese, honey and olive oil. About 6,200 items of
clothing produced. 12 dresses, 100 pillows, 25
pieces of clothes and different embroidery pieces
produced.
9.3 Education                         NA            36 kindergartens renovated/redeveloped.  80
square meters kindergarten constructed.  411
students benefited from an education compensation
program.
9.4 Special Needs                     NA           75 wheelchairs produced.  300 square meters
building used for sports activities, nursery,
classrooms and Internet. Completion of a 230
square meters hall used for social activities. A
180-m2 multipurpose hall built.
9.6 Youth and Sports                  NA           A 6 donum football field developed. Football field
in Qibya was developed, boundary walls for the
football field.
9.7 Health                            NA           A 120 square meters clinic finished. About 3,000
patients benefit from the finished health clinic.
9.8 Housing                           NA           16 houses in Gaza for very poor families were
rehabilitated.
9.9 Psychological Counseling         NA             232 treated for psychological stress in the Gaza Strip.
- 17 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component            US$ million  US$ million
I- Civil works, materials and incremental tools for LGUs  10.30  10.30           100
2- Civil works, materials and incremental tools for NGOs  1.00    1.00           100
3- Consulting services                             0.11           0.11           100
4- Incremental operating expenditures              0.20           0.20           100
Total Baseline Cost                                11.61         11.61
Physical Contingencies                            0.00           0.00             0
Price Contingencies                                0.00          0.00             0
Total Project Costs            11.61          11.61
Total Financing Required            11.61          11.61
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB          NCB         Other2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                    0.00          0.00        11.30        0.00         11.30
(0.00)       (0.00)       (11.30)      (0.00)      (11.30)
2. Goods                     0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
3. Services                 0.00          0.00        0.11          0.00        0.11
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0. 1 1)     (0.00)       (0. 1 1)
4. Incremental Operating     0.00         0.00         0.20         0.00        0.20
expenses                   (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.20)       (0.00)      (0.20)
Total                     0.00         0.00         11.61        0.00        11.61
(0.00)       (0.00)       (11.61)      (0.00)      (11.61)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB          NCB         Other2       N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                    0.00         0.00         11.30        0.00        11.30
(0.00)       (0.00)      (11.30)       (0.00)     (11.30)
2. Goods                     0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                 0.00         0.00         0.11         0.00        0.11
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.1 1)      (0.00)       (0.1 1)
4. Incremental Operating    0.00          0.00        0.20         0.00        0.20
expenses                   (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.20)       (0.00)       (0.20)
Total                     0.00         0.00        11.61         0.00       11.61
(0.00)       (0.00)      (11.61)       (0.00)     (11.61)
- 18-



Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
21Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemment units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component               Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate
IDA       Govt.      CoF.      IDA        Govt.      CoF.    IDA    Govt.   CoF.
Civil works, materials and  10.30    0.00      0.00       10.30      0.00      0.00     100.0   0.0    0.0
incremental tools for LGUs
Civil works, materials and  1.00     0.00      0.00       1.00       0.00      0.00     100.0   0.0    0.0
incremental tools for NGOs
Consulting services       0.11       0.00      0.00       0.11       0.00      0.00     100.0   0.0    0.0
Incremental operating     0.20       0.00      0.00       0.20       0.00      0.00     100.0   0.0    0.0
expenditures                                                                                            _
The fund was totally a grant from IDA.
- 19-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable. This is an emergency operation.
- 20 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                   No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)     Implementation  Development
Month/Year     Count           Specialty                       Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
11/00                        8    1 Sr. operations officer, I Sr.      S             S
Country officer, 3 operations
officer, I lead urban Planner, 1
NGOs Specialist, I legal adviser
Appraisal/Negotiation
12/00                        8    1 Sr. operations officer, I Sr.      S             S
Country officer, 3 operations
officer, I lead urban Planner,
I NGOs Specialist, I legal
adviser
Supervision
6/01                          6   2 Operations Officers, I Sr.         S             S
Economist, I NGOs
specialist, 1 Lead Urban
Planner, I Operation analyst
08/01                         6    1 Sr. operations officer, 2         S             S
operations officer, I lead urban
Planner, I NGOs Specialist, 1
operation analyst
ICR
2/01                          5    1 Sr. Operations Officer, 2         S             S
Operations Officer, I NGOs
specialist, 1 Operations
analyst, I consultant
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks               US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                 NA                           NA
Appraisal/Negotiation                      NA                           NA
Supervision                                 34                           75
ICR                                          6                           12
Total                                       40                           87
Part of the staff weeks and the cost were for the preparation of other cofinancing under the PEACE facility.
At preparation and appraisal, staff time was charged on other related projects.
- 21 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
L Macro policies                        O H  OSUOM       O N  * NA
Li Sector Policies                      OH    OSUOM      ON   * NA
0 Physical                              *H    OSUOM      O N  O NA
Li Financial                            O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
Z Institutional Development             O H   * SU 0 M   0 N  0 NA
F Environmental                         O H   * SU O M   O N  O NA
Social
F Poverty Reduction               * H  OSUOM       O N  O NA
OL Gender                         O H OSUOM O N * NA
3 Other (Please specify)          * H  OSUOM       O N  O NA
Emergency relief
O Private sector development            0 H   O SU * M   0 N  0 NA
Li Public sector management             0 H   O SU O M   0 N  * NA
O Other (Please specify)                * H   OSUOM      O N  O NA
Employment Generation
- 22 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
Z Lending                                           OHS*S OU OHU
Z Supervision                                        OHS OS       O U   O HU
Z Overall                                           OHS IDS       O U   O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
? Preparation                                       OHS *S        O  U  O HU
 Government implementation performance             O HS O S      0 U   0 HU
 Implementation agency performance                 O HS OS       O  U  0 HU
0 Overall                                           OHS OS 0 U O HU
Some of the implementing institutions were rated HS.
- 23 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1.    One Year of Intifada - The Palestinian Economy in Crisis, An Assessment, Nov. 15, 2001.
Draft, World Bank.
2.    Project Progress Reports.
3.    Procurement Post Review Audit report.
4.    Donors - Beneficiaries Workshops.
5.    ERSP - Video Film.
6.    QAG Evaluation Report
7.    CDP ICR
8.    ERP 11 ICR
10.   Consultants Reports
11.   Employment generation Schemes in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, S. Al-Botmeh and E.
Sayre, MAS, November 96,
-24 -



