Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11447
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2329-IN)
DECEMBER 21, 1992
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Name = Rupee (Rs)
US$1.0 = Rs 9.5
(At Appraisal, 1983)
US$1.0 - Rs 25.6
(At Closing, 1991)
Fiscal Year
April 1 - March 31
Abbreviations
DHE         Department of Housing and Environment, Madhya Pradesh
DLSG        Department of Local Self-Government, Madhya Pradesh
DUP         Directorate of Urban Projects, Madhya Pradesh
GOI         Government of India
GOMP        Government of Madhya Pradesh
HUDCO       Housing and Urban Development Corporation, Limited, India
MC          Municipal Corporation
MOF         Ministry of Finance, GOI
MOUD        Ministry of Urban Development, GOI; formerly Ministry of Works and
Housing (MOWH)
MP          Madhya Pradesh State
MPHB        Madhya Pradesh Housing Board
MPSCIB      Madhya Pradesh Slum Clearance and Improvement Board
MPTCPD      Town and Country Planning Department
NBO         National Building Organization, India
SADA        Special Area Development Authority
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report (no. 4359-IN)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 21, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on India
Madhya Pradesh Urban Development Proiect (Loan 2329-IN)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "India - Madhya Pradesh
Urban Development Project (Loan 2329-IN)" prepared by the South Asia Regional
Office with Part II contributed by the Borrower.
The project exceeded its main physical targets.   However, its
objectives in other areas--such as policy reforms, land acquisition, and cost
recovery--all proved too ambitious. Accordingly, while the project outcome is
rated as satisfactory, its sustainability is rated as marginal.
The main lesson is that organizational arrangements for project
preparation and implementation should closely match institutional goals and that
urban projects should incorporate well defined action plans with respect to
institutional development objectives to be agreed upon with relevant state and
project authorities.
The project will be audited together with other completed urban
operations in India.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiat duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wortd Bank authorization.



I



FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2329-IN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Preface    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .
Evaluation Summary ....................                                      ii
PART I : PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity .1
B. Background .1
C.    Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
D.    Project Design and Organization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
E. Project Implementation.                                              4
F.    Project Results and Sustainability  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
G.    Bank, Borrower, and Consultant Performance  . . . . . . . . . . 7
H.    Project Documentation and Data ............... . 9
PART II  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . .10
PART III   STATISTICAL INFORMATION (TABLES)
1.   Related Projects  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15
2. Project timetable    ..16
3.  Cumulative Loan Disbursement    ..16
4.    Project implementation: Time Schedule . . . . . . . . .17
5.    Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs .18
B. Project Financing .18
6.    Project Results
A. Physical Indicators .19
B. Economic Impact .19
C. Financial Impact .19
Dl. Studies for Local and State Agencies  . . . . . . . . . . . 20
D2. Technical Assistance for HUDCO  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
7. Status of Covenants    ..22
8.    Use of Bank Resources
A.    Staff   Input   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  23
B. Missions .23
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2329-IN)
PREFACE
1.          This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Madhya Pradesh
Urban Development Project, for which Loan 2329-IN in the amount of US$24.1
million was approved on July 19, 1983. The loan was closed on June 30, 1991, two
years behind schedule.   On November 1, 1989, US$6 million was canceled as a
result of project restructuring. In addition, the final undisbursed balance of
additional US$5.6 million was canceled as of July 3, 1991. In total, US$12.5
million, or 52% of the original loan amount was disbursed.
2.          This PCR was jointly prepared by the Infrastructure Operations
Division, Country Department II, South Asia Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation
Summary, Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part II).
3.          Preparation  of  this  PCR was  started  during  the  Bank's  final
supervision mission in April 1991, and is based, inter alia, on the Staff
Appraisal Report; the Loan and Project Agreements; supervision reports;
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.



I



ii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2329-IN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.          Objectives.  Immediate objectives of the project were (a) to reduce
the deficit in urban shelter and services in Madhya Pradesh and (b) to introduce
new planning and implementation strategies  for shelter projects.   Broader
objectives were (a) to improve municipal management and resource mobilization and
(b) to strengthen state as well as national level agencies responsible for urban
sector investments. This project was a distinct example of the Bank's attempt
at "learning by doing", being the first to support state-wide (rather than single
city) urban development project in India and to involve central agencies, in
particular the Housing and Urban Development Corporation (HUDCO), as sector
intermediaries.
2.          ImDlementation Experience. Major physical investment components were
carried out adequately, but other components fell short of targets as the wide
scope and ambitious aims of the project were not matched by the commitment and
capacity  of  the  local  institutions.    Institutional  weaknesses  and  land
acquisition problems had been recognized as main risks at the outset. However,
measures designed to deal with them proved insufficient, and most of the project
investment could not be started for almost two years after effectiveness. After
the delay, however, area development and slum upgrading schemes, accounting for
about three quarters of the total estimated project cost, were carried out at
acceptable speed and quality.   Cost recovery for area development has been
satisfactory, but only a small part of the slum upgrading costs has been
recovered. About 10% of the total project investment was allocated for low-cost
sanitation, municipal maintenance and solid waste management. They entailed at
least as difficult institutional issues as the main shelter components, but did
not receive adequate attention either during preparation or implementation, and
as a result, fell short of the targets.
3.          Of the technical  assistance and training components under the
project, about a third (in terms of cost) was designated for the state agencies
and the remainder for the central agencies. Implementing agencies of the state
carried out most of their technical assistance components and utilized the
results to strengthen institutional capacity, particularly in areas directly
related to the main physical components such as planning, financial management
and supervision of projects.   However,  studies aimed at broader policy and
institutional reforms, regarding municipal management and land and housing
development, have not been carried out with clear focus nor followed up
effectively. Such reforms would have required: commitment and involvement by
higher levels of government than the institutional structure established for the
project; and a clearer and more detailed definition of elements and steps leading



iii
to the reforms than was apparently possible with the state of knowledge at the
time of project design.   Little of the technical assistance for the central
agencies was ever carried out for lack of commitment by the central government
agencies. The project intermediaries performed well as channels of project funds
but made little technical or managerial contribution.
4.          Results.  The project helped provide better shelter and services for
more than 80,000 households, exceeding the main physical targets. New planning
and implementation strategies introduced for area development and slum upgrading
schemes met initial resistance but eventually have been well accepted by the
implementing agencies and are being adopted for similar projects in the state.
Implementation management capabilities have also been strengthened considerably
during the project. However, only a groundwork was laid during the project for
recovery of slum upgrading costs, and low-cost sanitation (latrines) remains
unpopular among agencies and users. Little progress has been made toward broader
and fundamental reforms of sector policies and institutions. Mainly because of
the devaluation of the Rupee, only about half of the loan was disbursed.
5.          Sustainabilitv.  Under the shelter components, the project created
durable physical assets and also a model for efficient delivery of shelter and
supporting services. Sustainability of the low-cost sanitation and municipal
maintenance facilities is questionable given the continuing weakness of the
overall municipal management systems. Small steps made during the project toward
broad policy and institutional reform could provide a useful basis for necessary
sector development in the state, if such efforts are continued.
6.          Findinas and lessons learned.   Among the wealth of lessons and
insights gained from this experimental project, the following appear the most
important:
(a)   Organizational   arrangements   for   project   preparation   and
implementation should closely match project objectives, especially
institutional development goals. They should include agencies that
have authorities and capacities to carry out necessary actions in a
coordinated framework;
(b)   Sound feasibility studies and detailed designs are critical not only
for physical components but also for institutional development
efforts.   Specific terms of reference and action plans should be
agreed upon with relevant authorities, most critically with the
state government in the case of urban management issues.   These
should be adapted to the existing practices and broader
institutional context.   Even so, reforms affecting institutional
mandates (of housing authorities, e.g.) and income redistribution
(e.g. cost recovery) are likely to be difficult;
(c)   The project proved HUDCO to be an efficient funding channel, but
provided weak evidence of its function as a sector intermediary.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2329-IN)
PART I : PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Prolect Identity
Project Name:     Madhya Pradesh Urban Development Project
Loan Number:       2329-IN
RVP Unit:          Country Department II, South Asia Regional Office
Country:           India
Sector:            Infrastructure
Subsector:         Urban Development
B. Background
1.          Sector Development Obiectives.  In order to help raise the level of
urban services in India, especially for the lower income groups, the Bank Group
has been pursuing a sector development strategy aiming at: (i) efficient resource
use through new design and implementation methods; (ii) increased resource
mobilization including more cost recovery from beneficiaries; (iii) a gradual
transfer of responsibility for shelter and service provision from the public to
the private sector, with the public sector focusing on land and infrastructure
provision; and (iv) enhanced capacity of sector management institutions. These
objectives have been pursued consistently through the Bank Group operations from
the late 1970s to date, except small changes in relative emphasis and specific
targets, and now are embraced as part of GOI's new urban development strategy.
2.          Policy Context.  The project was formulated at the time when the
objectives and strategy for Bank assistance to India's urban sector, begun ten
years earlier, were being redefined, and represented an important part of the
process of "learning by doing." Until the early 1980s Bank Group's urban sector
operations in India were confined to three metropolitan areas (Bombay, Calcutta,
Madras). With the Sixth Five-Year Plan (1980-85), the Government of India (GOI)
began to emphasize the development of small and medium-sized towns which as a
whole were growing more rapidly than the metropolitan areas. The state of Madhya
Pradesh provided a good model for the new policy emphasis as it had a large
number of medium-sized cities whose populations as well as deficiencies in urban
services and shelter were growing fast. Also from the Bank's point of view, the
state provided a new multi-city framework where it can introduce and experiment
with mechanisms to manage the growing portfolio of the urban projects in India
and to expand their impacts beyond single metropolitan areas.



2
C. Proiect Obiectives and Description
3.          Proiect oblectives.
(a)   To reduce the serious deficit in urban shelter and services in ten
cities through area development and slum upgrading;
(b)   to demonstrate new planning and implementation strategies  (e.g
efficient land use planning and improved cost recovery);
(c)   to improve urban management and resource mobilization and strengthen
state-level agencies active in the urban sector;
(d)   to improve the capacities of national level institutions to prepare,
appraise, supervise and evaluate this type of project.
4.    Proiect Components.
(a)   Area Development: about 18,500 serviced plots with shelter loans
and community facilities in up to ten cities, including medium-sized towns
identified during the project implementation ("Subproject");
(b)   Slum Upgrading: upgrading of 75 slums with provision of tenure,
services, home improvement loans and community facilities;
(c)   Low-Cost Sanitation: loans for installation of individual pour-flush
latrines, including demonstration units;
(e)   Off-site Infrastructure: a bypass road in Bhilai providing access to
project sites;
(f)   Municipal  Maintenance  and  Solid  Waste  Management:  equipment
procurement and management improvement for maintenance of roads,
drains and sewers, solid waste collection, maintenance workshops and
depots;
(g)   Technical Assistance to: state agencies including the Housing Board,
Town and Country Planning Department, Municipal Corporations,
Development   Authorities,   and   the   Directorate   of   Urban
Administration; HUDCO, and through it, to its borrowers; and other
central agencies including Ministry of Urban Development and
agencies under it.
D. Proiect Design and Organization
5.          The project was timely and relevant as it recognized and addressed
key emerging issues of urban development in the state of Madhya Pradesh as well
as in India as a whole, and as it helped define the urban sector strategy of the
Bank  and  GOI,  which  remain  largely  relevant  to  date.    It  involved  an
unprecedented range of issues, components, and project locations, matched by an
array of innovative features, both physical and institutional. It incorporated
design features relatively new in India, for integrated area development and slum



3
upgrading, cost recovery, and low-cost sanitation.   It also introduced new
institutional arrangements, involving not only a large number of local agencies
but also key sector agencies at the national level. Specifically, it identified
as the core intermediary the Housing and Urban Development Corporation, Ltd.
(HUDCO), an autonomous GOI undertaking which by then had become the primary
financial channel for urban development ("Housing and Urban Development
Corporation: Its Potential Role in World Bank Assisted Projects," Report No.
3830-IN, dated April 1982). By involving the central agencies in the project
implementation and strengthening their capacity, the project attempted to prepare
them for similar but enhanced roles in the future, helping to manage the growing
portfolio of Bank-financed urban projects in India and to maximize its national
policy impact.
6.          Given  the project's  scope  and  emphases,  its  success  depended
critically on the institutional arrangements and commitment were. Recognizing
the institutional weakness as the primary risk, the Bank invested considerable
resources for preparatory studies, designed an elaborate institutional
arrangement, and allocated 13% of the total project investment, or 27% of the
loan, to technical assistance and training. These provisions, however, turned
out to be ineffective due to deficiencies both in design and implementation.
HUDCO, the central element of the project organization, performed well as the
funding channel. However, it failed to fulfill the full intermediation role as
envisaged, including supervision and technical assistance, due to a lack of
commitment and an adequate management structure. Even if it had played its role
substantially better, it is doubtful whether the project could have been carried
out as envisaged by the SAR in full; the project would have needed a strong,
well-focused implementation organization at the state level.   In the state,
however, many local and state-level agencies carried out fragments of the project
without clear organizational focus. Of the dozen or so agencies involved in the
project, the Madhya Pradesh Housing Board (MPHB) was the only state-level agency
directly responsible for a substantial and specific part of the project. It was
also responsible for channeling project funds at the state level. By default,
therefore, MPHB acted as the main anchor for the entire project, supporting the
Directorate of Urban Projects (DUP), an ad hoc agency set up by the MP Department
of Housing and Environment (DHE) to coordinate the project with insufficient
authority and staff.   While these two agencies carried out their functions
adequately, they did not have the scope and level of authority necessary to carry
out the full range of project activities, especially concerning policy reforms.
7.          In short,  the project  organization  lacked  relevant  authority,
capacity and focus. Technical assistance to shore up organizational capacity was
not carried out as planned for want of commitment and defined terms of reference.
Even if it were, it would have been insufficient and too late to be effective.
In retrospect, the Bank overestimated the capacity and commitment of local
institutions involved, particularly with regard to policy and institutional
reforms, and underestimated the importance of the state government in urban
management, apparently reflecting the Bank's lack of experience with sector
institutions at state and national levels at the time.   It is difficult to
conclude from the experience of this project whether the shortcomings of the
project can be attributed to the design and institutional details or to the
project's essential features - scope, complexity, institutional development
goals, and involvement of national intermediaries. It is clear, however, that



4
the project's aims and attempted innovations remain attractive today, yet
attaining them would require much more intensive preparation and supervision
efforts than have been invested under this project.
E. Proiect Implementation
8.          The project started slowly after it became effective in late 1983,
was restructured modestly in 1989, and closed in June 1991, two years behind
schedule.   Of the original loan amount of US$24.1 million, US$6 million was
canceled at the time of restructuring, and an undisbursed balance of US$5.6
million was canceled at closing. The main reason for the disbursement shortfall
(48%) was the fast devaluation of Rupee, from Rs 9.5 per US$ in 1983 to Rs 25.6
in 1991. Non-performance of technical assistance for central agencies was also
partly responsible. The project implementation was an experience of learning and
development for all parties involved. While certain common themes such as the
institutional arrangement elaborated in Section D above can be found, the
accomplishments and difficulties varied for the many disparate components of the
project and provide important lessons concerning diverse issues, as discussed in
turn below.
9.          Area Development, or sites and services, was the major component
accounting for more than half of the total project cost (including the
"Subprojects" identified later). The SAR correctly identified land acquisition
as a major risk, but expected that the project could proceed at a reasonable
speed, as some of the sites would be worked on while others were being acquired.
In fact, however, most land acquisition was stalled, delaying the start-up of
most of the sites by about two years and two of the sites by about four years.
Even at the project closing, parts of two sites were still under dispute.
However, MPHB obviously learned the lesson and secured all land for the
Subprojects before  their implementation  started in  1987.   The quality of
construction management also was problematic at the start, but improved gradually
in the course of the project implementation. As a result, the Subprojects and
expanded area development schemes added as part of project restructuring were
essentially completed within the remaining two or three years, compared with
about five years for the original schemes. However, the implementing agencies
remain primarily interested in construction of public housing; they showed little
interest or skill in selling plots, especially without building houses on them,
in managing shelter loans, or getting other agencies to provide necessary
utilities in time.
10.         Slum Upgradinx was implemented well in most cases thanks largely to
dedicated municipal officers who worked closely with the affected communities,
though contractual disputes or municipal government instability caused serious
interruptions in a few cases.   In contrast to the good physical progress,
however, cost recovery has been minimal in all but one city, and is likely to
fall much short of the original target of recovering 75% of total cost. For much
of the project period, lack of cost recovery was attributed mainly to a GOMP act
of 1984 which legalized occupancy rights ("patta") of squatters on public land,
emasculating the plan to recover costs in return for tenure. Much effort was
directed toward undoing the effect of the Act by another legislative action. As
a result, the Slum Improvement Act was amended in 1988 to allow improvement
charges to be levied on certain upgraded slums.   Nevertheless,  a detailed



5
analysis by a mission in 1988 showed that the impact of the Patta Act had been
overestimated: the Act extended free patta only to a small plot for each family,
which amounted to less than half of the slum land area.  Accordingly, a new
strategy was devised to recover most of the cost from those occupying relatively
large plots who were presumably more able and willing to pay for the property
rights.  A plan of action based on the new strategy and the new legal provision
were carried out, but very slowly in most cities.   It appears that the main
factor for the slow cost recovery all along has been the reluctance of the
municipal authorities to recover any cost, in the face of resistance of the
communities, especially in view of a parallel GOI program in the same localities
which did not require any cost recovery. The resistance by the beneficiaries may
partly be attributed to the lack of their involvement in design or execution of
the slum upgrading.  Although the project provided for training of community
workers to assist in low-income settlement programs, community involvement was
not explicitly planned or attempted in a systematic fashion.
11.         Low-cost Sanitation (LCS), specifically double-pit pour-flush latrine
technology, was promoted both for area development schemes as well as for
existing houses throughout the involved municipalities. Despite the success of
the technology in other parts of the country, however, this component could not
overcome technical difficulties and cultural and institutional resistance in MP.
Soil conditions in some localities made the typical double-pit latrine
ineffective, and its modification too expensive. Cultural bias prompted many
occupants of new plots provided with the double-pit latrines under the area
development schemes to construct alternative latrines.   It might have been
possible to overcome these problems through education and technical adaptations.
However, most implementing agencies were themselves resistant to the new
technology, and the Technology Advisory Group of the Water Supply and Sanitation
Decade Program, the main advocacy group asked to help during the project, was not
able to provide sufficient support.   City-wide LCS programs were even more
difficult to implement as the municipalities lacked the administrative capacity
and as the full repayment requirement at commercial interest rates added to the
users' resistance and administrative complications.
12.         Municipal Maintenance and Solid Waste Management components were not
closely integrated with the rest of the project either in design or
implementation. The Directorate of Urban Administration, which would have been
the most closely associated with the components, was not assigned any specific
role under the project.   As a result, MPHB and DUP played the main role in
coordinating equipment selection and procurement with limited participation of
beneficiary municipalities.   Studies to define equipment needed as well as
related managerial and financial improvements were marred by poor administration
and were not followed up in any meaningful fashion, putting the efficacy of the
equipment procured in doubt.
13.         Technical Assistance and Training (TA) in technical subjects directly
related to the main physical components were carried out generally in line with
the plan and led to financial management improvement of MPHB and several
Development Authorities. In general, however, training needs were not defined
before the project start and the Ministry of Urban Development (MOUD) failed to
carry out the planned study of training needs. As a result, training programs
were conceived and implemented in an unsystematic fashion, and it is difficult



6
to judge their relevance or effect.  In fact, none of the TA that was to be
carried out by MOUD and agencies under it was carried out, due to the lack of
commitment and concrete proposal by MOUD and the refusal of the Ministry of
Finance to honor the project agreement to provide the loan proceeds as grant for
the central TA. The same refusal applied to TA for HUDCO. When the project was
restructured in 1989, it was agreed that the central TA should be canceled except
a provision to reimburse the expenditures that had already been made by HUDCO.
Studies aimed at institutional and policy changes in Madhya Pradesh were carried
out but were not managed or followed up adequately due to the lack of relevant
organizational framework as described in paras 6 and 12 above.
F. Proiect Results and Sustainability
14.         Targets for the main physical components, area development and slum
upgrading, have been exceeded: 24,500 serviced sites and core houses have been
built, compared with 22,750 planned originally; and 408 ha of slum areas were
improved benefitting 57,000 households, compared with 220 ha and 37,000
households. In addition, the bypass road in Bhilai (off-site infrastructure),
though yet to be paved,  is already being used heavily.   Benefits of slum
upgrading have been immediate and visible, and residents have already made
substantial investment to improve housing and other facilities, as foreseen as
a major benefit to follow the neighborhood upgrading. These benefits are likely
to be sustained and expanded as economic situation of the slum dwellers improve
gradually. Due to the scarcity of rental market in the slums concerned, reliable
data is not available to improve on the SAR estimate of the economic rate of
return (19Z based on implicit rental values). On the other hand, the lack of
cost recovery limits the replicability of the program and could jeopardize
maintenance of common facilities.
15.         By the project closing, about a third of the plots and core houses
built under the area development component were occupied.   Experience with
similar projects in India suggests that it could take up to ten years, depending
upon location, for the project sites to be fully occupied. Market values of the
plots were being formed and yet to be stabilized at the time of project closing,
the values ranging up to seven times the level required for full cost recovery.
Assuming the plots will be settled in with an average waiting period of five
years and their prices will settle around three times the cost level on average,
the ERR would be about 21%, compared with the original estimate of 14%. Although
the quality of maintenance of the area-wide infrastructure would be limited by
the capacity of the implementing agencies and the municipalities, individual
plots are expected to be well maintained and further developed by owner-
occupiers.
16.         Other  physical  components,  low-cost  sanitation  and  municipal
maintenance, accomplished less than the original target and the sustainability
is in doubt. Many of the double-pit latrines installed under area development
and slum upgrading components are not used, and the usage could decline further
without strong educational efforts. Equipment procured to help improve municipal
maintenance and solid waste management could soon fall into disuse, given the
continuing financial and management weaknesses of the municipalities.



7
17.         The project introduced a new model of shelter project design and
implementation, both for area development and slum upgrading. Many of the design
features such as reduced shelter and infrastructure standards, efficient layout
of clusters and roads, and integrated facilities planning have come to be
appreciated and adopted widely by the sector agencies, although they still
consider some of the infrastructure standards too low to accommodate future
demands. Technical and financial management of the works has also been improved.
However, little more than the first step was taken toward fundamental reform
goals, especially those involving institutional interests and behavior.  The
agencies responsible for area development remain interested mainly in physical
construction, and have shown little interest or skill in other functions,
including sale of the completed plots, especially those without built structures,
and loan and settlement management. A study to identify regulatory impediments
to housing development and necessary reforms to correct them was carried out
inadequately.   Nevertheless,  the Bank's consistent policy dialogues at the
central and state levels in relation to the many urban projects proceeding at the
same time appear to have contributed to GOMP's housing policy of 1988 that
incorporated several of the sector reform aims of the project. However, findings
of the study on municipal management were put to little use as the relevant
state-level agencies which had the sufficient authority did not participate in
the studies or their follow-up.
18.         In  short,  while  the project made  a substantial  and  tangible
contribution to alleviating immediate deficiencies in urban housing and technical
capacity of the sector agencies in the state, it contributed little to policy and
institutional improvements with far-reaching and long-term implications for
sector development. Judging from the standard that the project set for itself,
therefore, the project may be considered to have failed in an important aspect.
Nevertheless, one wonders if the project's scope and aims as they were designed
were feasible. Rather, the accomplishment under the shelter components and the
lessons learned regarding the issues and institutions involved may be considered
a successful outcome, especially given the modest resources invested and the
Bank's unfamiliarity with the relevant issues at the time of the project
preparation.  In order to move toward the ultimate, institutional aim of the
project, GOI, GOMP, HUDCO, and the Bank would need to build upon the project's
achievements and lessons.
G. Performance of Bank. Borrower, and Consultants
19.         Bank Performance.   The Bank can be credited  for the thorough
background investigation, close consultation with and hands-on assistance to
local officials, especially to introduce new approaches to housing and urban
development design and implementation. These, however, were still insufficient
for the ambitious scope and aims of the project, though the scope was somewhat
reduced from the state's original proposal. In particular, the preparation fell
short of defining specific terms of reference for various technical assistance,
institutional arrangement and steps to carry out these as well as cost recovery.
Instead, it put more responsibility on national agencies than they were capable
of handling.   During implementation, once it became clear that the national
intermediaries could not carry out their supervision roles as expected, the Bank
had to fill the gap with the help of DUP, both with limited resources. It is
arguable whether the Bank made the right decision when it chose to narrow the



8
focus of supervision under the circumstances, to concentrate on the main shelter
components and a few studies at the state level, giving up on the aim of
strengthening national intermediaries. Although the areas the Bank focused its
attention on yielded tangible and adequate results, it is difficult to say if
some progress could have been made toward the aims abandoned mid-course. It is
clear, however, that these aims remain attractive today, yet similarly ambitious
and innovative features would require much more intensive preparation and
supervision efforts than were given this project.
20.         Borrower Performance.  Performance of the implementing agencies of
the state improved progressively over the course of the implementation and was
in general adequate. MPHB and Development Authorities carried out their area
development components adequately. Although land acquisition and plot allocation
were problematic, they were also improved noticeably. Further, MPHB channeled
the project funds satisfactorily and carried out additional coordination
responsibilities reasonably, filling some of the gap left by national agencies,
within the bounds of its own mandate and interest.  DHE, and especially DUP,
performed the coordinating tasks which were left to them unexpectedly by the
failure of national agencies competently. Municipal authorities, particularly
in two of the cities, carried out slum upgrading with impressive dedication and
skills, but most showed little commitment to cost recovery or wide institutional
improvement. The main problem that plagued the performance of these otherwise
well-performing agencies was lack of continuity in staffing, partly related to
political changes. Little participation was seen by three agencies which were
explicitly included as part of the project organization: the Town and Country
Planning Department, the Directorate of Urban Administration, and the Slum
Clearance Board.
21.         HUDCO performed well as a financial intermediary, freeing the project
of counterpart funding problems (but at the cost of high interest, according to
GOMP).   However, it fulfilled little else of its role expected as the main
intermediary for the project. Its supervision was intermittent and perfunctory,
its assistance in preparation and appraisal of subprojects was technically
inadequate, its own studies and training programs were unsystematic, and it
provided little support for policy-related studies and follow-up actions. These
failures can be attributed to a lack of capacity and commitment and, according
to HUDCO, the lack of incentive as the loan simply replaced other institutional
credit allocation for it instead of adding to its resources.   The Ministry of
Finance did not abide by the project agreement by refusing to make the loan
proceeds available to HUDCO and MOUD as technical assistance grants. This was
partly because MOUD failed to formulate any concrete proposal and pursue the
grant allocated to it.
22.         Prolect Relationship.  The relationship between the Bank and state
implementing agencies were close and in general cooperative, although frictions
arose mainly over the Bank's attempt to limit the extent of house construction
by the implementing agencies on serviced sites, to enforce procurement guidelines
strictly, and to have costs recovered as agreed. Although the project design
envisaged unusually close working relationship between the Bank and the national
agencies, the relationship soon reverted to an usual one limited to formal wrap-
up meetings and communications.



9
23.         Performance  of  Consultants,  Contractors  and  Suppliers  can be
considered, in short, typical in the sense that most fulfilled their contracts
adequately with a few inadequate and exceptional ones.   On the other hand,
management of contracts by the implementing agencies was plagued with problems,
especially in the early phase of the project: reluctance to engage consultants;
improper bidding procedures; vague terms of reference and lax contract
supervision; and delayed payments.   Consultant services represented critical
elements in carrying out three of the project components.  In one, financial
management improvement for several implementing agencies, the consultant services
were satisfactory and led to effective implementation. In the second, GOMP's
insistence on improper sole sourcing of solid waste management study led to non-
financing of the study by the Bank, inadequate results, an additional study, and
the eventual delay in equipment procurement. On the third, the consultant failed
to deliver relevant studies on regulatory impediments in housing sector in time,
contributing to the failure in this critical policy reform agenda.
H. Project Documentation and Data
24.         The legal agreements and the SAR were comprehensive and clear of main
thrusts of the project, and provided a useful reference for the project
implementation in general. The main weakness of SAR was its failure to define
detailed terms of reference or implementation arrangements for the technical
assistance component.  Another feature of SAR that created problems, related
mainly to the borrower's internal procedures, was the cost tables that specified
Rupee amounts by detailed components and year, which limited flexibility. Most
of the data necessary to prepare this PCR were readily available from the Bank
archives  and the borrower.   It is, however,  difficult  to relate project
expenditures to disbursement of funds from various sources (the Bank, GOMP, and
HUDCO) as the accounts of the three intervening levels (GOI, HUDCO, and MPHB) are
not coordinated in terms of timing or format.



10
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2329-IN)
PART II : PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Lessons Learned
The project greatly helped in setting out (among implementing
agencies) appreciation for an improved project design and implementation culture
involving understanding needs of beneficiaries, effective exploitation of
topographical features, soil conditions, in evolving design of layout
simultaneously with services network to achieve cost effective utility services
systems, and evolving planning and design norms to match the affordability
levels, optimization of land efficiency etc. along with improved construction
management techniques.
The project has been effectively targeted towards urban poor, which
has substantially strengthened the government managed housing programs to make
the housing units to be made available in installments, within their affordable
means.
The agencies have learned to design the schemes achieving full cost
recovery, with more than 2/5th of the beneficiaries belonging to poorest of the
poor.    Facilitator's  role  of government  for providing  shelter  is better
understood through implementation of core housing approach and concepts of
incremental growth concept in dwelling unit designs, against housing scheme in
its complete shape. Optimization of project resources and benefits sharing among
large number of beneficiaries is now better understood by the project team.
The project implementation has helped the agencies to learn the art
of enlarging the scope of resource mobilization and beneficiaries coverage with
use of minimum public resources.
Project agency staff got better exposure to urban development
management issues through implementation of MPUDP in the area of (a) site
selection and project appraisal, (b) developing project design culture, (c)
optimizing project cost economics, (d) tendering process, (e) better appreciation
and use of construction management techniques, (f) developing skills of quality
supervision, (g) marketing of houses sites/shelter units, (h) appreciation for
reducing procedural delays, (i) appreciation for evolving systems to reduce the
duration of project implementation and speedy site occupancy, (j) appreciation
for evolving cost effective designs, (k) optimizing on cost of land development
as well as cost of building.
However, the traditional project management culture, which is
presently unconcerned with performance approach, could not bring in expected
levels of improvement in practicing the new ideas in the area of planning,
design, construction and management approaches and marketing of sites and shelter



11
units effectively.  It is also realized that lack of effective communication
between site staff, contractors team, senior level supervisors official, led to
inordinate delays. Traditional culture of working with least number of project
drawings also adversely affected the quality of work, its speed as well as
executing design ideas effectively.   Frequent change of person el of project
implementation agency worked against the (culturisation] of improved project
implementation systems.   This needs to be looked into to achieve effective
results.
In order to achieve more effective results, there is a need to bring
in (a) freedom of decision making among site staff for taking corrective steps,
(b) setting up a effective communication system among project design staff, site
engineers and estate management officials, (c) needed improvement in tender
preparation and tendering process, (d) use of modern project management tools and
equipment, (e) continuous monitoring and evaluations of project implementation,
(f) establishing a project management culture open to absorbing established new
cost effective technologies akin to local conditions.
Although the need for evolving efficient planning norms have been
appreciated at all levels yet in evolving effective and affordable planning norms
the project has gone too far in reducing the road standards.   In anxiety of
adopting affordable norms, the criteria of road width-length relationship and its
trip catchment zone have been overlooked. In Ujjain central road link meant to
serve more than 10,000 families as well as traffic from adjacent areas is only
3 meters wide inclusive of surface drains. Similar is the case in Raipur scheme
where central spine of about 1 km length linking 3 slices is only 6 meters wide.
Access standards adopted for urban poor housing also needs to be carefully
evaluated, taking cognizance of likely mode in use by the urban poor vis-a-vis
size of city, length of work trips involved.
Single tender approach for each site/slice has been found to be
successful which resulted in absence of contractual problems involving site
construction and development works under components like Area Development, Slum
Upgrading, Sanitation in 10 project cities covered under the programs.
2.    Areas for Improvement
-     Setting out beneficiaries identification process and its appropriate
timing, with an objective of achieving faster occupancy as well as cash
in-flow.
Assessment of better understanding of affordability levels of EWS/LIG
categories.
Way to reduce the damage done to the infrastructure assets created, due to
building construction phase of the project by the beneficiaries have to be
evolved. [Upgradable] infrastructure approach may be resorted. Provision
for operational and maintenance cost during the building construction
phase of the project is also called for.



12
Appropriating properly the market rates of the developed sites and
developed plot rate being charged to the beneficiary of different income
levels.
Economic criteria adopted for beneficiaries selection have been difficult
to implement particularly in EWS/LIG category, who formed the major
content of the target group addressed under the project. This resulted in
poor performance in beneficiaries selection allocation/shelter loan
activities. This needs to be reviewed. The beneficiaries could be given
freedom to choose the plot/Core house/dwelling unit as per their need.
There exists a need for giving adequate time for identification of site,
project formulation and preparing planning and design brief for each
scheme.   The project design details  and working  drawings  should be
furnished well in advance before the scheme is floated for tendering. The
project planning and design details should also be discussed from time to
time among all the project staff and related with site works being carried
out, to take corrective steps well in advance. Implementation schedule be
drawn in consultation with site engineers, contractor and the project
designers.
Shelter loan component of the project failed for reasons of (a) delayed
decision on increasing the loan value (b) meager loan amount in case of
EWS category (c) delay in beneficiaries selection (d) procedural delays
(e) poor marketing strategy and estate management set-up (f) delayed
allocation and possession granting process (g) non-implementation of
technical assistance program and guidance to the beneficiaries at due to
paucity of staff at site.
Slum upgrading program created a desirable impact in improving the living
conditions of slum families.   In Raipur region the slum improvement
program preempted large number of families to improve their shelter, as
well as raised level of community participation in maintenance and up-keep
of their surroundings. Effective cooperation and adjustment was also seen
in reshaping their plots to achieve better circulation for the slum
basties (=slums). Individual sanitation programs have particularly not
been successful, in such basties where space was available nearby for open
defecation. This program, however, could have yielded more success with
community organization input and effective beneficiaries participation.
Pour flush sanitation units in Raipur, Ujjain and Dewas were found
unacceptable to the beneficiaries. This is partly due to poor knowledge
among  the users  about the technology  involved.   This  solution also
demanded both side sullage drains to serve waste disposal from
kitchen/bath as well as rain water disposal, whereas project design
provided only one side drain. 3 meter width of streets could not support
both side drains, street lights, etc. and as such have proved to be sub-
standard in layouts which were not designed on cluster approach.  This
solution was considered to be cost effective and least maintenance cost
solution, which has resulted just the opposite.



13
There is a need to organize post evaluation assessment of use of public
and semi-public open space system, adopted in various housing layouts.
Alternative designs adopted in different cities need to be assessed
objectively to make a judgement on how beneficiaries have responded to the
different layout designs adopted under the project.
Land availability at suitable location to suit the target group is a key
input for success of any urban development program. Government policies,
legal acts, and procedure of land acquisition are posing serious problems
for timely land supply. Government policies need to be recast so as to
facilitate easy supply of land. Nothing much has happened effectively in
this regard, so far. Major changes are called for to generate systems in
which role of private sectors land owners, community groups becomes
effective.
Project implementation created a good project management and
monitoring system, which has proved to be a relatively successful strategy in
achieving and overall control of project implementation information system. Such
an effort needs to be expanded at the state level for their normal urban and
infrastructure development investment program.
3.    Bank's Performance
Bank officials have been visiting regularly throughout the phase of
detailed project formulation and project execution. The frequency timing and
duration of fielding missions has been found to be adequate. The mission's Aide
Memoires have been found to be effective management tools, for DUP as well as
Bank officials to achieve project results.
Project team officials' interaction with Bank mission teams during
the project implementation period has been effective and useful.   The Bank
responses to the communication by the project management unit (DUP) have been
very quick which helped in taking faster decisions in various matters involving
Bank's approval. Technical input of experts from the Bank side has been adequate
and timely.



14
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2329-IN)
PART III : STATISTICAL INFORMATION



15
Table 1. Related Prolects
(Multi-component Urban Development Projects in India
with Focus on Shelter)
Loan/Credit
and Amount             Approval - Closing
Proiect Title                      (US$ Million)            (Bank Fiscal Year)
First  Calcutta  Urban       Cr.  427-IN: US$35.0           1973-79
Development
First   Madras   Urban       Cr.  687-IN: US$24.0           1977-83
Development
Second Calcutta Urban        Cr.  756-IN: US$87.0           1977-84
Development
Second  Madras  Urban        Cr. 1082-IN: US$42.0           1980-88
Development
K a n p u r    U r b a n      Cr. 1185-IN: US$25.0          1982-87
Development
Third  Calcutta  Urban        Cr. 1369-IN: US$147.0         1983-92
Development
B o m b a y    U r b a n      Cr. 1544-IN: US$138.0         1985 (on-going)
Development
Uttar  Pradesh  Urban         Cr. 1780-IN: US$130.0         1987 (on-going)
Development                   Ln. 2797-IN: US$20.0
Tamil    Nadu    Urban        Cr. 1923-IN: US$300.2         1988 (on-going)
Development



16
Table 2. Prolect Timetable
DATES
ITEM                                PLANNED       REVISED        ACTUAL
Identification (EPS)              Jan/Feb '81    ---            Mar    81
Preparation                       May/Sep  81    -------         Jun    81
- May 82
Appraisal Mission                 June      82    Sep 82         Nov-Dec 82
Loan Negotiations                 July      82    Apr 83         May     83
Board Approval                    Dec       82    Jun 83         June 28, 83
Loan Signature                    Dec       82                   July 19, 83
Loan Effectiveness                Oct 19   83    Nov 21, 83   Jan 16, 84
Loan Closing                      June 30,89       June 30, 90  June 30, 91
Loan Completion                    -------         -------       July 3. 91
Table 3. Cumulative Loan Disbursement
(US$ Thousand)
Original   Revised    Actual           Z        Z
(SAR)     (3/89)                    of        of
Up to            Estimate   Estimate             Original  Revised
June 30, 1984        700                    60         9%
Dec. 31, 1984      1,800                    60         3%
June 30, 1985      3,700                   516        14%
Dec. 31, 1985      6,100                   928        15%
June 30, 1986      8,900                 1,633        18%
Dec. 31, 1986    11,900                  2,121        18Z
June 30, 1987    14,900                  3,926        26%
Dec. 31, 1987    17,900                  4,904        27%
June 30, 1988    20,500                 10,206        50%
Dec. 31, 1988    22,700                 10,206        45%
June 30, 1989    24,100                 10,206        42%
Dec. 31, 1989    24,100    12,385    10,206           42%       82%
June 30, 1990    24,100    14,410    10,826           45%       75%
Dec. 31, 1990    24,100    15,401    11,362           47%       74%
June 30, 1991    24,100    15,401    11,668           48%       76%
Dec. 31, 1991    24,100    15,401    12,457           52%       81%



17
Table 4. Project Implementation
Time Schedule
Component/       Calendar Years
Actvity          1983 1 1984  1985  1986 1 1987 11988 1 189  1990  1991
AREA DEVELOPMENT
Land Acquisition  - ------
Civil Works                         -----------_
I                ~~~~+ + ++++-+ +++ | 
Plot Allocation                 _         _____                        +++
ADDITIONAL AREA DEV"   MENT IN MED UM TO  NS (S4BPRC3
Selection &          --____-__-
Preparation                       | ==  ==  _              + ++
Civil Works           !--____                      ____        +++++ +++4
Plot Allocation                       ----------               +++++++
OFF- ITEINFRAST RUCTUiE                                                   -
Detailed Desian    - --  |   I     1____
SLUMUGRADING ID              ;I             1      I     -|      ;
C il Works                             -- ---------------
[ 5 _ i==-=4==-i=--i=_-i-~+t++;+++++ 
Grant of Tenure  I-------------  
I  I  ._1_=== I                        +++4++++-+++++t+
MUF41i:PXL MAINT ANCE &                     1
SOUD WASTE MAN GEMENJT
Consultant Studles    -                                  _____j
Procurement           1--     -z          1
of Equipmnent    1    ;      !=X====;=    :===_l=e
TECOHNICAL ASISaNCii1ME-- i'  t--7   7
State & Local Level  - -        -- #  1  
HUDCO                                  m-n-
National Level   .     - -----Ii---------, --,,,,--   IONot Do eI _
Key to Symbols     --  Original Plan (SAR)
- s Actual
++  Additional (1989 Revision)



18
Table 5. Prolect Cost and Financing
A. Proiect Costs
(Rupees Million)
Appraisal Estimate      Revised   Actual
Component             Local  Foreign    Total    Total    Total
Area Development      185.0      25.2    210.2    250.4    240.4
Sub-Project            42.5       5.8     48.3      96.0      67.4
(Add'l Area Dev.)
Slum Upgrading         99.4       8.6    108.0    114.5    112.7
Off-Site Road           7.4       0.6       8.0      8.0       8.0
Sanitation              7.5       0.7       8.2      9.6       9.6
Municipal Maintenance
& Solid Waste Mgmt   31.6        5.6     37.2      37.2      34.6
Technical Asst/Training
State/Local          18.3       0.4     18.7      18.7      15.4
HUDCO                24.4       0.5     24.9      15.0      15.0
National             12.2       0.2      12.4      0.0       0.0
Subtotal              54.9       1.1     56.0      33.7      30.4
Fee                     0.0       1.0       1.0      1.0       0.9
TOTAL                 428.2      48.7    476.9    550.4    504.0
B. Proiect Financing
(US$ '000)
Planned  Revised    Final   Comment
IBRD
Civil Works                  10,300   10,500    9,771
Equipment and Tools           4,600    2,040       710   *Note 1
Technical Assistance          5,700    3,200    1,772
Home Construction or
Improvement Loans          2,300    2,300        156   *Note 1
Fee                              60       60        60
Unallocated                   1,140         0      -12   *Note 2
Total IBRD                    24,100   18,100   12,457
Domestic                       26,029   22,122   14,047
TOTAL                          50.129   40,222   26,503
Note 1: Substantial amount of withdrawal disallowed due to
late submission of the last application.
Note 2: Adjustment for exchange rate fluctuation for funds
advanced to the special account.



19
Table 6. Prolect Results
A. Physical Indicators
Appraisal     At Project       At Full
Estimate      Closing       Development
Serviced Plots and
Core House Units          20,000         22,556         24,475
(inel. Subprojects)
Housing Loans, Number        4,972          6,373          6,400
Rs million       15,035        35,170         35,170
Upgraded Slum Areas             75             87             92
Households       37,500        55,104         56,567
Low-cost Sanitation
Units        11,472         16,382         18,014
Off-Site Road
km            10             10             12
B. Economic Impact
(Economic Rates of Return)
Appraisal                    At Full
Component                  Estimate                    Development
Area Development                 14Z                          21Z
Slum Upgrading                   19Z                          19S
Note:    Estimated rate of return for area development (including
subprojects) assumes that most of the plots and core houses
will be occupied within five years of project closing and
their market value will settle around the current average,
about three times the full cost level.
C. Financial Impact
(Cost Recovery for Slum Upgrading)
Appraisal     At Project      At Full
Estimate      Closing       Develoiment
Z of full cost                 70%             5%            57%
(Collected    (Assessed
by 6/91)      by 6/91)



20
Table 6. Proiect Results
(continued)
DI. Studies for Local and State Agencies
STUDY                         PURPOSE AS DEFINED               STATUS       IMPACT
IMPLEMENTING AGENCY           AT APPRAISAL
Institutional & FinanciaL   Design improved management    Completed   Project accounts
Strengthening                 systems, inc. integrated         Apr  1984   improved; limited
Madhya Pradesh Housing        accounting, budgetary control                 improvement in
Board                         & long-range planning &                       overaLL accounting
assist implementation.                       and management.
Project Cost Accounting       Improve financial management  Completed   Commercial
MP DeveLopment Authorities  in Development Authorities.   Jan  1985   accounting adopted
Association (MPVPS)                                                         by some Authorities
Institutional Strengthening Design management & financial Completed   Limited
M.P. Slum Board               systems & assist                 Nov  1984   follow-up
implementation
Maintenance of Municipal    Design improved maintenance   Completed   Equipment supplied;
Services (Indore & Raipur)  systems & recommend                Apr  1984   management not
Department of Local           investments.                                  improved.
Self-Government (DLSG)
Mobilization of Municipal   Design improved resource           Completed   Limited accounting
Resources (Indore,            mobilization & financial         Sep  1983   improvement
Raipur & Dewas), DLSG         management systems & assist
impLementation.
Solid Waste Management        Recommend improved solid         Completed   Equipment supplied;
(Indore and Raipur)           waste management systems and  Feb  1990   recommendations
equipment to be procured.                    under review.
Review of Planning Norms    Recomnend changes in planning CompLeted   Recommendations
Department of Town &          standards to ease constraint  Apr  1991   lack relevance.
Country Planning              to land & housing dev. esp.
for low-income groups.



21
Table 6. Project Results
(continued)
D2. Technical Assistance for HUDCO
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--
SAR Description                        Implementation Details
1.  INTENSIVE ASSISTANCE BY HUDCO TO
BORROWERS
(a) Project formulation and evaluation 1 study
(b) Management finance/accounts        Covered by the studies under
category 4(a)
(c) Computerization                   Supply of hardware and software
to HUDCO's borrowers
to HUDCO and its branches
2.  PREPARATION/DISSEMINATION OF        Printing of studies, reports,
TECHNICAL INFORMATION               technical circulars, etc.
(PUBLICATIONS, DOCUMENTARIES)      Co-sponsoring of seminars and
workshops Other activities
3.  EQUIPMENT FOR HUDCO MANAGEMENT      Telex, xerox, microfilm, etc.
4.  ANALYSIS/RESEARCH
(a) Analysis of HUDCO systems
project review and appraisal
project evaluation
finance and accounting          6 studies
(b) Analysis of HUDCO Activities
market survey methodologies
possible new HUDCO activities
community preparation           4 studies
(c) Design of New/Improved
Planning Methodologies             4 studies
(d) Preparation of Urban Sector
and Strategy Studies               7 studies
5.  TRAINING FOR HUDCO AND AGENCY STAFF
4 training courses
------------------------------------------------------------__---------
Technical assistance activities listed above benefitted staff and agencies
scattered around the country, making it difficult to assess impacts.



22
Table 7. STATUS OF COVENANTS
R e f e      r e n c *  ConWLiance
Aoreement              Date            Description of Covenants                                          Status
Proiect Aoreement                      State implementing agencies to submit audit reports on project    O.K.
Section 3.01/3.02                      accounts within 9 months of end of each financial year.
Section 3.03          09/30/90         GOMP to appoint a task force to examine constraints to            N.l.C.
development, review and implement its recommendations
Schedule 2 #1                          Necessary clearances for planning and building of the area        O.K.
development to be given by relevant authorities
Schedule 2 #2                          Beneficiary selection criteria and terms of lease or sale for area  O.K.
development to be satisfactory to the Bank
Schedule 2 #3                          Area development in four additional towns (subprojectO to be      O.K.
appraised by HUDCO and to commence after agreement by the Bank,
GOMP, and HUDCO on town selection and designs
Schedule 2 #4                          Carry out a study on municipal maintenance and solid waste        N.l.C.,
management and implement the recommendations                      partial
Schedule 2 #5                          GOMP to secure repayment to MPHB from normal grants in the event  O.K.
of default by a municipal or development authority
Schedule 2 #6 i)                       GOMP shall review recommendations of the consultant studies and
take measures to implement them according to a timetable agreed
with the Bank, regarding:
li) Resource mobilization and financial management of municipal   N.I.C.
corporations
Schedule 2 #6 1ii)     12/31/83        (ii) Financial management of development authorities              O.K.
Schedule 2 #6 liii)   9/30/87          (iii) Fhnancial management of MPHB                                O.K.
Schedule 2 #7         12131/83         On-lending terms to beneficiaries of area development and slum    O.K.
upgrading to be satisfactory to the Bank, and the rate of interest to
be not less than 12% a year
Schedule 2 #8                          The price of land under area development to be fixed to recover full  O.K.
cost of land and development; and charges for slum upgrading fixed
to recover a portion of the costs
Schedule 2 #9                          Water and sewer facilities provided under the project to be taken over  Partial
by municipal corporations for operation and maintenance at prevailing
rates to be charged
Loan Aareement
Section 4.02                           GOI to maintain separate audited records related to Technical     N.I.C.
Assistance administered by GOI and submit them to the Bank
Section 4.03                           GOI and Bank to review recommendations of a study on training     N.I.C.
needs at the central level and agree on implementation timetable
H  U  D  C  0
Aoreement
Section 2.01 (a)                       HUDCO to carry out its technical assistance with due diligence.   O.K.
Section 2.01 (b)                       HUDCO to re-lend the Loan to MPHB at interest 10% p.a. or higher.  O.K.
Section 2.06                           HUDCO to maintain adequate records of its TA activity             O.K.
Section 2.08                           HUDCO to appraise four additional area development projects       O.K.
according to criteria agreed with Bank and GOMP
HUDCO Agreement - Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOI and the Housing and Urban Development Corporation.
O.K. - IN COMPLIANCE; N.l.C - NOT IN COMPLIANCE



23
Table 8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Input
________________________________________________________
Stage of                                    Staff-weeks
Project Cycle                                HQ + Field
--------------------------------------------------------
Through Appraisal                               95.5
Appraisal through Board Approval                43.9
Board Approval through Effectiveness            12.4
Supervision                                     95.8
TOTAL                                         247.6
B. Missions
Stage of           Month  No.   Days  Specialty  Perform. Type of
Project cycle        Year   per-   in  represented  rating   Problems
sons  field              status
Through             Mar 81      6    23 Ec,P,En,       na
Appraisal          Jun 81      3    13 Ec,P,F,        na
Aug 81      1    4P                na
Oct 81      4    13 Ec,P,En,F      na
May 82      3    15 Ec,P,En        na
Appraisal through   Nov 82      3    21 Ec,P,En        na
Board Approval     Mar 83      2     7 Ec,P           na
Board Approval      Sep 83      4    14 Ec,P,En,F       1   G,M,F,La,De
through Effectiveness
Supervision         Jun 84      4     7 Ec,P,En,F       1   G,M,F,La,De
May 85      3    10 En,P,F          2    G,M,F,La,Cm,Cr
Feb 86      2    10 Ec, F           2    G,M,F,P,De,Cm,Cr
Feb 87      5    20 F,Ec,En, P      2   G,F,De,Cm,Cr
Oct 87      1    7 Ec               2   G,De,Cm,Cr
Jul 88      2     7 F, Ec           2   G,F,P,De,Cr
Mar 89      1    10 Ec              1   G,F,De,Cr
Aug 89      2    10 Ec,P            1   G,P,De,Cr
Apr 90      2    18 Ec,P            2    G,M,F,De,Cm,Cr
Nov 90      2    14 Ec,P            2    G,M,F,Cm,Cr,
Apr 91      1    14 P               2    G,M,De,Cr
Oct 91      2    14 Ec.P            2    G,F,P.Cm.Cr
KEY TO SYMBOLS:  Specialization             Problems
Ec  Economist              G    General status
En  Engineer               P    Procurement
F   Financial Analyst      M    Management
P   Urban Planner          F    Financial
La    Land acquisition
Cr   Cost recovery
Cm    Construction Management
De    Design



