Do      airf
The World Bank
FOR OMCL USE ONLY
LA. 23a2q- I-J
Uqin No. P-3610-}i
.
OF TmE
PRESDENT OF TH
IIRNXEIOAL BAN FOR RECONSTRCTIl  AiND DEVEOM
TO T1 EMCMTIVE DI:RECTOS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AXOT EQIVALENT O US$24.1 MILLION
TO INDIA
FOR TE
NADKHA PRADESH URBAN            PROJECr
Jume 9, 1983
Ibsdcuetbwarshiid bau_ad a b  o b _iAtd a*IhXe eramee
t1;eir lAi dti  t-      ma aft amVlnb  bbd  1Wm   W_  m



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of Nay 26, 1983)
US$1.00        = Rs9.983674
Rs 1           = US$0.10016
Rs  IllIlon       US$100,160
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject tc change.
Conversions In the Staff AppraisaI Report were made at
US$1.00 - RE 9.5, which represents the average ezchange
rate projected over the disburse ent period.
FISCAL  D             .
April 1 - March 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms used in this Report
GOI      -     Government of India
GON    -_    Government of Madhya Pradesh
HUDCO    -     Housing and Urban Development Corporation, Ltd.
MONE     -     Ministry of Works and Housing, GDI
HP       -    Madhya Pradesh
EMB      -    Madhya Pradesh Housing Board
MPSCIB  -      Nadhya Pradesh Slum Clearanee and Improvement Board
15W -          National Building Organization, GDI
SADA     -     Special Area Development Authority
TCPD    -      Town and Country Planning DepartInt, GOMP
TCPO     -     Town and Country Planmnig OrganIzation, GDI



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUNARY
Borrower:                       India, acting by its President.
Beneficiary:                   The State of Madhya Pradesh (1HP); The Housing
and Urban Development Corporation (HUDCO); Tne
Ministry of Works and Housing, Government of
India.
Amount:                        US$24.1 million, including capitalized
front-end fee of 0.25%.
Terms:                         Repayment over 20 years, including five years-
grace, and the standard variable interest
rate.
O{nrLending Terms:              The Government of India (GOI) would pass
US$20 million to HUDCO, for project activities
in HP, at not less than 8.5Z interest per
atnnum over 20 years including x 4-year grace
period. GOI would provide US$2.6 million to
HUDCO for technical assistance on a grant
basis and would use the balance
(US$1.5 million) for technical assistance to
its Ministry of Works and Housing and for
payment of the front-end fee. CDI to bear
exchange and interest risks.
HUDCO to Madbya Pradesh Housiug Board (MPHB):
at not less than lOx interest per annum for 20
years, including a 4-year grace period.
HPHB to Project Implementation Agencies:  at
not less than 11% interest per annum for 20
years, including a 4-year grace period.
Interest to final beneficiaries of the area
developmeut, slum upgrading and sanitation
components would be not less than 12Z per
annum for up to 20 years.
I This doment has a resticed distribuion and may be used by recients only in the performance of
hfier offici duties. Its contens may not otherwise be dislosed without World Bank auhnizaton



-ii-
Project Description:            The purpose of the project is to improve urban
serviees (area development, slum upgrading and
sanitation) in up to ten ci ties in the State
of Madhya Pradesh and to strengthen national,
State and local instibutions involved in
policy, planning and impleinentar ion of urban
lIevelopment projects. The project would
directly benefit over 55,000 households under
the area development and slim upgrading
programs and some 500,000 people would benefit
from improved sanitation facilities. The main
project risks include delay in land 
acquisltion for area development and limited
capacity of the implementing agnucies to
handle this new kind of project. These
constraints were kept in view in designing the
project~s size, scope and institutional
strengthening measures. These considerations
and the steps already taken by the State in
lau:d acquisitiL-n and in the recruitment of
consultants required for institutional
strengthening should minimize these risks.
.
c



Estimated Cost:
(US$ Millions)
.ccAl          Foreign          Total
Area Development                       13.4            ;.8             15.2
Area Development in Medium Towns        3.0            0.4              3.4
Slum Upgrading                          7.1            0.6              7.7
City-wide Sanitation and
Infrastructure                        1.1            0.1              1.2
Municipal Maintenance and
Solid Waste Management                2.8            0.6              3.4
Technical Assistance and Training       4.6            0.1              4.7
Design, Supervision and
Management                            2.3            0.3              2.6
Base Cost                           34.3            3.9             38.2
Physical Contingencies                  1.8            0.2              2.0
Price Contingencies                     8.8            1.0              9.8
Total Project Cost                  44.9 1/         5.1             50.0 1/
Front-end Fee on Bank Loan            -             0.1              0.1
Total Financing Requirements        44.9            5.2             50.1
CUS$ Millions)
Financing Plan:                       Local          Fregn            Total
Bank                                18.9            5.2             24.1
*JMP                                 8.5             -               8.5
HUDCO                               13.0                            13.0
Local Agencies                       4.5             -               4.5
Total                               44.9            5.2             50.1
Estimated Disbursem nts:
(US$ millions)
IBRD FY:    FY84   FY85 FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89
Annual           0.7     3.0   5.2   6.0    5.6   3.6
Cumulative       0.7     3.7  8.9  14.9  20.5  24.1
Rate of Return:         16% (based on evaluation of project components
accounting for 63Z of project costs).
Appraisal Report:       No. 4359-IN, dated June 8, 1983.
1/ Includes duties and taxes of US$2.8 milllon.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO INDIA
FOR THE MADHYA PRADESH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed loan
to India in an amount equivalent to USe24.1 million to help finance a project
designed to improve urban services in up to ten cities in the State of Madhya
Pradesh and to strengthen national, State and local institutions involved in
urban development. Amortization would be over 20 years icluding five years of
grace at the applicable interest rate. The Government of India (GOI) would pass
US$20 million to the Housing and Urban Development Corporation (HUDCO), at an
annual interest rate of not less than 8.5Z over 20 years, for onlending to the
State agencies to implement project investments. The balance would be used by
GOI for technical assistance for its Ministry of Works and Housing and RUDCO and
for payment of front-end fee. Details of terms and conditions are in the Loan
and Project Summary. GOI would bear the foreign exchange and interest rates.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      An economic report, -Economic Situation of India and Resource Mobi-
lization Issues' (4395-IN, dated April 11, 1983), was distributed to the Execu-
tive Directors on April 19, 1983. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about 700 mil-
lion (in mid-1982) and an annual per capita income of US$250. The economy is
dominated by agriculture which employs more than two-thirds of the labor force.
However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate livelihood to
everyone engaged in agricultural activities, especially those with little or no
land. Growth of value-added in agriculture - 2.2% since 1950/51 - has been
slower then growth of industrial value-added (5.0% per annum). As a result,
there has been a gradual decline in the share of agriculture in GDP (at factor
cost) from 60% to just under 40%, while the share of industry rose from 15% to
around 25%. But industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the
growing labor force, or to bring about a rapid economic transformation, with
significantly higher productivity and income levels. As a result economic
growth has been slow over the past three decades, averaging about 3.6Z per
annum since 1950/51.
4.      Nevertheless, there has been steady progress with per capita income
rrsirg by a'>out 1.4% per year in the period 1950 to 1980. Despite the large
population base and its relatively rapid growth, India has been able to
eliminate persistent dependence on foodgrain imports through significant
improvements in agricultural production. Savings and investment have increased
1/ Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I and II
of the President-s Report for the M4aharashtra Water Utilization Project
(No. P-3585-IN), dated May 19, 1983.



-2-
markedly since 1950/51: gross national savings more than doubled from 10.8% of
GDP (at factor cost) to 22.8% in 1982/83, while gross domestic investment rose
from 12.5% of GDP to 24.9Z in 1982/83. Foreign savings (balance of payments
deficit on current account) have never financed a major portion of domestic
investment: a peak of about 20% was reached during the early 1960s. Surpluses
arose for a few years in the late 1970s, and at the present time, foreign
savings are about 8Z of investment. External assistance has been low both as a
percentage of GDP and in per capita terms, uaver rising above 3% of GDP and
averaging below 1Z for the past five years. Net foreign savings have never
risen above 3% of GDP, and presently stands at 2.1%.
5.      Before the 1970s, India placed relatively less emphasis on export
promotion and more on import substitution. The volume growth of exports
between 1950/51 and 1969/70 averaged only 2.2% per annum, while the volune
growth of imports over the same period was 4.3%.  In the early to mId-1970s,
however, India-s terms of trade, which had remained roughly constant during the
1960s, deteriorated sharply. In response, the Government introduced various
policy measures designed to stimulate exports. As a result, the volume of
India-s exports grew on average about 7.3% per annum for the 1970s as a whole,
a performance which demonstrates that sustained rapid growth is possible.
While expanding world markets, particularly in the neerby Middle East, ccn-
tributed to this growth, liberalized access to imported inputs and more effec-
tive export incentives played a major role.
6.      Moving inco the second half of the 1970s, the Indian economy was buoyed
bv higher levels of investment and an expanding level of foodgrain output. As
a result, growth in real GDP and in agricultural and industrial value-added,
substantially exceeded the historical 30-year trends (paragraph 3) averaging
4.9%, 3.9% and 5.6%, respectively. In 1979/80, however, this momentum was
broken when the worst drought in recent years, combined with a doubling of
international oil prices and domestir supply shortages, led to a sharp fall in
foodgrain production, a decline in GDP, and the opening up of a large trade
deficit. Severe inflationary pressures also emerged after several years of
virtual price stability. These setbacks in 1979/80 coincided with the prepara-
tion of the Sixth Five-Year Plan which laid down a program of adjustment that
aimed at improving the trade deficit, removing infrastructural bottlenecks and
ensuring price stability with an overall growth of the economy of 5.2%, 1.6 per-
centage points above the trend growth of 3.6%.
Recent Trends
7.      In 1980/81 and 1981/82, the economy substantially recovered with real
GDP growing by 7.9% and 5.2%, respectively. While industrial output expanded
by 4% In 1980/81 and 8.6% in 1981/82, recovery wa-s particularly robust in
agriculture where normal weather helped output to rise by more than 15% and
5.5%, respectively. The availability of power, coal, and rail transport,
already improved in 1980/81, was even better in 1981/82, recording growth rates
of about 10%, 9.6% and 12.9%, respectively. The easing of constraints on the
supply of infrastructure and basic commodities was a determining factor in the
improved performance of the industrial sector. This overall improvement in the
Indian economy, combined with a more restrictive mo'etary policy contributed to
a sharp decline in the rate of inflation. Wholesale prices rose by about 9% on
an average annual basis in 1981/82 and by only 2.5% in 1982/83, reflecting a
strong deceleration from a peak increase of 18% in 1980/81.



-3-
8.      After two years of fairly solid performance, the Indian economy faced a
difficult year in 1982/83 due to the drought in mid-1982 which brought down
the GDP growth rate to around ZZ and put further strains on the already dif-
ficult balance of payments and domestic resource situation. Besides a sig-
nificant decline in the range of 4.5Z-6.5% in agricultural production, GDP
growth was also constrained by a slowdown in industrial growth from 8.6X in
1981(82 to about 4% in 1982/83. This resulted from a combination of several
factors, notably the decline in agriculture income, persistent (though les-
sened) power shortages, a textile strike in Bombay, as well as depressed export
markets and increased competition from imports. The Government was able,
however, to protect the level of savings to a large extent and keep the momen-
*       tuum of the investment program through largely s ccessful public sector resource
mobilization efforts. Foreign savings played a crucial role in support of this
effort. Similarly, the timely implementation of various economic policies
mitigated the otherwise very distressing effects of a poor monsoon. Continued
improvements of the infrastructure sectors, although at a slower pace than in
the previous cwo years, also reduced the negative effects of the drought.
9.      Agricultural production in 1982/83 received a serious setback from the
drought. Foodgrain production, which had reached a record 133 million tons in
1981/82, declined to 124-127 million tons. Production of most other major
crops also declined ln 1982/83. Corrected for weather variations, this still
represents a creditable performance. In 1979/80, with a broadly comparable
monsoon, foodgrain production reached only 109 million tons. The Government
was able to mitigate the effects of the 1982 drought through efficient maaage-
ment of foodgrain procurement and distribution, careful timing of foodgrain
imports, and appropriate allocation of power to irrigation pumps.  hnese
policies helped to avoid disruptions in basic food supplies and contributed
to price stability during the year. While the management of the foodgrain
economy after the drought was a significant achievement, the effect of the
drought on production re-emphasized the continued importance of the monsoon
in India-s agriculture. The performance of the recent past and probable future
trends suggest that on average foodgrain supplies will meet demand. The
balance remains delicate, and the need for foodgrain imports to maintain conr-
sumer supplies or adequate buffer stocks could arise from time to time. Thus,
programs to expand irrigation, strengthen extension and encourage the efficient
use of other agricultural inputs continue to receive high priority.
10.     Basic infrastructure services performed generally well in 1982/83,
although growth of coal, power and rail transport failed to maintain the momen-
tum of the marked recovery of 1981/82. Despite lower hydro generation due to
the Zailure of the monsoon, overall power generation recorded an increase of
*        about 7%. This was due largely to an increase in capacity utilization in
thermal plants resulting from improved overall management, stabilization of
most of the new large units and better availability of coal due to the combina-
tion of increased coal production and improved railway performance. Neverthe-
less, power shortages remain the major bottleneck in the economy. Railway
traffic grew by only 3.7% in 1982/83 reflecting a slowdown from 1981/82. The
lower growth was due not to a decline in the operational efficiency of the
railways but rather to slack demand from core sectors like steel, iron ore,
coal washeries and fertilizers. Coal production growth (4% in 1982/83), after
1OZ growth in the two preceding years was creditable. There were no major
shortages and there were improvements in the quality of coal. Recent easing
of shortages and bottlenecks in infrastructure has come primarily from better
utilization of existing capacity, but in the future most improvement must



-4-
result from added capacity. It is therefore critically important that India
maintain the pace of investment in these key sectors and mobilize sufflcient
resources to do so.
;1.     The Indian economy has reverted from a situation of resource surplus,
which had been a temporary phenomenon of the late 1970s, to one of resource
scarcity. Investment has again grown quicker than national savings, and the
scope for further increases in the latter appears limited. India-s gross
national savings rate, which averaged 22.4% of GDP in the last three years, is
high by any standard, particularly considering India's low income and the large
proportion of its population living below the poverty line.  Future increases
in savings will depend heavily upon the enhanced profitability of public sector
enterprises which would require better utilization of capacity, more efficient
operations. and adequate pricing palicies. In 1981/82 there was a significant
increEse in public savings due to improved profitability of various public
sector enterprises. This trend which was maintained in 1982/83 needs to be
accelerated. The gap between gross investment and national savings which rose
from 0.4% of GDP in 1979/80 to 1.8X, 2.3% and 2.1%, respectively in the first
three years of the 1980s, has been financed by foreign savings.
12.     India-s ability to generate resources to meet its development cbjec-
tives has become increasingly linked to the balance of payments. The current
account balance which recorded surpluses between 1976/77 and 1978/79, sharply
deteriorated to deficits of nearly US$2.9 billion in 1980/81 and US$3.8 billion
in 1981/82 (1.8% and 2.3% of GDP, respectively). This was partly due to a
sharp rise in the oil import bill as a result of both the disruption of oil
production in northeast India in 1980 and significant oil price increases, and
to a more liberal import policy aimed at providing producers with access to
inputs for higher capacity utilization, greater efficiency, improved technology
and capacity expansion. The current account deficit in 1982183 declined to
US$3.3 billion or 2.1% of GDP. The improvement would have been greater had not
the drought resulted in ihe need to rebuild food stocks through imports and at
the same time led to a lower level of GDP growth.  This improvement in the
balance of payments is to a significant degree the result of India-s develop-
ment and adjustment efforts over the past three years. It also reflects a
reduction in the trade deficit as compared to the levels reached in 1980/81 and
1981/82. The trade deficit declined from US$7.6 billion in 1980/81 to US$6.0
billion in 1982/83 due to continued export volume growth (following the sub-
stantial resumption in 1981/82) despite poor world market conditions, coupled
with the containment in import growth due to import substitution of petroleum
products, metals and fertilizers while allowing substantial growth in -other'
imports through more liberal import policies. Nevertheless, it is expected
that the balance of payments will be under strain for the next several years,
for India's adjustment program will continue to require high levels of imports.
13.     The high investment rate, about 25% of GDP, envisaged in the Sixth Plan
coupled with the limited possibilities of raising domestic savings beyond the
present high levels, necessarily implies a need for external resources. Faced
with a reduction in the availability of bilateral and multilateral concessional
assistance, India has begun to borrow significant amounts on commercial terms
from the Euro-dollar market in addition to much greater utilization of sup-
pliers' and export credits. India's favorable debt service profile has enabled
India to tap commercial capital markets at favorable spreads (over relatively
high underlying rates). In the period 1980-82 India contracted ccmmercial



-5-
loans Lotalling over US$2,000 million and suppliers- credits of about
US$520 million. The bulk of the loans are linked to specific development
projects in the public sector while the credits are linked, by and large, to
development projects in the private sector. India also reached an agreement
with the International Monetary Fund for the use of the Extended Fund Facility
for SDR 5 billion, of which SDR 2.5 billion have already been drawn. The
transfer of funds under the EFF has steamed the use of foreign exchange reser-
ves which had fallen to less than four months of import coverage in 1981/82.
In 1982/83, in addition to continued use of the EFF, financing requirements
were met by increased nonr-concessional borrowing (about US$2,000 million in new
committments) and a 10% increase in net aid disbursement.
.
Development Prospects
14-     The experience of recent years illustrates that India has the capacity
to grow and deve'lop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial sector is
small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large in absolute
terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of manufacturing a wide
variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure -- irrigation,
railways, telecommunications, power, roads and ports -- is extensive compared
to many countries, although there is considerable need for additional capacity
as well as improvement in the utilization of existing capacity. India is also
well-endowed with human resources and with institutional infrastructure for
development. Finally, India has an extensive natural resource base in terms of
land, water, and minerals (primarily coal and ferrous ores, but also gas and
oil). With good economic policies and reasonable access to foreign savings,
India has the capability for managing these considerable resources to
accelerate its long-term growth.
15.     The medium-term framework for advancing India's development objectives
is the Sixth Five-Year Plan (1980/81-1984/85), which i3 now in its fourth year.
The Plan assigns priority to agriculture, energy development, the growth of
exports and domestic import s:ubstitutes where appropriate, and the removal of
infrastruztural bottlenecks. Overall performance has so far been encouraging,
although bottlenecks in key sectors such as power and transport are likely to
persist. Moreover, fulfillment of the Plan targets will require additional
resource mobilization. The efforts of the Central Government to raise resour-
ces have so far been impressive and are likely to be broadly sufficient to meet
the financing r-quirements of the Central Government's share in plan invest-
ment, even if s6,ne increase in inflation is experienced above current low
levels. However, a shortfall in public savings is likely to occur in some
States unless further measures are introduced. There will be a need also for
continuous efforts to maintain the current level of private savings. Recent
increases in interest rates and tax concessions on time deposits and the con-
tinued dampening of inflationairy expectations should stimulate such savings.
16.     The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur well
for future income growth. However, returns to investment have so far been
relatively low. Much of this phenomenon relates to India-s stage of develop-
ment, in which a large and growing proportion of investment has been needed
to build up basic infrastructure. These services, such as power, transport and
irrigation, have inherently high capital-output ratios. However, there is
scope to improve the sectoral capital-output ratios through greater efficiency
and better management. Bottlenecks in basic infrastructural sectors clearly



-6-
can prejudice growth in other sectors where large investments have been made.
As demonstrated in the last three years, performance In the basic service
sectors can be improved through better planning antd management, thus leading to
higher productivity and capacity utilization throughout the economy. At the
same time, programs to expand domestic capacity are vital. In the case of
tradeable commodities like coal, steel and cement, this is justified on the
grounds of comparative advantage. For sectors such as irrigation, power and
transportation, expansion of planned capacity In accordance with the require-
m,nts of the rest of the economy will be vital to overall mediuo- and long-term
development prospects.  In the short term, however, achieving an ddequate
balance between supply and demand in these sectors will remain a difficult
objective.
17.     Under the Sixth Plan, India has an ambitious oil production program
backed by substantial financial commitment. While the gap between domestic
consumption of petroleum and production remains large, the prospects for
progressive substitution of domestic petroleum for imports are quite bright.
In 1981, and again in early 1983, resources for exploration and development
were raised by successive price increases for domestic crude and products.
India's dependence on oil imports dropped from 63% in 1979/80 to about 452 now
and a scheduled expansion in production is expected to decrease oil imports (in
crude equivalent terms) to about 33% of consumption by 1984/85. The rapidly
expanding level of exploration activity, comblned with the possibilities for
accelerated offtake from known fields, offers much encouragement for India's
longer-term energy prospects.
18.     Despite an expected continued decline in its current account deficits
from the current 2.1% to about 1.72 of GDP by the late 1980s, India will
require growing access to world financial markets to complement concessional
assistance. These commercial sources of funds will be important In the future
since India-s current account deficits, though not large relative to the size
of the economy, will nevertheless be large in absolute terms and will neces-
sitate external borrowing beyond levels expected to be available from normal
concessional sources. Given the favorable structure of India-s external debt,
which reflects the past reliance on concessional sources, India should remain
creditworthy for a substantial growth in external borrowing.
19.     India's development prospects over the next few years will hinge on the
extent to which the economy can be brought into both internal and external
balance, while at the same time achieving more rapid growth than in the past.
In the longer term, income growth represents the best strategy for achieving
these needed adjustments, botb by generating higher savings for further invest-
ment, and by fostering the development of export and import-substituting
industry to improve the balance of payments.  In the short term, a relatively
large external borrowing, including an increased emphasis on commercial borrow-
ing, will be necessary to cope with the balance of payments consequences of
such a growth strategy. However, an important element in providing India with
the capacity to adjust flexibly will be adequate flows of concessional assis-
tance. Although India is currently in a position to increase borrowing on
commercial terms from the very low levels of the past, there are, of course,
limits bevond which India will choose to sacrifice growth objectives rather
than accept debt on unfavorable or unmanageable terms. The Government's effort
to maintain an adequate rate of growth while adjusting the structure of the
Indian ece-iomy to a more open and efficient environment requires foreign



-7-
resources in addition to the level of commercial borrowing available to India.
India is still a very poor country with a large rural sector and enormous
investment requirements for human development and basic infrastructure. The
fact that India has been able over the past seven years to maintain a rate of
growth above the long term trend, despite the poor monsoons of 1979/80 and
1982/83, lends substance to the hope that a more open trade policy and conr-
certed efforts to remove constraints on the growth of productive capacity,
supported by adequate mobilization of savings both foreign and domestic, can
sustain a rate of growth closer to 5.0% per annum than the long-run trend of
3.6% per annum. Combined with a reduction in the rate of population increase
to below 2.0% per annum, a 5.0Z growth rate would mean a doubling of the trend
rate of growth of per capita Income of less than 1.4% per annum. Success in
these efforts would make a significant difference to the prospects of easing
poverty in India.
20.     A large and growing population and severe poverty underline the need to
accelerate India's development efforts. The 1981 Census placed India's popula-
tion at 683.8 million, or about 12 million higher than official projections.
The fact that there was no decline in inter-census rates of population growth,
equivalent to about 2.2% per annum, is a cause for concern. While further
analysis of the Census may suggest this rate of growth to be slightly overes-
timated, the expectation of a measurable decline in the population growth rate
has not materialized. Until the results of the Census are fully analyzed, firm
judgements about the reasons for this outcome are not possible. However, the
results re-emphasize the need for continuing efforts to strengthen the health
and family planning program in a broad range of activities and services. These
efforts are given high priority in the Sixth Plan, which aims at a rise in the
proportion of protected couples in the reproductive age group from its
estimated 1979/80 level of about 23% to over 35% by 1984/85.
21.     Reduct'on of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic
growth.  More than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more than
80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers and
small farmers.  About 51% of the rural population and 40% of the urban popula-
tion subsist below the poverty line.  Improvements in the living standards of
the poor will depend to a large extent on the overall growth of the economy,
particularly on increases in agricultural production and employment, and in
non-farm rural employment. These developments will have to stem in large part
from market forces which can be encouraged and reinforced by appropriate
Government policies and the strengthening of basic services and infrastructure.
The declining trend in real foodgrain prices between 1970 and 1981, resulting
from India's sustained effort to raise agricultural production, reflects such
developments. There is also a role for direct Government action in faster
implementation of land reform (though the scope for significant reduction in
poverty through land redistribution is quite limited in India), in increasing
the supply of credit available to small farmers and rural artisans, and finally
in broadening the provision of those services which enhance the human capital
of the poor and improve living standards. Many of the latter are elements of
the Minimum Needs Program, which has been an integral part of Indian planning
for the past decade. Progress has been slow but steady in the expansion of
primary education, the extension of rural health fac4lities and the provision
of secure village water supplies. Operations such as the community health
volunteer program and the national adult literacy campaign provide encouraging



ewidence that well-targetted, relatively low-cost programs can lead to enhanced
prospects for India-s poor.
pARTf II - BANK GROUP OPERAIIONS IN INDIA
22.    Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 71 loans and 156 development
credits to India totalling US$4,683 million and US$11,447 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,332 million has been
repaid, and US$5,907 million was still undisbursed as of March 31, 1983. Bank
Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through March 31, 1983
totalled US$1,008 millionu representing an increase of about 17 percent over
the same period last year. Annex II contains a summary statement of disburse-
ments as of March 31, 1983, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
23.    Since 1959, IFC has made 28 commitments in India totalling US$220.4
million, of which US$28.3 million has been repaid, US$56.2 million sold and
US$17.3 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$118.6 million, US$111.1 mil-
lion represents loans and USs7.5 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of March 31, 1983, is also included in Annex II (page 5).
24.      The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent with
the country-s development objectives in its support of agriculture. energy and
infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments in irrigation,
extension and on-farm development designed to increase agricultural produc--
tivity, and efforts to improve the availability of basic agricultural inputs to
farmers through credlt, fertilizer, marketing, storage, and seed projects.
Major elements of the lending program have also been directed at helping to
meet the energy needs of the economy while curbing the growth of otl imports,
and to ease the infrastructure bottlenecks which have hampered economic growth
in India, particularly through power generation and distribution, and railways
and telecommunications projects. The Bank Group has also provided financing
for a broad range of medium- and small-scale industrial enterprises, primarily
in the private sector, through its support of development finance institutions.
Recognizing the importance of improving the ability to satisfy the essential
needs of urban and rural populatiks, the Bank Group has supported nutrition
and family planning programs, P rural roads project, as well as water supply
and sewerage and other urban infrastructure projects.
25.      This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant, and consonant
with Government priorities, as reflected in the Sixth Plan. The continued
active involvement of the Bank Group in agriculture, energy and infrastructure
development will appropriately contribute to India-s adjustment and growth
prospects. Irrigation will need continuing support, with emphasis on improved
efficiency in water conveyance systems to ensure reliable delivery to farmers-
fields. In addition, major investments to develop the large Narmada River
basin will be vital to India-s efforts to increase agricultural production.
Important complements to these efforts, such as fertilizer production and
distribution, agricultural credit and extension, will continue to receive
support. A continued program of investments aimed at rapidly increasing the
domestic supply of energy will clearly be necessary if India is to curb the
cost of oil imports and alleviate the critical power shortages which constrain
output in both the agricultural and industrial sectors. Exploitation of oil



-9-
and gas resources is a central element of this program, which should be supple-
mented by investments in hydro and tbermal power generation, and in the expar-
sion of the transmission and distribution networks. Industrial projects to
increase the domestic production of basic commodities, which have been in short
supply and which India has a comparative advantage in producing, should also
receive high priority. Finally, raising the efficiency and levels of transpor-
tation infrastructure would mitigate a key constraint to achieving higher
levels of economic growth so that further support of the railvays and for ports
development will be particularly appropriate.
26.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India-s economy has bee- a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid.-1970s. However, there
is now a need for increased foreign assistance to India, not only to help the
economy adjust to the more recent oil price increases and the overall
deterioration in the world trade environment but also to maintain the rela-
tively higher growth rates achieved during the first two years of the Sixth
Plan. As in the past, Bank Group assistance for projects in India should ait
to include the financing of local expenditures.  India imports relatively few
capital goods because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic
capital goods industry. Cousequently, the foreign exchange component tends to
be small in most projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority
sectors as agriculture, irrigation, and water supply.
27.       India-s poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue to
be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be
allocated to India remains small in relation to India-s needs for external
support. This requirement for additional assistance can be met, in part,
through Bank lending. Given its development prospects and policies, India is
judged credit-worthy for Balk lending to supplement IDA assistance. A con-
tinuation of efforts already underway to achieve growth in productive capacity,
trade expansion, higher levels of savings, foodgrains self-sufficiency and a
reduction in the rate of population growth should result in continued economic
growth and improvement in the balance of payments. Despite recent setbacks,
India-s external payments iosition is still manageable. The ratio of India-s
debt service to the level of exports was about lIZ in 1982183 and is projected
to remain below 20% through 1995/96. As of March 31, 1983, outstanding loans
to India held by the Bank totalled US$3,471 million, of which US$1,854 million
remain to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of US$1,617 million.
28.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion conr-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank Group
accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and 12% of
net disbursements as compared with 50%, 43% and 53Z, respectively, in 198I/82.
On March 31, 1982, India-s outstanding and disbursed external public debt was
about US$17.° billion, of which the Bank Group-s share was US$7.1 billion or
38% (IDA-s US$5.9 billion and IBRD-s US$1.2 billion). In 1981/82, about 16.0%
of India-s total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.



-10-
PART III - URBAN SECTOR IN INDIA AND MADHYA PRADESH
National Urban Trends and Management
29.     In recent years, Ildia-s urban population has expanded rapidly.
Between I971 and 1981, it grew from 107 million (20.2Z of total
population) to 156 million (237X)1I/. If the present trend continues,
half of India-s population growth during the next two decades will be in
cities. According to the 1981 Census, about 60Z of the urban population
lived in 216 cities of over 100,000 people. An additional 12X lived in
270 towns with populations between 50,000 and 100,000. The growth of
citties of all sizes has led to serious deficiencies in urban services.
There are also acute problems of urban poverty, as approximately 40% of
the urban households have monthly incomes below the absolute urban poverty
threshold (Rs 520 in 1980).
30.     The primary responsibility for the formulation and implementation
of urban development programs in India rests with State Governments and
local bodies, but overall policies and strategies are influenced by
objectives laid down in the national Five-Year Plan. The Sixth Five-Year
Plan (1980-85) stresses the need for providing affordable shelter, safe
water supply and adequate sanitation to the urban poor. To achieve these
objectives, particular attention is given to modification of existing
laws, land use controls and minimum plot size requirements. Efforts are
directed towards upgrading of slums, rather than relocation, in order to
maintain easy access to employment centers and to avoid destruction of the
existing housing stock.
31.    In the early 1970s, GOI began using central funding to address
urban problems directly in the larger metropolitan cities, beginning with
direct financial assistance to Calcutta.  Similar efforts in Bombay and
Madras folloved. Also, a centrally-funded Minimum Needs Program was
Introduced under the Fifth Five-Year Plan which included emphasis on
environmental improvements in urban slums. Improvements were made in many
slums under this program, but costs were not recovered and tenure was not
usually provided. Under the Sixth Five-Year Plan, a centrally funded
Program for Integrated Development of Small and Medium Towns is financing
land development, market centers and traffic and transportation schemes in
towns with less than 100,000 inhabitants.
1/ In the Indian Census, urban centers include all municipal corpora-
tions, municipalities and notified areas and cantonment boards. They
dlso include settlements with more than 5,000 inhabitants in which 75%
of the male working population is in nonagricultural pursuits and
population density is not below 400 per square kilometer.



-11-
32.    Urban policies and programs are directed at the national level by
the Ministry of Works and Housing and its agencies. The national agencies
include: the Town and Country Planning Organization, a technical advisory
body at the Center, and the National Building Organization which is an
agency responsible for uudertaking research and experiments on building
technology and materials and for dessiminating the results for practical
application. In addition, the Ministry of Works and Housing is the
principal sponsor of the National Institute of Urban Affairs, an
autonomous organization, and it has supervisory responsibility for the
Housing and Urban Development Corporation (HUDCO) which is a Govertent of
India (GOI) Corporation.
33.    The most important direct GOI involvement in the urban sector is
through UDCO. It provides financing to State and local implementing
agencies for several kinds of schemes. As of March 31. 1983, 81% of its
loans had gone for urban bousing and plot development. Its operations
have increased rapidly in recent years. From its inception in 1971 to
March 31, 1983, it has authorized financing for about US$1,153 million for
about 1.4 million housing units-over 20% of which were sanctioned in
1981182. EUDCO has a sound management structure vith a small core of
about 225 professional and other staff. Its administrative costs are
small (0.6% of loans disbursed in 1981/82), working surpluses are
significant (US$4.3 million in 1981/82, representing 5.7Z of lBIDCQ-s net
worth) and reserves are strong (US$44 million in March 1982).
34.    A series of Bank missions to India have assessed  UDCDs program
and its capabilities, and HEDCO was actively involved in the preparation
and appraisal of the proposed Madhya Pradesh Urban Development Project.
HUDCO-s objectives in urban lending are similar to those of the Bank, and
emphasize low-cost and financially viable projects to benefit the lowest
income groups. Several areas have been identified in which BUDCO-s
operations could be strengthened. More comprehensive loan appraisal and
supervision could be a means of improving project design as well as
execution efficiency of borrower agencies. Many of EUlDCOs borrowers
could benefit from increased assistance to improve their administration
and financial management. Improved project design combined with a greate_
use of differential land pricing could enable HlUDCO to raise its interest
rates, which are based on a sliding scale with heavily subsidized loans
for the lowest income groups, and thereby improve its long-range financial
viability. A step was recently taken in this direction by increasing
HUDCO's interest rate structure. Under the proposed project, HUDO would
on-lend to other implementing agencies at an annual interest rate of 10%
(compared to an average of about 8 in the past) and beneficiaries at all
income levels would be charged not less than 12% per annm (compared to as
low as 4-5% charged presently for the lowest income groups).
Urban Trends in Madhya Pradesh (MP)
35.    Madhya Pradesh is the largest State in India, covering 13.6% of
the total area; it has a population of 52 million (1981). MP ranks among
the lowest Indian States by almost all measures of development, including



-12-
per capita income of about US$124 (in 1980/81) compared to US$162 for
all-India. The low income level is mainsly due to low productivity of
agriculture, on which 57% of State income is dependent (compared to 43%
for all-India). While mining and manufacturing are still small, they have
grown rapidly (over 6Z per year during 1971Os) and they are beginning to
have an important impact on the State-s economy.
36.    The 1981 urban population of Madhya Pradesh was about 10.6 million
or about 20% of the State-s population. Urban population expanded
rapidly, at 4.6Z annually during 1971-81, which was about twice the rate
of population growth for the State. In contrast to some Indian States,
urban grow.h in Madhya P qdesh has not been concentrated in a primate
city. There are four large cities with 1981 populations above 500,000:
Indore (827,000), Jabalpur (758,000), Bhopal (672,000) and
Gwalior (560,000). A fifth large urban aglomeration is growing rapidly at
Bhilai/Durg and Paipur which had a combined 1981 population of 829,000.
The potential for future urban growth appears to be greatest in the Indore
and the Bhilai regions, which have the greatest economic potential. The
cities of the Indore region, including Indore, Dewas and Ujjain, have an
expanding agro-industrial and commercial base. The Bhilai region is an
important manufacturing center for steel and related industries. Its
largest city, Raipur, is expanding rapidly as a commercial center for a
wide area.
37.    Responsibility for urban planning, administration and finance is
shared by a number of agencies In lP. The Department of Local Government
is responsible for supervising the activities of the municipal
corporations, municipalities and notified area committees. The local
governments are primarily responsible for provision and maintenance of
municipal services suc}l as street cleaning and water supply.
38.    The Town and Country Planning Department (TCPD) and the
development authorities, which are agencies created by the State for
development of specified areas, are the principal urban planning and
dcvelopment agencies under the Department of Environment. While TCPD is
in charge of preparing and enforcing town development plans in major
cities, the development authorities are responsible for implementing them
at the local level, primarily by providing serviced land for residential,
commercial and industrial development. A Madhya Pradesh Slum Clearance
and Improvement Board has recently been established under the Department
of Environment. The Madhya Pradesh Housing Board, under the direction of
the Minister for Environment and Housing, is responsible for the provision
of low-cost housing in the State. Coordination among these agencies
presents no problem, as they are organized under one Secretary for Housing
and Local Government, who is also the Commissioner for Environment.
39.    The Directorate of Urban Administration, under the Department of
Local Government, has supported studies in municipal finance and
management, but does not yet actively provide the municipalities with
assistance on the required scale to improve revenue collections, financial
management and maintenance. The Housing Board produces about 7,000 units



-13-
per year, which is a substantial accomplishment, but it lacks the
necessary management and financial systems to expand its operations, and
currently operates at a deficit (Rs 3.8 million in 1979/80). At the local
level, most projects of the development authorities reflect inadequate
planning and weak economic and financial analysis, and cost recovery is
limited. Financial viability is also hampered by a lack of adequate
accounting and budgeting systems and many development authorities are
running at serious deficits.  Municipal governments are generally hampered
by a lack of adequate financing. Some are running serious deficits.
Municipal revenues depend heavily on the property tax and on compensation
from the State Government for the octroi tax. Most cities, especially
Indore, are running large deficits in managing their water system6. The
capacity of local management and accounting systems is also a major
constraint to the expansion of municipal services.
40.     MP-s urban areas are characterized by serious deficiencies in
services and housing. About half of the urban population does not have
access to a safe water supply. There are only a few areas of the largest
cities with sever systems, and alternative means of sanitation are
inadequate. Many cities have immediate needs for sanitation, improved
drainage, refuse collection and maintenance, and some of the larger cities
require improved traffic management. The provision of these services is
not being planned by municipal governments in an orderly way, based on a
thorough assessment of needs, priorities and available resources.
41.     There are severe shortages of serviced urban land and shelter.
About 40% of the State-s urban housing stock is in squatter settlements
without tenure; most of the remaining urban housing is in densely
populated inner city rental tenements. The private sector is largely
precluded from low-cost sites and services and housing development partly
because of high development standards required by State and Municipal laws
and regulations. The private informal sector is also inhibited in o -plot
developmert in some sites ani services projects by requirements for
downpaymeats and stamp taxes (totalling 30-40% of plot cost), building
permits and other regulations. In spite of a considerable effort in
providi-g low-cost housing and serviced sites, the Madhya Pradesh Housing
Board (MPHB), which is exempt from some development standards, is meeting
only about 23% of the low cost housing needs in the ten largest cities.
However, the standards in many MPHB projects are still not affordable to
low-income groups without subsidies.  Slum upgrading projects have been
undertaken in several cities, largely with grant funds from the Central
Government. However, as yet there has been no large-scale slum upgrading
program involving cost recovery and secure tenure for beneficiaries.
Policies and programs including these two principal features are being
evolved in the never projects to be undertaken by the Madhya Pradesh Slum
Clearance and Improvement Board.



-14-
Bank Group Role and Strategy 1/
42.     The Bank Group-s strategy for urban development in India has
concentrated over the past decade on three of India's largest
cities-Calcutta, Madras and Bombay. The Kanpur Urban Development Project
approved in October 1981, represented the first step in Bank Group lending
to medium-sized cities in India. The first Bank Group-supported urban
projects, in Calcutta and Madras, financed integrated packages of urban
services (i.e., sites and services, slum upgrading, water supply,
sanitation, and transport). Follow-up projects in both cities have
continued this pattern, although in Calcutta three general urban
development projects have been supplemented by a sectoral project, the
Calcutta Urban Transport Project, which supports a program of investments
and policy measures designed to alleviate the critical transport
deficiencies in the city. Projects in Bombay thus far have focused on
transport and water supply. In the case of each of the Bank
Group-supported urban projects, the objective has been not only to raise
the level of urban services provided to the population, but also to
strengthen urban planning and service delivery institutions, to improve
the use of available resources and to improve local resource mobilization.
43.     All of the urban projects financed to date have supported policy
changes in urban investment programs as well as institutional
improvements. Such changes include: (i) design changes (e.g., cost per
household for land, infrastructure and shelter has been reduced by some
75% over previous programs); (ii) improved cost recovery (e.g., interest
rates increased from 4-5Z to 12% and substantial increases in bus fares
and water tariffs); and (iii) the gradual shift of housing construction
and finance from the public to the private sector with the public sector
focusing on land and infrastructure development. Institutional
strengthening has included improved municipal accounting, financial
management and maintenance. While the importance of improved management
of India-s major metropolitan areas has not lessened, the focus on urban
development activities is now being broadened to include medium-sized
cities. Thus, the experience gained in the major metropolitan areas can
1/ Bank Group-assisted urban development projects include: Calcutta
Urban Development Project (Cr. 427-IN, approved In August 1973);
Madras Urban Development Project (Cr. 687-IN, approved in March 1977);
Second Calcutta Urban Development Project (Cr. 756-IN, approved in
December 1977); Second Madras Urban Development Project (Cr. 1082-IN,
approved in December 1980); Kanpur Urban Development Project
(Cr. 1185-IN, approved in October 1981); and Third Calcutta Urban
Development Project (approved in May 1983). Sector-specific projects
in major Indian cities include: Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage
Project (Cr. 390-IN); Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project
(Cr. 842-(IN); Bombay Urban Transport Project (Ln. 1335-IN); and
Calcutta Urban Transport Project (Cr. 1033-IN).



-15-
now be profitably put to use in the effort to strengthen the management of
these medium-sized cities.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
44.     The proposed project was prepared by the Government of Madhya
Pradesh (GOMP) with assistance from the Housing and Urban Development
Corporation (HUDCO) of India. It was appraised in December 1982.
Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. in May 1983, with an Indian
delegation coordinated by Mr. S.P. Bajpai, Deputy Secretary of the
Department of Economic Affairs, GOI. The Staff Appraisal Report (No.
4359-IN), dated June 8, 1983, is being circulated to the Executive
Directors separately. A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as
Annex III.
Project Objectives
45.     The proposed project would be the first Bank Group-assisted
project in India to support improvements In several medium-sized cities
in ene State. It would also provide technical assistance to a number of
State and local as well as the national agencies. The most immediate
objective would be to reduce the serious lack of urban shelter and
services in up to ten cities (see para 46) in Madhya Pradesh. A broader
objective would be to improve urban management and resource mobilization
in these cities and to strengthen State-level agencies which make critical
investments in the urban sector. A further objective with even more
far-reaching implications would be to improve the capacities of national
institutions, including HUDCO and agencies of the Ministry of Works and
Housing of the Government of India, to prepare, appraise, supervise and
evaluate projects.
46.     Project-supported physical investments would he focussed in the
two regions of the State which have the greatest potential for urban
growth--based on their resource bases and their commercial and industrial
development patterns--the Bhilai industrial/commercial region in the east
and the Indore agro-industrial region in the vest. These two regions,
which are 650 km apart, were selected for Bank Group support after a
comprehensive urban sector assessment undertaken by Bank staff in
cooperation with BUDCO and the State Government staff in January 1981. 1/
The cities selected range in size from about 100,000 to about 800,000
inhabitants and include Bhilai, Raipur. Durg, Indore, Ujjain and Devas.
Additional investments in urgently needed land development would be made,
based on their justification, in up to another four cities witb high
growth potential (see para 51).
1/ Madhya Pradesh Urban Sector Memorandum, Report No. 3616-IN, April
1982.



-16-
Project Description
47.     The major focus of the physical investment program would be on the
provision of serviced land for low-income residential and small-scale
business use and on the extension of basic infrastructure to existing slum
settlements. Under the slum upgrading program, 75 existing slums would be
improved by providing water, roads, footpaths, drainage, sanitation,
street lighting and landscaping. Improvements in sanitation would be
provided using low-cost technology developed under a UNDP/World Bank
Global Sanitation Project. Some city-wide infrastructure would also be
provided in the project cities. Assistance would be provided to the
concerned agencies in the project cities to improve the level of
maintenance of urbau services and solid waste management. Finally,
technical assistance, training and equipment would be provided to
national, State, and local agencies to strengthen management,
policy-making capacity, and resource mobilization. A more detalled
project description is provided in the following paragraphs.
48.     Area Development.  About 200 ha would be developed on seven sites
to provide about 18,500 serviced residential plots and about six hectares
of commercial and small-business plots. These include two sites in Bhilai
and one each in the other five project cities (Indore, Ujjain, Dewas, Durg
and Raipur). All sites are located within about 5 km of the city centers
and adjacent to developed residential areas. Each one would have an
independent water supply and would use low-cost sanitation technology,
except the Indore site, which would be connected to the city-s water
supply and provided with a sewerage system. Shelter loans would also be
provided. Land acquisition has been completed for one site (in Bhilai)
and about half of another (in Raipur). GOMP is in the prccess of
acquiring lands for other sites. Work on at least two sitibs would be
initiated in the first year. To avoid future delays in implementation,
a detailed schedule of land acquisition was finalized during negotiations.
49.     Under the project, emphasis is placed on housing which would be
affordable to low-income households 1/; about 68% of the plots are
directed toward those with monthly household income of below US$37, and
over 80% would go to those with monthly income below US$64. GOMP would
provide its approval to the standards proposed for the area development
program (paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement).- Procedures
for the selection of beneficiaries would ensure that the lower-income
plots would be included in the target income groups. Larger plots would
1/ Households in India are divided into the Economically Weaker Section,
with incomes of less than Rs 350 per month which comprised 40% of
urban households in 1976; Low Income Groups with incomes of Rs 350 to
Rs 600 per month, which comprised 29%; Middle Income Groups with
incomes of Rs 600 to Rs 1500 per month, which comprised 25%; and High
Income Groups with incomes above Rs 1,500 per month which comprised
6%.



-17-
be allocated to applicants at market prices. All beneficiaries Vwuld be
given secure tenancy rights. Beneficiary selection criteria and terms and
conditions of lease would be satisfactory to the Bank (Paragraph 2 of
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement).
50.     Given the limited capacities of public sector asencies and the
large demand for serviced land and shelter for low income households, it
is especially important to relieve constraints to private sector
development. For the purpose of examining constraints to the public and
private sectors in the provision of serviced land and shelter, including
on-plot construction by low income households, GOMP would appoint a task
force by October 31, 1983 to undertake a study whose composition and terms
of reference would be satisfactory to the Bank. GOMP would review with
the Bank, by December 31, 1984, the findings and recommendations of the
task force and a timetable to implement appropriate re'.'-amendations
(Section 3.03 of the Project Agreement).
51.     Area Development in Medium Towns.  In addition to the area
development program for the six major cities, the proposed project would
provide funds (about US$3.4 million) to Implement the area development
schemes, including some basic urban services like water supply, in four
medium towns which are yet to be identified. Only those tovns would be
selected which have demonstrated above average growth or those which have;
benefitted from large investments in industry or mineral extraction and
have major land and infrastructure deficiencies. The towns would be
identified and proposed by GOMP, and verified by HUDCO to ensure that they
meet the above criteria. GOMP would then prepare plans and cost estimates
which would be appraised by HUDCO with special emphasis on the
affordability by the low-income target group. The proposed area
development schemes in the four towns would be carried out after the Bank,
GGMP and auDCO have agreed upon the selection of the medium towns and the
Bank and BUDCO have approved the designs (Paragraph 3 of Schedule 2 to the
Project Agreement).
52.     Slum Upgrading.  About 75 slum areas in the six project cities
would be upgraded affecting about 37,000 households. Most of the slums
are located on public land, and only three slums would need to be acquired
by GOMP under the Slum Clearance Act. Existing slums would be improved
by providing water, roads, footpaths, drainage, sanitation, street
lighting and landscaping. MPHB would make optional loans available for
improvements by the occupants at not less than 12K per annum. Secure
tenancy rights would be granted to the beneficiaries on a 30-year
renewable leasehold basis.
53.     City-wide Sanitation and Infrastructure.  Public and private
sanitary facilities available in the six project cities are inadequate and
poorly maintained. Under the project, loans averaging RS 1,000 (US$105)
would be provided to about 1,000 households in each city to construct
individual pour-flush latrines, at 12% per annum interest for 10 years.
Coammunity latrines would be provided where there is a demonstrated need
and where an adequate maintenance system exists. The project would also



-18-
provide for construction of d 10 km road to provide access to one of the
area development sites in Bhilai and to provide a bypass link near the
Bhilai Steel Plant.
54.     Municipal Maintenance and Solid Waste Management.  Maintenance of
ipfrastructure and solid waste management receive low priority in most of
the project cities due to lack of funds, equipment and proper management
systems. A separate consultant study of municipal maintenance has been
started and another study on solid waste management is being initiated for
the two largest cities, Indore and Raipur. These studies would recommend
investment programs in these sectors for the two cities. The municipal
maintenance and solid waste management programs would be carried out only
after the Bank and GOMP have agreed upon the recommendations resulting
from the consultants studies (paragraph 4 of Schedule 2 to the Project
Agreement). The project would also provide immediate assistance to the
other four medium towns for the replacement of cquipki-t, the maintenance
of infrastructure and the expansion of refuse disposal.
55.     Training.  The project would assist GOI Ministry of Works and
Housing to undertake a review of training needs In the urban sector in
India. Preliminary terms of reference for the work have been prepared
with assistance from EDI. GOI would recruit consultants, whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions would be acceptable to
the Bank (Section 3.02 of the Loan Agreement). Based on the
recommendations of the study, the project would finance course design,
preparation of training materials and individual training courses. The
review of training needs and resources would also review project related
training needs in MP and it would detail training components and related
Institutional requirements.
56.     Institutional Strengthening for the urban sector agencies at the
national, State and local levels is a key e-lement of the proposed project.
The main institutional focus of the project woald be to finance a number
of expert reviews to identify specific areas of weaknesses and to
recommend measures for improvement. The project would also support
implementation of the recommendations as agreed with the concerned
agencies. At the national level, consultants would be provided to HUDCO
to strengthen its internal management systems including its systems for
preparing, appraising and supervising housing projects and to evaluate
past HUDCO project experience.
57.     At the State and local levels, a number of studies are already
well underway to improve financial management in the Madhya Pradesh
Housing board (MPHB), the Madhya Pradesh Slum Clearance and Improvement
Board (KPSCIB) and the local development authorities, and to improve
resource mobilization by municipal goveruments. By December 31, 1983, the
Bank and GOMP would review the recommendations made by the consultants and
agree on a timetable for the implementation of appropriate recommendations
(Paragraph 6 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement). In addition,
36 manrmonths of consultants would be employed to review solid waste



-19-
unnagement in the Indore and Raipur Munlcipal Corporations and asslst In
the Implementation of recomendations (para 54).
Project Implementation
58.     At the national level, GOI's Ministry of Works and Housing would
have overall supervisory responsibility for the project and vould direct
all technical assistance and training components for central-level
agencies. HUDCO would act as co-financier and financial lntermediary for
the project, channelling funds to the State-level implementing agencies
and participating In project appraisal and supervision. At the State
level, the project would be overseen by a Steerlug Committee which has
been established under the Secretary of Housing and Local Government. A
Project Management and Monitoring Cell (PMMC) is being created In the
Madhya Pradesh Secretariat, with responsibility for oonitoring project
implementation and disbursements of project funds. The HP Housing Board
would be responsible for channelling funds from HUDCO to Implementing
agencies, with direct supervision from the PMMC, for collection of
repayments from the implementing agencies (and beneficiaries) and for
repayment to HUDCO. In the event of any default by the Implementing
agencies, GOMP would ensure that the Board is paid amounts In arrears from
the grants normally made available to these agencies (Paragraph 5 of
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement).
59.     The primary responsibility for individual project components would
lie with the following agencies:
Central Level
Training and Institutional  -  Ministry of Works and Housing, GOI;
Strengthening                   Housing and Urban Development
Corporation, Ltd. (IUDCO)
State and Local Level
Area Development             -  HPM   (Bhilai, Ujjain, Dewas,
Durg and Raipur).
-  Special Area Development Authority
(SADA, for Bhilai second site)
-  Indore Development Authority
(for Indore)
Slum Upgrading, SanStation -  Municipal Goverunents of Indore,
and Off-site Infrastructure,   Devas, Ujjain, Raipur, Durg, and
Maintenance and Solid Waste    SADA Bhilai.
Management



-20-
Technical Assistance,        -  Town and Country Planning
Training and Institutlonal      Department
Strengthening                -  Department of Local Government
- MPHB
- MPSCIB
- Development Authorities
- Municipal Governments
Project Costs and Financing
60.     The total estimated cost of the project is US$50.1 million,
including US$5.2 million (10%) in foreign exchange costs and
US$2.8 million In taxes and duties.  The project components and base costs
are area development in six cities (US$15.2 million), area development in
medium cities (US$3.4 million), slum upgrading (US$7.7 million), city-wide
sanitation and infrastructure (US$1.2 million), municipal malntenance and
solid waste management (US$3.4 million), technical assistance
(US$4.7 million), and design, supervision and management (US$2.6 million).
In addition, physical contingencies (US$2 million) have been estimated at
10% for civil works with detailed engineering design and 15% for works
with preliminary design. Price contingencies have been added for both
local and foreign costs at 8.0Z, 7.52, 7.0%, 6.5% and 6.0% for fiscal
years 1983/84 through 1987/88, respectively.
61.     The proposed Bank loan of US$24.1 million would finance about 50%
of total costs, net of taxes and duties. The balance would come from
HUDCO, GOMP and MPHB. Retroactive financing of up to US6350,000 is
proposed to cover expenditures on consultants (US$250,000) incurred after
July 1, 1982 and on civil works (US$100,000) incurred after June 1, 1983.
62.     The Government of India (GOI) would pass US$20 million to HUDCO,
for project activities in MP, at An annual interest of not less than 8.5%
for 20 years including a 4-year grace period. GOI vould pass
US$2.6 million to HUDCO, for technical assistance, on grant basis, and it
would use the remaining US$1.5 million for technical assistance to its own
Ministry of Works and Housing and for payment of the front-end fee. For
project activities in'MP, UUDCO would add about another US$13 million from
its own sources and pass on US$31 million to MPHB to implement project
investments at 10% per annum interest for 20 years including a 4-year
grace period.  MPHB, in turn, would on-lend to the implementing agencies
at 11% per annum for 20 years including a 4-year grace period for those
sub-projects which it does not implement itself. Interest rate to final
beneficiaries of area development and slum upgrading components would be
not less than 12% per annum for up to 20 years.
Procurement and Disbursement
63.     About US$6.9 million, inclusive of contingencies, would be spent
for the procurement of plant and equipment including vehicles. Of this
amount, contraLts totalling approximately US$2.5 million would be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank



-21-
Guidelines. Contracts for equipment totalling approximately
US$4.3 million would be let on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Thls
involves numerous items (such as hand carts and maintpnance tools) with a
large number of manufacturers. It also includes vehicles and equipment
for which locally available spare parts and maintenance are important.
The remaining equipment (total value US$0-1 million) involves small
contr.'cts (under US$50,000) for items which would be procured through
normal commercial channels after obtaining quotations from at least three
suppliers.
64.     The total estimated cost of civil works contracts, including
contingencies, is US$25.4 million. This Includes US$14.4 million for area
development, US$6.7 million for slum upgrading, US$3.5 million for
sub-projects in medium towns and US$0.8 million for off-site
infrastructure. The three largest civil works contracts are for area
development in Indore (US$6.0 million); Bhilai (US$2.7 million); and
Raipur (US$2.5 million). The cities of Raipur and Bhilai are about 650 km
from Indore, and it would not be feasible to group these contracts. Other
civil works contracts for area development vary in size from about
US$0.6 million to US$1.4 milli n. Civil works contracts for alum
upgrading, sub-projects in medium towns and off-site infrastructure are
also small and scattered and would be phased over the project period. In
addition, practically all the civil works contracts involve simple, labor
intensive, and low cost technology. For all of these reasons, it is not
expected that the civil works contracts would attract the interest of
foreign bidders. They would, therefore, be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally. The balance of the project costs
(US$17.8 million) would be for land, studies, training and for front-end
fee. Bid awards on contracts over Rs 4.0 million would be reviewed by the
Bank prior to award.
65.     Tae proceeds of the loan would be disbursed against:  (a) lOOQ of
foreign expenditures for di ectly imported plant and equipment, lOOZ of
local expenditures (es-factory) for locally manufactured equipment,
procured through international competitive bidding, and 45Z of
expenditures for equipment and veE cles procured locally; (b) 452 of
expenditures on contracts for civil works and on loans made for home
construction or improvement; and (c) 100% of expenditures for technical
assistance and training. Disbursements for each civil works payment not
exceeding Rs 300,000 and for each payment for vehicles and equipment not
exceeding Rs 150,000 will be made against statements of expenditure, the
documents for which would not be submitted to the Bank but retained
locally for inspection during the course of the project review missions.
All other disbursement claims would be fully documented. Independent
auditors, satisfactory to the Bank, would carry out annual audits of all
statements of expenditure.



-22-
Cost Recovery
66.     About 65Z of the total project costs would be directly recovered
from the beneficiaries. The remaining 35% of the costs would go either
for technical assistance or for municipal services like solid waste
management for which there would be no direct cost recovery. Interest
charged to beneficiaries of the area development, and low-cost slum
upgrading components would be not less than 12% per annum (Paragraph 7 of
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement). These rates are close to market
rates and are expected to be positive in real terms, since the average
annual rate of inflation over the project period is expected to be under
9%. These rates are well above HUDCO-s present average lending rate
(about 8%) and well above the rates presently charged to beneficiaries for
sites and services and EBS housing (4% and 5Z respectively). The project
would demonstrate to HUDCO the feasibility of combining a higher interest
rate structure with more efficient land use, infrastructure and house
designs (see para 34).
67.     Full recovery of costs of area development investments would be
realized through a system of differential land pricing. Since
lower-income plots are less desirable in terms of location, accessibility
and service levels, they would be sold 3t prices lower than the average
cost per square meter. On the other hand, upper-income plots and
business/commercial plots would be sold at prices higher than average
costs. Slum improvements have also been designed to be affordable with
full cost recovery, although until recently GCMP had been providing 100%
subsidy under its slum improvement projects. GOMP has decided to recover
at least 75% of costs of all its slum upgrading works including those
under this project.  GOP would review the adequacy of the changes
annually with the Bank (Paragraph 8 of Schedule 2 to the Project
Agreement). Water and sewerage facilities would be taken over In area
development sites by local autborities for management and prevailing rates
would be charged to beneficiaries with individual connections.
Naintenance fees would also be charged from beneficiaries in area
development and slum upgrading sites. The costs of off-site
infrastructure, solid waste management and maintenance would be recovered
partly through direct user charges (for instaace, for water supply) and
partly indirectly through enhancements in the general revenues of the
municipal governments. To achieve the latter, consultant studies financed
under the project are under way to review and implement specific means to
improve municipal resource mobilization through property taxes, user
charges, fees, etc.
Benefits and Risks
68.     The principal benefits of the propcsed project would be:  (a) to
redirect a significant proportion of public investment in land,
infrastructure and shelter toward low-cost and replicable programs using
affordable designs which would benefit low-income groups and small
businesses; (b) to introduce the principle of full cost recovery for
low-income land development and shelter programs; and (c) to strengthen



-23-
national, State and local institutions involved in policy formulation in
urban development, planning and implementation of urban development
programs. The area development program would directly benefit about
18,500 households in the six project cities and about 4,200 households
in medium towns, over 80Z of whom fall below urban poverty threshold (with
monthly household income of US$55 in 1980). The slum upgrading program
would benefit 37,000 households. City-wide sanitation would benefit about
16,000 households and the solid waste management and maintenance program
would benefit about 500,000 people. The economic rates of return have
been calculated for project components that represent about 63Z of total
costs and show a weighted average of 16x.
69.    The major proJect risk is possible delay in land acquisition for
area development, since only I5  of land required for this component VS
actually acquired by project negotiations. However, steps already taken
to acquire the remaining sites and measures included in the project
(para 48) should minimize the risk. Another risk relates to the capacity
of the implementing agencies including HUDCO and State and local agencies
to carry out the project. To minimize this risk, particular care was
taken to keep the project size and scope manageable. Moreover, the
institutional strengthening measures outlined in paragraphs 56 and 57
should help minimize this risk.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.    The draft Loan Agreement between India and the Bank, the draft
Project Agreement between the Bank and the State of Madhya Pradesh, the
draft HUDCO Agreement between the Bank and the Housing and Urban
Development Corporation Limited (HUDCO) and the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii), of the Articles of agreement
of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
71.    Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.  Execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between India and
RUDCO and the MPHB Loan Agreement between HUDCO and the Madhya Pradesh
Housing Board would be made conditions of loan effectiveness
(Section 6.01, draft Loan Agreement).
72.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
73.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
by
June 9, 1983                                 Hoeen A. Qureshi



ANNEX I
nDIA - SOCIL ND1CAO  DTA                         Page 1  of  5
IDIA                        - aw 060f    -     AWMOU
AM      D    SQ.)                                                         NM unir iSTiUSTE
ALS.6                         NM               I= 1I 1 c           DINALE DECtI
IAL.  118.2             1960 lb   1970 lb ESTIA  lb   A  4 PACIFIC           ASA 4 FACFIDC
Qi PMI CAPI  (USS)                70.0      110.0    240.0            261.4                 m90.1
E1ERCY COKSPTIOW PU CAPUTA
(5zman or COAL  uWIFNr)    111.2          152.5    194.4            4887                  701.7
POPULATION AM VITL STATISrICS
}OPLAT0. 31D-U2    CnUS.)  434850.0   547569.0 673207.0
USB POPULATION (CEIr OF  OTAL) 17.9        19.7     223              17.3                  32.4
NULATIOPWCIi
POUWATION IN WAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                  994.1
SMATIOlMAT POPULATOID (LLI)                      1694.4
YEAR STOU    POPLATO  IS  ACD                    2113
NOPULATXII O11T
N  SQ. m                      132.3     166.6    200.6            158.1                 255.9
In SQ_. m. ACllCURfiL LASD   247.0       307.8    362.8           355.9                1748.0
POPUATII0 AGE SUUE  CERC)
0-14 *S.                       *0.9      42.7      80.2            36.8                  39.9
15-6  ls._                     54.5       54.2     56.8             59.7                  54.
65 TZ. ANm ABOVE                 .46       3.1      3.0              3.5                   3.3
TaTAL                           1.8       2.3       Z.1             2.0                   2.3
Ora"                           2.5        3.3      3.3              3.3                   3.9
CRUDE 5134M. RAU  C U OSAND)    43.7       40.0     35.6             29.3                  314
MUE        A 34MR CPM 300AD)    21.8       16.7     13.6             11.0                   9.8
GROLr EIETICT0  34               2.9        2.7      2.4              2.0                   2.0
ACCS,. ALUAL C(TUOSAiIDS)    64.0       3782.0   5619.0
MSe C(E33 or 1*X5D 903    ..             12.0    22.6              19.3                  36.3
POOD AMI NOTmOls
IwN  or OW  PRODUTION
PER CLPMA (1969-71-100)       98.0       102.0     9.o            103.1                 115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CArvcE (PRCItr OF
wuSI1KPm )                   95.6      90.4      868/le          97.3                 106.4
PROTEINS (CG3AS PER 3LY)      53.6       49.7     48.4/;           56.9                  54.4
OF UWC ADUL AJD PULSE        17.2       14.      m3.             20.0                  13.9
cuW CaGEs 1-4)   TALLT RTZ    26.2         20.7     17.4             10.9                   6.7
WAL123
ME WEUCTAiC AT hIUM  Cs)   43.2            48.1     51.8             57.8                  59.8
iNFANT -ALUlr RA31 CP(
730UA*D)                       165.0      139.0    134               89.1                 63.7
ACCESS 10 SAVE VIlER (P1353r or
POPUIATIUK)
TOTAL                           -.       17.0     33.0             32.9                  32.0
URBAN                           ..       60.0     83.0             70.7                  51.9
RUAL                            ..        8.0     ZO.0             22.2                  20.5
ACCES TO EICUT  DISPOSAL CPE ?r
OF iOPIWAOW)
TOL                             ..       18.0     20.0            1l.1                   37.7
uNM                             ..       85.0     87.0             72.7                  65.7
-  3.AL                         ..        1.0      2.0              4.7                  24.0
POPUATIoN PMr EPICIE          4850.4     4889.0   3630.6           3297.8               s540.4
POPMATXOW PER NURSING PRSDmo  10975.31d   8296.5   5696.t          4929.3                4829.4
POPIFATIOM PER HOSPITAL BED
TOAL                         2178.7    1612.9   1311.0/         1100.4                107.5
ORB"                            ..         ..    362.3/;i         301.3                 651.6
3L                              ..         ..  10432.3-/         581.7                 2597.6
ADMSSIONS P   OSPITAL 30          ..         ..       ..               ..                 27.0
IIOSDIC
A E SlZE  uOF
TOTAL                          5.2        5.6      5.2
DM                            5.2        5.6      4.8
303*?L                         5.2        5.6      5.3
-R  fUlK. Or P533035PER ROM
TOTAL                          2.6        2.8
Lug"3                          2.6        2.8
RURAL.                         2.6        2.8
ACCESS 10 EXSCI3ICrTT (PURCENT
or  3ILICS)
TOTAL                           ..         ..
LL..                                       ..
iDEL                            ..         ..       .                 ..



ANIER I
Page 2.jf 5
- VW       i DR!r UYW
U60 J      1P70 &  ZSIn=  fb   MU & £ACUI              AM 4 PACMC
OUJCATIZO
-m  umDSw 141
pRI:    TOZAL                   61.0        73.0     73.0/c           N7.                     6.2
MAS,                10.0       s0.0      92.0ff          101.0                   n.
Funz                40.0       56.0      63.0ff            7.3                    2.
SICOUDARIs  1wuL                20.0       26.0      17.0/c           33.0                   37.6
mmLE                30.0       36.0      36.0f            63.                    41.1
1301.               10.0       13.0      17.0f            41.3                   34.1
VOCa:mxAL KUOL. CZ0o uZcUII   6.0             1.0       0.7/f            1.7                   20.6
flnIKAR1                        46.1       41.5      51.6/c           37.7                   33.3
Sucol                           16.0       20.9        .. -           20.2                   23.0
AlMT LRMUC! RAZZ (PERCM)          28.0       33.4      36.0             32.1                   73.1
PDPMAXIM                         0.6        1.1       1.31c            1.3                    t.6
A0o R InS 13 1 l30       l-
FOPOUA101F                       4.9       21.5      33.6             35.4                  16.5
TV REcElVUS MR OOIDmA
POiur.&POwM                      0.0        0.0       1.0              3.2                   37.6
m961373Z3  C uDAf  01AL
ZN1sr ) CzGcOuTION ML
T50M*M    o rULADIO               10.6       16.0      13.6             16.4                   33.7
CIUNA110L ATZU04XCE  M Chl=L 4.1              4.1       3.7              3.6                    2.8
LAM FOR
TWLLLQMECE CDUSAD)  18351.1   2194.2  2640.4
RIK=  (113CM?)                  30.7       32.5      3.8              23.5
AGUZCOLTURZ f DC S)             74.0       74.0      69.3             70.0                   SJZ
23333 ClEMNTY)                  11.0       11.0      13.2             150                    17.9
TAITICZPMO  RAZ (PERCEN)
TOTAL                             42.6       40.0      39.2             40.0                   30.5
mItU                              57.0       52.4      51.6             31.6                   30.5
FZLUE                             n27.3      26.       25.9             23.8                   26.6
sEnC  DRgnog          o RAT.O 1.1                .        L.1              1.0                    1.1
IiCM  DIS OZUSU!0
cEM? W PRMVAZE ICOCmE
RECEmD BY
Uzz 5 NECEN? w   USUOB    26.7             26.3f    22. ff
h1G1IST 20 PERCEN? oI  OIuzISC  51.7  6.974          49.4.f
U013 20 PRCE? or OUS             4*.l        6.7      7.0ff
I1ZT 40 PECET W HOUSES    13.6             L7.K      16.2. 
POVR`T  RO T      S
ASDLUm Z  011!Q96
TEL CUSS PR CAPIA)
BUIAN                             ..         ..    132.0             133.J                  134.7
RURAL                             ..         ..    114.0             11.1                   135.1
xCOZU  mliM  ioUUT _1001
MEL cuss PER CAPTLA)
URBAN  ..  ..        ..               ..                  178.2
RURAL                             ..         ..        ..               ..                  161.9
ISTINAD POPULA?OU 31101 ABSOLUTE
201112! DO   LsVZL CIUCENT)
URBAN                             ..         ..      40.3             43.6                   24.4
RURAL                             ..         ..      50.7             51.7                   41.1
Not avallable
Notaplcle
/a  TSe gzoup aweres for e_ch indeator are popation-wligbted arltmsec _ine. C-eeof eofd
o   the indieators deveeds on avallblity of data ad loat uifomo.
lb  Unlee otberwi  noted, data for 1940 refer to any yer  betwn  1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; ad for Maet RZecenti. et,. botwee 1978 and 1960.
/c  1977; /d 1962; La 1976; /f 1975; /I 1964-65.
ay. 193



'sO     l ' x10-  -ls
.s -  *  11 15S   41L  11V           .14 . .-1. 0-1-    1    a-
W_"             .a p_ -i_1-       "-.1,                                                         tr £2       a.-1- I1 - Id"    ..IP_    _
P-  -I.4  Id AC   . -   _* hJP-
Wlt   a  .aL  .14 -A.-   --I... ao.-o    P- a..a-n   -0
-  .dop               100.0  £1111  we*a0  ._.1  1¶a  _a. _._.-.. J 
_~~-d J.         P-           Mw~~~~...p"  14    .. -    Cats.i-4. I    41001   P9O30.1 1 VT-Ll
--1 A._.' .-",o -1-a -narwww P *>"_-1     J.     l __   ' n   0_.pl - 
a..-... -a    a._. -a   _.  -3   A.-. JP 1.             l*£  pa                  Blq1 _    IL -%   1a11  43 d40 -Sat ;    qSl  111_
-14- _ (1 Np  t_   _.3        T         _All-4 i.a a.a.-.                       131  11    -            _          P - _ *Jd_ _ a - 14  3.. n_ 1
- t     t.*-.   dd an t.'            --- .= aet . _ _ 4  _= 1: 1                        *  £a m      _      t 14 0 I  T1 d -t
IPili 141    j rPlLIP PU imat *1.443  0.llllP 11 az-z> a.I   1-L_1              11         5          h   M" *_i.      P-       £t.4T     5 - J.11100
*wsoa aa,  - Pl41-~  ttala lId  --L10  a..o   la                       3*510 0.Is " p         *aho  *1P.4SI   I .tPJ ou    1)SI4 A
* l...  a mIi.   (eaon      IS)ia  -.nI  )015.ca a    .tlmdI)1T ,    P.t-I            .0.10- P- ..o   aia *1.IP.al .a.1..   ia   0
ew " -,..aa                             _   *111mT -tt. 1-   I  ll -       11_ _p  t  4 t_         0. j   *. 
-P   *t--S _ l 0 IinaT mSS 1S1P1  _-l tall1h1 £a-31f1                          aw. - .Lt fIt __1   *- *SO  _- _Sttll a.1011)    s *jS 
-a-   pa 9. I -      a .   x  T_.  _1W a.Is"*            Fe a -"_ P.p_        I_-              _s- . a-T .4t tp u - *pa.1.4. a_.  am. ..I. .q.*  Id
*I...  £11.10 I- l-      .t_1i    0 SLP _C _      1,_  -_ a-fli -4              "     *   a-   A                                      A-_Idkz W.z1V
3dam  J23    uLBA9113
1930411 aS                          PP 0S6 pa GM  c091t _            3 T-- 1L 5 T  a;-PP   -sP - -
0-lapS at    Pd pa  0-ol'  or   PO  £0..         0 1     1    1a                                       _ "b  " £5 "I"  ., 0 -    PP    1     - 
-"P. A4  -at   - ra-p4                1..l                                          P--, -    - .43-0  11-  - Ia-4l _    Pt* q_    44-1 "3 -        t"N
YDIn0U333110 141111     _*1.-   UsI pa  1_al tf.-tt 'Ap9 -a  ..A                                                            _ pa  -TM
I  _.9   pa    @i   £0P1  tt. .   _ l  .-udd-        Tp                   0 1 ' S 9-l  -   U-7 - - J . -
--P 445     P-.4   GE6 051...-to   !A--% PMiSI
Pm11I   101      1-_5 0   d2-i%_  -J          _          -I-- pJ-a =--  T-1 1  -L2 IL a.  -TP 141               -   __-_
V  'r-a ddl) 0-I1 3V-      r0.O 411 a. oI- tT    11"3.I                          -pal. -M   -a_AA I 1                  -J P a at % . jt      _     dat   U i-d
1  sdz3VdI*      1 .._ n11 - P0_0-a  1-I   -P 00- P_ -M) .OM2                   a-   -1- a- -0  ag v-J "l               T-- aI 4          0_11C   Ja -J -n-
2&tatol.O.MlL -016  t   p 03141111- 1ip P-   .in  )P1- i...)oo1 A.                              J -Ps-"a  vm A p.wlq.t-  ".qu          U. Ia-  .a 9
-     5 01  "        pa    1              .. - -  r -  -     A wl.j 11  _pYP p1-1 _                       j a-_d-  I,  - Z   pa   - S'to
-   It.'IS       -s _pj pa *a t-I. - 0-a  -o 131                   W           tq                   10  - (l_0    .j  n-                 e V.si TT Jo   a. *n _m 
.--v 01bi pa Gt3I                                                 _ lP _93p  LMI 1          T-" 1t   P
1..4 141  ZndSt A. 013.-li0  -  La pa-.. t    -t*                        o.i   -A I...adO Os 1.-I. p  *a.ltmPOa  J-.i.q               -  p
awm1.ami-        tM0.l0          PU 01".3 -WsI - (_-Q 0                                 . ..   .. -..           I     S- S      _-   qla. Pa-al_
loP CT pa    t oat1.sda  -o   i -  dG"dd.sd - IT15,-1                          -_ s pa.-       .    1t_tl.tM.A  - ,..aMA Aq ".350-  - _.
pa_ S        '011AX-j *t     l ., -10. *-*_ -        )          ,             -tobm  -.n         . *   *P1 --t 5- t91              pg _    n_ *-ti
Pi. £09  *_t. a. 101.01  __ _0. _t  1_1  -_ IlUlan  0t_                         _-   .piK.*_ la-tn  -tIe   .3 4PP _ +-~1a.,p    o.
'19 0591 pa oat 'a... 1.14.:0-o  *-                ..1 .o.t  '_pIda.P..l      1_-   -M  .111M-I a          T r9l-  hp  w'
'l_ _11115. 1     m        lTp                    _ :w ,-T .Iou                     a £0 £       . t n n1m. PtW  l   1  a 111                  a4
S.Iptl  1141La .0)111 £fl.~~1 - a.,.m.m'4.a _0_45 awl _m.SL         *.a        p'01*f-t,st: 1140 T_11  OPiPaPS _3-.  1.
_       W-P -X _P. -1-,,,  _1 _   7 t     *- r W. - 1 - 'IO - UV; .P   -   _JRU   nJ"- J' V-
.3-     dp *' -s                                                                     3 40F            t            a               a- .I
.. *~~~~~~~-w                                -_ Pn                                p-Vn-tT ................................... M  -  T  wa _t'  1 9S.W
----  _                                                                        _.a  a= 0La.a TI. P   _ *I    O   0   ,    _ _la a .1
vmnT              m  -.- ftwm    _t--  W_d%J TI_ A.J - 1-T t                            J l-J-A  J5   -                                  Malds,   T /-
.~*I1.3.aI1W. ~1~ppa hP1t'3  *£.L a.191a   pp9140.                a  a  pa p -4.14 10 -              (--.A  101101   pa i. SM . an,.i
_a .3add1 &:wd, _   0L.S  aI .19.03 J  -A M_   1.0-    __                  p7.1. £_- - --  - (cC            _     P0 - 2    _11d aT T''
-4.-.-!)  ~     I_3 a_T1 1.41  11 _010  1131 .41.. .40                               n_Un __          _ J11-7    *
P10909- 1 01   W      19IaT-S   -  t10.199 10119)11-I19.0    AI-   -t                                               _---   d.--t"4S
sPs-  I"__ _,-I            AL _ _-Z-  V-         -J     _    JU      . ;     ;_  J. .-  nJm-        _                              s ---I - T -4J
tmlawt   ._a_ _JIP **La.W. IT 1a --tW=I ". 1    a-  1Itd-                                                         *0p 06        _1 _4o-0T  -    _Ts.
-rs-.    -5      q      11.         m          T.-np  .1 -                     P1a- I-fT- t'd- d                -W is 'm1 _" s_P _-   Ts-dd 0,tI
"Pss a   "a"do- -    dssd   9 VW d`11  -I10    31W 3-0                  -I pVa mi    *11.1 lapa           0.  £.05..PtE '11 -a ..... am1110
OP   19 _A4 IPA   IL   as  -  POPlt-Jj I  -*t'W  1jl~-  PPLOl...-a J"T- --                                   .          ta
.4.3. a-  1   .Ad ol.  pa P              .3 _a    -*a .311                01      1     4"* "W-P a                _P           T a   ' 0.  l3_V
9-  inio  :w-.M - pa--. La  1119  IP                  t-                     -"-VW J. P-P1pa  5(1   9  1.-a
.4._  £03 0.l*ll  a- _10h *1_ I- 9.111W  J-  * _nI m.1@01p -'a-rn          aLp" a- lP   LId  11XP 1.0-_ - 7-9P  £103 P109 P                P-  t
dIddA_ *dd~s nQ      d                                              t-l_ S. -4 IaI-               -.p _ _'1 'spd1.       1  PITYT
£01.m 0p10    11   a0d- 0  .PP pPatA W                  .0 L1141                                            0-0    .-.Pa  1(D91 P- 0&   101-.
,-I-*" 11_dlV--                _Ad  ."_s 1 -_                 f           TC]T-t_'o
q_ P _ -                             _M*       -_        - .- _            0.' a- P11- - t                 - .t
-_"     Td  A_V*__a -                         _*'I  J  _T_-
T b_ agG=                                                                                                                                  ! 1--u     L.- -~b-WJ--t_zToi T-
-on. °  -~  1.1 .319   U0.IPo   ala. 0-PP  II 0-I10IPPOP  -                 . J-SO a gLl --nn               n '1   -.d -             z  v1
pa      -           _                  A-       S .A fh  -  t. -                                              .w r     pa  m l     11._T
.004 J_1  andgm. is"Idd,s IdTlvdsff  Itsid-A 19Pv_                   -V   I     A1  n     .. aId _to   pa ._D-I (1 ."_J         p  PT
n_~  -           - -2-. i. .ITPl   a3-   _ T _- -l  41.P                a-RdW.       1A. -a P - _- 1 0 101- I-.  -s -a               - 1
-9111.33    s0 411s Ipi-ga  £-a        £0J *t- 1 a - _ -t . p  -                        _                                t p _n     5491 I. qiP_ 
91.1lsinl~~~_ IPPllP  __ (_alr a-   000  Iia J.1 9p iaa. ID)11114..9 a _h.~£0-s 
M~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~   ~~~t 9aX_>_t--  _-  ~t-  _ a P   -vt 
-a ftmp    w- A.m s- u1sd-S£-1aLa  1_-v '-q.'Idd I -  n 11 a-S- 0_-1f q                         I0a IJ a-"                               F   -P
t11ttOPO1  £10-    .M. PP  a -t-                                                 ftP.' Mi 1-i 1  PP0Iao  nlPflAtlP                       .1J-P'IR
-1_ _-rs- snw_ @  vXt-anX A-M   oilX$*s^~s -  -aZm Iu
ds-S~~~~~~- Z_                                   eA_    _ Aa.11        __m ldv     upna_             --
£- - 1.0.9 - a -pi - .j.s pa -  p   -a-... - :s  £1.p-sp                 ~    ATVl,dd  ad         hx.       --t    a- .,b  a   -- -sn A- a.           s
0-i-IPauoaa   .  00   0 t1  PP1101  119         .-vo.  4100 a-   A41_4 T-d P- _.Lo   -1 a            a    a 1P11
llP100 451 ia-P *0. t.II         pi1P5I -41LPPIS 41la 0T-                       0-5 11      O  "11 £     -tIt. -ft1_ -T.Isl  anIlpto _l        -
M1111-d I. .0-llPaLa - 0-11 AoIP1oO-141111100  II.  p. 3IPIPL                  a   a L  _-. S-" - W-T. 41-all  paIo  t   P1 -414
a0apa 111l P C-i- 1 05pa --A-si --=t...  5.114                             01          lddL 1P . i4   011100  01110. 9" * Pt1 -. &IdV0d  -Pt 331
m  Ipmd                                -.Pll .PO 4015  a41I£-MOO £01 .9.911 011109  p
_dl A_                                   P-"*    r -I  Li-e   _T pa"   a-
-a-.10.   -l:~' I.q-.  a-.a .3s a.                               . s-n-op *19       1 _ '11 1.4b1 OPIm IIPW     £1t1° -  9... - s 
*11 0 P        10-1-   1A "'dI        -- 1-    r- a-.P  -P_a 15                                4 _ ' *-                    t . -a  at-a  pa  aal _
.Adold" O.Ml  dsw -1-rg11010 IPI£050-                             -11 -T11   T-di a.3 0P£- J.01 M3 110  0  P00nI
0-L     - S  0.p   *a' t    I   - 0-      P M 1     IPL1      
_3I-1    .90-    aP  V_ £.pp  OP~ O          -* 010- 2m           _ '314  paX h.   PLu.0£.   j-  1   -905   -a0111    .L
1£al    Imlal  aa.Z a. 1113 -t  a- _..  - a. °sm  2_-          4        _       .      O  a-Stli 7'- A     . W1- t_-    oO- a--P) 
-t.a. pa *_114L  *Pn_ll - 1p     -   _sn) P1         . a- a-lis *10 _- !m-
--P3- _                             MRS                                             IS_ _11-  _     1   _  .11 - (         1   £1_-*.          D  1 M    -*
1914 a. 0-Mi 041 04 a-lP.a-,.ItI .                            !u.-                         -- M     (A.' 003
Aar-am  - P J v0-ISa.a-                                                       _za-_1   -   a * m. nt11--PP  P1`
-I   pa     11_5   Ip .11   lie _     "_.   _ 19 --" _ -a  pa. _                       pa 0n -    P  p
Is 44  4-) --"4 -I Am PM"1V             -    P         " ,  pa s1 _                           1 _  -1W      11gpj   .- pdg-  Ln -      -  An
CST"4- _-Il-S  P     Q.1  1l3 q 10-    P         1I                          -TV. 111£ 104s- _1         M -2111- OU3  -a A  - .1311 Wu"  ".d 2--
-.U3411 t.20100S. 11.ifoao  .3-"I  WM   -~~£0a   lP  - £4                    -W   a   .I3-n---o-1"Mv
-.     a. l -J- pa _sa-  ._1 10-   _13 -I W  -111     -
n-  Ml goft   :Ts  A-                   d_    _OK    "_   In_VV    ~_ A."              -sad  : V_l                 T_   -s-* s,dal-* -g " 
ispa A1111q111. a. 11 P..,"1 111- 111               9£    0 a           '41 ashn  -£01101.31 -   Iva. £3 d2sp Vdq14 015  "9 ds"O0-1  '4. a. AIS£C-
AM a. 0.111      pa4 dd-P  13dR11 mmE lIl  11P115l"   -- .314 01 P16 -AWRI p-a            no. 19£.1.aa   411 1111)   1P0
00-411. - ft.  M   --S0 IIUP .IP"  .pa  l10jV  O.. M0-s  .19to4 Ps&  01.10 3-ila0l 1100PR41.£31.-    .                                14119a
£0.19 00W.  . -q   -. 00.    oapFj qu  £0.1   mosmIT -1 m  pa La*-W"Caa                       a- £.100011.0 so     (.1 -qp- l£11  .n£a-.
4141  0.119 41.."P a. NVln 1.110.3 111009-  5.1.-151 A% P Mi  d101-90 0-         "    P_IPA.II P -Vs10 1 50 qil a. a-   -4 :.a-d.a.s A.1141191
--£09  14 IdAss 0- 0.4  3.41 v""194 -P 11 p-41 To at111£ pa Am111um To  a. 'opF LIAn-L  s-mod 0-3 -a.P IsMP  4qlmy.m
lo  _r ag a- la £ 1115W
3° £ .Sw
IXUY



AM= 
raw  of 5
E    i  D        aVELOIIN  DA
GNP Pt CAP M       19N ton#25S
caossw.naNI. wumcr m1981/82 kIAIDAAL RATE CF CRUMW (2. contstan pricem,
GROSS SKTGFL PRDC X1  I9IS  b/)llLLc   glm   t   _sc )                                                                       c
UtSS Bin *                   1955156-1959/60  1960/61-1964165  1965166-1969/70  1970/71-1974J75
CIP at Hlaret Prices         165.38    100.0                     3.7             3.6             3.6             2.9
Gross Domestic Investnut    41.74      25.2
Gross Nstion-l Saving        37.66     22.8
urreoc Account Dalanc        -4.08    -2.4
atunr. LAU   FORCE AND PRoWmvrry mi 1978
Vslue Added (at factor coat)        Loabr Force 1c         V.A. Par Worksr
5SBI2l,. 1                                                US6 *     of  s       o£   g
Agriculture                  3.8              39.6          110.6    70.7               220          56
Industry                     25.2             25.1           32.2    12.6              7S3          199
Servicee                     35.5             35.3           42.6    16.7              833          211
Iotal/AwrS                 100.5            100.0          2S5.4.   1000               i            W0
GO wVEN FINANCE
Genr  GowerncIt            *1                        Central GoverM
Ra.Dlfl.      t  of  D?                                 Itc.o  .       1  of Gar
1981162    19S11112  19Y77780-971/2                    198g/82    1981/82 1977178-198l1B2
Current Becdpt                  285.77       19.4        19.1                            149.ZE     10.1      10.4
Currant ED  d S                 280.34       19.0       1I.2                            155.03     10.5       10.6
current Surplus/Defict            5.43        0.4         0.9                            -5.75     -0.4       -0.2
Capitol Expenditures fi         116.91        7.9         7.8                            83.66      5.7        5.5
EzteCra Assistance (net) df      16.45        1.1         1.0
3eUn. CIEDr AMD PRCES           1970171  195/6  n9767   1977/78  19787n9  1979y80  1960/81  1912           r.bmuy 19112         r      93
(Rs  1ll1n12 tatt dita t e    ef pody
bney and Quos  one              110.2    22.8   277.8   329.1   401.1   472.3    54.5  _5-5    615.5                             71S.7
Bank Credit to Cverament(Cnet)    54.6      .:      77.     7..      94.2   124.1   164.4   206.4    M2.2                       3S3.5
bnk Credit to Crcial Sector 65.2    156.2   188.5   212.2   255.3   310.1   362.8   430.4    622.2                               487.7
:--Ftt:e or !d    -= )                               Aril-Fab 1981182   Awril-Feb 1962/83
Hkney and QQas Hony
as c of CD?                   27.4      30.3    34.6    36.5    41.2    64.1    43.3    42.5
Wholeale Prie Index
(1970171 - 100)              100.0    173.0   176.6   185.8   185.8   217.6   257.3   281.3                281.7               28Z.3
Annul percentage changs in:
Wbhlesle Price Inod               7.7      -1.1      2.1      5.2      -       17.1    18.2       9.3          10.0                  2.0
Bank Credit to Coverosn_t (et)  15.0        6.3    11.1    16.3    16.0    25.6    29.6    19.1                22.7 I/             21hl
Dank Credit to Comrclal Sector 20.5        22.7    20.7,    12.6    20.3    21.5    17.0    18.7               20.9 ,/             15.5 -I
a/ The per capit GOIIP etimte is et  aret rices. uing World Dak Atas _thodology. baa perio  1979-191U.
All otber conversins to dollarse ei th  table  me at the average exchag rate prvailn  durin  the perio  coerd.
bJ Quick Esctisct. Central Statcitical Organicion.
c/ Conputed froe trend line of CliP at factor cost serne  Including one o vbwtite before first year and on obserstin  after last
year of listed period.
d/  luorld Bank estijte  of net disbursement; not necessrily consistet with official finrs.
el Transfers betwen Centre and States hae been netted oue.
fl  All lans ad advances to third parties hav been netted out.
E/ Peretge change frm  end-Mhrch 1981 no and-February 1982.
h/ Pe tae cbane freo aondlurth 198Z to end-FebruarY 1983.
f/ Total Labor Force and percentage breakdow  frm Sixth Five Year Plan. Table 2.6 and Annezure Table 13.8.



ANIZZ I
of 5
BA1AN  OF PATIEXtS            1979/80  1980/8  2981/82  1962/83                     SEU1 S (AVERAGE 1978179-191182)
(USS KO.)                                                                                             Us$ Ms. 
Exports of Goods g/            7.948   8.50    8.511   S.8O0               Eniering Goods               901      11
Imports of Goods gl          -11.383 -16.119 -15.253 -14.801               Ta                           457       6
Tade Balance                  -3.435  -7.615  -6.742   -6.001              Cls                          759      10
NYS (net)                      1.042   1.365    1.120   1.0S8              Clothi                       556       7
Leatber a leather Products   470      6
Resource Balance              -2.393   -6.250  -5.622  -4.913              Jute Im _facture             279       4
ron Ore                      352      4
Interest Tiuoe (noat) k/        287      60       212    -12               Cotto Textile                319       6
met Transfers 1/               1.852   2.771    1.577    1.668             Sur                           104      1
Others                     3.789     47
Balance oan Current Accout      -254  -2.879  -3.833  -3.373
Offici-l Aid                                                               Total                      7.91      100
Gross Dlisbursements           1.218    1.629    1.821    1.933             IUAL BUT. VWCR 31. 192
Amortization                   1.894   2.338    2.475   2.569
115$ billA-AuA
Traunsetinu  with DIF            -      1.035     690   1.980              Outscading ad  Isbured                18.3
All Othw Items of               -740    -130  -1.075    -358               Undisbursd                             8.5
Outstanding.  inding6.8
Incrase In Resv   C-           -2Z4      345   Z.397    -182                 Undllobrued
CGrs Reserves (and Year) pi   7.204   6.859   4.462   4.6U
Net Rserves (end yer)  /       7.204   6.532 ' 3.498   1.703                 UT SEUCE RATMO lOt 191/182 1/ at 8.9 Pwr cost
Fuel  d ReLated    eaID                                                                LENDIU. as of Febrary 28. 1983
Imorts (Petrolea) 5/          4.046   6.657   5.570   4.686                                                    Ms millin
INRD        IDA
Outstanding and Disursd         1.357        6.688
Undiared                        11896        4,270
Ouc-tstadg  includi
Ondibared                     3.253       10.958
RATE OF tCXANE
June 1964 to mid-Deceaber 1971         USSI.00 - is 7.50                   Spot aste end4!Ch 1983: uS$1.OO - Rs 10.03
Rs 1.00 - ISS0.13333                                           s 1.00 - =S0.0997
Nid-Decsbet 1971 to and-Juinue  12:    US$1.00 - Rs 7.27927
Rs 1.00 - USSO.137376
After ead-Jne 1972               :     Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1981            USS.00 - Rs 9.099
Rs 1.0D - USSO.110
Spot late a-Decemr 1982          :     USS$.O - Rs 9.634
s L.O - UISSO.104
Eatieted.
Fisure give cover al ivawstmat IncIU (let). Hajar payments t. Interest on foreig  lon ad chare paid to
DIV. ad mjor recipts IA  aterest earnd on foredn assets.
1  FAigures give  Incude sorkurs raittancs bart  amscue official grant salata  ulch Is Inclde withint
officiald disbarse.Antg.
1   -cude   t us of IP credit.
Amotization and interest payments on foregn loans as a pecenta   of aports of goods ad serIcem. and curt tau sfero
o   Incldes comrcial borrown.
Excludig gold.
gN et of crude petroloau exports.



ANNEX II
Pa-ge l of 26
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATE1MENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1983)
US$ million
'Loan or Fiscal                                              (Net of Cancellations)
Credit  Year of
No.     Approval       Purpose                       Bank       IDA I/    Undisbursed 2/
46 Loans/                                          1,568.0        -
76 Credits fully disbursed                            -       4,364.4           -
482-IN   1974    Karnataka Dairy                     -          30.0         11.87
502-IN   1975    Rajasthan Canal CAD                 -          83.0         13.99
521-IN    1975    Rajasthan Dairy                    -          27.7          6.84
522-IN    1975    Madhya Pradesh Dairy               -          16.4          0.31
585-IN    1976    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply         -          40.0          8.55
598-IN    1976    Fertilizer Industry                -         105.0          3.59
604-IN    1976    Power Transmission IV              -         150.0         10.17
609-IN    1976    Nadhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.       -           4.0          0.98
610-IN    1976    Integrated Cotton Development      -          18.0          5.02
1251-IN    1976    Andbra Pradesh Irrigation         145.0        -           52.44
1260-IN    1976    IDBI II                            40.0        -            1.31
1273-IN    1976    National Seeds 1                   25.0        -           17.08
1313-IN    1977    Telecommunications VI              80.0        -            3.68
1335-IN    1977    Bombay Urban Transport             25.0        -            5.69
680-IN    1977    Kerala Agric. Developmet           -          30.0         14.82
682-IN    1977    Orissa Agrlc. Development          -          20.0          4.01
685-IN    1977    Singrauli Thermal Power            -          150.0         9.62
690-IN    1977    West Bengal Agricultural
Extension & Research             -          12.0        11.60
1394-IN    1977    Gujarat Fisheries                  14.0        -            4.68
712-IN    1977    M.P. Agric. Development            -          10.0          1.57
720-IN    1977    Periyar Vaigai Irrigation          -          23.0         10.40
728-IN    1977    Assam Agricultural Development     -           8.0          4.81
736-IN    1978    Maharashtra Irrigation             -          70.0          6.34
737-IN    1978    Rajasthan Agric. Extension          -         13.0          1.37
740-IN    1978    Orissa Irrigation                  -          58.0          0.24
1475-IN    1978    Industry DFC XII                   78.5        -            3.86
747-IN   1978    Second Foodgrain Storage            -         107.0         64.6!
756-IN    1978    Calcutta Urban Development II      -          87.0          8.30
761-IN    1978    Bihar Agric. Extension &
Research                                    8.0          6.19



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 26
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval       Purpose                        Bank         IDA 1/     Undisbursed 2/
1511-IN    1978     IDBI Joint/Public Sector            25.0          -            4.66
1549-IN    1978     Third Trombay Thermal Power        105.0          -           16.68
788-IN    1978     Karnataka Irrigation                 -          117.6         57.00
793-IN    1978     Korba Thermal Power                  -          200.0         49.63
806-IN    1978     Janmu-Kashmir Horticulture           -           14.0         11.56
808-IN    1978     Gujarat Irrigation                   -           85.0         29.91
815-IN    1978     Andbra Pradesh Fisheries             -           17.5         10.53
816-IN    1978     National Seeds II                    -           16.0         10.55
1592-IN    1978     Telecommunicati,ons VII            120.0          -           28.48
824-IN    1978     National Dairy                       -          150.0         87.61
842-IN    1979     Bombay Water Supply II               -          196.0        170.17
843-IN    1979     Haryana Irrigation                   -          111.0          0.10
844-IN    1979     Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                      -         190.0          63.60
848-IN    1979     Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage       -           38.0          9.88
855-IN    1979     National Agricultural Research       -           27.0         20.30
862-IN    1979     Composite Agricultural Extension    -            25.0          9.45
871-IN    1979     National Cooperative Development
Corporation                       -           30.0          6.07
1648-IN    1979     Ramagundan Thermal Power            50.0          -           50.00
874-IN    1979     Ramagundam Thermal Power             -          200.0         52.90
889-IN    1979     Punjab Irrigation                     -         129.0         68.92
899-IN    1979     Maharashtra Water Supply             -           48.0         17.49
911-IN    1979     Rural Electrification Corp. II       -          175.0         26.76
925-IN    1979     Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry        -           23.0          9.77
954-IN    1980     Naharashtra Irrigation II            -          210.0         99.51
961-IN    1980     Gujarat Community Forestry           -           37.0         18.45
963-IN    1980     Inland Fisheries                     -           20.0         18.29
981-IN    1980     Population II                        -           46.0         39.48
1003-IN    1980     Tamil Nadu Nutrition                 -           32.0         25.95
1004-IN    1980     U.P. Tubewells                       -           18.0          3.75
1011-IN    1980     Gujarat Irrigation II                -          175.0        132.77
1012-IN    1980     Cashewaut                            -           22.0         18.95
1027-IN    1980     Singrauli Thermal II                 -          300.0        221.29
1028-IN    1980     Kerala Agricultural Extension        -           10.0          8.99
1033-IN    1980     Calcutta Urban Transport             -           56.0         30.35
1034-IN    1980     Karnataka Sericulture                -           54.0         44.68
1046-IN    1980     Rajasthan Water Supply
and Sewerage                      -           80.0          64.42
1843-IN    1980     Industry DFC XIII                  100.0          -           15.29



ANNEX II
Page 3 of26
US$ all lon
Loan or  Fiscal                                                (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval       Purpose                        Bank         IDA 1/     Undisbursed 2/
1887-IN    1980     Farakka Thermal Power               25.0          -           25.00
1053-IN    1980     Farakka Thermal Power                -          225.0        179.32
1897-IN    1981     Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                  30.0         -            25.30
1925-IN    1981     Bombay High Offshore
Development                     400.0         -           42.02
1072-IN    1981     BIhar Rural Roads                    -           35.0         28.17
1078-IN    1981     Mahanadi Barrages                    -           83.0         77.59
1082-IN    1981     Madras Urban Development II          -           42.0         29.88
1108-IN    1981     H.P. Medium Irrigation               -          140.0        132.36
1112-IN    1981     Telecommunications VIII              -          314.0        210.79
1116-IN    1981     Karnataka Tank Irrigation            -           54.0         53.85
1125-IN    1981     Hazira Fertilizer Project            -          400.0        344.72
1135-IN    1981     Mabarashtra Agricultural Ext.        -           23.0         21.75
1137-IN    1981     Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.         -           28.0         25.25
1138-IN    1981     M.P. Agricultural Ext. II            -           37.0         36.27
1146-IN    1981     National Cooperative
Development Corp. II               -         125.0        109.46
1172-IN    1982     Korba Thermal Power Project II       -          400.0        366.87
1177-IN    1982     Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation      -         220.0         206.58
2050-IN    1982     Tamil Nadu Newsprint               100.0          -           81.29
1178-IN    1982     West Bengal Social Forestry          -           29.0         26.86
1185-IN    1982     Kanpur Urban Development             -           25.0         23.37
2051-IN    1982     ICICI XIV                          150.0         -           124.82
2076-IN    1982     Ramagundam Thermal Paver II        300.0         -           300.00
2095-IN    1982     ARDC IV                            190.0         -           190.00
1209-IN    1982    ARDC Iv                               -          160.0         23.34
1219-IN    1982     Andhra Pradesh Agricultural
Extension                          -           6.0           5.80
2123-IN    1982     Refineries Rationalization         200.0         -           181.91
2165-IN    1982     Rural Electrification III          304.5         -           300.00
2186-IN    1982    Kallada Irrigation                   20.3         -            20.00
1269-IN    1982     Kallada Irrigation                   -          60.0          48.41
1280-IN    1983     Gujarat Water Supply                 -           72.0         71.45
1286-IN    1983     J=um/Kasbmir and                                 T
Haryana Social Forestry            -          33.0         31.70
1288-IN    1983     Chambal Hadhya Pradesh               -           -
Irrigation II                     -           31.0         31.00
1289-IN    1983     Subernarekha Irrigation              -         lZ7.0         123.26
2205-IN    1983    Krishna-Godavari Exploration        165.5         -           163.05
2210-IN    1983     Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                   200.0         -          197.04
1299-IN    1983     Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                     -         200.0         200.00



AEX U1
Page 4 of 26
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                         Bank        IDA 1/      Undisbursed 2/
2241-IN    1983      South Bassein Gas Development*    222.3           -           222.30
1319-IN    1983      Haryana Irrigation II*                -         150.0         150.00
1332-IN    1983     U.P. Public Tubevells II*              -         101.0         101.00
Total                                    4,683.1    11,446.6
of which has been repaid               1 211.8        120.4
Total now outstanding                    3,471.      11,6.
Amount Sold                    133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8          -           -
Total nov held by Bank and IDA 3/        3,471.3    11,326.2
Total undisbursed (excluding *)          1,854.3      4,052.3
l1 IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in tenss of their US dollar
equivalents, as established at the time of Credit negotiations and as subsequently
presented to the Board.
2/ Undisbursed amounts for SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived fros cumulative dis-
bursements converted to their US dollar equivalents on the basis of the SDR/US dollar
exchange rate (1 SDR - US$1.07867) in effect on Mareh 31, 1983.
3/  Prior to exchange adjustment.
* Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 26
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1983)
Amount (US$ million)
Year                   Company                      Loan     Equity    Total
1959            Republic Forge Company Ltd.           1.5        -       1.5
1959            Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.            0.9        -       0.9
1960            Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                1.4        -       1.4
1961            K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                     0.2        -       0.2
1963-66         Preciion Bearings India Ltd.         0.6       0.4      1.0
19b4            Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.          0.8       0.4      1.2
1964-75-79      Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.        11.8       1.3     13.1
1964            Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.            1.0       0.3      1.3
1967            Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.               1.1       0.1      1.2
;967            Indian Explosives Ltd.               8.6        2.9     11.5
1969-70         Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.            15.1       3.8     18.9
1976            Escorts Limited                       6.6        -       6.6
1978            Housing Development Finance
Corporation                          4.0        1.2      5.2
1980            Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.      7.5        1.2      8.7
1981            Coromandel Fertilizers Limited       15.9               15.9
1981            Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0         -      38.0
1981            Mahindra, Mahindra Limited           15.0        -      15.0
1981            Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.           2.9       0.3      3.2
1981            Nagarjuna Signode Limited             2.3        -       2.3
1981            Nagarjuna Steels Limited              1.5       0.2      1.7
1982            Ashok Leyland Limited                28.0        -      28.0
1982            The Bombay Dyeing and
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.           18.8        -       18.8
1982            Bharat Forge Company Ltd.            16.3        -      16.3
1982            The Indian Rayon Corp. Ltd.           8.5        _       8.5
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS       208.3      12.1   220.4
Less:   Sold                        53.0        3.2     56.2
Repaid                      28.3        -       28.3
Cancel led                  15.9       1.4    17.3
Now Held                   111.1       7.5    118.6
'JUndisbursed               93.1        0.2     93.3
=mr       =m       i



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 26
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of March 31, 1983)
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably weil. Brief notes on the execution of individual projects are
below.  The level of disbursements was US$1,245 million in FY82, compared to
US$962 million in the previous year. Disbursements in the current fiscal
year through March 31, 1983 total US$1,008 million, representing an increase
of about 17% over the same period last year. The undisbursed pipeline as of
March 31, 1983, is US$5,907 million.
Ln. No. 1475 Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$80 million loan of July 22, 1977; Effective
Date: October 4 1l977; Closlng Date: September 30, 1983
Ln. No. 1843 Thirteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100 million loan of May 16, 1980; Effective
Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Ln. No. 2051 Fourteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US_150 million loan of October 8, 1981;
Effective Date: December 3, 1981; Closing Date: March 31, 1988
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing mediumr and large-scale
Industries, often in the high technology fields and are also mostly
export-oriented. Disbursements are on schedule for the twelfth loan and
ahead of schedule for the thirteenth and fourteenth loans.
Ln. No. 1260   Second industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 26
Lu. No. 1511   IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1970; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Loan 1260 has been completed and was closed on March 31, 1983. Dis-
bursements are expected to be completed by the end of April 1983.
Loan 1511 is nearly complete and was also scheduled to close on
March 31, 1983. Although project implementation has been satisfactory, a
small number of sub-projects remain unfinished. Following a detailed review
of the project by a Bank mission in April, a short extension of the closing
date will be made to allow completion of these sub-projects and full disbur-
sement of the loan proceeds.
Ln. No. 2050 Tamil Nadu Newsprint Project; US$100 million loan of
September 23, 1981; Effective Date: March 22, 1982; Closing
Date: August 31, 1985
Project progress is good. Land acquisition has been completed and
construction began In July 1982. Basic engineering work was completed on
schedule at the end of August. Procurement is proceeding as planned.
Cr. No. 598   Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105 million credit of
December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31,! 1982
Cr. No. 1125  Hazira Fertilizer Project; US$400 million credit of
October 28, 1981; Effective Date: January 21, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1986
Following completion of 37 fertilizer sub-projects, rrAi1t 598 was
closed on December 31, 1982. Disbursements are expected to be completed by
the end of April 1983. About US$3 million in the credit account are expected
to be cancelled.
Credit 1125 is proceeding generally satlifactorily. Procurement of
all critical items is on schedule. The need to undertake unexpected pillng
and foundation work identified by detailed soil surveys delayed somewhat the
start of major civil works. This has now beeni completed, and erection of the
ammonia and urea plants is scheduled to begin in April-May 1983.
Lu. No. 2123 Refineries Rationalization Project; US$200 million loan of
May 5, 1982; Effective Date: June 29, 1982; Closing Date:
September 30, 1986
Project implementation is satisfactory. The conversion component
is making very good progress, with construction about to commence.  Prepara-
tion work and investment approvals for the energy efficiency and pollution
control components are underway.
Ln. No. 1925 Second Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$400 milllon
loan of December 11, 1980; Effective Date: February 24, 1981;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 26
Lu. No. 2205 Krishna-Godavari Exploration Project; US$165.5 million loan of
November 9, 1982; Effective Date: February 28, 1983; Closing
Date: March 31, 1986
Ln. No. 2241  South Bassein Offshore Gas Development Project; US$222.3 million
loan of March 31, 1983; Effective Date: Expected June 1983;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
The Bombay High Project is progressing well. All platforms and
subsea pipelines have been installed essentially on schedule. ONGC reached
its targetted production level of 240,000 Ebllday in May 1982, and i6
presently producing 250,000 Bbl/day, 44Z of which comes from project vells.
Initial activities under the Krisbna-Godavari Project are about four
months behind schedule due to longer than anticipated testing and completion
time for on-shore wells, lack of adequate number of geophysicists for
processing the seismic data, and delay in initiating procurement actions.
These problems have been discussed in depth with ONGC, and they are in the
process of undertaking steps to correct the situation.
The South Bassein Gas Project is designed to assist India to increase
her gas production capability through the installation of offshore platforms
for drilling, processing, and gas flaring, and the laying of a subsea
pipeline to Gujarat State and the fertilizer plant at Bazira. Initial
procurement activities are underway.
Cr. No. 604  Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 19; Effective Date: October 22, 19; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 685  Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793  Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200 million credit of May 12,
1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
Ln. No. 1549  Third Trombay Therml Power Project; US$105 million loan of
June 19, 197 ; Effective Date: February 8, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 1648 Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$50 million loan and
Cr. No. 874  US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 22, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1027  Second S!ngrauli Thermal Power Project; US$300 million credit
of June 5, 1980; Effective Date: July 30, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1988



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 26
Lu. No. 1887  Farakka Thermal Power Project; US$25 million loan and
Cr. No. 1053 USS225 million credit of July 11, 1980; Effective Date:
December 10, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Lu. No. 2076  Second Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$300 milllon loan of
January 6, 1982; Effective Date: March 16, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1988
Cr. No. 1172  Second Korba Thermal Power Project; US$400 million credit of
Feb=ar.  4, 198Z; Effective Date: March 16, 198Z; Closing
Date: December 31, 1989
Credits 685 and 1027 assist in financing the 2,000 NW Singrauli
development, which is the first of four power stations in the Government-s
program for the development of large central thermal power stations feeding
power into an interconnected grid. Credit 793, together with Credit 1172,
which became effective March 16, 1982, support the construction of the
2100 NW development, consisting of three 200 MW and three 500 NW generating
units, at the second such station, at Korba, together with related facilities
and associated transmission. Loan 1648/Credit 874, together with Loan 2076,
which also became effective March 16, 1982, support similar investments at
Ramagundam. Loan 1887/Credit 1053 assists in financing the fi-st three
200 NW generating units at the Farakka station. The National Thermal Power
Corporation (NTPC) has been carrying out construction and operation of these
power stxtions. Loan 1549 supports the construction of a 500 NW extension of
the Tata Electric Company-s station at Trombay, designed to help meet the
forecast load growth in the Bombay area.
All these large-scale thermal power projects are progressing satis-
factorily.  Construction works for the Singrauli, Korba, and Farakka stations
are on or ahead of schedule, although some slippage has occurred in the
implementation schedule for the Ramagundam project. The first unit at the
Singrauli staticn was commissioned on schedule in February 1982, the second
unit in October 1982, and the third in March 1983. The first unit at the
Korbe station was also commissioned in March 1983. In the Third Trambay
project, procurement is complete and the generator is expected to be commis-
sioned in April/May 1983. Tata Electric Company-s financial performance in
1982, and projections through 1985, are satisfactory. Cost overruns, caused
by design modifications, price increases in materials, and increases in
customs duties, will be met by the Government of India.
Cr. No. 911   Second Rural Electrification Corporation Project; US$175 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17, 1979;
Closing Date: Mareb 31, 1984
Lu. No. 2165  Third Rural Electrification Corporation Project; US$304.5 million
loan of June 22, 1982; Effective Date: October 21, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
These projects are progressing satisfactorily with no major problems.
Procurement of materials and equipment is on schedule, and disbursements are
keeping pace with appraisal estimates. Detailed plans for the new Rural
Electrification Corporation (REC) training institute to be established in



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 26
Hyderabad are well advanced. REC-s financial performance continues to be
satisfactory. In the near future, RECs major thrust under both projects
will be on improving consumer connection performance, which is lagging con-
siderably behind projections. REC is in the process of reassessing the
annual work programs of the State Electricity Boards, including an analysis
of the reasons for the poor connection performance, the setting of realistic
new goals, and the ii"troduction of measures to improve the situation.
Ln. No. 1313 Telecommunications VI Project; US$80 million loan of
July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1592 Telecommunications VII ProJect; US$120 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 1112 Telecommunications VIII Project; US$314 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: June 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Loan 1313 has been successfully concluded and was closed on March 31,
1983. Disbursements are expected to be completed by May 31, 1983.
Loan 1592 and Credit 1112 are both progressing satisfactorily and
there are no major problems. Initial delays in Loan 1592 as a result of late
procurement caused by a strike have been offset by accelerated implementation
during 1982. All bidding under Credit 1112 is nov complete and civil works
are underway. Institutional Improvements under all projects have been
achieved and the financial position of the Posts & Telegraph Department
remains sound.
Cr. No. 844   Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190 million
credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: January 10, 197;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Ln. No. 2210 Second Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project;
Cr. No. 1299  US$200 million loan and US$200 million credit of December 23,
1982; Effective Date: February 23, 1983; Closing Date:
September 30, 1987
These projects are designed to help the Indian Railways reduce
re-manufacturing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and
to improve their performance and availability. The physical execution of
Credit 844 continues to make good progress. Procurement of all critical
equipment is complete and civi, works are well advanced. Commitments under
the project total nearly 97% of the Credit amount. Initial activities for
the second project are underway. The Indian Railways- financial and traffic
performance continued its significant improvement in FY1982/83, and this is
expected to be sustained in FY1983/84.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 26
Cr. No. 1072 Bihar Rural Roads Project; US$35 mdllion credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
The project aims to construct or rehabilitate 700 km of rural roads
and to improve maintenance of the rural road network in Bihar. It is
proceeding on schedule. The majority of the equipment required for the
project has been delivered. Contracts have been awarded for civil works
totalling to about US$13 million and work began last March.
Ln. No. 1335 Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25 millior loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 1v, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 1033  Calcutta Urban Transport Project; US$56 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Implementation of the Bombay project is satisfactory, with about 75Z
of the loan disbursed. Construction of new workshop facilities began in
January 1982, but to allow for completion the loan closing date may have to
be extended one year. A bus fare revision on April 1, 1982 increased
revenues by 20% and will enable the project autbority to achieve its targeted
operating ratio.
There has been considerable recent iuprovement in the Calcutta
project, including definite progress at the policy level in response to IDAfs
15-point action program to improve project implementation, which was
presented to the project authorities in October 1982. All 75 new tramcars
financed under the project have been delivered, an additional 60 should be
renovated and in service by December 1983, and the operating performance of
the tram company has improved substantially over the last six months.
Although the operating perfornance of the bus corporation remains unsatisfac-
tory, the recent appointment of three new senior staff members to the cor-
poration-s management and a new Chairman of the Board is expected to improve
operations, and there are now over 500 new buses In service.
Cr. No. 756   Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 1082  Second Madras Urban Development Project; US$42 credit of
January 14, 1981; Effective Date: March 2, 1981;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
Cr. No. 1185 Kanpur Urban Development Project; US$25 million credit of
February 4, 1982; Effective Date: April 22, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Physical performance in the Calcutta project is generally good. All
sub-projects presently under implementation are scheduled to be completed by
March 31, 1983. Following a review of the overall program for Calcutta-s
further development, the Government of West Bengal shifted its investment



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 26
priorities somewhat and consequently requested a revision of some components
of this project. IDA agreed to the suggested changes, and the closing date
has been extended by nine months to allow for completion of the redefined
project.
Credit 1082, is proceeding satisfactorily, with the exception of the
sites and services component, where legal challenges are causing delays in
land acquisition. The Goveroment of Tamil Nadu (GOTN) Is actively pursuing
rhe resolution of these court cases and has identified alternative sites to
be used so that the sites and services works can be finished by the project
closing date. The financial performance of the Pallavan Transport Corpora-
tion (PTC), the project implementing agency, is unsatisfactory. It is not
generating funds sufficient to meet its financial targets. An action plan to
cut operating costs, reduce new investment, and raise revenues has recently
been formulated and, subject to the agreement of GOTN, will enable PTC to
achieve the required targets by 1983/84 and maintain them thereafter.
Progress under Credit 1185 is mixed. Procedures to improve cost
recovery have not been introduced as agreed, studies on institutional
strengthening of the project agencies have not begun, and the project
authority suffers from a serious lack of staff with proper management exper-
tise. However, there has been considerable improvement recently in land
acquisition for slum upgrading, where completed works have benefitted nearly
6,700 households. Procurement is proceeding well and all physical works are
expected to be completed on schedule.
Cr. No. 585  Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40 million
credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date: February 6, 1976
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Following the completion of physical works, the project was closed
on December 31, 1982. Institutional and financial performance under the
project were unsatisfactory, and several of the implementing agencies were
unable to achieve the financial performance targets which had been agreed
with IDA.
Cr. No. 842   Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 12,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 848   Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38 million credit
of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 899   Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 1046 Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$80 million
credit of June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 26
Cr. No. 1280 Gujarat Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$72 million credit
of November 9, 1982; Effective Date: February 8, 1983;
Closing Date: September 30, 1987
Recent progress under Credit 842 has been encouraging. Preparation
of contract documents and drawings for the water supply component is well
advanced. For the 137 sewerage sub-projects, all tender documents have been
completed and construction is well underway, although there have been serious
delays on the two major sewerage treatment plants due to land acquisition
difficulties. Cost overruns are expected and IDA has requested the project
authorities to prepare detailed estimates and proposals for dealing with
these. The financial performance of the Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage
Department continues to be satisfactory, and all financial conditions under
the project are being met.
The closing date of Credit 848 has been extended one year as a result
of initial procurement delays. Physical implementation of the project is now
proceeding satisfactorily, and all works are expected to be finished by the
extended completion date of December 1983. The quality of construction work
is excellent, and the Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Board is proving to be
an effective implementing agency. However, there continue to be significant
problems with financial and operational performance, which must be improved
considerably if agreed targets under the project are to be met. IDA has
brought this to the attention of the project authorities repeatedly, and
plans to concentrate its supervision efforts for the duration of the project
on improving the financial and operational aspects of implementation.
Credit 899 is proceeding reasonably well. It has now entered the
full construction stage, and- work Is satisfactory. Disbursements are in line
with the appraisal estimates. The level of tariffs is adequate to achieve
the financial performance targets under the project. The Govermnent of
Maharashtra is preparing detailed estimates and proposals for dealing with
the anticipated cost increases which have occurred as a result of delayed
start of construction and retendering on one major water supply facility.
Attention now needs to be devoted to the resolution of the staffing difficul-
ties in the Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Board, particularly the
lack of financial staff to properly administer their financial operations.
Under the Rajasthan project, Credit 1046, the rural water supply
schemes are well advanced and engineering designs for the urban schemes have
been nearly finalized. Progress in the project has been hampered by the
Goverrment of Rajasthan (GOR) fund allocations running at between 50Z-60Z
of annual requirements. A recent Cabinet decision has deferred the construc-
tion of the planned Hemawas/Kuri Pipeline to provide water to the city of
Jodhpur, in order to consider the possibility of accessing water from the
Rajasthan Canal instead. A feasibility report has been completed. CDR has
decided on the alternative Rajasthan Canal source, which will be funded
without Bank assistance.
Initial work under Credit 1280 is proceeding well. The design team
has been established and detailed design of all sub-projects is on schedule.
The bid documents for civil works in Ahmedabad, one of the project cities,
have been approved and will be issued shortly. Work is now concentrating on
preparation of bids for materials procurement.



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 26
Cr. No. 502   Rajasthan Canal Command Area Developme.t Project; US$83
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Ln. No. 1251  Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)       Composite Project; US$145 million loan (Third Window) of
June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7. 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720   Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23 million credit of
June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, i984
Cr. No. 736   Maharashtra Irritation ProJect; US$70 million credit of
October 11. 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740   Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58 million of October 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788   Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808   Gujarat Medium Irrisation Proiect; US$85 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: October 31. 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 843   Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978; Closing
Date: August 31, 1983
Cr. No. 889   Punjab Irrigation Project; US$129 million credit of March 30,
1979; Effective Date: June 20, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Cr. No. 954   Second Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$210 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 6, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No,. 1011 Second Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$175 million credit of
May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
April 30, 1986
Cr. No. 1078  Mahanadi Barrages Project; US$83 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: February 11, 1981; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
Cr. No. 1108  Madhya Pradesh Medium Irrigation Project; US$140 million credit
of March 26,  1; Effective Date: May 13, 1951; Closing Date:
March 31, 1987



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 26
Cr. No. 1177  Madhya Pradesh Major IrrZat1ion PrpJect; US$220 million credit
of February 24, 1982; Effective Date: April 16,j 182;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987
LLn. No. 2186  Kallada Irrigation Project; US$20.3 million loan and US$60 million
Cr. No. 1269  credit of July 6, 1982; Effective Date:  September 21, 1982;
Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Cr. No. 1288  Second Chambal Madhya Pradesh Irrigation Project; US$31 million
credit of September 7, 1982; Effective Date: December 1, 1982
Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Cr. No. 1289  Subernarekba Irrigation Project; US$127 million credit of
November 9, 1982; Effective Date:  January 10, 1983; Closing
Date:  April 30, 1987.
Cr. No. 1319  Haryana II Irrigation Project; US$150 million credit of
February 23, 1983; Effective Date: Expected May 1983;
Closing Date: March 31, 1988.
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads.
Following unsatisfactory early project progress, Loan 1251 was refor-
mulated in May 1980, at which time project completion was planned for Deces-
ber 1984. On the basis of iirproved implementation perforannce under the
reformulated program, a one-,.ear extension of the closing date is now under
consideration.
Implementation of Maharashtra I has been unbalanced, with emphasis on
major works. As of March 31, 1983, the original closing date, the large
construction components were about 80% complete, but there were major short-
falls in the minor irrigation and CAD works. Over recent months there has
been some improvement in implementation, with the provision of adequate
budget resources and staff, and the preparation of detailed work program for
completion of the works. Therefore, a one-year extension of the closing date
is being considered to allow completion of all project components and hence
full development of the irrigation potential of the area.
As a result of cost overruns, the Periyar Vaigai Project was reforun-
lated in 1981, at which time completion was planned for March 1984. Accord-
ingly, the closing date has been extended by one year to March 31, 1984.
recent implementation progress has been encouraging, particularly in the
construction of field chanaels. The project could profit still further,
however, from improved coordination among the various Government of Tamil
Nadu agencies responsible for project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 26
The Karnataka Project is experiencing serious delays in command area
development and completion of construction of the distribution system, due
mainly to lack of proper support from tCe State Government and Inadequate
staffing of the project entity. The urgent attention of the State Government
must be devoted to the early resolution of these implementation problems.
Although the Gujarat Medium Project is 30X behind schedule on
average, there has been considerable recent improvement. There is no longer
a shortage of field staff, construction standards have improved, and there
has been substantial progress in finalizing the designs of the distribution
systems. Disbursements, at 50Z of the SAR target, are expected to improve
following the introduction of steps designed to reduce ineligible expendi-
tures. The GOG is currently preparing detailed implementation schedules to
ensure completion of the 23 sub-projects by June 1984.
The Gujarat II Project has also demonstrated recent signs of improve-
ment. Staffing problems, which had been a cause of serious delays, have now
been resolved. The quality of construction work has improved, design
problems have been corrected, and the Water and Land Management Institute is
contributing significantly to the training of Irrigation Department staff.
Although the project remains considerably behind schedule and will face cost
overruns, all components continue to be economically and financially viable.
The GOG is now preparing detailed implementation schedules for the completion
of project works which will form the basis for future monitoring.
Shortages of cement and inadequate provision of budgetary resources
continue to delay implementation of the Punjab Project. In addition, there
are.cost overruns in the canal and watercourse lining components of about 152
and 40%, respectively; and the study of water charges, due in August 1981,
remains incomplete. The Government of Punjab has repeatedly been requested
by Bank supervision missions to address these issues urgently.
The Madhya Pradesh Medium Irrigation Project is considerably behind
schedule. The sub-project appraisal process has been overly slow. While
there are 12 sub-projects now under implementation, approximately 20-25 are
needed to assure expected project benefits and full disbursement of the
credit proceeds. Moreover, the works are unbalanced in favor of construction
of dams rather than conveyance systems. Several significant procurement
contracts are scheduled to be awarded in April 1983, which is expected to
bring about accelerated project implementation.
There has been significant recent progras in the MP Major Project.
Procurement procedures have been streamlined, several major ICB and LCB
contracts are expected to be awarded in March-April 1983, and design work for
the canal structures is progressing well. The GONP's planned intensification
of project activities during the current December 1982-June 1983, and the
1983/84 construction seasons, should be adequate to offset initial start-up
delays. Attention can now be devoted to completion of the resettlement plan
for persons to be dlrplaced by project reservoirs, and to initiation of the
minor project components, such as roads, research stations, and the estab-
lishment of drainage and hydrometeorological networks.



ANNEX II
PagSei'7of 2 6
Credit 1289 supports an irrigation and industrial/water supply
program on 255,000 ha in the States of Bihar, Orissa and West Bengal.
Credit 1319 continues the Government of Haryana's modernization program
through the lining of irrigation channels and the provision of supplementary
water from augmentation tubevells. Early project activities are proceeding
as scheduled.
rrogress of the remaining projects is generally satisfactory.
Cr. No. 1116  Karnataka Tank Irrigation Project; US$54 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: May 5, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1986
Th project is designed to finance the construction of 120-160 tank
irrigation schemes throughout the State of Karnataka. The Guovernment of
Karnataka has proposed a reduction to 87 in the number of schemes to be
completd. Project preparation has been slow due to serious staffing vacan-
cies and the overloading of senior project staff with non-project respon-
sibilities. Design work is seriously behind schedule and construction has
not yet begun at the dam sites. The Government of Karnataka has been asked
to prepare a program to complete the scheduled works within the agreed
project period, together with a staffing and budget plan, by the end of
October 1982.
Credit No. 1004 Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells Project; US$18 million
credit of May 12, 198O; Effective Date: June 27, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
Credit No. 1332  Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells II Project; US$101 credit
of March 31, 1983; Effective Date: Expected June 1983;
Closing Date: March 31, 1988.
The first project has been successfully completed within the original
closing date. In fact an additional 70 tubewells above the 500 originally
plannned at appraisal were constructed. Disbursements are expected to be
completed by June 30, 1983.
Initial activities are underway for Credit 1332, which provides for
the installation of 2200 new tubevell systems, and the upgrading of 750
existing tubewell systems, based on the modernized design which was success-
fully proven in the first project.
Cr. No. 682   Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690   West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
Aust 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1984
Cr. No. 712   Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10 million credit of June 1  1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 18 of 26
Cr. No. 728   Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 737   Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective Date:
February 6,_1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761 Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2, 1978;
Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 862   Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25 million credit
of February 16, 1979; Effective Date: December 14, 979; Closing
Date: December 31   9
Cr. No. 1OZ8  Kerala Agricultural Extension Project; US$10 million credit of
June_25, 1980; Effective Date:_August 18, 19_0; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
Cr. No. 1137  Tamil Nadu  Sricultural Extension Project; US$28 million credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closng Date:
June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1135  Maharashtra Agricultural Extension Project; US$23 million credit
of May 7, 1981; 2ffective Date: July_22, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1138  Second Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension Project; UIS$37 million
credit of May 7,_1981; Effective_Date: July 22, 1981; ClosIng
Date: June 30_ 1987
Cr. No. 1219  Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Researcn Project;
VUS6 million_credit of_May_5, 1982;Efective Date: July 27,
_982; Closing Date: March 31 1988
These twelve credits 'inance the reorganization and strengthening of
agricultural extension services and the development of adaptive research
capabilities in thirteen States in India. In areas where the reformed exten-
sion system is in operation, field results have been most encouraging, both
in terms of adoption of new agricultural techniques and of increased crop
yields.
In Madhya Pradesh I and Orissa, significant gains have been made
under the projects.
There has been considerable improvement in the West Bengal Project
over the past year. Staffing problems have been resolved, and civil works
have started. Attention now needs to be devoted to improvement in fieldwork,
which is weak due to insufficient supervision of extension workers and poor
generation of agricultural recommendations.



ANNEX II
Pige 19 of 26
In Rajasthan, too, significant early gains were achieved followdng
the establishment of a well organized and stable extension service. Although
the quality of field work is somewhat uneven, the basic extension system is
well established.
Implementation of the Assam Project is slow due in part to unsettled
conditions in the State. Insufficlent supervision contributes, inter alia,
to lack of coordination among various implementing agencies, staff vacancies,
and poor understanding of the AEOs appropriate role in the extension sys-
ter--all of which result in ineffective field work.
Implementation of the Bihar Project is unsatisfactory. Despite the
decision of the Government of Bihar (GOB) one year ago to commit adequate
budget funds and appoint key staff, there has been no progress to date.
Staff vacancies remain, field extension continues to be weak, and civil works
have not yet started.
In Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka, all covered under the Composite
Agricultural Extension Project, the basic extension system has been estab-
lished and attention now needs to focus on the quality of extension recommenr
dations and the filling of remaining staff vacancies. The Directorate of
Extension in the Central Government's Department of Agriculture needs
strengthening.
In Kerala, following the successful introduction of the T&V system
in three Districts, the project was extended to the entire State in December
1982. The recruitment of the additional staff should be completed by April
1983, after which project implementation is expected to accelerate con-
siderably.
In Maharashtra, project implementation is ahead of schedule. The
basic infrastructure of the r-vised extension service is well established.
Field workers are visiting faimers regularly and their recommendations are
being widely accepted.
The Madhya Pradesh II Project remains behind schedule due to delayed
sanctioning of budget resources during the first two project years. There
has recently been considerable improvement in implementation which is
expected to continue.
Implementation of the Andhra Pradesh Project has been hampered during
its first year by vacancies in senior staff positions caused by the decision
of the newly elected State Government to retire all staff over 55 years of
age. Promotion boards are now meeting to choose staff for the vacant posi-
tions. Field activities have been ongoing for about six months and are
generally satisfactory, although an improved orientation program would be of
benefit to staff at all levels. Civil works and procurement activities are
on schedule.



ANNEX II
Page    of 26
Cr. No. 680   Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
Project progress continues satisfactorily. Implementation of the
smallholder component, the project's largest, continues to gain momentum with
a 36Z increase in plantings in 1982/83. One crumb rubber factory of the nine
included in the project is in operation and a further two should be commis-
sioned in late 1983. The cashewnut component is completed.
Ln. No. 2095  Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation IV Project;
Cr. No. 1209 US$190 million loan and US$160 million credit of February 24,
198; Effective Date: May 25, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The project, which is a continuation of ARDC III, consists of a
two-year time slice of ARDC's lending program to farmers. The project is
proceeding well, with disbursements ahead of schedule. In July 1982, ARDC
and ACD/RBI were successfully merged into the National Bank for Agriculture
and Rural Development (NABARD). The merger was carrled out efficiently,
permitting operations to continue uninterrupted. The loan recovery perfor-
mance of the State Land Development Banks during 1981/82 was weak.  NABARD
has introduced rehabilitation programs and management studies designed to
improve loan recovery and the overall performance of the participating banks.
Cr. No. 855   National Agriculture Research Project; US$27 million credit
of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 22, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1983
The project has made significant progress over the last six months.
Contact has improved with the State agricultural universities, where there is
considerable enthusiasm for NARP objectives. Implementation of sub-projects
in Haryana, Kerala and Tamil Nadu is proceeding on schedule. The basic
research projects, although satisfactory thus far, need to focus their atten-
tion on local needs and problem-oriented multi-disciplinary research.
Cr. No. 747   Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The project was revised in May 1982 to provide additional bag storage
capacity in lieu of the btulk storage component. A one-year extension of the
closing date was granted, with the possibility of further extension if
project implementation improved. The project continues to be considerably
behind schedule. However, implementation has gained some momentum since
September 1982, when specific targets were established for accomplishment of
certain project works by June 1983. Land acquisition, construction, and
procurement are, overall, in line with these targets, but there remain
deficiencies in staffing, and in the monitoring, training and research
programs which have to be overcome to ensure satisfactory project progress.



ANNEX II
Page 21 of 26
Cr. No. 871   National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1146 Second National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC)
Project; US$125 million credit of July 21, 1981; Effective
Date: November 11, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1987
These credits provide funds to rural cooperatives in various States
for the construction and operation of godowns (warehouses) and cold storage
and marketing facilities. Major emphasis is placed on institution building
in order to make NCDC grow into a more effective development institution to
serve India's rural cooperative sector. Disbursements under Credit 871 are
on schedule. However, the construction of godowns has been slower than
anticipated because cement supplies have been erratic and the response by
contractors to tender offers has been poor In remote areas. Although the
project is expected to be completed on time, increases in construction costs
are likely to require a revision of the project scope to keep expenditures
within the project financing provisions.
Project implementation in most of the nine participating States under
Credit 1146 is also behind schedule, principally because of organizational
delays. The participating agencies have taken steps to speed up implemena-
tion, but progress continues to be hampered by lack of adequate number of
properly trained staff, supply shortages and cost escalations. NCDC and the
State agencies concerned have resolved to do what is required to speed up
implementation of these projects.
Cr. No. 482   Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 521   Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credlt of
December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522   Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 824   National Dairy Project; US$150 million credit of June 19,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy
development projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUTL dairy
cooperative scheme in Gujarat. Farmer response has been excelle-it. About
18,000 dairy cooperative societies (DCS) have been established, with over two
million members. Profitability of most DCSs is good and construction of
dairy and feed plants is proceeding well.



ANNEX II
Page 2Z of 26
In Credit 482, construction of the mother dairy at Bangalore, the key
processing facility, was delayed by litigation. Construction by an
experienced civil works contractor has now begun. To allow for near comple-
tion of this dairy, and for the Government of Karnataka to implement improve-
ments in their management support of the dairy producers- unions as required
under the project, the closing date has been extended by one year.
Under Credit 521, nearly 1,500 dairy cooperative societies (DCSs)
have been formed, benefitting over 78,000 families. During 1981/82, these
DCSs collected over 30 million liters of milk, for which the producers were
paid Rs 67 million. The project was scheduled to close on December 31, 1982.
However, as several project-financed facilities are not yet complete, includ-
ing two procesM-ng plants, one powder plant, four training centers, and
living quarters for staff, the GOI has requested an extension of the closing
date, which is now under consideration.
Credit 522 has been successfully completed and was closed on
March 31, 1983. Over 800 dairy cooperative societies were formed, serving
a membership of approximately 35,000 families. Disbursements are expected
to be coxpleted by May 31, 1983.
Physical execution under Credit BI; is excellent, with the estab-
lishment of new rural and urban dairies, cattle feed plantt, and the acquisi-
tion of rail and road milk tankers. The cooperativ' processing industry is
served by 18,000 cooperatives with membership of over two million households.
'In addition, substantial institntion building is taking place through the
formation of federations, unions and cooperatives in 59 milksheds cowered
under the Operatiou Flood II Agreements designed to ensure autonomy in pric-
ing and a three-tiered cooperative structure.
Ln. No. 1273 National Seed Project; US$25 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective P_ie: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 816   Second National Seed Project; US$16 million credit of July 17,
197R; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
These projects are designed to increase the availability of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover nine States. Although they are two to
three years behind schedule because of initial problems in coordination and
monitoring, mainly at the national level, there has been significant progress
over the last year. The construction of transit and bulk storehouses has
been delayed by land acquisition problems.  Hovever, there has been good
progress in civil works and equipment procurement for the seed processing
plants. It is expected that all works except seed farm development under
both projects will be completed by December 1984.
Cr. No. 1012 Cashewnut Project; US$22 million credit of June 10, 1980;
Effective Date: September 3, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
This project helps to finance cashew planting and plantation improve-
ment programs in the States of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala and Orissa.



ANNEX II
Page 23 of 26
The planting and improvement programs initially made very good progress
although this has been dampened in 1982/83 by decreased cashewnut prices and
Corporation land acquisition problems resulting from the Forest Conservation
Act (1980)_ There is still every expectation that the project will fulfill
its objective of significantly increasing cashew production and improving the
incomes of the farmers.
Cr. No. 610   Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18 million credit of
February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation continues to improve. The area to be covered
by the project (i83,000 ha) has been attained, and yields are increasing.
Major processing facilities in Maharashtra and Earyana are under contract and
work is progressing satisfactorily. The link between university research
and project activity is excellent. However, because of poor perfomance in
the early stages, the project closing date has been extended by two years to
December 31, 1983, to allow for completion of the project works and full
utilization of the credit proceeds.
Cr. No. 1034 Karnataka Sericulture Project; US$54 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The recent significant improvement in the staffing situation of the
Department of Sericulture should bolster the previously curtailed extension
program and should lead to increased bivoltine silk production which is a
major project objective hitherto not being achieved. All other project
components are progressing satisfactorily, especially the industrial com-
ponent where spun silk mill and silk filature are expected to be operational
within 9-12 months.
Cr. No. 806   Jammu-Kashmir lorticulture Project; US$14 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The recent change in management of Jammu and Kashmir Horticultural
Produce Marketing and Processing Corporation is expected to recoup implemen-
tation progress lost in the last 12 months, and about 60Z of project
facilities could be operational for the 1983 harvest. Training programs and
research activities are now well behind schedule.
Cr. No. 925   Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project; US$23 million credit
of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: January 3, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
r.r. No. 961   Gujarat Community Forestry Project; US$37 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 24, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1178  West Bengal Social Forestry Project; US$29 million credit of
February 24, 1982; Effective Date: April 9, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987



ANNEX II
Page 24 of 26
Cr. No. 1286 Jammu-Kashmir and Haryana Social Forestry Project; US$33
million credit of September 7, 1982; Effective Date:
December 7, 1982; Closing Date:  March 31, 1988
Physical progress under Credit 925 Is satisfactory, except in the
Eastern Region of the State, where greater population density, lower per
capita income and fragmented farm size have been disincentives to the plant-
ing programs. Remedial measures designed to address these problems, includ-
ing free distribution of seedlings and a planned land consolidation program,
are under consideration by the project authorities.
Credit 961 is proceeding well. In response to rising prices for
poles and pulpwood, the project has been adopted enthusiastically by the
local residents. The current rate of planting is more than five times that
which existed before the project. Project management is good, with cost
control, audit, disbursement and procurement activities in line with
appraisal report schedules. If the present momentum is malntained, it may be
possible to resolve the rural fuelwood crisis in Gujarat within a decade.
Implementation of the West Bengal Project is satisfactory. The
overall physical targets of the project have been exceeded. The building
program is progressing well and ahead of schedule. Attention now needs to
focus on the recruitment and training of forestry extension workers, who are
becoming urgently needed as tree plantings increase and project activities
accelerate.
Credit 1286, Which became effective in December 1982, is designed to
increase suppies of fuelwood and secondary products through the establishment
of 94,000 ha of a new tree plantations, the rehabilitation of 17,000 be of
degraded forests, and the strengthening of research, training and forestry
extension services in Haryana and Jammu and Kashmir. Both States have made a
good start in implementing the first season-s plantation program, and
procurement of vehicles and equipment is underway.
Ln. No. 1897 Kandi Watershed and Area Development Project; US$30 million
loan of September 12, 1980; Effective Date: November 18, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The recent improvement in project execution continues, and project
activities are well coordinated. Progress on the main Dholbaha Dam is satis-
factory, and the afforestation and soil conservation components are on
schedule. Feasibility reports for ten watersheds have been competed, five
of which have been reviewed and approved by the Bank. There are expected to
be cost savings from the irrigation and flood control components of the
project, as a result of which the Bank is now reviewing the overall project
design and concept and the possibility of expanding the project scope.
Ln. No. 1394 Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14 million loan and US$4
(TW)          million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective date: July 19, 1977;
Cr. No. 695   Closing Date: June 30, 1984



ANNE II
Page 25 of 26
Cr. No. 815   Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984
In Gujarat, the harbor works are now proceeding well following the
finalization of a contractual dispute in September 1982. These harbor works
and shore facilities are expected to be completed within the next year. The
village roads and water supply components have been largely completed.
However, the credit component is considerably behind schedule as a result of
the weak financial position of the Gujarat Fisheries Central Cooperative
Association (GFCCA) and loan recovery problems of the participating banks.
Recommendations for improvement of GFCCA are currently under review by the
Government of Gujarat.
In Andhra Pradesh, one of three fishing harbors being constructed
under the project has been operation for nearly one year, and the remining
two are scheduled to be completed by mid-1983 and early 1984. The financing
of mechanized fishing vessels remains at a standstill due to loan recovery
problems of the participating banks. NABARD is in the process of discussing
with the banks ways to rectify this situation. Due to an expansion of
private sector investment in seafood processing plants, the Government has
decided to delete one of the two processing plants fron the project and
reduce the scope of the second one.
Cr. No. 963   Inland Fisheries Project; US$20 million credit of Jannary 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 5, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
Project implementation is generally satisfactory. Construction of
the fish hatcheries In all five project States has commenced, and the first
hatcheries are expected to begin limited operations by June 1983. All 58
Fish Farmer Development Agencies are fully functional and, as project
activities accelerate, are placing necessary extension agents in the field.
Progress of the pond improvement schemes has slowed considerably due to
difficulties with loan sanctioning by the participating banks. Through a
more active involvement in the loan approval process, NABARD is taking steps
to correct this situation.
Cr. No. 981   Second Population Project; US$46 million credit of April 14,
O980; Effective Date: June 26, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1985
Implementation of the project is proceeding well.  Marked improvement
has occurred in several components especially construction, now that cement
is being allocated to the project on a priority basis. As a consequence,
disbursements are accelerating. The Director of the Population Centre in
Uttar Pradesh has been appointed and the training program is well underway.



ANNEX II
Page 26 of 26
Cr. No. 1003 Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project; US$32 million credit of Nay 12,
1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
The project is fully operational in Madurai District, with all nutri-
tion and health workers in place. Evaluation data show a significant decline
in malnourishment In the project area and the participation rate for those
people eligible for project benefits is over 90%. Civil works are a few
months behind schedule, but the Government of Tamil Nadu has intensified its
supervision work which is expected to speed up conpletion of the health
subcenters and training facilities. Preparations are well advanced for the
planned expansion of the project into two more Districts in the State in
1983.



ANNEX III
Page I of Z
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLElENTARY pROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare the project
Two years
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
Government of Madhya Pradesh with assistance from
the Housing and Urban Development Corporation.
(e) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date of
first mission to consider the project
February 1981.
Cd) Date of departure of appraisal mission
November 1982.
Ce) Date of completion of negotiations
May 19, 1983.
Cf) Planned date of effectiveness
October 1983.
Section II:     Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III:    Special Conditions
(a) GOMP to provide planning and building approvals for
tne proposed area development program (para. 49);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(b) Beneficiary selection criteria and terms and condi-
tions of lease (under the area development program) to
be satisfactory to the Bank (para. 49);
(c) GOMP to appoint a task force by October 31, 1983, to
examine constraints to the public and private sector
in the provision of serviced land and shelter and
review with the Bank, by December 31, 1984, a
timetable to implement appropriate recommendations
(para. 50);
(d) Area development programs in four additional medium
towns to be started only after the ank-s approval of
the selection of the cities and designs (para. 51);
(e) Municipal maintenance and solid vaste management
programs to be carried out only after the Bank and
COMP have agreed upon the Consultants- rec omendat ions
(para. 54);
(f) By December 31, 1983, GOMP and the Bank to agree on
timetable for implementation of consultants- recommen-
dations to improve financial management and resource
mobilization by State- and local-level urban agencies
(para. 57); and
(g) Interest charged to beneficiaries under the area
development and slum upgrading programs would be not
less than 12% per aunnum.
.5



w -e = ---- S ----= /S-0   ~                           ~  ~  ~ ~ ~   - ----- r
7.c.  .                                  .s.      a   C.
-    . HIND
J .J~~~*G-L-                r
-    MORENA  ',GWALIOR
S                           ,'--'DATTIA U.T
> } S H  V,                P                          U R t \ SHIVPUR      .,  -  ¶
(Z    jp(                             ¶ \                             \  TIKAMGARH ',ON...       ,.'N  I f
A       e' ? ,?  -                   -                                                      '  p
.-  MANDVSAUR  JV 7f 1' J    GUNA                                         CHHATARPUR,    Q
*              /       V--x ¢i             a'--       -              -    -§PANNA'
u  p; VIDISHAS SAGAR                                                 R'    ;
* RATLAM       JAPR   AAJGARHI27,DAMO-
.j JHABUA  *D- ;y~~ DEWAS  8_                                   i--R                      <<~ *dl.
! cz +: R G OJJAN                                   Q             EU ,   .  *7'
)  /(  .             n-il-        .    .          '"BALAGHA
--av                         AT      _\.                                       >~
t7              -~~~~C
-a  ~~~,e  ?  4 ~~SEHORE    -.q NOENARSIMAHAPUR
IN'DNDIARE 
MJHABUAAY  PRAES [DE
HOSHANGABAD
NIMAR ~ ~     ~       ~      ~      ~       SE N
H AA 
~~~~AsHrR A ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ CHIDAR 
NIMMADYAPRAES
LOCATION OF PROJECT CITIES
*l   o..wf CITI'IS          ,tflh KIEC 1CIS_                      .
- .OUIC? C*PC CAOWtH dClafc  .*u Cag"OiC .E
fIfft hEd BC JN C   AIW5E3  essEp. CYAL flC.O.
I..                         0    Ol  T                   , _ eNnA STAW -A PSTM ADHA     IPS H
LOCA                 PIE TROCT WCDAE  I   Sears? ISJTICES  RON
9  /___E_ATww11 UOUIOAO,ES      fOO     R   n a
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*S  1DLOURgZISEN _EE O 1
mac-t MI-tGNtsnR REGiO
6_                                  7V                                    Er -
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--                                                     am rr  t            II



isOD 17005
16                              I;r                                1"3
Z
$HIND
r
r
j
MORENA GWALIORI,
DATT IA
U    T  T  A    R      P  R
A
SHIVPUR             Ve S
y
I.PKAMGARH
RE WA -V&
r
C-L     GUNA                          CHKATARPUR.
SATNA z-
PANNA  1           1 .I
-7
VIDISHA         SAGAR
DA MOH
UR, RAJGARH'.                           Q,-.-                                            --------
0                                                      SHAHDOL                      5 U RGLI A
JAB,ALPUR
SEHORE                          NARSIMAHAPUV
M A N D L A
DEWAS
HOSHANGABAD                                                                                      RAIGARH
SE ONII
CHHINDWAPA                                                 B I L A S P U R
BETUL
BALAGHAT 0
EAST                                                                       40
NIMAR                                      r
RAIPUR
R A
DURG
0
I N 0 1 A
2C.-
MADHYA PRADESH
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
L
LOCATION  OF PROJECT CITIES                                       BASTAR
-Tft
rj
Ff..o
0 2c .0 60 so 109 120 AO W 'Po
1,2'






