Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4359-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 8, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =      Rupees (Rs)
Rs I               =      US$0.105
US$1               =      Rs 9.5
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (im)                 =      39.37 inches
1 meter (m)                  =       3.28 feet
1 square meter (32)          =      10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (m3)           =      35.31 cubic feet
1 kilometer (km)             -       0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)               -       2,47 acres or 10,000 square meters
I liter (1)                          1.06 U.S. quarts liquid or
0.26 U.S. gallons
lcd                          =      liters per capita per day
mld                          =      million liters per day
1 lakh                       =      1,00,000
I crore                             100 lakhs = 100,00,000
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DA      =    Development Authority
DLA     =    Directorate of Local Administration
EWS     =    Economically Weaker Section
GOI     =    Government of India
GOMP    =    Government of Madhya Pradesh
HIG     =    High-Income Group
HUDCO   =    Housing and Urban Development Corporation, Ltd.
IDA     =    International Development Association
IDS14T   =    Integrated Development of Small and Medium Towns
LIG     =    Low-Income Group
MIG     =    Middle-Income Group
MOWH    =    Ministry of Works and Housing, GOI
MPHB          Madhya Pradesh Housing Board
MPSCIB  =    Madhya Pradesh Slum Clearance and Improvement Board
NBO     =    National Building Organization, GOI
PHED          Public Health Engineering Department, GOMP
PHEEO   =    Public Health Engineering and Environmental Organization, GOI
PITMC         Project Management and Monitoring Cell
RBI     =    Reserve Bank of India
SADA    =    Special Area Development Authority
TCPD    =    Town and Country Planning Department, GOMP
TCPO    -    Town and Country Planning Organization, GOI



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
MANAGEMENT SUMMARY ......................                            i-i
I.  BACKGROUND ......... ......................................           1
A.  Introduction                ..................                    1
B.  India - National Urbanization Trends and Management               1
C.  Housing and Urban Development Corporation Ltd.(HUDCO)             2
D.  Bank Group Role and Strategy in India's Urban Sector.             3
E. Urban Trends in Madhya Pradesh.                                    4
F.  Urban Administration and Finance in Madhya Pradesh                5
G.  Urban Services and Shelter in Madhya Pradesh.                     6
II. THE PROJECT ..................   7
A. Project Objectives. . .                                            7
B.  Rationale for City Selection in Madhya Pradesh..                  8
C. Project Description. . .                                           8
D. Project Costs                 . . .19
E.  Financing Plan ................... .  .. .                       21
F. Procurement                 . . .23
G . Disbursement . ..                                                24
H. Accounts and Audits                . . .25
I.  Monitoring and Progress Reporting           . .       .26
J. Supervision                 ...26
III.  PROJECT MANAGEMENT ......................... ,           ............    26
A. Project Management Structure   .                .26
B.  Implementation Responsibilities         .       .27
C. Project Agencies .28
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Madhya Pradesh in December 1982. The mission comprised Messrs. James Wright
(mission leader), C. Godavitarne (World Bank), A. Bertaud and D. Colston
(consultants). A team from HUDCO led by Mr. H.K. Yadav (Chief, Projects)
actively assisted in project appraisal.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Page No.
IV.  PRICING, AFFORDABILITY, AND RESOURCE MOBILIZATION ........   32
A.  Pricing ..............................................   32
B. Affordability                     ..                         33
C. Resource Mobilization               .......    35
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS .......                  .      ...........    35
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS          . . .           37
TABLES
11.1:  The Project ...................                              .........................    9
II.2: Area Development                     ..                       11
Il.3: EWS Core Housing Options                 ..                   12
II.4:  Slum Upgrading ........................................    13
II.5:  City-Wise Expenditure for Maintenance and Solid Waste
Management                     ..    16
II.6: Summary Costs                      ..                         20
II.7:  Financing Plan          .....................   22
II.8:  Annual Capital Expenditure Plan ........... ...........   23
II.9:  Estimated Disbursement Schedule            ..                25
IV.1:  Area Development:  Plot Options, Costs, Indicative
Charges and Affordability at Indore         .     .       34
IV.2:  Slum Upgrading:  Plot Options, Costs, Indicative
Charges and Affordability for a Slum in Durg   ..    34



-iii-
ANNEXES
Annex 1: City Profiles
Annex 2: Project Details
Table I - Detailed Project Costs
Table 2 - Detailed Project Costs by City
Table 3 - Area Development: Summary of Land Use
(Percentages)
Table 4 - Area Development: Plot Distribution and
Community Facilities
Table 5 - Municipal Maintenance and Solid Waste
Management: Detailed Costs
Table 6 - Details of Technical Assistance
Chart 1 - Flow of Funds
Chart 2 - Project Implementation Schedule
Chart 3 - State of Madhya Pradesh Urban Agencies:
Organization Chart
Chart 4 - Project Impact on Growth of Unserviced
Households in the Six Project Cities
Annex 3:  Financial Projections
Table 1 - Possible Evolution of HUDCO's Financing Plan
Table 2 - Indore Municipal Corporation - Financial Projections
Table 3 - Raipur Municipal Corporation - Financial Projections
Table 4 - Madhya Pradesh Housing Board   Financial Projections
Table 5 - Madhya Pradesh Housing Board - Revenue Account
Projections
Table 6 - Madhya Pradesh Housing Board - Project Cash Flows
Table 7 - Madhya Pradesh Housing Board - Sources and Applica-
tions of Funds Statement
Annex 4:  Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
MAPS
IBRD 17005: Location of Project Sites
IBRD 17006: Typical Slum Upgrading
IBRD 17007: Indore Area Development; Sector Plan
IBRD 17008: Indore Area Development; Typical Sector Layout






MANAGEMENT SUMMARY
i.      The proposed project would be the first Bank Group financed urban
development project in India to support improvements in several cities in one
state and to provide technical assistance to a number of state and local
urban agencies. It would also be the first urban project involving a
national intermediary, the Housing and Urban Development Corpolation, Ltd.
(HUDCO), and would provide technical assistance to a number of Central
Government agencies in the urban sector. It is expected, therefore, to have
an impact beyond Madhya Pradesh by demonstrating ways of extending assistance
to the large number of cities in India which would not otherwise benefit from
Bank Group assisted projects and by strengthening the capacity of national
agencies to provide such assistance.
ii.     Project cost totals Rs 47.7 crores (US$50.1 million) with a loan
amount of Rs 22.9 crores (US$24.1 million).   The project would support
investments in six cities in Madhya Pradesh including the development of
about 18,500 serviced residential and small business plots, the upgrading of
75 slum areas, the improvement of sanitation and off-site infrastructure and
the improvement of municipal maintenance and solid waste management. The
cities were selected from the state's two main growth regions, the Bhilai
Region (including Raipur, Durg, and Bhilai) and the Indore Region (including
Indore, Dewas, and Ujjain) based on an analysis of urban economic growth
potential and existing service deficits. About 10% of project cost has been
allocated for sub-projects in four additional cities for area development
(about 4,200 plots), which would be selected by the State Government on the
basis of agreed criteria, including proven growth potential. These would be
appraised by HUDCO, during the project implementation period. HUDCO would
submit its appraisal reports to the Bank for review.
iii.    At the national level, HUDCO would act as co-financier and
intermediary for the project, channeling funds to the state level agencies
and participating in project supervision. At the state level, funds would be
channeled through the Madhya Pradesh Housing Board (MPHB) and coordinated by
a Project Management and Monitoring Cell (PMMC) at the secretariat level.
MPHB would implement part of the project directly and pass on the remainder
of the project funds to the Indore Development Authority, the Special Area
Development Authority of Bhilai and the Municipal Corporations of Raipur,
Durg, Dewas, Indore, and Ujjain which would implement parts of the project.
iv.     Institutional strengthening for urban sector agencies at the central,
state, and local levels is a key element of the proposed project.
Institutional strengthening studies are already well under way to improve
financial management in the Madhya Pradesh Housing Board, the Madhya Pradesh
Slum Clearance and Improvement Board (MPSCIB), and the local development
authorities and to improve resource mobilization by municipal governments.
The studies and the implementation of their recommendations would be financed
under the project. Additional training and technical assistance would also
be provided to these institutions.



-ii-
v.      At the national level, HUDCO would be assisted to provide increased
technical assistance to its borrowers, particularly in management and
finance, and to improve many of its own systems and procedures, including
project appraisal and supervision. Agencies of the Ministry of Works and
Housing including the Town and Country Planning Organization, and the
National Building Organization, would be assisted to improve project
monitoring, evaluation and research capabilities.
vi.     Area development components in Madhya Pradesh would use more
appropriate design standards and more efficient layout plans than in many
previous low cost shelter projects in Madhya Pradesh. Differential land
pricing would also be introduced to better reflect varying service levels and
accessibility standards. The resulting lower unit prices for low cost plots
would enable full cost recovery within the limits of affordability. Annual
interest charges of 12% would be made compared to present HUDCO and MPHB
charges of 4% for sites and services. About 80% of all area development
plots would be affordable to the poverty group (with incomes below the 50th
percentile). Through this project the practice of house construction in
public sector projects by Government agencies would be reduced. Public
agencies would concentrate on land development, and practically all house
construction would be privately undertaken.
vii.    In slum upgrading, tenure would be given to beneficiaries and, in
contrast to previous heavily subsidized programs, not less than 75% of the
cost of land and development would be recovered with 12% p.a. interest
charges. The cost of municipal infrastructure, maintenance, and solid waste
management components would be recovered indirectly through improved local
resource mobilization, principally property taxation.



I. BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.01    This report outlines the proposed project which was appraised in
December 1982. In parallel with project preparation, two sector memoranda
have also been prepared to help define the proposed project and its
objectives: Madhya Pradesh Urban Sector Memorandum, April 1982, (Report No.
3616-IN) and Housing and Urban Development Corporation, Ltd. (HUDCO): Its
Potential Role in World Bank Assisted Projects, April 1982, (Report No.
3830-IN). HUDCO has assisted in the sector review in Madhya Pradesh as well
as in project identification, preparation and appraisal.
B. India - National Urbanization Trends and Management
1.02    India is primarily an agricultural country with about 76% of its
people living in rural areas. Total population is estimated at 658
million 1/ according to the Provisional 1981 Census figures. In recent years
the urban population of India has begun to expand rapidly, from 107 million
in 1971 (20.2% of total population) to 156 million in 1981 (23.7% of total
population). 2/ During the 1971-81 period, the urban population grew at 3.9%
annually (compared to 3.3% during 1961-71) while the rural population grew at
an annual rate of only 1.75%. If present growth rates continue, about 50% of
India's population growth over the next two decades will be in cities.
1.03    According to the Provisional 1981 Census, about 60.4% of the urban
population lived in 216 cities of more than 100,000 people. An additional
11.6% of the urban population lived in 270 towns with populations between
50,000 and 100,000. The growth of cities of all sizes has led to serious
deficits in urban services and shelter. There are also acute problems of
urban poverty. (See para 1.18.)
1.04    While primary responsibility for the formulation and implementation
of urban development programs in India rests with state governments and local
bodies, overall development policies and strategies are influenced by
objectives laid down in the national five-year plans. The Sixth National
Five-Year Plan (1980-85) stresses the need for providing affordable shelter,
safe water supply and adequate sanitation to the urban poor. To achieve
these objectives particular attention would be given to modification of
existing by-laws, land use controls and minimum plot size requirements.
Efforts would also be made to address the problems of slums by upgrading
1/ Not including Assam and Jammu and Kashmir.
2/ In the Indian census, urban centers include all municipal corporations,
municipalities and notified area and cantonment boards. They also
include settlements with more than 5,000 inhabitants in which 75% of the
male working population is in non-agricultural pursuits and population
density is not below 400 per square kilometer.



-2-
rather than by relocation in order to maintain easy access to employment
centers and to avoid destruction of the existing housing stock.
1.05    In the early 1970's, GOI began using central funding to address urban
problems directly in the larger metropolitan cities, beginning with direct
financial assistance to Calcutta. Similar efforts in Bombay and Madras
followed. Also, a centrally funded Minimum Needs Program was introduced
under the Fifth Five-Year Plan which included emphasis on environmental
improvements in urban slums. Improvements were made in many slums under this
program, but costs were not recovered and tenure was not usually provided.
Under the Sixth Five-Year Plan, a centrally funded Program for Integrated
Development of Small and Medium Towns (IDSMT) is financing land development,
market centers and traffic and transportation schemes in towns with less than
100,000 inhabitants.
1.06    Urban policies and programs, including centrally funded urban
programs and a number of technical assistance and training programs, are
directed at the national level by the Ministry of Works and Housing (MOWH)
and its agencies. The agencies of MOWH include the Town and Country Planning
Organization (TCPO), the National Building Organization (NBO) and the Public
Health Engineering and Environmental Organization (PHEEO). In addition, the
MOWH has supervisory responsibility over the Housing and Urban Development
Corporation, Ltd. (HUDCO), a semi-autonomous Government of India Corporation.
1.07    The TCPO is a technical advisory body of the Central Government.  It
provides assistance in physical planning to some states and cities, and it
appraises projects submitted to GOI for assistance under the IDSMT. It also
undertakes a variety of research and training activities.
1.08    The main objective of the NBO is the transfer of building technology
from the research stage to practical application. NBO sponsors experimental
building materials and construction projects and has a variety of information
and documentation services. Low cost building research has a long history in
India, but organizations such as NBO are required to put existing knowledge
into more widespread practice.
C. Housing and Urban Development Corporation Ltd. (HUDCO) 1/
1.09    The most important direct involvement in the urban sector by a
Central Government agency is by the Housing and Urban Development
Corporation, Ltd. (HUDCO). HUDCO provides financing to state and local
implementing agencies for several types of schemes, but 81% of the total loan
amounts authorized to March 30, 1981 were for urban housing and plot
development. The volume of HUDCO operations has increased rapidly in recent
years. Of the total of about 1,404,200 housing units (Rs 1,095 crores or
US$1,153 million) for which financing was authorized from HUDCO's inception
in 1971 to March 31, 1983, about 284,879 units (Rs 221 crores or US$232
million) were authorized in fiscal year 1982-83.
1/ See Sector Memorandum, Housing and Urban Development Corporation, Ltd.
(HUDCO) and its Potential Role in World Bank Assisted Projects, April
1982 (Report No. 3830-IN).



-3-
1.10    A series of Bank missions to India have assessed HUDCO's program and
its capabilities, and HUDCO has been actively involved in the preparation and
appraisal of the Madhya Pradesh Urban Development Project. HUDCO has
objectives in urban lending which are similar to those of the Bank and
emphasize low cost, financially viable projects to benefit the lowest income
groups. HUDCO has a sound management structure with a small core of about
225 officers and staff, and it is soundly managed as reflected by its low
administrative costs (0.6% of loans released in 1981-82; 0.30% of loan
sanctions). It achieves an annual working surplus (Rs 4.1 crores in
1981-82), which constituted a rate of return of about 5.7% on HUDCO's net
worth and has a strong reserve position (Rs 41.5 crores in March 1982), which
has grown by about 50% per year during recent years. In FY82, HUDCO had an
average lending rate of about 8% and an average cost of new borrowing of
about 8.3%. Given HUDCO's large equity base, its average cost of funds in
the same year was only 5.6%.
1.11    Several areas have been identified in which HUDCO's operations could
be strengthened. More comprehensive loan appraisal and supervision could be
means of improving project design and market fit as well as the efficiency
of many borrowers in project implementation. Many of HUDCO's borrowers could
benefit from increased assistance to improve their administration and
financial management. Improved project design combined with a greater use of
differential land pricing could enable HUDCO to raise its interest rates,
which are based on a sliding scale with heavily subsidized loans for the
lowest income groups, and improve its long-range financial viability. A step
was recently taken in this direction by raising HUDCO's interest rate
structure.
D. Bank Group Role and Strategy in India's Urban Sector
1.12    The Bank Group's strategy for urban development in India has
concentrated over the past decade on three of India's largest cities --
Calcutta, Madras and Bombay. The first Bank Group-supported urban projects,
in Calcutta and Madras, financed integrated packages of urban services (sites
and services, slum upgrading, water supply, sanitation, transport, solid
waste management, health improvement and small business development).
Follow-up projects in both cities have continued this pattern, although in
Calcutta two general urban development projects have been supplemented by a
sectoral project, the Calcutta Urban Transport Project, which supports a
program of investments and policy measures designed to alleviate the critical
transport deficiencies in the city. A third Calcutta Urban Development
Project has recently been approved. In Bombay, a sectoral approach has been
followed from the beginning. Projects in Bombay have thus far focused on
transport and water supply, with a possible land development and shelter
project currently under preparation. In the case of each of the Bank
Group-supported urban projects, the objective has been not only to raise the
level of urban services provided, but also to strengthen urban planning and
service delivery institutions, to improve the use of available resources and
to improve local resource mobilization.
1.13    All of the urban projects financed to date have supported local,
state and central government initiatives to introduce policy changes in urban
investment programs as well as institutional improvements. Policy changes



-4-
introduced include: (i) design changes (e.g., cost per household for land,
infrastructure and shelter has been reduced by some 75% over previous
programs and slum clearance programs have been reoriented with the new
emphasis on upgrading existing slums); (ii) improved cost recovery (e.g.,
interest rates increased from 4%-5% to 12% and substantial bus fare and water
tariff increases); and (iii) the gradual shift of housing construction and
finance from public to private sector with the public sector focusing on land
and infrastructure development. Institutional strengthening has included
improved municipal accounting, financial management and maintenance.
1.14    While the importance of improved management of India's major
metropolitan areas has not lessened--and the Bank Group continues its
involvement in Bombay, Calcutta, and Madras--the focus on urban development
activities is now being broadened to include non-metropolitan cities. This
expanded focus coincides with GOI emphasis on development efforts for small
and medium towns. Thus, the experience gained in the major metropolitan
areas can now be profitably put to use in the effort to strengthen the
management of other cities.
1.15    An urban project approved in October 1981 for Kanpur represented the
first step in Bank Group urban lending to non-metropolitan cities in India.
While this project offers an opportunity to expand the understanding of the
physical, legal, and policy environment in cities, like Kanpur, it would not
be possible to make a significant impact on the large number of cities in
India by proceeding on a city-by-city basis. Therefore, discussions were
begun with GOI and HUDCO to prepare the first state-wide urban project in
India which would finance investments in a number of cities in a given state
with the assistance of state-level agencies and which would work at the
central level with HUDCO and the Ministry of Works and Housing to expand
their capacity to support urban projects, programs and institutions
throughout India. The state of Madhya Pradesh was chosen for this first
project because of the large number of medium-sized cities (14 cities with
more than 100,000 inhabitants in 1981; 28 cities with 50,000-100,000
inhabitants) and because of its relatively high rate of urbanization (urban
population grew at 4.6% per year during 1971-81 compared to 3.9% for All-
India.)
E. Urban Trends in Madhya Pradesh
1.16    Madhya Pradesh is the largest state in India, covering 13.6% of the
total area of the country. With a 1981 population of 52 million, Madhya
Pradesh has about 7.6% of India's population. In spite of the state's
agricultural potential and natural resources, Madhya Pradesh ranks among the
lowest states by almost all measures of development, including per capita
income (Rs 1,180 in 1980-81 current prices compared to Rs 1,540 for
All-India). Low per capita incomes are largely due to stagnation in the
agricultural sector. Agriculture accounts for a relatively high proportion
of state product (57% compared to 43% for All-India in 1977/78), and it
registered practically no growth from 1970/71 to 1977/78. Low agricultural
productivity has been partly due to a lack of irrigation facilities and low
per hectare consumption of fertilizers. While mining and manufacturing are
still small in relation to the agricultural share of the state's product,
they have grown much more rapidly (6.2% per year during 1970/71-1977/78) and
they are beginning to have an important impact on the state's economy.



-5-
1.17    The 1981 urban population of Madhya Pradesh was about 10.6 million
or about 20% of the state's 52 million population. Urban population was
expanding rapidly, at 4.6% annually during 1971-81 which was about twice the
rate of population growth for the state. In contrast to some Indian states,
urban growth in Madhya Pradesh has not been concentrated into a primate city.
There are four large cities with 1981 populations above 500,000: Indore
(827,000), Jabalpur (758,000), Bhopal (672,000) and Gwalior (560,000). A
fifth large urban aglomeration is growing rapidly at Bhilai/Durg and Raipur
which had a combined 1981 population of 829,000. The potential for future
urban growth appears to be greatest in the Indore and the Bhilai regions
which have the greatest economic potential. The cities of the Indore region,
including Indore, Dewas and Ujjain, have an expanding agro-industrial and
commercial base. The Bhilai region is an important manufacturing center for
steel and related industries. Its largest city, Raipur, is expanding rapidly
as a commercial center for a wide area.
1.18    Approximately 41% of urban households in India have monthly incomes
below the Rs 520 absolute urban poverty threshold for 1980. Since per capita
incomes are lower in Madhya Pradesh (about 25% lower than the All-India
average in 1980), the percentage of urban households below the poverty line
there is likely to be about 50%. 1/
F. Urban Administration and Finance in Madhya Pradesh
1.19    Responsibility for urban planning, administration and finance is
shared by a number of agencies in Madhya Pradesh. The Department of Local
Government, under the Minister for Local Government, is responsible for
supervising the activities of the municipal corporations, municipalities and
notified area committees. Supervision of municipalities and notified area
committees is through the Directorate of Urban Administration and includes
the review of budgets and staffing. Municipal corporations have a greater
degree of independence. The local governments are primarily responsible for
municipal services and maintenance such as street cleaning and lighting,
removal of solid waste and nightsoil and administration of water supplies.
1.20    The Town and Country Planning Department (TCPD) and the development
authorities are the principal urban planning and development agencies under
the Department of Environment which is under the Minister for Environment
and Housing. TCPD is in charge of preparing and enforcing Town Development
Plans in the major cities. It is also represented on the boards of directors
of the development authorities. The development authorities are established
at the local level after Town Development Plans have been finalized. They
have responsibility for implementing the plans, primarily by providing
1/  Recent household income data are not available to confirm this estimate.
Given recent inflation, the March 1983 absolute poverty threshold can be
estimated conservatively at about Rs 600 per household per month which
means that households classified by GOI as Economically Weaker Section
(EWS) with monthly incomes below Rs 350 and Lower Income Group (LIG) with
incomes of Rs 350-600 per month fall beneath the poverty level. These
constitute roughly 50% of the urban population in Madhya Pradesh.



-6-
serviced land for residential, commercial and industrial development. A
Madhya Pradesh Slum Clearance and Improvement Board (MPSCIB) has recently
been established under the Department of Environment. The Madhya Pradesh
Housing Board (MPHB), also under the direction of the Minister for
Environment and Housing, is the most important agency for implementing
low-cost housing schemes in the state.
1.21    Coordination among all agencies is accomplished because they are
organized under one Secretary for Housing and Local Government who is also
Commissioner for Environment. The Town and Country Planning Department plays
a central role in the sector. The Directorate of Urban Administration has
supported studies in municipal finance and management, but does not yet
actively provide the municipalities with assistance at the required scale to
improve revenue collections, financial management and maintenance.
1.22    The Housing Board produces about 7,000 units per year, which is a
substantial accomplishment, but it lacks the necessary management and
financial systems to expand its operations, and currently operates at a
deficit. Under the project, improved accounting and financial management
systems are being planned and implemented.
1.23    At the local level, most of the development authorities are staffed
with engineers and architects. Their projects often reflect inadequate
planning and weak economic and financial analysis, and cost recovery is
limited. Financial viability is also hampered by a lack of adequate
accounting and budgeting systems and many development authorities are running
at serious deficits, but since accounts are kept on a cash basis they do not
reflect accurately the financial position of the authorities.
1.24    Municipal governments are generally hampered by a lack of adequate
financing. Some are running serious deficits (Rs 281 crores in Indore in
1981/82). Municipal revenues depend heavily on the property tax and on
compensation from the State Government for the octroi tax which was abolished
in 1976. Most cities, and especially Indore, are running large deficits in
managing their water systems. The capacity of local management and
accounting systems is also a major constraint to the expansion of municipal
services.
G. Urban Services and Shelter in Madhya Pradesh
1.25    A review of physical conditions in the urban areas of Madhya Pradesh
reveals serious deficiencies in services and housing. About 50% of the urban
population does not have access to a safe water supply, and improvements are
constrained by low water revenues. There are sewer systems in only a few
areas of the largest cities, and alternative means of sanitation such as
nightsoil collection are inadequate. Many cities have immediate needs for
sanitation, improved drainage, refuse collection and maintenance, and some of
the larger cities require improved traffic management. The provision of
these services is not being planned by municipal governments in an orderly
way, based on a thorough assessment of needs, priorities and available
resources.
1.26    There are severe shortages of serviced urban land and shelter.  About
40% of the state's urban housing stock is in squatter settlements without



-7-
tenure; another large percentage of urban housing is in densely populated
inner city rental tenements. Partly because of the high development
standards required by the urban development plans in the major cities, the
private sector is largely precluded from low cost land development and from
the provision of low cost housing. In some existing sites and services
projects the private informal sector has been effectively excluded by
requirements for downpayments and stamp taxes (totaling 30-40% of plot cost),
building permits and other regulations which inhibit on-plot development.
These issues will be addressed in the proposed project (see para 2.15). In
spite of a considerable effort in providing low cost housing and sites and
services, the Madhya Pradesh Housing Board (MPHB), which is exempt from some
development standards, is meeting only about 23% of the low cost housing
needs in the ten largest cities. However, the standards in many MPHB
projects are still not affordable to low income groups without subsidies.
Slum upgrading projects have been undertaken in several cities, largely with
grant funds from the Central Government. However, as yet there has been no
large scale slum upgrading program involving cost recove':y and secure tenure
for beneficiaries. Policies and programs including cost recovery and the
provision of tenure are being evolved in the newer projects to be undertaken
by the Madhya Pradesh Slum Clearance and Improvement Board.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
2.01    The most immediate objective of the project is to reduce the serious
deficit in urban shelter and services in up to ten cities in Madhya Pradesh.
The project would demonstrate new planning and implementation strategies
(e.g. efficient land use planning, slum improvement rather than clearance and
improved cost recovery) which can later be used more widely in the state. A
broader objective is the improvement in urban management and resource
mobilization in these cities and the strengthening of state-level agencies
which make critical investments in the urban sector (e.g., the Madhya Pradesh
Housing Board and Madhya Pradesh Slum Clearance and Improvement Board) or
which are responsible for guiding urban development and management in the
state (e.g., TCPD, the Directorate of Urban Administration).
2.02    A further objective with even more far-reaching implications is to
improve the capacities of central level institutions including HUDCO and
agencies of the Ministry of Works and Housing to prepare, appraise, supervise
and evaluate this type of project. The project would enhance the capacity of
HUDCO to prepare, appraise and supervise urban projects and to provide
increased technical assistance and training to its borrowers. The project
would enhance the capacity of HUDCO to act as an intermediary in Bank
Group-assisted projects and thus increase the potential impact of Bank Group
assistance to the large number of medium and small cities in India which
could not be addressed through individual projects. The project would also
enhance the capacity of the Ministry of Works and Housing and its agencies,
the Town and Country Planning Organization (TCPO), and the National Building
Organization (NBO) to undertake policy evaluation, disseminate new urban
development techniques and provide training.



-8-
B. Rationale for City Selection in Madhya Pradesh
2.03     Project-supported physical investments would be focused in the two
regions of the state which have the greatest potential for urban growth based
on their resource bases and their commercial and industrial development
patterns -- the Bhilai/Durg/Raipur Region and the Indore/Dewas/Ujjain region.
The cities in these regions selected for investments range in size from about
100,000 to about 800,000 inhabitants. These regions were selected after a
comprehensive urban sector assessment undertaken with HUDCO and State
Government staff in January 1981. 1/ (See para 1.17 and Annex 1.)
2.04    Additional investments would be made, if justified, in up to four
additional smaller cities, with high growth potential, for urgently needed
land development. The State Government would select cities which have
demonstrated above average growth during the last decade and/or which are
benefiting from large investments in industry or mineral extraction (see also
para 2.22). These sub-projects would be appraised by HUDCO and presented to
the Bank for approval during project implementation, and a lump sum provision
would be made. Any unallocated funds would be utilized for further
sub-projects in the original six cities.
2.05    Although the scope of this project is necessarily limited to a small
number of cities relative to the large size of Madhya Pradesh, there should
eventually be a wider impact in the state through the demonstration of new
techniques and through the development of state-level institutions.
C. Project Description
2.06    The project would be implemented over the period July 1, 1983-
June 30, 1988 and would include the components given in Table II.1.
1/ Madhya Pradesh Urban Sector Memorandum, Report No. 3616-IN, April 1982.



-9-
Table 11.1: The Project
Rs        US$   *
(crores) (million)
A.  Area Development:  About 18,500 serviced
residential and small business plots with
shelter loans and community facilities at
seven sites totaling about 200 hectares in
six cities, benefiting about 93,000 persons.             14.4         15.2
B.  Slum Upgrading:  Upgrading of 75 slum areas
containing about 37,000 households on about
220 hectares, including the provision of tenure,
improved infrastructure services, home improve-
ment loans, and community facilities, benefiting
about 187,000 persons in six cities.                      7.4          7.7
C.  Sub-Projects in Medium Towns:  Serviced residen-
tial sites in four cities yet to be identified.           3.2          3.4
D.  Sanitation and Off-Site Infrastructure:  A road in
Bhilai serving as access to project sites and pro-
viding a bypass around the congested area of the
town, and loans for installation of individual
pour-flush latrines (including demonstration units).  1.2              1.2
E.  Municipal Maintenance and Solid Waste Management:
Equipment for improving the cleaning, repair and
maintenance of roads, drains and sewers, and
improved facilities for collection and disposal
of refuse and nightsoil including workshop and
depot improvements.                                       3.2          3.4
F.  Technical Assistance
1. Assistance to State and Local Agencies                 1.5          1.6
2. Assistance to HUDCO                                    2.0          2.1
3. Assistance to National Level Agencies                  1.0          1.0
Base Costs                                         33.9        35.6
Physical Contingencies                                    1.9          2.0
Design, supervision, and management                       2.5          2.6
Price Contingencies                                       9.3          9.8
Front End Fee                                             0.1          0.1
TOTAL                                              47.7         50.1
*   Exchange Rate Rs 9.5 = US$1.0.



-10-
2.07    In view of the severe shortage of serviced land and shelter in the
project cities, the major focus of the physical investment program would be
on the provision of serviced land for low income residential and small-scale
business use and on the extension of basic infrastructure to existing slum
settlements which lack the most basic amenIties.  The slum upgrading program
in Indore would be implemented in parallel with a UNICEF supported Urban
Community Development Program which would train community development workers
to assist with the upgrading program and with improving the coumunities'
access to complementary services (informal education, health care, etc.).
Improvements in sanitation would be provided using technology developed under
UNDP/TAG Global Sanitation Project. Some off-site infrastructure would be
provided in the project cities. Assistance would be provided to the
concerned agencies in the project cities to improve the level of maintenance
of urban services and solid waste management. Finally, technical assistance,
training and equipment would be provided to national-, state-, and
local-level agencies to strengthen management, policy making capacity, and
resource mobilization.
2.08    (a)  Area Development  (Base cost: US$15.2 million; Rs 14.4 crores).
About 200 ha would be developed to provide about 18,500 serviced residential
plots, including about 6.0 ha (average 3.0%) for commercial and
small-business plots, on seven sites. These include one each in Indore,
Ujjain, Dewas, Durg and Raipur, and two in Bhilai. All sites are located
within about 5 km of the city centers and adjacent to developed residential
areas. All sites would have independent water supply, except the Indore site
which would be connected to the city water supply system. Low-cost
sanitation methods (see para 2.23) would be used in all sites except Indore,
which has an extensive sewer network. Initially the site in indore would be
provided with a stabilization pond and it would later be linked with the city
sewerage system. Off-site roads and power supplies are available near the
sites. Although land for one site and one-half of another is already owned
by MPHB, land acquisition for about 85% of the total area of the sites has
yet to be completed. A number of steps have been taken including the
identification of land parcels to be acquired, and the approval of
acquisition of at least two sites by the Revenue Department. In order to
begin project implementation, it would be adequate if 2 or 3 sites were
available in the first year. Government already has 1 1/2 sites in its
possession, and it has provided a detailed timetable, indicating that all
sites would be acquired by the end of September 1983, which will be used to
monitor progress in land acquisition. Thus, even allowing for delays, there
is reasonable assurance that at least one or two more sites would be in its
possession in time to begin work by September 1983 after the monsoon season.
This assessment is based on actual experience of land acquisition in Bank
Group supported urban projects in Madras and Kanpur, using similar legal
procedures as in Madhya Pradesh.
2.09    Layout plans and cost estimates are available for six sites
constituting about 80% of total area development (see para 2.40). Emphasis
is being placed on design characteristics which would make about 80% of the
plots affordable to low-income (EWS and LIG) families earning Rs 600 per
month or less (see paras 4.08-4.09). Layout designs are appropriate for the
needs of the various income groups to be accommodated. Efficient use of land
would be achieved with an average of about 65% of each site being marketable



-1 1-
(compared to marketable land of less than 45% typical in many projects in
Madhya Pradesh). Vehicular access on primary and secondary roads would be
provided to within about 75 m on average, of the smallest plots. An average
net density of 450 persons per hectare would be achieved in the new
communities   Plot sizes would vary from about 35 m2 for EWS families to
about 300 m~ for HIG families. About 65% of residential plots are designed
for families of the EWS category. The city-wise distribution of the area
development component is given in Table II.2. Since some of the proposed
standards are not consistent with existing planning and building regulations,
assurances were obtained that the proposed area development sub-projects
would receive necessary GOMP and local planning and building approvals as
appraised.
Table II.2:  AREA DEVELOPMENT
No. of   Area       EWS       LIG     MIG        HIG and        TOTAL
City        Sites    ha        plots    plots   plots   Small Business   plots
Bhilai        2     35.91    2,517        933     278           247        3,975
Raipur        1     33.39    2,217        993     254            63        3,527
Durg          1     18.97    1,206        493     115            52        1,866
Indore        1     86.25    4,262    1,095       891           295        6,543/a
Ujjain        1     17.43   .1,184        496     116            42        1,838
Dewas         1      6.97       511       215      48            21          795
TOTAL         7    198.92   11,897    4,225   1,702             720       18,544
/a  Includes 42 plots to be provided for multi-story flats.
2.10    In sites other than Indore, pour-flush pit latrines would be provided
for the EWS plots using technologies developed by the UNDP/TAG program under
the Water and Sanitation Decade Program of GOI, with various design features
for the different soil conditions in the cities. Beneficiaries of other
plots would be free to construct their own pour-flush latrines or other forms
of sanitation with on-plot disposal. Optional loans of Rs 800 would be
provided to LIG households to assist in the construction of latrines (see
para 4.03). A 100% rate of uptake is assumed.
2.11    Most smaller plots would front on 3 m and 4.5 m pedestrian lanes.
Larger plots would front on roads with rights of way ranging from 6 m to
12 m, with single or double-lane surfaced roads having bituminous surfacing
of widths of 3.5 m to 6 m, respectively. Electricity networks and street
lighting would also be provided. Trees would be planted along roads, and
community facilities such as primary schools, markets and health centers
would be provided.
2.12    Some core housing would be provided on EWS plots in three options
(Table II.3) together with optional building loans averaging Rs 1,000 per
household. The cores would vary from a toilet with a water connection to a
single room in two stages of construction affordable to the various income
categories. Optional shelter loans (see para 4.03) averaging Rs 3,000 per
household would also be available to LIG households to assist self-help



-1 2-
construction. Shelter loans provided in the project are based on assumed
rates of uptake of 50% and 25% for EWS and LIG, respectively.
Table II.3:   EWS CORE HOUSING OPTIONS
Average Approximate
OPTION                                Cost Excluding Land
and Infrastructure
(Rs)
1. Pour-flush pit latrine /a with super-
structure of 1.2 m wall (no roof) and a
one-tap water point                                 1,200
2. Option 1, plus about 10 m2 skeleton
room with brick columns and roof;
no walls                                            3,500
3.  Option 2, plus brick walls                          5,600
/a  Except Indore, where flush latrines will be connected to
the sewer system.
2.13    To prepare for the first year's construction program, detailed
engineering, including working drawings and bid documents, is being prepared
for two area development sites. Bids will be invited about July 1983 so that
work could begin about September 1983 after the monsoon season.
2.14    Procedures for the selection of beneficiaries ensure that the EWS and
LIG plots would be allocated to the designated target income groups. HIG and
MIG plots would be allocated to applicants at market prices. Beneficiaries
would be given secure tenure on a 30-year renewable leasehold basis.
Assurances were obtained that beneficiary selection criteria and terms and
conditions of lease would be acceptable to the Bank. This would include the
the simplification of plot allocation and lease procedures and the reduction
of restrictions on on-plot construction to accommodate the needs of low
income households.
2.15    Constraints in the Provision of Serviced Land and Shelter.  Through
this project, the practice of house construction in public sector projects
by MPHB and the development authorities would be reduced with public sector
agencies focusing on the provision of serviced land. Practically all house
construction would be privately undertaken. However, given the scale of
shelter requirements in Madhya Pradesh, it is in.ortant for these new public
sector initiatives to be continued and for private sector involvement in the
provision of serviced land and shelter to be increased. There are many
constraints in the provision of serviced land and shelter for low income
households. These constraints include physical planning and municipal
engineering regulations, which make development unaffordable to Sow income
households, and lack of access to land and credit. Some of these constraints
need to be addressed at the national level, but others (especially physical
planning and engineering regulations) are more directly controllable by state
and local governments. The constraints affect both public sector agencies



-13-
and private sector developers. Given the limited capacities of public sector
agencies and the large demand, it is especially important to relieve
constraints to private sector development. Another set of constraints
(building regulations, licenses, fees, etc.) affects the ability of low
income households to build their own houses after they are alloted plots.
Assurances have been given by GOMP that a study will be undertaken to examine
constraints to the public and private sectors in the provision of serviced
land and shelter, including on-plot construction by low income households.
The study will be initiated by October 31, 1983 by a task force whose terms
of reference and composition will be agreed upon by GOMP and the Bank. A
timetable for implementing appropriate recommendations will be reviewed with
the Bank by December 31, 1984.
2.16    (b)  Slum Upgrading.  (Base cost: US$7.7 million; Rs 7.4 crores).
About 75 slum areas in the six project cities would be upgraded under the
project. The component would cover about 37,000 households occupying about
220 ha of land, as indicated in Table II.4.
Table II.4: SLUM UPGRADING
No. of Slums
Land      Land
Area          No. of                     Publicly  Privately
City               ha        Households    Population        Owned      Owned
Bhilai            51.4           9,030         45,150         11          -
Durg              20.9           2,872         14,360          6          1
Raipur            37.8           6,131         30,655         14          6
Indore            82.5          16,000         80,000         20          -
Ujjain            15.4           2,161         10,805          5          7
Dewas             12.0           1,220          6,100          5         _
TOTAL            220.0          37,414        187,070         61         14
2.17    Of the 75 slums, 61 are located on government, development authority
or municipal land.  Of the remaining 14 slums located on private land, three
in Durg and Ujjain would be acquired by government under the provisions of
the Slum Clearance Act.  In the others, land has already been purchased by
slum dwellers, and formal tenure registration would be provided under the
project.  Adequate publicly owned land is available to sustain the program
for at least three years.
2.18    Existing slum areas would be improved by providing water, roads,
footpaths, drainage, sanitation, street lighting, and landscaping. Optional
home improvement loans (see para 4.05) would be provided to supplement
beneficiary efforts to improve their dwellings or to construct individual
pour-flush pit latrines. Provision has been made for a 50% uptake of an
average loan of Rs 1,000. Tenure would be granted to the beneficiaries on a
30-year renewable leasehold basis. Since costs would be fully recovered, the
standards of improvements for individual slum sites have been determined in
accordance with the community's needs and its capacity to pay.



-14-
2.19    Upgrading proposals including cost estimates have been prepared for
12 slum areas (see para 2.40). Layouts take regard of existing land use
patterns and community preferences. Where space is available, additional new
plots would be created to accommodate displaced and new residents. Plot
sizes and the range provided are designed to accommodate all the existing
residents of these slum areas. Displacement and relocations are minimal,
generally involving no more than 3% of households. Commercial plots have
been created where space permits in order to service the community and to
generate additional funds through sales. Flexibility in the determination of
a minimum plot size ensures that even the poorest households would be
accommodated.
2.20    Circulation is being provided mainly with 2 m to 3 m wide pedestrian
access lanes. Vehicular access is being provided where feasible and
necessary. Most plots are located no farther than 100 m from a vehicular
road. Water supply is mainly through public standpipes. However, individual
connections will be encouraged in order to conserve water and to improve cost
recovery through direct water charges. To minimize maintenance problems
involved in community latrines, individual or shared pour-flush pit latrines
will be encouraged. Public conveniences would be constructed for residents
who cannot afford individual facilities.
2.21    UNICEF is planning to initiate an Urban Community Development Program
for Indore for the training of community workers who would work in slum
neighborhoods to help mobilize communities for upgrading and to organize
complementary social services. It has been agreed by UNICEF, GOMP and the
Indore Municipal Corporation that this program will focus initially on slum
areas to be improved under this project. Additional funds would be provided
under the project for the training of community workers by MPSCIB for the
other towns with UNICEF assistance.
2.22    (c)  Sub-projects in Medium Towns.  (Base Cost: US$3.4 million;
Rs 3.2 crores). Provision has been made under the project for land
development in up to four additional towns, yet to be identified. It is
estimated that about 4,200 plots will be provided in the four towns. The
identification and appraisal of these sub-projects would be done by HUDCO
during project implementation. MPHB would prepare and implement the
sub-projects.  Only cities will be selected which have demonstrated above
average growth during the last decade and/or which are benefiting from large
investments in industry or mineral extraction and which have large shelter
and service deficits. Cities would have to comply with the principle of
providing affordable standards for a largely low-income target population
with cost recovery as designed in the area development sub-projects which
have already been appraised. MPHB would prepare plans and cost estimates for
area development sites using the same principles applied to sub-projects
which have already been appraised. HUDCO would appraise the sub-projects
using criteria agreed upon with the Bank. In addition to their normal
appraisal criteria, HUDCO would give special emphasis to ensure that projects
would be affordable to low income groups at not less than 12% p.a. rate of
interest. HUDCO would ensure that local planning and engineering regulations
do not preclude efficient land development and construction. HUDCO would
ensure that land pricing is consistent with local market conditions (using



-15-
differential land pricing). Development of these sub-projects would commence
only after the Bank, GOMP and HUDCO have agreed upon the selection of towns
and the Bank and HUDCO have approved the designs. If acceptable sub-projects
are not developed, additional sub-projects would be considered in the six
cities which have already been identified for the project.
2.23    (d)  Sanitation and Off-Site Infrastructure.
(i) Sanitation (Base Cost: US$0.7 million; Rs 65 lakhs). Public and
private sanitary facilities available in the project cities are inadequate.
Existing public facilities are usually poorly maintained by municipal
governments, and additional sanitary facilities are required in unserviced
areas outside of area development and slum upgrading sites. Loans averaging
Rs 1,000 each will be made available to households outside project areas to
construct individual pour-flush latrines (see para 4.06). The technology is
well developed to meet all types of soil condition and is supported by the
GOI and under the Water and Sanitation Decade Program. Rs 10 lakhs would be
provided under the project in each city, except in Raipur where sanitary
conditions are particularly poor and Rs 15 lakhs have been allocated
(benefiting 6,500 households). If, during the project period, the need for
community latrines can be demonstrated and a satisfactory maintenance system
is proposed, a part of these funds could be used for community latrines.
(ii) Off-Site Infrastructure (Base cost: US$0.5 million; Rs 51.5
lakhs). The project would fund the construction of 10 km of road with a 6 m
carriageway in Bhilai to provide access to one of the area development sites
and to provide a missing bypass link to the congested trunk road near the
Bhilai Steel Plant. Two sections of the bypass already exist, one completed
section (about 6 km) through the heavy industrial area and another partly
constructed, unsurfaced section (2.5 km).
2.24    (e)  Municipal Maintenance and Solid Waste Management.  (Base cost:
US$3.4 million; Rs 3.2 crores). Maintenance of infrastructure and solid
waste management receive little priority in most of the project cities, due
to lack of funds, equipment and proper management systems. In order to
derive the full benefit of existing infrastructure and infrastructure
proposed under this project, both maintenance and solid waste management
would be improved. Separate consultant studies of municipal maintenance and
solid waste management are being initiated for the two largest cities, Indore
and Raipur. These studies would recommend investments in maintenance and
solid waste management in the two cities. A lump sum base cost amount of
US$2.6 million (Rs 2.5 crores) would be provided for the purchase of
equipment which may include handcarts, tar boilers, rollers, dozers, refuse
trucks, tipper trucks, and front-end loaders. Expenditures would be made
only after a review of recommendations and agreement by the Municipal
Governments, GOMP and the Bank.
2.25    The four other cities, Bhilai, Durg, Ujjain and Dewas, provide
inadequate services consisting mainly of road patchwork, refuse collection
(with inadequate disposal) and maintenance of water supply. The project
would provide immediate assistance to these four smaller cities for the
replacement of equipment, the maintenance of infrastructure and the expansion



-16-
of refuse disposal using the traditional trenching method. Expenditures are
indicated by city in Table II.5.
Table II.5: CITY-WISE EXPENDITURE FOR MAINTENANCE
AND SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
(Rs lakhs)
Solid Waste
Maintenance         Management          Total
Indore *        70.00               70.00           140.00
Raipur *        60.00               50.00           110.00
Bhilai           9.14                 9.97           19.11
Durg              7.64                6.47           14.11
Ujjain           13.40                8.21            21.61
Dewas            6.91                 6.73            13.64
TOTAL      167.09              151.38           318.47
*  Lump sum amounts allocated for use in accordance with
recommendations of study.
2.26    Municipal corporations are involved in the design and implementation
of works under this project. They will take over all infrastructure and
improvements for maintenance. A maintenance charge will be collected from
beneficiaries (see para 4.07). Present maintenance budgets, their adequacy
and possible revisions in charges are being reviewed by consultants to assure
adequate future maintenance (see para 3.20).
2.27    (f)  Assistance to State and Local Agencies (Base cost: US$1.6
million; Rs 1.5 crores). 1/
(i) Assistance to Municipal Corporations
2.28    In addition to the technical assistance, which would be provided to
the two largest cities of the project, Indore and Raipur, in designing
improved urban maintenance and solid waste management systems (para 2.24),
consultants financed under the project have begun work to recommend
improvements in resource mobilization and financial management in these two
cities and one smaller city, Dewas. The implementation of these
recommendations, including training, would also be financed under the project
(see para 3.20). The project would also finance technical training for
municipal staff. Although it was necessary to limit the maintenance and
solid waste studies to two cities and the resource mobilization study to
three cities, the methodologies and systems recommended would ultimately be
1/ The training elements of these components are detailed separately in
Table 6, Annex 2. The exact types and levels of training to be provided
in Madhya Pradesh and the required institutional arrangements would be
defined as part of the training needs study.



-17-
applicable to other cities in the state. The State Department of Local
Government is coordinating the technical assistance and training components
to municipal governments.
(ii) Assistance to Development Authorities
2.29    Two development authorities (the Indore Development Authority and the
Special Area Development Authority of Bhilai) will implement area development
components in this project. Technical assistance for the development
authorities to improve financial management systems is being coordinated by
the TCPD, which coordinates the activities of development authorities from
the state level, and the Madhya Pradesh Vikas Pradhikaran Sangh, an
association of development authorities. Consultants have begun work on a
study which will recommend appropriate changes in financial management. The
project would finance this study and the implementation of recommendations,
including training (see para 3.16). It would also finance training for
technical staff.
(iii)  The Madhya Pradesh Housing Board (MPHB)
2.30    The Housing Board will be involved as the implementing agency for
several of the area development schemes and as coordinating agency for the
project. Consultants have begun work under the project on a review of a new
financial management and accounting system which is being put into practice
and to make recommendations on its possible improvement. The implementation
of consultants' recommendations would also be financed, including training
(see para 3.12). Training and equipment would be provided to improve the
technical capacity of MPHB, and evaluations of past MPHB programs would be
financed.
(iv)  The Madhya Pradesh Slum Clearance and Improvement Board (MPSCIB)
2.31    Although the role of the Slum Clearance and Improvement Board would
be limited in this project, since it is a new institution, consultants have
begun work under the project to design appropriate management and financial
systems for this new organization so that it will ultimately be able to
promote slum improvement projects throughout the state. Implementation of
the consultants' recommendations, including training, would be financed under
the project (see para 3.21). MPSCIB would also coordinate the training of
community workers for slum improvement areas with UNICEF assistance.
(v) The Town and Counry Planning Department (TCPD)
2.32    The TCPD has coordinated much of the project preparation work.  The
project preparation process has revealed several areas where engineering and
planning skills could be improved both at the state and local levels. Under
the project, TCPD would be a focal point for training which would be provided
to improve planning capabilities for this type of project as well as project
monitoring and evaluation skills. In addition, TCPD would be provided with
equipment for surveying, mapping and data processing. TCPD would be provided
with assistance to develop a strategy for statewide urban development.



-18-
2.33    (g)  Assistance to HUDCO (Base cost:  US$2.1 million; Rs 2.0 crores).
The capacity of HUDCO to prepare, appraise, and supervise projects of this
type would be enhanced. Equipment would be financed to help strengthen
HUDCO's internal systems and its capacity to prepare and disseminate
technical information. The project would finance start-up costs and equipment
for new HUDCO activities, including the provision of assistance to borrowers
to improve financial management and project formulation and to convert to
computer based systems. The project would finance evaluations of HUDCO's
project appraisal supervision systems and past HUDCO projects. It would
provide for training for HUDCO staff and for staff of borrowing agencies in
training programs to be managed by HUDCO (see para 3.07).
2.34    (h)  Assistance to National Level Agencies (Base Cost: US$1.1
million; Rs 1.0 crore).  Assistance would be provided to the Ministry of
Works and Housing (MOWH) and its agencies to improve their ability to plan,
appraise, supervise, and evaluate this type of urban project.  In addition, a
review of training needs in the urban sector would be undertaken, and
improvements in training programs would be designed and implemented through
the Ministry of Works and Housing.
(i)  The National Building Organization (NBO)
2.35    NBO would be assisted to improve its dissemination of new building
techniques through more direct involvement in projects. NBO would provide
specific inputs to one or more of the area development sites of the project.
This would include assistance with house design, materials use, construction
planning, training in construction skills, etc. The project would assist NBO
to provide these inputs which would be directly beneficial to the
implementing agencies in Madhya Pradesh and would build NBO's capacity to
undertake similar activities in the future.
(ii) Town and Country Planning Organization (TCPO)
2.36    The project would finance evaluations of TCPO's project appraisal and
monitoring systems.
(iii) Training in the Urban and Water Supply Sectors
2.37    The project would assist MOWH to undertake a study of training needs
in the urban sector in India to identify priority areas for training program
improvement. A number of training programs and institutes are supported by
MOWH in urban management and housing at the national, state and local levels,
and there are several other relevant state and local training institutions
and programs. MOWH plans to identify priority training needs, detail the
types of training courses required, and identify the institutional
requirements for undertaking the training. Funds have been allocated in the
project to MOWH (Rs 42 lakhs) and to HUDCO (Rs 36 lakhs) to develop the
training programs (in collaboration with appropriate training institutes)
which would be identified as priorities and to finance initial training
courses. By October 31, 1983, MOWH will appoint consultants for the study
whose terms of reference and qualifications are acceptable to MOWH and the



-19-
Bank. 1/ By December 31, 1984, MOWH and the Bank will review recommendations
of the study and agree upon a timetable for implementing appropriate
recommendations. A separate amount of Rs 8 lakhs has been set aside for the
training of senior MOWH and central agency staff in housing finance and urban
policy evaluation.
Summary of Consultant Services Provided
2.38    The following consultants have been recruited at the state and local
levels to assist with the project: (i) consultants to review maintenance
needs of Indore and Raipur Municipal Corporations (Rs 3.2 lakhs); (ii)
consultants to review resource mobilization and financial management and
assist in implementation of the recommendations in the Indore, Raipur and
Dewas Municipal Corporations (Rs 3.4 lakhs); (iii) consultants to review
financial management in the local development authorities and assist in
implementation of recommendations (Rs 3.6 lakhs); (iv) consultants to review
financial management in the Madhya Pradesh Housing Board and assist in
implementation of recommendations (Rs 3.1 lakhs); and (v) consultants to
review financial management in the Madhya Pradesh Slum Clearance and
Improvement Board and assist in implementation of recommendations (Rs 2.3
lakhs). Consultants will be recruited to review solid waste management in
Indore and Raipur (36 man months; Rs 3.2 lakhs). By December 31, 1983, GOMP
and the Bank will review recommendations for institutional strengthening and
resource mobilization (items (ii), (iii), (iv) and (v) above) and agree upon
a timetable for implementing appropriate recommendations (see
paras 3.12-3.21).
D. Project Costs
2.39    The total cost of the project, including contingencies, is estimated
at US$50.1 million (Rs 47.7 crores), of which US$5.2 million (Rs 4.9 crores)
or about 10%, represents foreign exchange costs. Summary cost estimates are
given in Table I1.6 and detailed cost estimates for each component are given
in Annex 2.
1/ This work would include a review of project related training needs in
Madhya Pradesh and design of training components to be undertaken there.
EDI has assisted in drafting preliminary terms of reference for the
study.



Table II.6:   SUMMARY COSTS
Rupees (crores)                  US$ million (US$1 = Rs            Foreign       of
Local   Taxes  Foreign  Total             Local  Taxes  Foreign  Total   Exchange   Total
Area Development                    12.0     0.7      1.7      14.4            12.6   0.8    1.8         15.2       12        43
Slum Upgrading                       6.5     0.3      0.6       7.4             6.8   0.3    0.6          7.7        8        21
Sub-projects in                     2.7      0.1      0.4       3.2             2.8   0.2    0.4         3.4       12        10
Medium Towns
Sanitation and Off-site              1.0     0.1      0.1       1.2             1.0   0.1    0.1          1.2        8         3
Infrastructure
Municipal Maintenance                2.2     0.5      0.5       3.2             2.3   0.5    0.6          3.4       15        10
and Solid Waste Management
Technical Assistance                4,1      0.3      0.1       4.5             4.4   0.2    0.1          4.7        2        13
Total Base Costs                 28.5      2.0      3.4      33.9            29.9   2.1    3.6        35.6       10       100
Physical Contingencies               1.6     0.1      0.2       1.9             1.7   0.1    0.2          2.0       10         6
Design, Supervision,
Management                          2.1     0.1      0.3       2.5             2.2   0.1    0.3          2.6       12         7
Price Contingencies                  7.9     0.5      0.9       9.3             8.3   0.5    1.0          9.8       10        28
Front End Fee                                         0.1       0.1                            0.1        0.1     100
Total Project Costs              40,1      2.7      4,9      47,7            42,1   2,8    5,2         50,1       10



-21-
2.40    Base cost estimates are in March 1983 prices.  Cost estimates for
area development are based on designs for six sites representing about 80% of
the component. Cost estimates for slum upgrading are based on engineering
design for 12 typical slum areas representing varying densities, locations
and physical conditions. Cost estimates for sanitation and off-site
infrastructure are based on preliminary engineering designs for civil works.
Recent quotations from suppliers and current market prices within India have
been used to estimate costs for materials, vehicles and equipment required
for the maintenance and solid waste management component. Average
person-month costs (all inclusive) for locally procured consultant and
advisory services are estimated at Rs 9,000 (US$950). Physical contingencies
have been estimated at 10% for civil works with detailed engineering design
and 15% for civil works with preliminary engineering design. Price
contingencies have been estimated at 8.0%, 7.5%, 7.0%, 6.5% and 6.0% for the
fiscal years 1983/84-1987/88 for both local and foreign costs.
E. Financing Plan
2.41    The proposed loan of US$24.1 million would finance about 50% of
project costs net of taxes and duties, which are estimated at US$2.8 million
(Rs 2.7 crores). Retroactive financing of up to US$350,000 would be provided
to project agencies as follows: (a) not exceeding US$250,000 for expenditure
made after July 1, 1982 for consultant services required for project
preparation; and (b) up to US$100,000 for expenditure incurred after June 1,
1983 for civil works.
2.42    Assurances have been obtained that the Government of India would make
the proceeds of the loan available to HUDCO (equivalent to 40% of project
cost) at an annual rate of interest of not less than 8.5% for 20 years
including a 4 year grace period, except for the technical assistance funds
for HUDOO and MOWH (equivalent to 8% of project cost) which would be passed
as grants. HUDCO would add about 26% of the project cost from its own
sources and would pass on a total of 66% of project funds directly to MPHB.
Assurances have been obtained that HUDCO would onlend to MPHB at an annual
rate of interest of 10% for 20 years, including a 4 year grace period. The
MPHB would onlend to the implementing agencies at 11% p.a. for 20 years,
including a 4 year grace period for those sub-projects which it will not
itself implement. Beneficiaries of area development, slum upgrading and
sanitation would be charged not less than 12% p.a. for up to 20 years. GOMP
and project agencies would fund 26% of project costs. The detailed financing
plan would be as indicated in Table II.7.



Table II.7:   FINANCING PLAN (Rs crores)
Primary Imple-                    Loans  Contri-      Loans
menting          Direct GOMP      from  tions from   from           Direct GOI  Total    Of Which
Agency(s)        Expenditure!'   GoMP2/ Agencies3/ HUDC          Expenditure5/  Cost         Bank
Area
Development                MPHB/DA's             0.64          1.33    4.23       14.81                       21.01     7.30
Slum
Upgrading                  Municipalities        0.07          3.12                7.61                      10.80      4.40
Sub-projects in            MPHB/
Medium Towns               Municipalities        0.15          1.27                3.41                       4.83      1.73
Sanitation and Off-site   Municipalities                       0.48                1.14                       1.62      0.73
Infrastructure
Municipal Maintenance      Municipalities                      1.10                2.62                       3.72      3.04
& Solid Waste Management
Technical Assistance       (a) State &                                             1,87                       1.87      1.87
local-level
Urban Manage-
ment
(b) HUDCO                                                             2.49         2.49     2.49
(c) GOI Agencies                                                      1.24         1.24     1.24
Front End Fee                                                                                     0.10        0.10      0.10
TOTAL                                     0.86          7.30    4.23       31.46           3.83        4776      22.90
1/  Passed directly from GOMP to budgets of Government departments for community facilities.
2/ At 10% per annum interest over 20 years including 4 years grace to MPHB.
3/  Agency contribution, mainly land from MPHB and other agencies,already owned or to be acquired.
4/  At 10% per annum interest over 20 years including 4 years grace to MPHB, in accordance with HUDCO terms for this
project.
5/  Passed directly from GOI to Ministry of Works and llousing, GOI and HUDCO for technical assistance and training.
Includes Rs 0.10 crores to GOI for front end fee.
NOTE: MPHB would be the conduit for HUDCO and GOMP funds, implementing part of the project directly and onlending to
other agencies at 11% per annum.



-23-
2.43    The proposed lending rates would be substantially above HUDCO's and
MPHB's traditional lending rates for low income shelter. Beneficiaries are
presently charged 4% for sites and services and 5% for EWS housing, in
projects undertaken by MPHB and financed by HUDCO. Under this project, HUDCO
and MPHB would be lending for the first time for a mixed urban development
project at a higher flat rate for all income groups as well as for
infrastructure and urban service loans (see para 4.01).
2.44    HUDCO requires loans for low-income groups to be guaranteed by State
Governments. In this instance, however, under current Reserve Bank of India
regulations, the State Government cannot provide such a guarantee because the
interest rate exceeds 8% p.a. Since the HUDCO loan funds to MPHB would be at
interest rates of 10% p.a., the RBI regulation is being amended.
2.45    Projections of annual expenditures during the project period are
indicated in Table II.8.
Table II.8:  ANNUAL CAPITAL EXPENDITURE PLAN
(Rs crores)
1983/84 1984/85 1985/86 1986/87 1987/88  Total
A.  Area Development               2.72    3.89    4.16    5.54    4.70  21.01
B.  Slum Upgrading                 1.41    2.02    3.24    2.30    1.83  10.80
C.  Sub-Projects in Medium Towns  -        0.65    1.63    1.49    1.05   4.82
D.  Sanitation and Off-Site
Infrastructure              0.14    0.30    0.48    0.52    0.18   1.62
E.  Municipal Maintenance &
Solid Waste Management      0.51    2.22    0.99       -        -    3.72
F.  Technical Assistance           0.49    1.31    1.68    1.19    0.95   5.62
Total                  5.27   10.39   12.18   11.04    8.71  47.59
F. Procurement
2.46    About US$6.9 million (Rs 6.6 crores), inclusive of contingencies,
would be spent for the procurement of plant and equipment including vehicles.
Of this amount, contracts totaling approximately US$2.5 million (Rs 2.4
crores) would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank Guidelines (for refuse trucks, dozers, loaders, road
rollers, sewer jetting equipment, hot mix plants). Contracts for equipment
totaling approximately US$4.3 million (Rs 4.1 crores) would be let on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank. This involves numerous items (such as
hand carts, and maintenance tools), with a large number of local
manufacturers, which would not attract interest of foreign suppliers. It
also includes equipment for which locally available spare parts and
maintenance are important. The remaining equipment (total value US$0.1
million, Rs 0.1 crores) involves small contracts (under US$50,000) for items
which would be procured through normal commercial channels after obtaining
quotations from at least three suppliers.



-24-
2.47   The total estimated cost of civil works contracts, including
contingencies, would be US$25.4 million (Rs 24.1 crores). This includes
US$14.4 million (Rs 13.7 crores) for area development, US$6.7 million (Rs 6.3
crores) for slum upgrading, US$3.5 million (Rs 3.3 crores) for sub-projects
in medium towns and US$0.8 million (Rs 0.8 crores) for off-site
infrastructure. The three largest civil works contracts are for area
development in Indore (US$6.0 million, Rs 5.7 crores), Bhilai (US$2.7
million; Rs 2.5 crores) and Raipur (US$2.5 million; Rs 2.3 crores). The
cities of Raipur and Bhilai are about 650 km from Indore, and it would not be
feasible to group these contracts. Other civil works contracts for area
development vary in size from about US$0.6 million (Rs 0.5 crores) to US$1.4
million (Rs 1.3 crores). Civil works contracts for slum upgrading,
sub-projects in medium towns and off-site infrastructure are also small and
scattered and would be phased over the project period. In addition,
practically all the civil works contracts involve simple, labor intensive,
and low cost technology. For all of these reasons, it is not expected that
the civil works contracts would attract the interest of foreign bidders.
They would, therefore, be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally.
2.48    Assurances have been obtained that the Bank and HUDCO would be
provided the opportunity to review bid evaluations for contracts valued over
Rs 40 lakhs prior to award. Local bidding procedures have been reviewed and
improvements in the conditions of contract and procedures for evaluation have
been incorporated. These include elimination of the practice of negotiating
after bid opening and allowance for price escalation.
G. Disbursement
2.49    The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed against:  (a) 100% of
foreign expenditures for directly imported plant and equipment, and 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory) for locally manufactured plant and equipment,
procured through international competitive bidding; (b) 45% of expenditures
for plant, equipment, and vehicles procured through local competitive bidding
or prudent shopping; (c) 45% of expenditures on contracts for civil works;
(d) 45% of expenditures on loans made for home construction improvement or
low cost sanitation; and (e) 100% of expenditures for technical assistance,
equipment and training and related equipment.  Disbursements for (d) above,
for civil works payments not exceeding Rs 300,000 (US$31,600) for an
aggregate value of Rs 60 lakhs (US$0.63 million) and for procurement of
plant, vehicles and equipment not exceeding Rs 150,000 (US$15,800) for an
aggregate value of Rs 45 lakhs (US$0.47 million) will be made against
statements of expenditure (SOE's), the documents for which would not be
submitted to the Bank but retained and made available for inspection during
the course of the project review missions. Independent auditors will be
retained to carry out annual audits of all SOE's submitted in each fiscal
year and MPHB will furnish the audit reports to the Bank within nine months
of the end of each fiscal year. All other expenditures would be fully
documented.



-25-
2.50    A schedule for disbursements of the Bank loan is shown in Table II.9.
The region-wide sectoral disbursement profile for the urban sector indicates
a six-year disbursement period. A six-year year disbursement period is also
estimated for this project.
Table II.9: ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
Bank Fiscal         Quarter Ending      Disbursement    Cumulative Disbursement
Year                                  (US$'000)               (US$'000)
1984          September 30, 1983           -
December  31, 1983          100                       100
March      31, 1984         300                       400
June      30, 1984          300                       700
1985         September 30, 1984          500                     1,200
December  31, 1984          600                     1,800
March      31, 1985         800                     2,600
June      30, 1985        1,100                    3,700
1986         September 30, 1985        1,200                     4,900
December  31, 1985        1,200                    6,100
March      31, 1986       1,400                     7,500
June      30, 1986        1,400                    8,900
1987         September 30, 1986        1,500                    10,400
December  31, 1986        1,500                   11,900
March      31, 1987       1,500                    13,400
June      30, 1987        1,500                   14,900
1988         September 30, 1987        1,500                    16,400
December  31, 1987        1,500                   17,900
March      31, 1988       1,400                    19,300
June      30, 1988        1,200                   20,500
1989         September 30, 1988        1,200                    21,700
December  31, 1988        1,000                   22,700
March      31, 1989         800                    23,500
June      30, 1989          600                   24,100
H. Accounts and Audits
2.51    HUDCO, MPHB, the Development Authority of Indore, the Special Area
Development Authority of Bhilai and the five Municipal Corporations would
maintain separate project accounts. The Project Management and Monitoring
Cell would have the responsibility for reviewing and maintaining audited
statements of project accounts for expenditure made by MPHB and the local
implementing agencies. Annual audits of project accounts in all local
implementing agencies will be collected by MPHB and submitted to the Bank
within nine months after the close of each fiscal year.
2.52    HUDCO completes its full accounts in a timely manner after the end of
each fiscal year and they are audited by external auditors. These are



-26-
available to the public, and would be available to the Bank. No later than
nine months after the close of each financial year, MPHB will submit to the
Bank full audited financial statements and auditor's reports together with an
evaluation of the internal controls and financial management of MPHB,
accompanied by recommendations for improvements if deemed necessary.
Although full audited financial statements would not be required from the
development authorities and municipal corporations, independent project
accounts will be maintained (see para 2.51), and these agencies are being
assisted to improve their financial management as part of the technical
assistance component of the project.
I. Monitoring and Progress Reporting
2.53    MPHB will produce monthly summary status reports of all activities
and submit them to the state-level Steering. Committee (see para 3.02) and
HUDCO with recommendations for corrective actions. Based on the monthly
reports and its own supervision and controls, HUDCO will prepare quarterly
reports on the progress of the project towards its physical and financial
goals and submit these reports to MOWH and the Bank within two months after
each quarter.
J. Supervision
2.54    About 90 staff-weeks of Bank supervision would be required over the
five-year project implementation period. This is slightly less than the
South Asia average of 20 staff-weeks per year for supervision of urban
projects. The participation of HUDCO is expected to reduce the supervision
burden somewhat, although HUDCO's supervisory role would be limited in this
first HUDCO/Bank project while HUDCO becomes familiar with Bank procedures.
III. PROJECT MANAGEMENT
A. Project Management Structure
3.01    At the national level, MOWH would have overall supervisory
responsibility for the project and would direct technical assistance and
training components for central level agencies. HUDCO would act as
co-financier and intermediary for the project, channeling funds to the state
level and participating in project supervision.
3.02    At the state level, the project would be overseen by a secretariat-
level Steering Committee chaired by the Secretary of Housing and Environment,
and including the Secretary of Finance, the Commissioner of MPHB, the
Commissioner of the MPSCIB, the Chief Executive Officer of the Indore
Development Authority, the Deputy Secretary for Local Government, and the
Chief Engineer of the Madhya Pradesh Vikas Pradhikaran Sangh. This committee
would have responsibility for policy matters relating to the project and for
coordinating the participation of state and local agencies.
3.03    A Project Management and Monitoring Cell (PMMC) has been created at
the secretariat level to manage the project. It will consist of a Director
and officers with expertise in area development, urban maintenance, slum



-27-
improvement, finance and housing. Some members of the team (from TCPD and
project agencies) already involved in the preparation of the project will
form the nucleus of the PMMC. The PMMC would have responsibility for
finalizing project formulation, monitoring project implementation and
disbursements and managing separate accounts and progress reporting. With
supervision by the PMMC, project funds would be channeled through the MPHB
which would be responsible for collections from the implementing agencies
(and from beneficiaries in sub-projects directly administered by MPHB) and
repayments to HUDCO. Assurances have been obtained from GOMP that the MPHB
would have first call on funds (grants, direct expenditure) normally passed
to the implementing agencies in case of default on repayments.
B. Implementation Responsibilities
3.04    The primary responsibility for individual project components would
lie with the following agencies:
Central Level
Training and Institutional          - Ministry of Works and Housing, GOI,
Strengthening                          Housing and Urban Development
Corporation, Ltd. (HUDCO)
State and Local Level
Area Development                     -  MPHB (Bhilai, Ujjain, Dewas, Durg and
Raipur).
-  SADA Bhilai
-  Indore Development Authority
Slum Upgrading, Sanitation and      -  Municipal Governments of Indore,
Off-Site Infrastructure,                Dewas, Ujjain, Raipur, Durg, and
Maintenance and Solid Waste             SADA Bhilai.
Management
Technical Assistance,               -  Town and Country Planning Department
Training and Institutional          -  Department of Local Government
Strengthening                       -  MPHB
-  MPSCIB
-  Development Authorities
-  Municipal Governments
3.05    In varying degrees, strengthening of the implementing agencies is
required. The proposed program for institutional strengthening is outlined
in paras 2.27-2.37 and in the following section.



-28-
C.  Project Agencies
3.06    HUDCO has been involved in project identification, preparation and
appraisal. It has a long relationship with the MPHB and other implementing
agencies in Madhya Pradesh.  HUDCO's strong financial position and management
and its extensive experience with loan programs for housing and urban
development in Madhya Pradesh and the rest of India put HUDCO in an excellent
position to act as intermediary for this type of project. This project would
involve only about 5.5% of HUDCO's program for the current Five-Year Plan.
HUDCO has an adequate staff of professional engineers, planners, and
financial analysts for involvement in the project. An engineer has been
assigned to work full time with this project and other officers (financial
analysts and planners) will also be available as required.
3.07    The project is exposing HUDCO to new types of project lending,
including lending for slum improvement and for municipal infrastructure and
services. The project is exposing HUDCO staff to Bank Group procedures,
including more in-depth involvement in project preparation, appraisal and
supervision. The project would help HUDCO to develop a system for providing
technical assistance to its borrowers. HUDCO's involvement in these new
activities, as well as the direct technical assistance which would be
provided to HUDCO under the project, would increase HUDCO's capacity to act
as an effective intermediary for this type of project in the future. To
improve the effectiveness of HUDCO's operations, assurances have been
obtained that evaluations will be undertaken of several areas where scope
exists for improvements. The evaluations would cover some past HUDCO
financed projects, such as sites and services projects, which may have
experienced poor occupancy or cost recovery and HUDCO's systems such as
project appraisal and project supervision systems and procedures. HUDCO will
also increase the technical assistance and training it provides to borrowers.
Technical assistance by HUDCO to its borrowers would help to improve
financial management and project planning.
3.08    During project implementation, HUDCO would provide direct assistance
to MPHB and the other implementing agencies in the preparation of
sub-projects for four additional medium towns. HUDCO would also appraise
these sub-projects and submit them to the Bank for funding approval. In
addition, HUDCO would continue to supervise the institutional strengthening
components for project agencies in Madhya Pradesh.
3.09    Under this project, HUDCO would onlend at an annual interest rate of
10%, and beneficiaries at all income levels would be charged not less than
12% p.a. interest. These rates are well above HUDCO's present average
lending rate (about 8%) and well above the rates presently charged to
beneficiaries for sites and services and EWS housing (4% and 5%,
respectively). This project would demonstrate to HUDCO the feasibility of
combining a higher interest rate structure with more efficient land use,
infrastructure, and house designs. The implications of HUDCO's being able to
finance more affordable projects at more economic interest rates were



-29-
examined at length in the HUDCO Sector Memorandum. 1/ If HUDCO were to
gradually raise the average rate on new lending, its dependence on annual
government subsidies and low interest borrowings would be lessened, and HUDCO
would be able to borrow from a wide range of sources. A beginning was made
in this direction in 1982 with an increase in HUDCO's rates for several types
of lending. A possible evolution of HUDCO's financing is illustrated in
Annex 3.
3.10    For project supervision, HUDCO would review detailed layout designs
and detailed engineering and give the Bank an opportunity to comment. HUDCO
would conduct supervision reviews, monitor project bottlenecks and provide
assistance as needed. HUDCO would review bid awards on contracts over Rs 40
lakhs with the Bank. HUDCO would prepare quarterly progress reports using
information submitted by MPHB.
The Madhya Pradesh Housing Board (MPHB)
3.11    The MPHB would act both as the funding channel at the state level and
as the implementing agency for some of the area development schemes.
Legislation has recently been enacted empowering MPHB to onlend to other
agencies, as would be required under this project. In the past, the program
of MPHB has been heavily weighted towards low-income households (90% of units
built in 1976-81 were for EWS and LIG households), but it has had serious
financial and managerial problems. There is a lack of adequate cost
accounting. Debtors' accounts are inadequately maintained. There is a lack
of adequate planning and budgeting and information for management is
inadequate for proper control. Financial accounts have not been completed
for the last two years, although progress has been made recently with the
closing of accounts for FY1979/80 and for 1980/81.
3.12    A separate system of accounts is being established to maintain
adequate control of project funds (see para 2.51). However, over the
longer-term the project is assisting to improve MPHB's overall financial
management. Prior to the preparation of this project, a new system for
debtors' accounting and project control had been designed, but it had not
yet been implemented. Consultants are now reviewing the financial and
managerial problems of MPHB and the proposed improvements in financial
management. By April 15, 1983, they were expected to make recommendations
including an integrated accounting system based on full project cost
accounting with the allocation of overheads and other costs to projects, and
improved debtor accounting. They will also recommend a system of budgetary
control and long-range planning. As these recommendations are put into
effect it is expected that MPHB would experience earlier fructification of
assets and improved recoveries from debtors. This should lead to gradual
improvements in MPHB's financial position, as outlined in Annex 3.
1/ Housing and Urban Development Corporation, Ltd (HUDCO) and its Potential
Role in World Bank Assisted Projects (Report No. 3830-IN), April 1982.



-30-
Development Authorities
3.13    The Indore Development Authority and the Special Area Development
Authority of Bhilai (SADA) will implement area development schemes in their
respective cities.
3.14    The activities of many development authorities are limited because of
their weak financial condition. Many are operating at a deficit. Until now,
development authorities have used cash accounting systems which do not
control cost by project and do not enable proper pricing and cost recovery.
There is no long-term planning or realistic budgeting. Many past projects
have suffered from planning and management problems, including inappropriate
designs for low income groups, inadequate financial analysis, delays in plot
allocation, and poor construction supervision.
3.15    The project would demonstrate to the development authorities more
efficient ways of designing and managing low cost land development projects.
Informal training of development authority staff has already taken place
during project preparation. This would be continued during the project
period with training seminars for development authority staff in project
planning and implementation which would be organized by TCPD. Staff from
other development authorities in the State would benefit indirectly from the
project experience of these two development authorities, and directly from
participation in the training seminars.
3.16    Prior to project preparation, TCPD and the M.P. Vikas Pradhikaran
Sangh, an independent association of the development authorities, had
commissioned the design of a commercial accrual accounting system for the
development authorities. As part of project preparation, consultants are
working to assess the adequacy of the proposed system, and they were to make
specific proposals by April 15, 1983 for any improvements necessary and for
implementation and training. The analysis is concentrated on the Indore and
the Raipur Development Authorities, but the conclusions should also be
applicable in other development authorities.
Municipal Corporations
3.17    Municipal corporations would implement slum improvement, sanitation
and off-site infrastructure, municipal maintenance and solid waste management
components. The cost of components other than slum improvement would be met
largely from general revenues. Most municipal governments require stronger
municipal tax systems in order to finance urban services. They are also
having trouble financing water supply systems since water revenues are
inadequate to meet the cost of services. This is especially true in Indore
where the Municipal Corporation is unable to meet debt service commitments on
water investments. In addition, the financial positions of the local
governments are unclear because of the lack of distinction between capital
and revenue expenditure and because accounts are only maintained on a cash
basis.
3.18    Local taxes have been limited by the elimination of the octroi tax
in Madhya Pradesh in 1976. The high property tax exemption threshold (at



-31-
Rs 1,800 assessed annual rental value) deprives municipal governments of
potential revenue. Stronger tax bases, efficient collections and improved
financial management are required if the municipal governments are to play a
useful role in the provision and delivery of services.
3.19    In the short term, the municipal governments which are running
deficits, especially Indore, are relying on the State Government to finance
deficits by not repaying debts for water supply (see Annex 3). Over the
longer term, the municipal corporations and the State Government will have
to come to terms with the fundamental financial issues by considering the
following:
(a) the abolition or lowering of the threshhold for exemption from
property tax;
(b) an increase in the overall percentage of property tax
chargeable;
(c) a change in the basis of assessment of properties, including
location, built-up area, and cost of provision of water supply,
sewerage, and maintenance;
(d) the introduction of more efficient billing and collection
systems;
(e) the introduction of improved accounting, budgeting and financial
management;
(f) the introduction of operational improvements in water supply
and sewerage operations; and
(g) the introduction of an economic tariff structure to cover the
operation, maintenance and depreciation costs of water
supply and sewerage operations.
3.20    A consultant study undertaken as part of project preparation, due to
be completed in May 1983, is addressing resource mobilization and financial
management, including items (a)-(g) mentioned above. The inadequacy of
accounting and budgeting systems is also being addressed. Possible
improvements are being weighed against practical implementation problems and
legal constraints. This study has been supervised by the State Government
Department of Local Government, in consultation with HUDCO. The types of
improvements which will be sought and their potential impacts are outlined
for Indore and Raipur in Annex 3. Increased water tariffs and improved
property tax assessments and collections would be the most important measures
for improving the financial health of the municipal corporations.
Madhya Pradesh Slum Clearance and Improvement Board (MPSCIB)
3.21    Although not directly involved in project implementation, MPSCIB is
expected to play an important role in future slum improvement programs.
Consultant services have been provided to design management and financial
systems for this new organization.



-32-
IV. PRICING, AFFORDABILITY, AND RESOURCE MOBILIZATION
A. Pricing
4.01    About 65% of the total project costs would be directly recovered from
the beneficiaries. The terms for shelter loans to beneficiaries outlined
below are much closer to market rates than in existing Government programs
(see para 3.09) and are expected to be positive in real terms. They should
be evaluated against a background of overall price stability in India over
the period 1974/75-1978/79.  Although consumer prices in 1979/80 and 1980/81
rose at a rate of about 12% p.a., the average annual rate of inflation over
the project period is expected to be under 9%. Price contingencies for the
project period average 7%. Interest of not less than 12% p.a. will be
charged to beneficiaries in area development, slum upgrading and sanitation
and assurances were obtained that conditions of lease and hire purchase for
beneficiaries would be satisfactory to the Bank.
4.02    Area Development.  Differential land pricing would be used.  Since
EWS and some LIG plots are less desirable in terms of location, accessibility
and service levels, they would be assigned a lower than average price per
square meter. Conversely, the price per square meter of MIG and HIG plots
and commercial and small business plots would be fixed at higher than average
cost, since they have greater values. The actual cost of land for schools,
health centers and post offices would be charged to the respective government
departments. The cost of land for community centers would be borne by
beneficiaries.
4.03    Approximately 96% of the total cost of this component would be
directly chargeable (land, site preparation, on-site infrastructure, off-site
infrastructure, on-plot development, and shelter loans), and would be
recovered through plot sales and loan repayments. The terms of plot charges
and loans would include: (i) for residential plots and shelter and
sanitation loans for EWS, LIG and MIG households, a 10% downpayment on the
price of the plot, with the balance of plot price and loan amount (if any) to
be repaid at not less than 12% p.a. interest over 20 years; and (ii) for HIG
and industrial and commercial plots, a 15% downpayment on the price of the
plot, with the balance to be repaid at not less than 12% p.a. interest ever
15 years.
4.04    The remaining cost of community facilities (4%) would not be directly
recovered, but some cost of off-site infrastructure would be recovered
through user charges.
4.05    Slum Upgrading.  The State Government plans to use land acquisition
powers under the Slum Clearance Act to acquire the slums which are not
already in public ownership. The cost of land is expected to be about Rs
5.00 per square meter. This value would also be assigned as the price for
land in slums which are already under public ownership. Amounts charged to
beneficiaries would be recovered with minimum 5% downpayments at 12% p.a.
over 20 years. Shelter loans would also be repaid at 12% over 20 years.
Slum improvements have been designed to be affordable to beneficiaries with
full cost recovery. However, to lower the burden to beneficiaries, the State
Government proposed to introduce a 25% subsidy on land and infrastructure.



-33-
This would make slum upgrading financed under this project consistent with
the remainder of the State's slum upgrading program which would also achieve
not less than 75% of cost recovery. Previous programs in slums were fully
subsidized. GOMP has agreed to review the adequacy of slum upgrading charges
annually with the Bank.
4.06    Sanitation:  Loans for low cost sanitation would be made at an
interest rate of 12% p.a. over 10 years. Cost recovery mechanisms used for
shelter loans in upgraded slums would be used.
4.07    Water Supply, Sewerage and Maintenance.  Assurances have been
obtained that water and sewerage facilities developed in project areas will
be taken over for management by municipal governments and that prevailing
water and sewerage rates will be charged to beneficiaries with individual
connections. 1/ Municipal governments will assume the responsibility for
maintenance of area development sites and upgraded slums. A minimum
maintenance fee of Rs 3.00 per month will be collected from EWS beneficiaries
and a fee of Rs 4.00 to Rs 6.00 per month will be collected from LIG
beneficiaries, depending on plot size. The maintenance fees would supplement
the municipal governments' resources for operation and maintenance which
would otherwise be especially constrained in this type of project since over
65% of beneficiaries would be exempt from the payment of property taxes due
to the high property tax exemption threshold (para 3.18).
B. Affordability
4.08    Area development sub-projects have been designed so that about 64% of
plots would be affordable to EWS households with monthly incomes less than
Rs 350, (about the 35th percentile) with basic monthly charges starting at
about Rs 25.00. 2/ An additional 23% of the plots would be affordable to LIG
households with monthly incomes of Rs 350-600 (about the 35th to the 50th
percentile). Basic monthly charges for upgraded areas would be about Rs 2.00
and Rs 6.00 for 15m2 and 25m2 plots and would be affordable to households
earning Rs 200 and Rs 250 monthly, respectively.
4.09    Affordability analysis and indicative charges for the largest area
development site in Indore are given in Table IV.1. Table IV.2 gives
affordability analysis and indicative charges for a typical slum upgrading
site in Bhilai.
1/ Prevailing domestic water tariffs vary from Rs 0.28/1,000 liter to
Rs 0.35/1,000 liter. The present tariff structure is estimated to meet
50% to 70% of operation and maintenance costs.
2/ A total monthly payment of Rs 31.61 would be charged including water and
maintenance charges.



-34-
Table IV.1: AREA DEVELOPMENT: PLOT OPTIONS, COSTS, INDICATIVE
----------  CHARGES AND AFFORDABILITY AT INDORE
(March 1983 Prices)
AFFORDABILITY
Plot type              EWS1   EWS2  EWS3  LISI   LIB2   LIG3  MIGi   M182
Monthly income/hald     250   300   350   450   550   750   1200   1500
X of plots            31.40  24.01  12.80  2.91   9.88   4.74  10.02  4.24
Number of plots        2075   1586   846    192   653   313   662 280.26
Plot size (avarage)m2  35.32  35.32  35.32  44.65  55.82  93.03 139.54 223.26
Sale price per net m2    25    25    25    72    90    95    125   130
Cost of Core house      1600  4665   5998
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------
TOTAL CAPITAL/HSLD     2483  5548  6881   3215  5024  8836  17443 29024
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------
Downpayment X            10    10    10    10    10    12    15    15
Yearly interest rate     12    12    12    12    12    12    12    12
Recovery period (years)   20    20    20    20    20    20    20    20
-----------------------------------------------------------------------__----
MONTHLY PAYMENT       24.61  54.98  68.19  31.86  49.78  85.63 163.25 271.64
X OF MONTHLY INCOME    9.84  18.33  19.48  7.08   9.05  11.42  13.60  18.11
Monthly water charges     4      4      4  metered water supply
Other maint. charges      3      3      3      4      5      6 property tax
TOTAL MONTHLY PAYMENT  31.61  61.98  75.19  35.86  54.78  91.63 163.25 271.64
Building loan (b.l.)    1500   1000   500  3000  3000  3000
Monthly b.l. payment   16.52  11.01  5.51  33.03  33.03  33.03  0.00  0.00
TOTAL PAYMENT WTH LOAN 48.12  72.99  80.69  68.89  87.82 124.67 163.25 271.64
3 of monthly income    19.25  24.33  23.06  15.31  15.97  16.62  13.60  18.11
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------
Table IV.2: SLUM UPGRADING: PLOT OPTIONS, COSTS, INDICATIVE
----------  -CHARGES AND AFFORDABILITY FOR A SLUM IN BHILAI
(March 1983 Prices)
AFFORDABILITY
Plot type                       *1            *2            *3            *4
Monthly income/household (Rs)  200           250           350           600
X of plots                    14.00        35.00         31.00         20.00
Number of plots                 73           183           162           105
Plot size (average)m2         11.41         21.7          38.3           103
*Sale price per net m2 (Rs)   16.14        26.90         37.60         70.00
TOTAL CAPITAL/HOUSEHOLD (Rs) 184.16       583.73        1440.1          7175
Downpayment X                    5             8            10            10
Yearly interest rate            12            12            12            12
Recovery period (years)         20            20            20            20
- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - - --  -- -- - --  -- -- ---  -- -- - --  -- -- -- -
MONTHLY PAYMENT (Rs)           1.93         5.91         14.27         71.10
X OF MONTHLY INCOME           0.96          2.37          4.08         11.85
Maintenance charges (Rs)         3             3             3             3
TOTAL MONTHLY PAYMENT (Rs)    4.93          8.91         17.27         74.10
Building loan (b.l.) (Rs)      500           500          1000          1000
Monthly b.l. payment (Rs)     5.51          5.51         11.01         11.01
TOTAL PAYMENT WITH LOAN (Rs)  10.43         14.42        28.28         85.11
X of Monthly Income           5.22          5.77          8.08         14.19
------------------------------------------------------------------__---------
AMOUNT RECOVERED/NET m2 (Rs)         50.80
------------------------------------------------------------------__---------
*These charges reflect the present GOMP plot charge schedules. GOMP is
presently examining the possibility of revising the plot charge distribu-
tion while maintaining the overall level of cost recovery.



-35-
C. Resource Mobilization
4.10    The costs of off-site infrastructure, solid waste management and
maintenance would largely be recovered through the general revenues of the
municipal governments (although some costs of water supply, sewerage and
maintenance would be met by user charges). The project includes a major
effort to improve the general revenue collection of the municipal
corporations, as explained in paras 3.17-3.20.
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
5.01    The principal benefits of the proposed project would be (a) to
redirect a significant proportion of public investment in land,
infrastructure and shelter toward low-cost, replicable programs using
affordable designs which would benefit low-income groups; (b) to introduce
the principle of full cost recovery for low-income shelter programs; (c) to
expand the capacity of local and State-level institutions in Madhya Pradesh
to plan and manage urban growth; and (d) to enhance the capacity of
national-level agencies to support low-cost urban development programs. The
enhancement of HUDCO's capacity to finance low-cost shelter projects would be
a benefit of the project. Given HUDCO's responsibility for providing
technical assistance and financing for urban development projects throughout
India, and its ties to State and local agencies, the potential impact is
considerable.
5.02    The project would have an important impact on poverty groups in
Madhya Pradesh. The area development component would serve about 18,500
households in the six project cities and about 4,200 households in the four
medium towns, about 81% of whom fall below the estimated urban poverty level,
providing them with shelter, basic services, primary (and secondary)
education, and health care. 1! The average per-household cost of plots, core
houses and loans would be Rs 9,050 (US$950). Slum upgrading sub-projects
would provide basic infrastructure and sanitation to approximately 37,000
households, about 90% of whom fall below the urban poverty threshold and many
of whom have no access to basic sanitary facilities. The average
per-household cost of upgrading and shelter loans would be Rs 2,330 (US$235).
Supporting investments in sanitation and off-site infrastructure would
benefit a population of aproximately 80,000 people or about 16,000
households, and the solid waste management and maintenance components would
improve environmental conditions and reduce health risks for an estimated
500,000 people in the six cities.
5.03    Economic rates of return (ERR's) have been calculated for the main
components of the project. For area development components an ERR of 14%
has been estimated using market data for rental values of completed
structures and sales prices for developed land. In the case of slum
upgrading, rental market information was used to determine the difference in
rental value between existing residential and commercial structures before
and after upgrading. This yields an ERR of 19%. Together, these
quantifiable components of the project account for 63% of total costs and
1/ See footnote to para 1.18 concerning poverty levels.



-36-
have a weighted average ERR of 16%. These rates of return may not fully
account for the benefits of improved health as well as the many indirect and
longer-term benefits resulting from the demonstration of new investment
strategies and the development of urban sector agencies.
5.04    New and more efficient planning techniques have been introduced in
this project. Area development plans prepared under this project have
alloted about 65% marketable land, compared to 45% typical in many previous
projects in Madhya Pradesh. Where possible, more appropriate standards for
infrastructure have been designed. Through careful planning and the
elimination of space which tends to be underutilized in low income
communities (such as wide roads and large open spaces), an hygienic and
aesthetically acceptable environment has been planned, at higher densities.
Thus, although the average cost of plots has been reduced by about 65%, the
amounts beneficiaries would be willing to pay for plots have not been
reduced. Costs are made even more affordable for the lowest income groups by
using differential land pricing. These designs are, thus, much more
economically feasible than previous designs. Their higher financial return
enables a much higher rate of interest to be charged (12% compared to 4-5% in
previous projects) without making the project unaffordable to low income
groups.
5.05    The major risk in the project relates to the capacity of the
implementing agencies. Although HUDCO has sound management and financial
systems and the proposed project represents only a small percentage (5.5%) of
HUDCO's program, this is a new type of project for HUDCO. The risk of being
overly dependent on HUDCO as an intermediary at this time has been minimized
by maintaining a direct relationship between the Bank and the State
Government in this first HUDCO/Bank project. The capacities of agencies at
the state and local levels are limited. Project planning, implementation and
financial management capacities will have to be expanded at the MPHB as well
as in the local implementing agencies. The institutional strengthening
program described in paras 2.27-2.32 should help to improve the capacity of
the implementing agencies for financial management. In the meantime, control
of project funds will be ensured through the use of separate project
accounts. Because of the anticipated complexity of implementation, some
components discussed during project preparation have been dropped. In
addition, the time allowed for project implementation was increased from four
to five years to allow for anticipated implementation problems.
5.06    A second risk factor of the project is land acquisition, although
this risk is spread, since there are seven sites for area development and
work could proceed on some sites while acquisition is finalized for others
(see para 2.08). About 85% of land for area development is yet to be
acquired. The process which the State Government proposes to use for land
acquisition has not been fully tested, and delays and cost overruns are
possible. However, some progress has recently been achieved in land
acquisition.



-37-
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01    The following agreements were reached with GOI at negotiations:
(a) By October 31, 1983, MOWH will appoint consultants to undertake
a study of training needs in the urban development sector with
terms of reference and qualifications acceptable to MOWH and
the Bank. By December 31, 1984, MOWH and the Bank will review
recommendations of study and agree upon a timetable for
implementing appropriate recommendations (see para 2.37); and
(b) GOI will make the proceeds of the loan available to HUDCO at
an annual rate of interest of not less than 8-1/2% for 20 years,
including a 4 year grace period, except for the technical
assistance funds to MOWH and HUDCO which would be passed as
grants to those agencies (see para 2.42).
6.02    The following agreements were reached with HUDCO at negotiations.
(a) HUDCO would onlend to MPHB at an annual interest rate of not
less than 10% for 20 years, including a 4 year grace period
(see para 2.42); and
(b) Evaluations will be undertaken of past HUDCO projects and of
HUDCO's systems and procedures for project preparation, appraisal
and supervision and completed by December 31, 1985. HUDCO will
increase the technical assistance and training it provides to
borrowers (see para 3.07).
6.03    The following agreements were reached with GOMP at negotiations:
(a) Proposed area development sub-projects will receive necessary
GOMP and local planning and building approvals (see para 2.09);
(b) Beneficiary selection criteria will be acceptable to the Bank
(see para 2.14);
(c) Proposals for reducing constraints to the public and private
sectors in the provision of serviced land and shelter (including
on-plot construction by low income households) will be prepared
by GOMP by a task force whose terms of reference and composition
will be agreed by GOMP and the Bank. The work will begin by
October 31, 1983. By December 31, 1984, GOMP and the Bank will
agree on a timetable for the implementation of appropriate
recommendations (see para 2.15);
(d) By February 1984 GOMP will propose towns selected for sub-
projects in medium towns. Development in the medium towns will
be done after the Bank, GOMP and HUDCO have agreed on the selec-
tion of the towns and the Bank and HUDCO have agreed on the
designs (see para 2.22);
(e) Expenditure for municipal maintenance and solid waste management
in Indore and Raipur will be made be only after a review of
recommendations and agreement by the municipal governments, GOMP
and Bank (see para 2.24);



-38-
(f) By December 31, 1983 GOMP and Bank will review recommendations
for institutional strengthening and resource mobilization and
agree upon a timetable for implementing appropriate recommenda-
tions (see para 2.38);
(g) The Bank and HUDCO will be provided the opportunity to review bid
evaluations for contracts valued over Rs 40 lakhs prior to award
(see para 2.48);
(h) Procedures for local competitive bidding under the project will
be satisfactory to the Bank (see para 2.48);
(i) Independent auditors will be retained to carry out annual audits
of all SOE's submitted in each fiscal year and MPHB will furnish
audit reports to the Bank within nine months after each fiscal
year (see para 2.49);
(j) Annual audits of project accounts in all local implementing
agencies will be collected by MPHB and submitted to the Bank with-
in nine months after the end of each fiscal year (see para 2.51);
(k) No later than nine months after the close of each financial year,
MPHB will submit to the Bank full audited financial statements and
auditors' reports together with an evaluation of the internal
controls and financial management of MPHIB accompanied by recom-
mendations for improvement, if deemed necessary (see para 2.52);
(1) In case of default on repayments by any of the implementing
agencies to MPHB, MPHB will have first call on funds normally
passed to those agencies by the State Government (see para 3.03);
(m) Interest of not less than 12% p.a. will be charged to benefi-
ciaries in area development, slum upgrading and sanitation and
other terms and conditions of lease and hire purchase for bene-
ficiaries will be acceptable to the Bank (see para 4.01);
(n) The price of serviced public land will be fixed to recover not
less than 75% of the full cost of development and the cost of land.
In the case of public land, the cost of land charged will be not
less than Rs 5.00 per square meter (gross) (see para 4.05); and
(o) Water and sewerage facilities will be taken over for management
by municipal governments and prevailing water and sewerage rates
will be charged to beneficiaries with individual connections.
Municipal governments will assume the responsibility for main-
tenance of area development sites and upgraded slums. A minimum
maintenance fee of Rs 3.00 per month will be collected from EWS
beneficiaries and a fee of Rs 4.00 to Rs 6.00 per month will
be collected from LIG beneficiaries, depending on plot size
(see para 4.07).
6.04    On the basis of the above agreements, the project would be suitable
for a Bank loan to GOI of US$24.1 million.



-39-
ANNEX 1
City Profiles
Three cities in each of the state's two principal growth
regions have been chosen for this project in order to provide urban
services, shelter, and administrative and financial support in those
cities which are experiencing the most rapid growth.
A. Raipur
Raipur is the largest city of southeastern Madhya Pradesh.
Together with Bhilai and Durg, it is part of a growing urban industrial
region. It is also an important commercial center for a region with a
large agricultural and natural resource base. The population of Raipur
grew at more than 5% per year during the 1971-81 period to a level of
339,000, making Raipur one of the fastest growing large cities in the
state. The provision of housing and serviced plots by the Raipur Development
Authority and the Madhya Pradesh Housing Board has been unable to keep up
with this growth. Some slum improvement schemes have been undertaken by
the Municipal Corporation, but these have only provided very minimum
services to about 26% of the slum population.
B. Bhilai
Bhilai, in the eastern region near Raipur, came into existence
in 1956 with the construction of the Bhilai steel plant. Although workers'
housing was provided for about 60% of steel plant employees, this was
insufficient, and it did not provide accommodation for workers of the many
commercial and service enterprises which have grown up outside the steel
township. The result has been rapid growth of unplanned and unserviced
squatter settlements adjacent to the steel township. Bhilai's population
more than doubled during the 1971-81 period to 372,000 in 1981, and most
of the additional population is settling in unplanned settlements. The
capacity of the steel plant is being expanded which will create further
employment and even greater demand for serviced land and housing. In 1973,
a Special Area Development Authority (SADA) was created to undertake
planning and development as well as municipal functions. Although SADA
has good land reserves, it and the M.P. Housing Board have fallen far short
of meeting the needs for serviced land and for extended services to slum
areas.
C. Durg
Durg is a district headquarter town located on National Highway
No. 6 and a main railway only 23 km from Bhilai. It has grown rapidly since
the construction of the Bhilai steel plant, both as a residential city and
a site for ancillary industries. Its 1981 population was 118,000. Further
expansion of the Bhilai steel plant is expected to increase demands for
land and services in Durg. The Bhilai SADA is responsible for planning
and development in Durg, but municipal functions are carried out by a
local municipal corporation.
D. Indore
Indore is an important textile manufacturing and commercial
center located centrally with good transport links on the fertile Malwa
plateau. It is the largest city in Madhya Pradesh with a population of
827,000 in 1981 which expanded at a rate of 4.0% p.a. during the 1971-81



-40-                          ANNEX 1
period. The Indore Development Authority and the Madhya Pradesh Housing
Board have undertaken a number of residential schemes, but these have
been far short of meeting the need. This has led to overcrowding into
82 unserviced slum areas which have been only partly upgraded by the
Municipal Corporation under the Minimum Needs Program.
E. Ujjain
Ujjain, located in the eastern Indore Region of the state, is
one of the most important religious centers in the country. Its population
(282,000 in 1981) registered a somewhat slower growth rate (3.04% p.a.)
during the 1971-81 period than other cities of the region. Nevertheless,
given its importance as an administrative and cultural center and its good
transport links, it is expected to share in the region's urban growth.
F. Dewas
Dewas is a rapidly growing small town 35 km north of Indore on
the Agra-Bombay Highway. There is a new industrial complex only four miles
from the town. The population of Dewas has grown rapidly in recent years
to a level of 83,000 in 1981. The large number of people who commute
daily from Indore and Ujjain to work in Dewas indicates potential for
further growth if urban services and housing were available. The Municipal
Council has undertaken some slum improvement efforts, and the Madhya
Pradesh Housing Board has built about 900 housing units.



-41-
ANEX 2
Table 1:   MDHYA PRADESH 133AN DEVELOPMET PROJECT
DETAILED PROECT COSTS (MARCH 1983 PRICES)
(RUPEES LAKHS)
TOTAL  TOTAL                        83/84
LAND C. WORKS ON PLOT COM.FA.   LOANS  SUBTOT   TOTAL   LOCAL   TAXES FOREISO   LOCAL   TAXES FOREIGN   TOTAL
DEV
AREA DEVELOPMENT
INDORE            150.94  269.54  124.54   18.20   38.29  601.50  601.50  499.25   30.08   72.18   74.89    4.51   10.83   90.23
UJJAIN             30.50   56.96   34.10    6.32   13.61  141.49  141.49  117.44    7.07   16.99   17.62    1.06    2.55   21.22
DEWAS              12.20   19.84   14.73    3.43    5.89   56.09   56.09   44.55    2.80    6.73    6.98    0.42    1.01    8.41
RAIPUR             58.4:   97.66   63.96    6.58   26.48  253.11  253.11  210.06   12.66   30.37   31.51    1.90    4.56   37.97
1H4LAI             45.59  105.59   72.59    3.43   27.06  254.26  254.26  211.04   12.71   30.51   31.66    1.91    4.58   38.14
DRBS               33.20   49.50   34.73    3.43   13.67  134.53  134.53  111.66    6.73   16.14   16.75    1.01    2.42   20.18
- - ---- ------ ------- ------ -- ---- - -  - -   - -   ------ -- ------ --  - - -   -  ------    -- ------ -- ---- -   -  ---- - -
BASE COST         330.86  599.09  344.65   41.39  124.99 1440.98 1440.98 1196.01   72.05  172.92  179.40   10.81   25.94  216.15
PHYS CONTINGENCY    0.00   59.91   34.47    4.14    0.00   99.51   98.51   81.77    4.93   11.82   12.26    0.74    1.77   14.78
D 8 & MANAGEMENT    6.62   79.06   45.49    5.46    2.50  139.15  139.15  115.50    6.96   16.70   17.32    1.04    2.50   20.87
PRICE CONTINGENCY                                                  423.02  351.11   21.15   50.76   16.72    1.01    2.42   20.14
SUB TOTAL       337.48  738.08  424.61   50.9   127.49 1679.65 2101.67 1744.38  105.08  252.20  225.71   13.60   32.63  271.94
SLUM UPGRADINB
INDORE             41.25  186.72    0.00    1.30   80.00  309.27  309.27  272.16   12.37   24.74   40.82    1.56    3.71   46.39
UJJAIN             7.70   25.22    0.00    0.40   10.81   44.13   44.13   38.83    1.77    3.53    5.83    0.26    0.53    6.62
DEWAS               6.00   14.24    0.00    0.40    6.10   26.74   26.74   23.53    1.07    2.14    3.53    0.16    0.32    4.01
RAIPUR             18.90   71.55    0.00    0.80   30.66  121.91  121.91  107.28    4.98    9.75   16.09    0.73    1.46   18.29
BHILAI             25.70  105.38    0.00    1.70   45.15  177.93  177.93  156.58    7.12   14.23   23.49    1.07    2.14   26.69
DURG               10.45   3S.52    0.00    0.00   14.36   58.33   56.33   51.33    2.33    4.67    7.70    0.35    0.70    8.75
BASE COST         110.00  436.63    0.00    4.60  187.08  738.31  738.31  649.71   29.53   59.06   97.46    4.43    8.86  110.75
PHYS CONTINGENCY    0.00   65.49    0.00    0.69    0.00   66.18   66.18   58.24    2.65    5.29    8.74    0.40    0.79    9.93
D S & MANAGEMENT    2.20   60.25    0.00    0.63    3.74   66.83   66.83   58.81    2.67    5.34    8.82    0.40    0.80   10.02
PRICE CONTINGENCY                                                  209.12  184.02    8.36   16.73    9.20    0.42    0.84   10.46
SUB TOTAL       112.20  562.38    0.00    5.92  190.82  871.33 1080.44  950.79   43.22   86.42  124.22    5.65   11.29  141.15
SUB-PROJECTS IN MEDILIM TOWNS
____________________________
BASE COST         .64.00  160.00   64.00    9.60   22.40  320.00  320.00  265.60   16.00   38.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
PHYS CONTINSENCY    0.00   16.00    6.40    0.96    0.00   23.36   23.36   19.39    1.17    2.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
O 8 & MANAGEMENT    1.28   21.12    9.45    1.27    0.45   32.56   32.56   27.03    1.63    3.91    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
PRICE CONTINGENCY                                                  106.76  e8.61    5.34   12.81    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
SUB TOTAL        65.28  197.12   78.85   11.53   22.85  375.92  482.69  400.63   24.13   57.92    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
SANITATION & OFF-SITE INFRASTRUCTURE
INDORE              0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00   10.00   10.00    8.30    0.50    1.20    0.83    0.05    0.12    1.00
UJJAIN              0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00   10.00   10.00    8.30    0.50    1.20    0.83    0.05    0.12    1.00
DEWAS               0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00   10.00   10.00    8.30    0.50    1.20    0.83    0.05    0.12    1.00
RAIPUR              0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00   15.00   15.00   12.45    0.75    1.80    1.25    0.08    0.18    1.50
BHILAI              0.00   51.50    0.00    0.00   10.00   61.50   61.50   51.05    3.08    7.38    5.10.  0.31    0.74    6.15
DURB                0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00   10.00   10.00    8.30    0.50    1.20    0.83    0.05    0.12    1.00
BASE COST           0.00   51.50    0.00    0.00   65.00  116.50  116.50   96.70    5.83   13.98    9.67    0.58    1.40   11.65
PHYS CONTINGENCY    0.00    5.15    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.15    5.15    4.27    0.26    0.62    0.43    0.03    0.06    0.52
D 9 & MANAGEMENT    0.00    6.80    0.00    0.00    1.30    8.10    8.10    6.72    0.40    0.97    0.67    0.04    0.10    0.81
PRICE CONTINGENCY                                                   32.18  26.71    1.61    3.86    0.86    0.05    0.12    1.04
SUB TOTAL         0.00   63.45    0.00    0.00   66.30  129.75  161.93  134.40    8.10   19.43   11.63    0.70    1.68   14.01
ONJICIPAL MAINTENANCE & SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
INDORE              0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  140.00  140.00   99.00   21.00   21.00   14.70    3.15    3.15   21.00
UJJAIN              0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   21.61   21.61   15.13    3.24    3.24    2.27    0.49    0.49    3.24
DEWAS               0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   13.64   13.64    9.55    2.05    2.05    1.43    0.31    0.31    2.05
RAIPUR              0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  110.00  110.00   77.00   16.50   16.50   11.55    2.48    2.48   16.50
BHILAI              0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   19.11   19.11   13.38    2.87    2.87    2.01    0.43    0.43    2.87
DUBS                0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   14.11   14.11    9.8B    2.12    2.12    1.48    0.32    0.32    2.t2
BASE COST           0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  318.47  318.47  222.93   47.77   47.77   33.44    7.17    7.17   47.77
PHYS CONTINGENCY    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
D S & MANAGEMENT    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
PRICE CONTINGENCY                                                   53.50   37.45    9.03    9.03    2.68    0.57    0.57    3.82
SUB TOTAL         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  318.47  371.97  260.39   55.80   55.B0   36.11    7.74    7.74   51.59
TOT. PHY9. WORK  514.96 1561.03  503.46   68.74  407.46 3374.11 4198.69 3490.58  236.33  471.77  397.67   27.68   53.35  478.70
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
STATE & LOC. LVL    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  150.00  150.00  138.00    7.50    4.50   13.80    0.75    0.45   15.00
HUDCO               0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  200.00  200.00  184.00   10.00    6.00   18.40    1.00    0.60   20.00
NATIONAL LEVEL      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  100.00  100.00   92.00    5.00    3.00    9.20    0.50    0.30   10.00
BASE COST           0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  450.00  450.00  414.00   22.50   13.50   41.40    2.25    1.3S   45.00
PHYS CONTINGENCY    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
0 S & MANAGEMENT    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
PRICE CONTINGENCY                                                  109.80  101.02    5.49    3.29    3.31    0.18   0.11    3.60
SUB TOTAL         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  450.00  559.80  515.02   27.99   16.79   44.71    2.43    1.46   48.60
GRAND TOTAL      514.96 1561.03  503.46   68.74  407.46 3824.11 4758.49 4005.60  264.32  48S.57  442.38   30.11   54.80  527.30
NOTE: GRAND TOTAL DOES NOT INCLUDE THE FRONT END FEE FOR THE BAMW LOAN



-42-
Table 1:(Continuud)                                      ANNEX 2
84/85                          85/86                           B6/S7                          . E7/8s
_- _- -    _ _-   -      _ _                       -  -  - -  - -- -  - -        - ----  _  - -- --  - -  --- -- ---__- __- __------  ---------------------------_ _   __   _ 
LOCAL   TAXES FOREIGN   TOTAL   LOCAL  TAXES FOREIBN   TOTAL  LOCAL   TAXES FOREIGN   TOTAL   LOCAL   TAXES FOREIGN   TOTAL
99.95    6.02   14.44  120.30   99.95    6.02   14.44  120.30  124.91    7.52   18.05  150.38  99.95    6.02   14.44  120.30
23.49    1.41   3.40   28.30  23.49    1.41    3.40  28.30   29.36    1.77   4.24  35.37  23.49    1.41   3.40  28.30
9.31    0.56    1.35   11.22   9.31    0.56    1.35   11.22   11.64   0.70    1.69   14.02   9.31    0.56    1.35   11.22
42.02   2.53   6.07  50.62   42.02   2.53   6.07  50.62   52.52    3.16    7.59  63.29   42.02   2.53    6.07   50.62
42.21    2.54   6.10  50.95   42.21    2.54   6.10  50.95   52.76    3.18    7.63  63.57  42.21    2.54    6.10  50.95
22.33    1.35   3.23  26.91   22.33    1.35   3.23   26.91   27.91    1.68   4.04   33.63   22.33    1.35   3.23   26.91
-- - -  - - ------__ _ _  ----_ - _ _   ------   ------   -- -- _ _ - _----   -----   ------   ------   ------   ------   ------   ------   ------
239.20   14.41  34.5s  289.20  239.20   14.41  34.58 2B8.20  299.00   18.01   43.23  360.25  239.20   14.41   34.58  289.20
16.35   0.99   2.36   19.70  16.35   0.99    2.36   19.70  20.44    1.23   2.96  24.63   16.35    0.99    2.36   19.70
23.10    1.39   3.34  27.83   23.10    1.39   3.34   27.93   28.97    1.74   4.17   34.79   23.10    1.39   3.34   27.93
44.58   2.69    6.45   53.72   66.99    4.03    9.67   9o.5s  111.46   6.71   16.12  134.29  111.46    6.71   16.12  134.29
323.24   19.47  46.73  389.45  345.53   20.82  49.96  416.30  459.78  27.70  66.47  553.95  390.12   23.50   56.40  470.02
54.43   2.47   4.95   61.95   81.65    3.71    7.42   92.78   54.43   2.47    4.95   61.a5  40.82    1.96   3.71   46.39
7.77   0.35   0.71    9.s3   11.65    0.53    1.06   13.24    7.-77   0.35    0.71    B.93    5.83    0.26    0.53    6.62
4.71    0.21    0.43   5.35    7.06   0.32    0.64    8.02   4.71    0.21    0.43    5.35   3.53   0.16   0.32   4.01
21.46    0.99    1.95   24.39   32.19    1.46    2.93   36.57   21.46    0.98    1.95  24.39   16.09   0.73    1.46   18.29
31.32    1.42   2.85  35.59   46.97    2.14    4.27   53.39   31.32    1.42   2.95   35.59  23.49    1.07   2.14   26.69
10.27   0.47   0.93   11.67   15.40   0.70    1.40   17.50  10.27    0.47   0.93   11.67   7.70    0.35   0.70   9.75
129.94    5.91   11.81  147.66  194.91    8.86   17.72 221.49  129.94   5.91   11.91  147.66   97.46    4.43    8.86  110.75
11.65   0.53    1.06   13.24   17.47   0.79    1.59   19.96   11.65    0.53    1.06   13.24    9.74    0.40    0.79    9.93
11.76   0.53    1.07   13.37   17.64   0.90    1.60  20.05   11.76   0.53    1.06   13.37   5.92    0.40   0.80   10.02
24.54    1.12   2.23  27.85  55.21    2.51    5.62   62.74  49.07    2.23   4.46   55.76   46.01    2.09    4.19   52.28
177.89   8.09   16.17 202.15  289.24   12.97  25.93  324.13  202.43    9.20   19.39  230.03  161.02   7.32   14.64  182.99
39.84   2.40   5.76  48.00  92.96    5.60   13.44  112.00  79.69    4.50   11.52  96.00   53.12   3.20   7.65   64.00
2.91   0.15   0.42    3.50   6.79   0.41    0.98   8.19    5.92    0.35    0.54    7.01    3.99    0.23   0.56    4.67
4.05   0.24   0.59   4.BS   9.46   0.57    1.37   11.40   8.11    0.49    1.17   9.77    5.41    0.33   0.75   6.51
7.49   0.45    1.0o   9.02  26.21    1.58   3.79  31.58  29.95    1.80   4.33   36.09  24.96    1.50   3.61   30.07
54.29   3.27   7.85  65.41  135.42   8.16   19.58  163.15  123.56   7.44   17.96  145.97   97.36    5.26   12.63  105.26
1.66   0.10   0.24   2.00   2.49   0.15   0.36   3.00    2.49    0.15   0.36   3.00    0.B5   0.05    0.12    1.00
1.66   0.10   0.24    2.00   2.49   0.15    0.36    3.00   2.49    0.15   0.36   3.00   0.93    0.05   0.12    1.00
1.66   0.10   0.24    2.00    2.49   0.15   0.36   3.00    2.49   0.15   0.36    3.00   0.93    0.05    0.12    1.00
2.49   0.15   0.36    3.00    3.74   0.23   0.54    4.50    3.74    0.23   0.54    4.50    1.25   0.08   0.18    1.50
10.21    0.62    1.48   12.30   15.31    0.92    2.21   19.45   15.31    0.92    2.21   19.45   5.10   0.31    0.74    6.15
1.66    0.10    0.24    2.00   2.49    0.15    0.36    3.00    2.49    0.15    0.36    3.00    0.93    0.05   0.12    1.00
==-      - -- -   -----   -----   _----   -----   -----   -----   _----   -----   -----   -----   -----   -----   -----   - _---
19.34    1.17   2.80   23.30  29.01    1.75   4.19   34.95   29.01    1.75   4.19   34.95    9.67   0.58    1.40   11.65
0.95   0.05    0.12    1.03    1.28    0.08   0.19    1.55    1.28    0.08   0.19   1.55   0.43    0.03    0.06    0.52
1.34    0.09    0.19    1.62    2.02    0.12    0.29    2.43    2.02    0.12   0.29    2.43    0.67   0.04    0.10   0.51
3.45    0.21    0.50    4.15   7.75    0.47    1.12   9.34   10.34   0.62    1.49  12.46   4.31    0.26   0.62   5.19
24.98    1.51    3.61   30.10   40.06    2.41    5.79   45.27   42.65    2.57    6.17  51.35   15.09   0.91    2.18   18.16
58.80   12.60   12.60  94.00  24.50    5.25   5.25   35.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
9.08    1.94    1.94   12.97   3.7B   0.81    0.81    5.40   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
5.73    1.23    1.23   8.18   2.39   0.51    0.51   3.41    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
46.20   9.90    9.90   66.00   19.25    4.13    4.13   27.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00
8.03    1.72    1.72   11.47    3.34    0.72    0.72    4.78   0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
5.93    1.27    1.27   8.47    2.47   0.53    0.53    3.53    0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00
133.76  28.66  28.66  191.09  55.73   11.94   11.94  79.62   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00
0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
21.40   4.59   4.59  30.57   13.39   2.87   2.87   19.11   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
155.16   33.25  33.25  221.66   69.11   14.91   14.91   98.73    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00
735.56  65.58  107.62 909.76  875.35  59.16  116.07 1050.58  829.41   46.91  108.99 984.23  653.59   36.99   95.95  776.42
34.50    1.88    1.13  37.50  41.40    2.25    1.35  45.00   27.60    1.50   0.90  30.00  20.70    1.13   0.69   22.50
46.00    2.50    1.50  50.00   55.20   3.00    1.80  60.00   36.BO   2.00    1.20  40.00  27.60    1.50   0.90  30.00
23.00    1.25   0.75   25.00   27.60    1.50   0.90  30.00   18.40    1.00   0.60  20.00   13.90    0.75    0.45   15.00
103.50    5.63   3.38  112.50  124.20   6.75    4.05  135.00  S2.80    4.50    2.70   90.00   62.10    3.38   2.03  67.50
0.00                           0.00                            0.00                            0.00
0.00                           0.00                            0.00                            0.00
16.56    0.90   0.54   18.00  29.81    1.62    0.97  32.40  26.50    1.44   0.86  29.80   24.84    1.35  o0e.  27.00
120.06   6.53    3.92  130.50  154.01    9.37    5.02  167.40  109.30    5.94   3.56  118.80  96.94    4.73   2.84  94.50
855.62  72.11  111.53 1039.26 1029.36  67.53  121.09 1217.98  937.71   52.95  112.46 1103.03  740.52  41.72  98.69 870.92
_ _ _ _ ____ _.             .............. ............._......_....... .............. ............._



ANNEX 2
Table 2: MADHYA PRADESH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DETAILED PROJECT COSTS BY CITY
(MARCH 19e3 PRICES,RUPEES LAKWS)
INDORE  UJJAIN  DEWAS   RAIPUR  5HILAI  SHILAI   DURS   MEDIUL   rOTAL
AREA DEVELOPMENT                                           (MPHB)  (SADA)          TOWNS
__________________
LAND                      150.94   30.50   12.20  5s.43    9.00   3..59   33.20   64.00  394.86
CIVIL WORKS               269.54   56.96   19.84   97.66   43.18   62.41   49.50  160.00  759.09
CONNECTIONS                 9.04    2.02    0.88    3.88    1.75    2.63    2.05    0.00   22.25
ON-PLOT DEVELOPMENT       115.50   32.06   13.85   60.08   28.26   39.95   32.68   64.00  386.40
COWIRSITY FACILITIES       18.20    6.32    3.43    6.58    1.73    1.70    3.43    9.60   50.99
BUILDING LOANS             38.28   13.61    5.89   26.48   11.52   15.54   13.67   22.40  147.39
BASE COST                601.50  141.49   56.09  253.11   95.44  158.82  134.53  320.00 1760.98
PHYS CONTINGENCY          41.23    9.74    3.80   16.82    7.49   10.67    8.77   23.36  121.87
D S & MANAGEMENT          58.21   13.74    5.38   23.90   10.30   15.13   12.51   32.56  171.72
PRICE CONTINGENCY        176.64   41.57   16.45   74.05   2e.53   48.52   39.26  106.77  529.79
SUIB-TOTAL               877.57  206.54   81.72  367.88  141.77  231.14  195.07  482.69 2584.36
SLUM UP6RA1INS
______________
LAND                       41.25    7.70    6.00   18.90    0.00   25.70   10.45   0.00  110.00
CIVIL WORKS               186.72   25.22   14.24   71.55    0.00  105.38   33.52    0.00  436.63
COWPI"ITY FACILITIES        1.30    0.40    0.40    0.80    0.00    1.70    0.00    0.00    4.60
BUILDING LOANS             80.00   0o.e8    6.10   30.66    0.00   45.15   14.36    0.00  197.06
BASE COST                309.27   44.13   26.74  121.91    0.00  177.93   58.33    0.00  738.31
PHYS CONTINGENCY          28.20    3.84    2.20   tO.85    0.00   16.06    5.03    0.00   66.18
O S & MANAGEMENT          28.37    3.91    2.26   10.98    0.00   16.19   5.12    0.00   66.83
PRICE CONTINGENCY         87.80   12.45    7.49   34.50    0.00   50.44   16.43    0.00  209.11
SUB-TOTAL                453.64   64.33   38.69  178.23    0.00  260.63   84.9I   0.00 1080.43
SANITATION & OFF-SITE INFRASTRULCTURE
CIVIL WORKS                 0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   51.50    0.00    0.00   51.50
LATRINE LOANS              10.00   10.00   10.00   15.00    0.00   10.00   10.00    0.00   65.00
BASE COST                 10.00   10.00   10.00   15.00    0.00   61.50   10.00    0.00  116.50
PHYS CONTINBENCY           0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.15    0.00    0.00    5.15
o 5 & MA4AGEMENT           0.20    0.20    0.20    0.30    0.00    7.00    0.20    0.00    8.10
PRICE CONTINGENCY          2.53    2.53    2.53    3.79    0.00   18.27    2.53    0.00   32.18
SUIB-TOTAL                12.73   12.73   12.73   19.09    0.00   91.91   12.73    0.00  161.93
MUN IC IPAL MAINTENANCE & SOL ID WASTE MANAGEMENT
MAINT EQUIPMENT            70.00    8.21    6.73   50.00    0.00    9.97    6.47    0.00  151.38
S W n EQUIPMENT            70.00   13.40    6.91   60.00    0.00    9.14    7.64    0.00  167.09
BASE COST                140.00   21.61   13.64  110.00    0.00   19.11   14.11    0.00  318.47
PRICE CONTINGENCY         23.52    3.63    2.29   18.48    0.00    3.21    2.37    0.00   53.50
SUB-TOTAL                163.52   25.24   15.93  128.48    0.00   22.32   16.48    0.00  371.97
GRAND TOTAL             1507.46  308.83  149.06  693.68  141.77  606.00  309.19  482.69 419e.69
-s:a1    _S_--    '     s_     _ - --------- - =n__n -----_
Note:  Brand total does not include the front end fee for the Bank loan.



ANNEX 2
Table 3: AREA DEVELOPMENT: SUMMARY OF LAND USE (PERCENTAGES)
Indore   Ujjain   Dewas   Raipur    Bhilai    Durg
A. Marketable Land (to which
costs are allocated)
Residential                58.02    56.02    49.01   56.21        50.72      52.05
Educational             )    .7       6.60    11.01    6.90   )  8.16         7.31
Community Facilities  )        3      1.12     3.11    1.26   )3.80
Commercial                  3.65      2.45     2.49    3.04        3.10       3.76
Subtotal             68.40    66.19    65.62   67.41        61.98      66.92
B. Non-marketable
Parks and Open Spaces       8.45      6.71      7.07    9.27      11.21      10.76
Circulation                23.15    27.10    27.31   23.32        26.80      22.32
Subtotal             31.60    33.81    34.38   32.59        38.01      33.08
TOTAL                       100.00   100.00   100.00  100.00    100.00    100.00



-45-
ANNEX 2
Table 4;  AREA DEVELOPMENT;  PLOT DISTRIBUTION AND COMMUNITY FACILITIES
Indore     Ujjain      Dewas      Raipur      Bhilai      Durg      Total
Total Plots              6,543       1,838        795       3,527       3,975    1,866    18,544
Plot Distribution
EWS 1                  2,131         592        255       1,109       1,259       603     5,949
EWS 2                  1,278         355        153         665         755       362     3,568
EWS 3                     853        237        103         443         503       241      2,380
LIG                    1,095         496        215         993         933       493      4,225
MIG                       891        116         48         254         278       115      1,702
HIG                       295         42         21          63         247        52        720
Primary Schools               3           1          1           2          1         1          9
Health Centers                2           0          0          0           0         0          2
Post Offices                  2           1         1           0           1         1          6
Community Centers             1           0         0           0           0         0          1



-46-
ANNEX 2
Table 5: MUNICIPAL MAINTENANCE AND SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
DETAILED COSTS (MARCH 1983 PRICES)
(Rupees Lakhs)
Indore     Ujjain       Dewas       Raipur       Bhilai      Durg
A. Municipal Maintenance
Road Rollers                              5.00        2.50                      2.50      2.50
Trucks/Tractor Trailer                    4.00        2.00                      4.00      2.00
Tar Mixers                                2.00        1.00                      2.00      1.00
Bitumen Boilers                           1.60        0.16                      0.32      0.32
Bitumen Sprayers                          0.80        0.08                      0.32      0.16
Mini Tar Boilers                                      0.32                                 0.31
Mini Tar Mixers                                       0.20                                 0.20
Compressors                                                                               0.50
Concrete Mixers                                       0.65                                0.65
Sub-Total               70.00*       13.40        6.91     60.00*          9.14       7.64
B. Solid Waste Management
Vehicles                                  6.00        6.00                      6.00      4.00
Handcarts                                 1.62        0.34                      0.97      0.80
Containers                                0.59        0.39        _             3.00      1.67
Sub-Total               70.00*        8.21        6.73     50.00*          9.97       6.47
Total Base Cost              140.00        21.61       13.64    110.00           19.11     14.11
*Lump sum amounts allocated awaiting outcome of consultant study.



-47-
ANNEX 2
Table 6: DETAILS OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
(March 1983 Prices, Rs Lakhs)
Cost Estimate
A. State and Local Level
1.  Institutional strengthening and resource mobilization studies
and support (MPHB, Local Governments, Development Authorities,
(MPSCIB)
- Studies already contracted                                      12.4
- Provision for sustained support                                  7.6
2.  Maintenance and solid waste studies and support
(Department of Local Government)
- Studies already contracted                                       3.2
- Studies to be contracted, including sustained support            6.8
3.  Technical Reinforcement for TCPO and MPHB
(a)  Surveys and photography                                            8
(b)  Mapping                                                           10
(c)  Equipment for analysis of data                                     4
(d)  Research and evaluation studies                                    4
4. Assessment of Constraints to. Urban Development and Preparation
of Strategy for Urban Policy and Management
(Agency to be designated by GOMP)                                      12
5.  Training
(a)  Policy seminars for senior government officers and
elected officials                                                 15
(b)  Training in management and finance for personnel of
MPHB, local governments, development authorities and MPSCIB   15
(c)  Technical training in planning, budgeting, project prepara-
tion and project implementation for personnel of TCPO,
MPHB, development authorities, local governments and MPSCIB   18
(d)  Training for community development workers to assist with
low income settlement programs                                     8
(e)  Training of support staff in municipalities, development
authorities and other major operating agencies                    16
(f)  Training in the development and management of appropriate
data bases for policy making, planning and management
of urban development                                              10
B. HUDCO Level
1.  Intensive Assistance by HUDCO to Borrowers
(a)  Proiect formulation/evaluation
(b)  Management finance/accounts                                  (    62
(c)  Conversion to computer based systems
2.  Preparation/Dissemination of Technical Information
(publications/documentaries)                                           16.5
3.  Telex, Xerox, Microfilm, and
Projection Equipment                                               (    10.5
4.  Analysis/Research Studies
(a)  Analysis of HUDCO systems                                         22
(HUDCO project review and appraisal process, HUDCO
supervision process, HUDCO project evaluation,
HUDCO finance and accounting)
(b)  Analysis of HUDCO activities                                      26.5
(sites and services experience to date, market survey
methodologies, building materials production, possi-
bilities of new HUDCO activities, community preparation)
(c)  Design of new/improved planning methodologies                      23.5
(d)  Preparation of urban sector and strategy studies                    3
5.  Training for HUDCO and Agency Staff                                     36



-48-                         ANNEX 2
Table 6: (Continued)
Cost Estimate
C. Central Level
1.  Training for Senior MOWH and Agency Staff                        8
2. Integrated Training Assessment and Program Formulation
(a)  Identification of training needs and resources        (
(    18
(b)  Defining a training system                            (
(c)  Establishment of appropriate curricula                (
(    42
(d)  Strengthening of identified training institutions   (
(e)  Funding of initial courses under system               (
3. MOWH
(a)  Improving project monitoring                          (
(     5
(b)  Improving program monitoring                          (
4. TCPO
(a)  Evaluation of project appraisal and                   (
(     4
(b)  Monitoring systems                                    (
5. NBO
(a)  Assess priority areas for research                    (
(b)  Develop a more practical orientation to low-          (     8
cost housing (e.g., prototypes and training           (
in projects)                                          (
(c)  Assess monitoring techniques                          (
6. NIUA
(a)  Assess priority areas for research                    (
(b)  Evaluations of completed projects                     (  15
(c)  Specific research studies                             (



mDA
MADIWA PRADISH URBAN DE^,IEI. POJECT
Row of Funds
rIneomorrl Sank l, SRoncstrucnon & D-owent                _
(Lending in uss minion)
aNItA)~ SADAA                                                                                                                         . 
Gonsmmnt d Indlh
(On- endIng In Rs Croh7s
Me     |             ~~~HUDCO                               HD0                              MOIYH 
T T1 - $~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.24
I _ ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nt -                                                                          _,,d107  7 
7398                                                                                     083~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~03a
2u , 173                                                    84337
H.fhold.                                  Ld
2390                18                                  82              03                                                                                                      CDas
So2nei`ol &
L-n3               S&oul Bis.ses                     on                 Sluol    n                    Ch3ge
.nWnS    Fcilitse
USilnty                                            2)9MY
Charge8                                             Ch.rgnn
'P51-alf nflos9,r d& 2om rn 'Y 320900s f 0,050t -,c
8ncOoi C-doalla,s.              M0 19 MP5  0IB IPD






50-                                                     ANNEX 2
Chart 2
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Chart 2
I1983              1984                 1985               1986                1987                1988
1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4    1    2                      1   2 33   4    1    2 3          4
4. AREA DEVELOPMENT                                               _                           _
Land Acquisition                              -   - _        - _
Detailed Design                                                                   
Bidding & Awlard
Cvil Wor~ks
Plot Allocation                                                                           _   _    _                           _
Community Facilities                        _ _ _ _                                            -    -
2. SWLM UPGRADING
Land Acquisition                         - - -                                
Detailed Design- - -                                    -    - -      -         -    - - -          -    - -       -    -
Bidding & Award
Civil Works-                                                                                                                               - -
Grant of Tenure                        -T- - _ r                                                         -  -                   _ _  _
3 SUB-PROJECTS IN MEDIUM TOWNS
Selection & Preparation                                     _
Appraisal
Detailed Design
Bidding & Award
Civil Works-                                                                                  -     ---
Plot Allocation
Community Facilities                                                                                -    -    -   -    -    - +
4. SANITATION & OFF-SITE INFRASTRUCTURE
Bhilai Road - Detailed Design
Bhilai Road - Bidding & Award
Bhilai Road - Construction                                        -                ,
Latrine Loans|                                                                                             
Communal Toilets                                                                    -            T
5. MAINTENANCE & SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
Consultant Studies
Review of Proposals
Procurement of Equipment                                         -   -    -    -                                                                             s
6& TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
(1) State & Local Level                           -       L      -    -  _
(2) HUDCO                                         -,  -    -   -    -                     - i
(3) National Level                                -    -    -   -    -                                                                                  I =|
World Bank-24749



State of Madhya Pradesh Urban Agencies
Organization Chart
Chart 3
MiNster for               ~~~~~~~Minister for
| Minister for Local |                                           |Environment &                          Pub|ic Health
Government                                                           Housing                            Engineering
Secretary, Housing,                                                      Secretory.
Local Governrrient &                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Public Health
Commissioner of                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Engineering
Environment.                                                               En         
Department ot
Department of                                              Departmnent of                                                        Publicmentltb
Loc^al Government                                            Environment                                                           Pu:Engineering
Municipalities      Town & Counr           DvlpetoluinState SlumHoin
e& Notified Area        Panning                                                        Clearance
UrCommittees             Deport                Authorities         Control Board            Board                Boalrd
World Bonk-24748



-52-
ANNEX 2
Chart 4
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Impact on Growth of Unsericed Households in the Six Project Cities'
Chart 4
No, of Households
(Thousands)
1.000
Potential Urban
J Households in the
Six Project Cities
800
Potential
6  Slum Households
400                                                                                     - f                 Impact Due to Area Development
Component (14,250 HH)
-- Impact Due to Slum Upgrading
Component (33,650 HH)
I                       I 
290017                              9018                             19                 9520
MP Urban
Development
Project
Period
O                  I                I                 I                                 I              --
1970            1975              1980             1985                      199       r95            2000
*Indore. Dewas. Ujjain, Raipur. Durg & Bhilai
World Bank-24747



ANNEX 3
-53-
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS FOR KEY PROJECT AGENCIES
A. Financial Projections for HUDCO
1.      A complete analysis of HUDCO's financial condition is available in
Housing and Urban Development Corporation, Ltd. (HUDCO) and its Potential
Role in World Bank Assisted Projects (April 1982, Report No. 3830-IN). These
projections are extracted from that report.
Table 1:   POSSIBLE EVOLUTION OF HUDCO'S FINANCING PLAN
Actual                Possible Scenario
1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/85  1985/86
Loan release (Rs Crores)           90       117        117       132      144       158
Redemptions                                                        5         6        4
Total Outlays                   90       102        117       137      150       162
Annual Subsidy Contribution
(Rs Crores)                      7.2       7.7        8.9       9.5      9.5       9.5
Borrowing at 6.75% (Rs crores)   25          28         35        35       35        35
Borrowing at 10.5% (Rs crores)   14           35        40        40        40       40
Borrowing at 12.5% (Rs crores)    0           0          0        13       22        29
Mix of funds in new borrowing
inexpensive (6-3/4%):
expensive (10.5% and 12%)           1.8:1     0.8:1      0.9:1    0.7:1    0.6:1    0.5:1
Average cost of incremental        .8.1        8.8       8.8       9.3       9.6      9.8
borrowing (%)
Average incremental lending         8.1        8.1       9.0      10.0      11.0     12.0
rate (%)
Rate of return without direct
subsidy contribution (%)            4.2        7.1       8.6      10.0     11.2      12.5
Rate of return with subsidy (%)  17.8         17.8      17.8      17.5      17.0     17.0
Subsidy as % of years program (%) 8.0          7.6       7.6       7.2      6.6       6.0
Debt: Equity ratio                  3.5        3.4       3.2       3.0       2.9      2.7
(end of year)
NOTE: This example is intended only to illustrate how gradual adjustments in new
borrowing and lending rates could lead to greater long-term financial viability.
The basic principle of these adjustments is to profit from HUDCO's present initia-
tives to improve project design and pricing in order to gradually enable HUDCO to be
less dependent on subsidized resources. HUDCO would then be able to afford to borrow
from a wider range of more expensive sources. With the recent increases in HUDCO's
average lending rate and possible increases in borrowing costs, HUDCO is already
moving in the directions illustrated here.
2.      The analysis here is hypothetical and it involves a large number of
variables. It would be possible to formulate a range of somewhat different
scenarios, all leading toward the same ends. The timing of adjustments is



ANNEX 3
also only illustrative and would possibly be more gradual, since present
commitments may preclude immediate changes.
3.      Actual financial statements are now available for 1982/83 confirm
a continuing strong financial position (reserves increased from Rs 28.5
crores on March 31, 1981 to Rs 41.5 crores on March 31, 1982 with a
debt/equity ratio of 3.1 on March 31, 1982.
B.   Financial Projections for the Indore Municipal Corporation
1. The Problem
4.      During project preparation, consultants have been working in the
Municipal Corporations of Indore, Raipur and Dewas to prepare recommendations
for improved resource mobilization and financial management. The Indore
Municipal Corporation has particular financial problems, especially due to
deficits in water operations.   Preliminary results of the consultants' study
give some details of the Corporation's financial management and financial
condition:
a.   Financial Management
o Only cash books are kept.
o There is only simple cash budgeting.
o There is no long term planning and no manpower planning.
o  There is a lack of adequate qualified staff for sound
financial management.
o There is no distinction between capital and revenue
accounts.
o There is poor debtor control, and inadequate records are
kept of loans to be repaid.
o There is no balance sheet.
b.   Financial Condition
5.       Financial records are kept in accordance with GOMP regulations.
This means that only cash payments and receipts are budgeted and recorded.
Therefore it is not possible to ascertain the true financial condition of
the Municipal Corporation. This is illustrated by the fact that cash
surpluses have been recorded in the accounts for 1979/80, 1980/81 and 1981/82
whereas, when the accounts are converted to a proper accrual basis, a con-
siderable financial deficit results (Rs 2.8 crores in 1981/82 alone). These
deficits are being financed by not paying interest on loans to GOMP (cumula-
tive liability of Rs 3.8 crores as of March 31, 1983), by not reserving cash
generated by depreciation which would be accruable for loan amortization and
by increasingly deferring the payment of creditors. Table 2 shows the poor



-55-
ANNEX 3
financial performance of the Municipal Corporation. The net deficit for FY
1981/82 was actually Rs 2.8 crores. Reflecting a loss on water operations
of Rs 6.0 crores. Thus, there is special concern about the water deficit.
6.      A second major concern is the taxation structure. The majority of
income is from octroi compensation from the State Government. Property tax
levels suffer from inadequate and infrequent property valuation assessments,
and improved management of the present property tax system could sig-
nificantly increase yields. In addition, taxation rates and tax bands have
not been reviewed since 1976. Properties with an assessed rental value below
Rs 1,800 pay no tax.
2. Projections of Income and Expenditure
7.        The projections in Table 2 illustrate how the financial performance
of the Indore Municipal Corporation could improve over a number of years.
These projections assume the following:
8.       o  Total expenditure would rise in accordance with population growth
and inflation.
o  Water collections would increase beginning in 1983/84 by 5% per
year over previous levels through improved metering and collec-
tions. (Presently 63% of metered connections are out of order,
6,000 connections are without meters, and debtor records are
poorly maintained with about a 25% shortfall in collections.)
o  Beginning in 1983/84 there would be additional income from
increased water rates. Consultants have recommended an increase
from Rs 0.35 and Rs 0.70 per 1,000 liters for domestic and
industrial use respectively to Rs 1.00 and Rs 2.00 respectively.
o  Property taxes would be increased through a reassessment program
in 1983/84 and 1984/85. Thereafter the taxes would increase in
accordance with inflation.
o  In 1984/85 there would be an increase in property tax rates
yielding additional tax revenue.
o  A number of smaller taxes and fees such as terminal taxes would
be increased over the period.
3. Results
9.      The results indicate that the overall deficit of the Indore Corpora-
tion could be reduced from its present level of Rs 2.8 crores and would
become a surplus by 1984/85. Although there would be continuing deficits in
water operations, these would be stabilized in nominal terms by the increased
water revenues and they would decrease in real terms. The surplus on
municipal services would more than cover deficits in water operations.



ANNEX 3
-56-
Table 2: MADHYA PRADESH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
-------               INDORE  MUNICIPAL  CORPORATION
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
(RUPEES LAKHS)
79/80        80/81        81/82                     82/83         83/84        84/85        85/86        86/87
INFLATION  X                                                                                       0.08          0.08         0.08         0.07         0.06
GROWTH  X                                                                                          0.03          0.03         '  03        0.03          0.03
INDORE MUNICIPAL SERVICES
EXPENDITURE
SALS & WAGES                              200.54       234.39        285.51                    317.60       353.30        391.19       431.13       470.71
ADMIN EXPENSES                              51.81        56.09        64.70                      71.97        80.06        88.65        97.70       106.67
R & M                                       86.66        70.42        91.16                    101.41        112.80       124.90       137.66       150.29
HEALTH  SERVICES                             4.24         3.44          8.24                      9.17        10.20        11.29        12.44         13.58
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------__-----------------------------
EXPENDITURE  PRESENT  SERVICE               343.25       364.34       449.61                     500.15       556.36       616.03       678.93    741.26
PROJECT REVENUE EXPENDITURE
REVENUE  EXPENSES                                                                                                          20.00        40.50         65.50
DEBT  SERVICING                                                                                                4.66        19.69        40.35        56.29
TOTAL  EXPENDITURE                         343.25        364.34       449.61                    500.15    561.02           655.72       759.78    863.05
---------------------------------------------------------------__------------__-----------------------------
INCOME
PROPERTY  TAX
PRESENT  RATES                              58.75        65.28        65.75                      90.00       120.00       154.50       167.09       180.71
IMPROVED RATES                                                                                                             76.25       110.40       113.71
OTHER TAXES
PRESENT  RATES                              30.16        31.16        38.93                      43.31        48.17        53.34        58.79         64.18
PROPOSED  RATES                                                                                                            20.00        23.00        25.00
NON-TAX  REVENUE                            78.39        78.68       103.77                    112.07        121.04       130.12       139.22       147.58
OCTROI COMPENSATION                       454.42   498.95   540.73                             594.80   654.28   719.71   791.68   870.85
OTHER  GRANTS                               19.03        20.89        21.73                      23.47        25.35        27.25        29.15         30.90
PROJECT  RECOVERIES                                                                                              0.11         6.51        19.30        38.49
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------__-----------------------------
TOTAL  INCOME                               640.75       694.96       770.91                     863.65       968.95   1187.67   1338.64   1471.43
-------------------------------------------------------------__--------------__-----------------------------
SURPLUS  MUNICIPAL  SERVICES              -297.50   -330.62   -321.30                          -363.50   -412.59   -571.64   -659.71   -730.17
WATER DEPARTMENT
OPERATING EXPENSES
SALS  & WAGES                               26.18        32.04        36.32                      40.40        44.94        49.76        54.84        59.88
ADMIN                                        4.78         5.18          8.16                      9.08        10.10        11.18         12.32        13.45
POWER CHARGES                             199.12    200.69           329.34                    362.27       398.50        435.86       474.00       509.55
MAINTCE  WATER                              60.07        68.07        84.91                      94.45       105.07       116.34       128.22       139.99
DEPRECIATION                                98.00    98.00    98.00                              98.00    98.00    98.00    98.00    98.00
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------__-----------------------------
TOTAL  OPERATING  EXPENSES                388.15       403.98        556.73                    604.21       656.61        711.14       767.38       820.87
---------------------------------------------------------------__------------__-----------------------------
INCOME
WATER TAX
PRESENT  RATES                              62.00        81.00       100.00                    103.00        111.39       120.47       130.29       140.91
INC.FROM  NEW RATES                                                                                           95.00       191.00       204.37       216.63
TOTAL  WATER  TAX                            62.00        81.00       100.00                     103.00       206.39       311.47       334.66    357.54
---------------------------------------------------------------__------------__-----------------------------
OPERATING DEFICIT                           326.15   322.98   456.73                             501.21   450.22   399.67   432.72   463.33
---------------------------------------------------------------__------------__-----------------------------
INTEREST  CHARGES                         151.92       148.48        145.90                    142.90       140.00        137.00       134.00       131.00
TOTAL  WATER DEFICIT                        478.07       471.46       602.63                     644.11       590.22    536.67          566.72    594.33
---------------------------------------------------------------__------------__-----------------------------
DEFICIT/SURPLUS(-)INDORE  MC                180.57       140.84    281.33                        280.60       177.63       -34.97        -92.99   -135.84
UNIT STATS.- WATER DEPT.
M.S.D.                                                                                            26.50         26.50        26.50        26.50        26.50
COST/GALLON/OOO'S                                                                                 10.30         10.98        10.96        10.96         10.93
COST/LTRS/OOO'S                                                                                     2.27         2.42         2.41         2.41          2.41
INCOME/GALLON/OOO'S                                                                                 1.42         1.54         1.56         1.58          1.62
INCOME/LTRS/OOO'S                                                                                   0.31         0.34         0.34         0.35          0.36



-57-                    ANNEX 3
10.      The increases in water rates illustrated here may have to be phased
in over a somewhat longer period, but they are of an order of magnitude which
is comparable to other cities in India. Increases in water rates should be
considered on a priority basis, especially given the high average cost of
water production (Rs 2.2 per 1,000 liters). Given the difficulty of financ-
ing the present water operations, any further expansion of the water supply
system should be very carefully assessed for feasibility.
11.      The projections also illustrate the impact of the proposed project
on the municipal corporation's finances.
C. Financial Projections for the Raipur Municipal Corporation
12.     The Raipur Municipal Corporation maintains similar cash accounts as
in Indore. Their actual financial performance, shown in Table 3, does not
reflect the problems of Indore. The Corporation has operated at a surplus
during recent years, but the amount of the surplus has declined, especially
if considered in real terms. Thus, some measures to improve resource mobi-
lization and financial management will be important to avoid future financial
problems. This is especially true since the Corporation is about to embark
on some large investment programs which, if not properly planned and managed,
could endanger the Corporation's financial position.
13.     The projections in Table 3 are based on the same measures as assumed
for Indore to improve property tax collections and rates and to improve
resource mobilization from other smaller taxes. The projections also assume
a 55% increase in water rates (water is not metered in Raipur). They show
that these measures would be sufficient to avoid a further decline in the
financial situation. Without these measures deficits would increase yearly.
14.     The projections also illustrate the impact of the proposed project on
the Municipal Corporation's finances.
D. Madhya Pradesh Housing Board - Financial Projections
1. The Problem
15.     Consultants have been working in the Madhya Pradesh Housing Board
during the project preparation period to improve financial management and
control, to assist with the closing of accounts for recent years (published
accounts are available only through 1977/78 and draft accounts are available
for 1978/79 and 1979/80), and to prepare a budget for 1983/84.



-58-                              ANNEX 3
Table 3:  MADHYA PRADESH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
-------  RAIPUR MUNICIPAL CORPORATION
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
(RUPEES LAKHS)
79/80    80/X1    81/82    82/83    83/84    84/85    85/86    86/87
INFLATION %                                         0.08     0.08     0.08      0.07     0.06
GROWTH   %                                          0.03     0.03      0.03     0.03     0.03
EXPENDITURE
SALS &   WAGES       90.90   115.28   138.70   154.29   171.63   190.04   209.44   228.67
ADMIN.EXPENSES       21.55    21.63    26.97    30.00    33.37    36.95    40.73    44.46
R & M                 15.54    16.48    17.11    19.03    21.17    23.44    25.84    28.21
POWER   CHARGES      20.01    25.26    30.26    33.29    36.61    40.05    43.55    46.82
INTEREST CHARGES      6.05      8.60     7.83     8.00      7.50     7.00      6.50     6.00
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__-----------
SUB-TOTAL           154.05   187.25   220.87   244.61   270.29   297.48   326.06   354.16
NEW SCHEMES
___________
WATER/SEWERAGE
______________
ESTAB.EXPENSES                                                       0.30      0.60     0.65
ENERGY                                                               12.00    24.00    25.50
OTHER EXPENSES                                                       13.00    26.00    29.00
DEBT SERVICING                                                      30.00    42.60    42.60
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------__-----------
SUB-TOTAL NEW SCHEMES                                                55.30    93.20    97.75
PROJECT REVENUE EXPENDITURE
REVENUE EXPENSES                                                     14.00    28.00    42.50
DEBT SERVICING                                              2.40    11.17    22.78    30.48
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------__-----------
SUB-TOTAL MPUP EXPENDITURE       0.00     0.00      0.00     2.40    25.17    50.78    72.98
TOTAL EXPENDITURE    154.05   187.25   220.87   244.61   272.69   377.95   470.04   524.89
INCOME PRESENT SRC
PROPERTY TAX
PRESENT RATES         18.72    21.18    28.21    34.00    37.00    50.00    53.50    56.71
IMPROVED RATES                                             13.20    35.67    3B.17    40.46
OTHER TAXES            10.69    11.43    14.34    15.49    16.73    17.98    19.24    20.39
WATER TAXES             8.75     9.06     9.93    12.00    15.00    18.00    19.26    20.42
NON-TAX REVENUE      37.45    32.52    24.65    26.62    28.75    30.91    33.07    35.06
GRANTS               142.24   156.60   166.86   183.55   201.90   222.09   244.30   268.73
---------------------------------------------------------------__------------__-----------
TOTAL PRES.INCOME    217.85   230.79   243.99   271.66   312.58   374.65   407.54   441.76
---------------------------------------------------------------__------------__-----------
NEW INCOME-WATER                                                      11.00    34.00    86.00
PROJECT RECOVERIES                                           0.16      2.85     8.19    16.25
TOTAL INCOME         217.85   230.79   243.99   271.66   312.58   388.50   449.73   544.01
DEFICIT/SURPLUS(-)   -63.80   -43.54   -23.12   -27.04   -39.89   -10.55    20.31   -19.12



-59-                    ANNEX 3
16.     The consultants' have identified the following problems in their
interim report:
(a)   Organizational
(1) MPHB does not have effective coordination between
technical and financial administration.
(2) It does not have effective liaison with other Public
Bodies.
(b)   Planning and Budgeting
(1) No preparation of a multi-year plan.
(2) Annual budget is ad-hoc by nature. No cash projec-
tions or financing statements.
(3) Budget procedures are primitive and uncoordinated.
No resource guidelines issued to budget officers.
(4) Budget is not regarded as a serious control document
and is not completed in time for issue at the
beginning of the budget period.
(c)   Financial Cash Management
(1) No cash management.
(2) Poor project control. No monitoring of costs so
cost overruns are quite common. Cost overruns are
also frequently due to long delays in construction
and allocation.
(3) Poor cost recovery discipline.
(4) Cost fixation procedures are not satisfactorily
implemented. Interest during construction is not
fully charged.
(5) No post-facto examination of completed schemes.
(6)  Incomplete records in Estate Management Units for
recovery of debts. Inadequate accounting occurs
from EMU's so preparation of final accounts is
impossible.
(d)   Accounting
(1) Accounts are not up to date. Draft occurs
to 1979/80 only.



-60-                     ANNEX 3
(2) Detailed accounting procedures are not
followed e.g., control and verification of
stock records.
(3) Large unproved balances have been accumulated
especially debtor's balances.
17.     As a result of the above problems, the MPHB has been operating at a
deficit. MPHB is heavily dependent on borrowing and it relies on deposits
for cash resources (see Tables 3 and 4).
2. Projections of Income and Expenditure and of Financial Position
18.     The projections shown in Tables 4 and 5 illustrate how the financial
condition of MPHB could improve over a number of years. The projections
assume that project planning, project cost accounting and cost recovery
measures would be put into effect to address the above problems as a result
of the consultants' recommendations. Specific assumptions include (i) an
increase in rental property receipts; (ii) measures to ensure more timely
completion of projects which would lead to earlier fructification of assets
and better recoveries with work in progress minimized; (iii) an improved
debtor's accounting system which would lead to improved recoveries and
reduced debtors' arrears from 1984/85.
3. Project Cash Flow
19.     Table 6 shows the cash flow for MPHB for project receipts and expen-
diture.



Table 4:  MADHYA PRADESH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
-------         MADHYA PRADESH HOUSING BOARD
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
(RUPEES LAKHS)                      ILLUSTRATIVE PROJECTIONS
BALANCE  SHEETS  AT  31ARCH                                                                           ---------------------------
1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87
ASSETS
FIXED ASSETS
PROPERTY                      14.11    16.92    19.52    20.93    22.93    23.93    24.93    28.93    30.93    32.93    34.93
H.P.WORKS IN PROGRESS          7.59     9.59     9.85    16.63    14.67      9.87     9.97    14.51    15.26    15.63    15.81
LOANS AND ADVANCES
HIRE PURCHASE                11.10    12.21    13.36    10.20    17.58    23.63    27.10    29.98    35.55    41.50    47.63
LOANEES                       3.47     3.30     3.17     2.99      3.14     3.30     3.46     3.63      3.82     4.01      4.21
36.27    42.02    45.90    50.75    58.31    60.73    65.47    77.05    85.55    94.06   102.58
----------------------------------------------------------------__-----------__--------------------
CURRENT ASSETS
ARREARS                         1.35     1.30     1.33      1.16     1.8b6    2.42     2.75      3.03     3.54     4.10      4.67
DEBTORS                         1.64     1.72     2.07     2.89      4.53     5.89     6.69      7.35     5.91     5.46      6.22
STORES                          0.37     0.22     0.50     0.51      0.56     0.62     0.6B     0.75      0.82     0.90      0.99
INVESTMENTS                     1.79     1.68     1.85     2.03     2.24      2.46     2.71     2.98      3.27     3.60     3.96
PREPAYMENTS                     0.10     0.10     0.09     0.08
CASH & BANK BALANCES            3.81     5.75     7.12     9.69      7.99    11.19     7.70      0.63     7.95    10.37    11.90
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------__--------------------
9.06    10.77    12.96    16.36    17.18    22.58    20.52    14.73    21.49    24.43    27.74
LESS CURRENT LIABILITIES
CREDITORS                       1.65     1.77     2.25     2.80      3.48     4.34     5.40      6.72     8.36    10.40    12.94
DEPOSITS                        6.96     8.89    10.86    12.85    14.85    16.34    12.34    12.46    18.14    19.07    19.53
MISC.& SUSPENSE                 0.36     0.59     0.65     3.79      3.79     3.79
------------------------------------------------------.------------__--------__---------------------
0.09    -0.48    -0.80    -3.08    -4.94    -1.98      2.79    -4.45    -5.00    -5.04    -4.73
TOTAL ASSETS                    36.36    41.54    45.10    47.67    53.37    58.85    68.25    72.60    80.55    89.03    97.85
REPRESENTED BY
LOANS                         33.18    38.53    41.06    43.34    48.68    53.09    61.42    64.72    71.20    77.68    84.16
RESERVES                        3.67     4.39     5.76     6.43      7.18     8.01     8.94      9.99    11.15    12.44    13.89
CUMULATIVE LOSS                -0.49    -1.38    -1.72    -2.10    -2.49    -2.25    -2.11    -2.11    -1.80    -1.09    -0.20
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------__--------------------
36.36    41.54    45.10    47.67    53.37    58.85    68.25    72.60    80.55    89.03    97.85
tz
I Zr
I Xn



Table 5: MADHYA PRADESH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MADHYA PRADESH HOUSING BOARD
REVENUE ACCOUNT PROJECTIONS
(RUPEES LAKHS)
1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  196O/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/85  1985J86  1986/87
INCOME
RENTS                         62.05    74.92    94.31   109.71   114.65   119.65   124.65   144.65   216.51   246.98   261.98
INTEREST-LOANS                59.61    88.48    99.18    79.14   129.84   203.70   239.12   290.85   295.28   341.33   388.80
-BANK DEPOSITS        18.72    15.59    60.48    78.48    59.44    75.52    80.24    20.96    58.88    72.48    78.40
SUPERVISION CHARGES           65.02    39.96    43.16    46.61    50.34    54.37    58.71    63.41    68.48    73.96    79.88
OTHER INCOME                  33.50    51.47    55.59    60.03    64.84    70.02    75.63    81.68    88.21    95.27   102.89
TOTAL INCOME         239.10   270.42   352.71   373.97   419.11   523.26   578.35   601.55   727.36   830.01   911.94
---------------------------------------------------------------__------------__--------------------
EXPENDITURE
INTEREST ON LOANS            149.16   231.10   246.36   260.04   292.08   318.54   368.52   388.32   462.80   504.92   547.04
ESTAB. EXPENSES               63.79    78.48    84.76    91.54    98.86   106.77   115.31   124.54   134.50   145.26   156.88
MAINTENANCE AND REPAIRS       17.21    23.04    25.34    27.88    30.67    33.73    37.11    40.82    44.90    49.39    54.33
DEPRECIATION                  13.45    15.03    16.80    18.77    20.97    23.44    26.19    29.27    32.71    36.55    40.84
OTHER EXPENSES                15.03    12.10    13.07    14.11    15.24    16.46    17.78    19.20    20.74    22.40    24.19
TOTAL EXPENDITURE    258.64   359.75   386.33   412.34   457.82   498.94   564.91   602.14   695.64   758.51   823.28
DEFICIT/SURPLUS(-)             19.54    89.33    33.61    38.37    38.72   -24.32   -13.44      0.59   -31.72   -71.50   -88.67
CUMULATIVE DErICIT/SURPLUS     49.00   138.33   171.94   210.31   249.03   224.71   211.27   211.86   180.14   108.65    19.98
ID
Ix
I G
ix
I(A



-63-
ANNEX 3
Table 6: MADHYA PRADESH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
-------        MADHYA PRADESH HOUSING BOARD
PROJECT CASH FLOWS
(RUPEES LAKHS)
1. DISBURSEMENTS TO OTHER IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES
TOTAL  1983/84  1984/85  1965/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89
INDORE MC          629.90   83.05  184.69  183.28  100.62   78.26
INDORE DA           877.57  113.55  162.62  173.83  231.31   196.26
UJJAIN              102.30   13.00   29.45   29.79   17.74   12.32
DEWAS                67.35    8.36   19.10   19.63   12.28    7.98
RAIPUR              325.81   42.76  113.46   93.26   44.01   32.32
BHILAI              605.94   74.96  121.98  157.29  145.57  106.14
DURG                114.13   14.48   28.08   33.63   22.12   15.81
---------------------------------------------------------------
SUB-TOTAL 2723.00  350.16  659.38  690.71  573.65  449.09
LESS LAND           112.20  100.00   12.20
NET ADVANCES       2610.80  250.16  647.18  690.71  573.65  449.09
2.MPHB AREA DEVEL.
UJJAIN             206.54   26.72   38.27   40.91   54.44   46.19
DEWAS               81.72   10.57   15.14   16.19   21.54   18.27
RAIPUR             367.88   47.60   68.17   72.87   96.96   82.27
BHILAI             141.82   18.39   26.27   28.09   37.37   31.71
DURG               195.07   25.24   36.15   38.64   51.42   43.63
993.03  128.52  184.00  196.70  261.73  222.07
MEDIUM TOWNS        482.69            65.41   163.15  148.87  105.26
__________-----------------------------------------------------
SUB-TOTAL          1475.72  128.52  249.41  359.e5  410.60  327.33
LESS LAND           402.76  100.00  200.00  102.76
---------------------------------------------------------------
1072.96   28.52   49.41  257.09  410.60  327.33
3.DEBT SERVICING    931.01    16.37   73.64  170.22  283.69  387.09  432.69
4.TOTAL CASH OUTFL 4614.77  295.05  770.23  1118.02  1267.94  1163.51  432.69
CASH INFLOWS
5.LOANS FROM HUDCO
OR GOMP          3683.76  278.68  696.59  947.80  984.25  776.42
6.SALES             289.56                     72.39   72.39   72.39   72.39
7.DOWN PAYMENT       62.64             8.58   15.66   11.37   15.66   11.37
8.HP RECOVERIES     252.89             7.24   27.94   50.75   73.57   93.39
9.RECOVERIES FROM
IMPLEMENTING AGNCS  1001.00    5.46   52.33  137.10  216.49  280.71  308.9i
---------------------------------------------------------------
9.TOTAL CASH INFL  5289.85  284.14  764.74  1200.89  1335.25  1218.75  486.06
NET CASH            675.08  -10.91   -5.49   82.87   67.31   55.24   53.37
.eam.emaeme.eeeuaeaam.aasaa.amoaaaaaaam@eemrne.ama.mmeeee.....a



-64-                                          ANNX 3
Table 7: MADHYA PRADESH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
-------         MADHYA PRADESH HOUSING BAD
SOLIRCES AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS STATEMENT
(RUPEES CROREB)
SOURCES OF FUNDS      77/78  78/79  79/80  90/81  81/82  82/83  83/84  84/85  85/86  96/87
FROM OPERATIONS
DEFICIT(-)/SURPLUS     -0.89  -0.34  -0.38  -0.39   0.24   0.14  -0.01   0.32   0.72   0.89
DEPRECIATION            0.15   0.17   0.19   0.21   0.23   0.26   0.29   0.33   0.37   0.41
____ _________----------------------------------------------------
-0.74  -0.17  -0.19  -0.18   0.47   0.40   0.28   0.65   1.09   1.30
FROM OTHER SOURCES
LOANS                   5.35   2.53   2.28   5.34   4.41   8.33   3.30   6.48   6.48   6.48
RESERVES                0.72   1.37   0.67   0.75   0.93   0.93   1.04   1.16   1.30   1.45
-------------------------------------------------------------------__
6.07   3.90   2.95   6.09   5.24   9.26   4.34   7.64   7.75   7.93
TOTAL SOURCES          5.33   3.73   2.76   5.91   5.71   9.66   4.62   8.29   8.87   9.23
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
FIXED ASSETS            2.96   2.77   1.60   2.21   1.23   1.26   4.29   2.33   2.37   2.41
HP WORKS                2.00   0.26   6.79  -1.96  -4.80   0.10  4.54   0.75   0.37   0.19
LOANS AND ADVANCES
HIRE PURCHASE          1.11   1.15  -3.16   7.38   6.04   3.47   2.87   5.58   5.95   6.13
LOANEES              -0.17 -0.13 -0.18   0.15  0.16   0.16   0.17  0.18   0.19  0.20
SUB-TOTAL       5.90   4.05   5.04   7.78   2.65   4.99  11.87   8.84   8.88   8.93
INC. IN WKG CAP       -0.57  -0.32  -2.29  -1.87   3.06   4.67  -7.25  -0.55  -0.01   0.30
CONSISTING OF
INCREASE IN ARREARS  -0.05   0.03  -0.17   0.70   0.56   0.33   0.27   0.52   0.55   0.57
INCREASE IN DEBTORS   0.08   0.35   0.82   1.64   1.36   0.90   0.67  -1.45  -0.44   0.76
INCREASE IN STORES   -0.15   0.28   0.01   0.05   0.06   0.06   0.07   0.07   0.08   0.09
INCREASE IN INVSTS.  -0.11  0.17  0.18  0.20   0.22   0.25   0.27   0.30   0.33  0.36
INCREASE IN   PAYS.  0.00  -0.01  -0.01  -0.06   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
INCREASE IN CREDS.   -0.12  -0.46  -0.55  -0.68  -0.85  -1.06  -1.32  -1.64  -2.04  -2.54
CHANGE IN DEPOSITS   -1.93  -1.97  -1.99  -2.00  -1.49   4.00  -0.13  -5.68  -O.93 -0.47
CHANGE IN MISC.      -0.23  -0.06  -3.14   0.00   0.00   3.79   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
-------------------------------------------------------------------
-2.51  -1.69  -4.85  -0.17  -0.14  9.17 -0.17 -7.99  -2.45 -1.23
MOVEMENT IN NET CASH    1.94   1.37   2.57  -1.70   3.20  -3.50  -7.OB   7.33   2.44   1.53
-0.57 -0.32  -2.28  -1.87   3.06   4.67  -7.25  -0.55  -0.01  0.30



-65-                         ANNEX 4
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
I. General
1. Madhya Pradesh Urban Sector Memorandum (Report No. 3616-IN,
April 1982)
2. Housing and Urban Development Corporation, Ltd. (HUDCO) and
its Potential Role in World Bank Assisted Projects (Report
No. 3830-IN, April 1982)
3. HUDCO: Programs, Procedures and Guidelines
4. HUDCO in Figures
II.  Project Related
1. Six Project Feasibility Reports for Indore, Ujjain, Dewas,
Bhilai, Raipur and Durg, May 1982
2. Area Development: Detailed Layouts, Engineering Designs and
Costs for the Six Project Cities, May 1983
3. Slum Upgrading: Detailed Layouts, Engineering Designs and
Costs for Typical Slums in the Six Project Cities, May '.983
4. Off-Site Infrastructure: Project Report on the Road in
Bhilai, May 1983
5. Project, Physical and Cost Data
6. Economic Analysis
III.  Financial and Institutional
1. Consultants Interim Report on Institutional Strengthening of MPSCIB
2. Consultants Preliminary Report on Municipal Resource Mobilization
3. Consultants First Progress Report on Institutional and Financial
Strengthening of MPHB
4. Financial Statement of MPHB for Year Ending March 1981
5. HUDCO: Eleventh Annual Report, 1980-81
6. HUDCO: Twelfth Annual Report, 1981-82



IBRD 17005
Z=
BHIND
MORENA  ','GWA L IOR
'DAT T I A              U   T  T  A   R
A
HIVPUR
TIKAMGARH
RE WA
0 T 1-- I
I     G u N A                        CHHATARPUR 1   9
> MANDSAUR                                                                                      SATNA
P A N N A                      s D H I
rjl                                                                                                                                        /Y
HAJAPUR,RAJGARH)
R A T L A M                                                                                   -,J
-3
0                                   6                   SHAHDOL                       5 U R G U A
u J J A I N
ABALPUR                                      8
3
SEHORE                                                                                    -------
IN                                                                                                     f
MA N D L A
HABUA                            D
HOSHANGABAD                                                                                         R A I G A R H
S E N 1
D H                                                              5
B I L A 5P L) R
CHH(NDWARA
TUL
BALAGHAI
E
NIMAR                                                       S
RA PUR
T  R  A                                                                            D u R G
0
INEDIA
MADHYA PRADESH
URBAWDEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOCATION OF PROJECT CITIES
BASTAR
10
-Al- A-1 -1-
PI- ll-






IBRD 17006
/Farin road ro cOher                                                                                  f >4 D i A                 MARCH i9R3
exisrns sottlemeets                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 'JD0 I A
MADHYA PRADESH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'V j, A- 1l                                     YDL SLI IM UPGR ADIN lG-
//7 /t7    L<               :                                                 CH~~~~~~~~~~~~L'A'NDM'ARI PARA, D_UR'G
=   <t    1 //                , ~~~~~~~~Depresion to be fIRed                                        OPNNS
/\ 7// < --_ cnvenience 1 , I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Plots (newu or extended)
New infill Plots
Et.  d NStructures proposed for relocation
Blacktop roads (2 rn-3m wide)
t              ~~~~Flagstone paved footpaths (Irn-2m wide)
New 80 mm asbestos cement wateryrnains
New 40mm galvainized iron water mains
Public standposts
|jj7] Plots with structumins
Paved footpaths
Water supply mainsl12mm-50mrn dia.)
U Public staindposts
Storm water drains
-  *  L-                                        *   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Electric poles
Culver-ts
METERS 0      IS     20      30      A0      55
FEET 0         55         IS0
KIO EER E
A-1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
ops  b.t~~~~Ic'                                            Prtctbodoy           (
sLeet.                                t~~~~~~~~~~SIlnig .  ion  bunewy  
_______________________________________________    _______________                                                       ___         55~D,0,ioh-nd.r






lBRD 17007
INDIA                           MARCH 1983
MADHYA PRADESH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INDORE AREA DEVELOPMENT cITE tL ANr
Proposed land use:
-   _ _   _    _I   - Community facilities
.lJ~ _  _  lGreen areas
Conmmercial areas
________  Exst,ng industry and warehousing areas
Smoll scole industry areas
Resi dential aeasl
M cddle income
:,-~~~~~ ~Low  ncome
EWS (Economically Weoker Secthon)
*' '-* Mroa ods
METERS 0              100            2.o            300
FEET 0         20          500        750         1000
FI7I  FIIZ F;                  -*-g11  1                                                                                                                           ,0 t10ro ,t ieWo 030,00 to lhtotOi -,0 Ocr Co,gjoliotO alit 2.0,
1~~~~~~~~~~F _.  fh I                                                                                                                                                                          -.-itrc  -ud r  
_K lOSOETEKS 0    108
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I.
MADHYA PADESH
_______                                                               1?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-0- C Prolect city  .o     20-
________________  ____   _______   _____________                       - .. -    Stajte bound ary
- ..- District boundary
Planning region boundre
_L F                                                                                                                                                             71y'                                         84~~~~~~~~~~___________________________________________________






SlID 17008
~~~~TV1   ~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1 Hi                I          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ INEDIA MAC Y
URBAN DEVELOPMENT' PROJECT
_____________________________                          N     -  ~~~~~~~uINDORE  AREA  DEVELOPMENT
A   A   X   X  S  <  0  m  e z p * w D e-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FO   OCTN   ITI  NOE  IE  E  BD701
'Xortments                TYPICAL SECTOR LAYOUT
Etr ern          Prosect c nts.
. k 0 I S,  rl ,   '   D'  TA r-rvl  i Mi,,kl                                                                ,, .. I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Waermans0  mllmeer
t  I  I  I                                                                                     Sew-ge S ra Ins, 0    Z200mr
E-E   XZSewerage mains, 0 < 200m rm
Main roads
= = rfg     |              F                             __ = 6   X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ FT LI Lo 6-2e
IIGreen area
F/ =z Commercial areas
Residental reas,
~] High incm
41                                        5 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7Middle inocoeme
RT II FEF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~Low incomne
L771 EWS (Economically
Weaker Section)
-I          '1                               ___~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LI R
Z S _ f Hn f 1 j Z W * j S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MADHYA PRADESH i
I      F L  ~   ~~~ ~ ~~~ I... rg2~
TITTT                            I- IIIFT -7F7__ _- _2
,a Z nP p rHSueJ9X2oS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'5.l a .> 



