Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Rjl 2J  3Z   /
Report No. 7056-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMNT PROJECT
February 15, 1988
Asia Country Department V
Infrastructure Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank iathorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of January 1988)
Currency Unit   =  Rupiah
US$1.00         -  Rp 1,650
Rp 100          =  US$0.06
Rp 1 million       US$606
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
UNITS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)       =  39.37 inches
1 kilometer (km)  = 0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)    =  2.47 acres
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BAPPEDA       -  Regional Government Development Planning Board
BAPPENAS      -  National Development Planning Agency
BKSP          -  Jabotabek Level I planning coordination unit
DAMRI         -  State-owned bus company serving Regional Cities
DGBM          -  Directorate General Bina Marga (Highways), MPW
DGLT          -  Directorate General Perhubungan Darat (Land Transport), MOC
DG Pajak      -  Directorate General Taxes, MOF
Dinas LLAJR   -  Traffic and Highway Transportation Department, DKI-Jakarta
Dinas PU      -  Public Works Department, DKI-Jakarta
DKI-Jakarta   -  Jakarta Special Capital Province
Jabotabek     -  Region comprising jakarta, Bogor, Tangerang and Bekasi
local government administrative areas
JUPCO         -  Project Coordination Unit in DKI-Jakarta BAPPEDA
LLAJR         -  Directorate of Highway Transport, DGLT
LLAK          -  Directorate of Urban Traffic and Transport, DGLT
GOI           -  Government of Indonesia
INPRES        -  Central Government Grant to Local Governments
KIP           -  Kampung (Village) Improvement Program
KRA           -  Ministry of Home Affairs
MOC           -  Ministry of Communications
MOF           -  Ministry of Finance
MPW           -  Ministry of Public Works
O&M           -  Operations and Maintenance
PBB           -  Property tax (Pajak Bumi dan Bangunan)
PJKA          -  State Railway
PPD           -  State-owned bus company serving Jakarta
RCUT          -  Regional Cities Urban Transport Project
REPELITA      -  National Five-year Development Plan (Repelita IV, 1984-
89; Repelita V, 1989-94)
SATLANTAS     -  National Police
TKPP          -  Tim Koordinasi Pembangunan Perkotaan (Interagency
Coordinating Team for Urban Development)



FM OFICIAL omUR ONLY
INDONESIA
JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table o' Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY. ....          ..................    iii-v
I.  THE URBAN SECTOR ..................to... ...*............... ....            1
A. Urbanization Trends and Policies...........................              1
B. Jabotabek Region Development ...............................             5
C. Urban Transport Subsector .............................. .               6
D. Bank Experience and Lending Strategy.......................             12
II.  THE PROJECT..... to....                                                     14
A. Project Origin and Formulatione......e.....................             15
B. Project Objectives and Rationale for Bank Involvement......             15
C. Project Suzmmaryo . ..........................................          16
D. Institutional and Policy Development.......................             16
E.   Trainingoo .* .9 .oo o o o o ..* .oo .o    ..o o   o.o ........o........................ .  20
F. Physical Components ...... o...   .o ............o....                  21
III.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ......to..............ooo........               23
A. Project Costs.oo.  .....................................---- 23
B. Financing Plan..o .....................0.*00.0*0.000 ......             24
IV.  PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT..oo..o ................                . 26
A. Implementation Arrangements.oooo.. ..o. o. oooo...............          26
B. Implementing Agencies ........o.*oo..o..o..o.o ...... ...               27
C. Implementation Schedule. .       .     ...o. ...o..o. . . . . . . . . . . .  28
D. Procurement and Disbursement... .................to.....*....           28
E.  Land  Acquisition ...o.. o o.o..o* o o .o.*   ...o..eo .oo ...............o............  31
F. Accounts and Audits.o........ 00 ....... 00 ..........0                 31
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Jakarta during October 1987 consisting of IBRD staff member Paul R. Stott and
consultants Richard Barrett, Graham Simons and James 0. Tresidder. The
appraisal was facilitated by the significant contributions of staff members
Richard C. Podolske and Takehisa Iizuka during preparation of the project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
V.  FINANCIAL AiALYSIS OF DKI-JAKARTA .............................          33
A. Current Financial Condition of DKI-Jakarta.o. .........o...           33
B. Project Impact on DKI-Jakarta Finances......................          35
C. DKI-Jakarta Revenue Improvement Program ....................          36
D. Financial Management and Accounting ..................                38
VI.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKSo ................. .............        .................... 40
A. Project Justification ....o.o......o..........        .. .....        40
B. Economic Evaluation          .. .. ............. .9 *9999.      ........ 40
C. Urban Poverty Impact... .................... ........... *....        41
D. Environmental Impact*.**.*.................................           41
E.                                                                      ik ................................... 43
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .............. o.........          44
ANNEXES
1.  Urban Infrastructure Expenditure Programming ..................          46
2.  Traffic and Transport in Jabotabek...........................            52
3.  Public Transport Operations in Indonesia......................           63
4.  Details of Physical Components. ...............................          90
5.  Summary of Training and Technical Assistance..................           92
6.  Project Cost Estimates            ..................... ..e             103
79  Procurement Guidelines*.........          ..............................  107
8.  Disbursement Schedules........................................          109
9.  Financial Statements for DKI-Jakarta (Actual and Projected)...          113
10.  Environmental Impacto..............................o .9.9o9o9.99        117
11.  Analysis of Economic Benefits.................................          123
12.  List of Documents in the Project File.........................          126
CHARTS
1.  Organization Structure of Tim Koordinasi... ..................          127
2.  Jabotabek Integrated Programming Organization Structure.......          128
3.  Organization Structure for Project Implementation... ..........0        129
4.  Organization Structure of DKI-Jakarta      ..........................   130
5.  Organization Structure of Dinas LLAJR in DKI-Jakartao.........          131
MAP
IBRD 20491 - Location of Jabotabek and Principal Project Components



- iii -
INDOUIS;A
JABOTABIK URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Sumary
Borrovers        Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiaries:   DKI-Jakarta, Ministries of Communications and Public Works
Amount:           US$150.0 million equivalent
Terms:           Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
On-lending        Part of the proceeds of the loan, the equivalent of
Terms:         US$89 million, would be onlent by the Government to DKI-
Jakarta for 20 years, including 5 years grace, at a 10% p.a.
fixed interest rate. The Government would bear the foreign
exchange risk.
Project          The project is located in the Jabotabek metropolitan region
Description:   which includes Jakarta (DKI)* the capital and largest city of
Indonesia. The principal institutional objectives of the
project would be to: (a) support integrated infrastructure
development planning and programming in the Jabotabek region
and urban transport programming in DKI in particular;
(b) increase DKI's technical capability in preparing and
implementing road construction, and road rehabilitation and
maintenance programs; (c) improve traffic management in the
region; (d) improve Government's policies, operations and
regulations of public transport; and (e) prepare for future
integrated development expenditures in the urban sector.
Through physical improvements the project would (a) reduce
traffic congestion in DKI, (b) improve pedestrian access and
road safety, (c) introduce public transportation priority
schemes, and (d) open up additional land for urban develop-
ment in environmentally safe fringe areas.
The project is expected to cost about US$224 million equiva-
lent and would include expenditures for: (a) upgrading of
primary and secondaty arterial roads, (b) provision of
development roads on che city periphery, (c) major inter-
section improvements (including flyovers), (d) traffic
management and road safety measures (including comprehensive
corridor priority measures, bus priority schemes, improve-
ments to isolated intersections, installation of traffic
signals, pedestrian improvements, and street signing and
marking measures), (e) road rehabilitation and maintenance,
(f) institutional and policy development (including improve-
ments to public transport policy and operations, transporta-
tion planning, and traffic enforcement), and (g) technical



- iv -
assistance for (i) project implementation, (ii) training in
traffic engineering, and (iii) advisory services in inte-
grated infrastructure planning and programing, local revenue
improvement, urban transport planning, public transport
regulation development, traffic restraint and road safety
policy development, and operational improvements to bus
companies; and (iv) future project preparation.
Risks:            Project implementation risks are expected to be minimal given
the proven capability of the principal executing agencies
(DKI and DC Bina Marga) to build and upgrade road infrastruc-
ture. The main risk lies in improving PPD public bus company
operations. Consultants will be appointed to assist in
strengthening PPD in accordance with GOI's action plan and
performance would be monitored closely by GOI. Prepara-
tion of an integrated infrastructure program for Jabotabek
may prove risky due to the extensive coordination and key
policy decisions required. This risk is expected to be
minimized by the supervision to be given to the task by Tim
Koordinasi.
Estimated Costs:                                   Local   Foreign   Total
- -- US$ million -----
Arterial roads and intersections  60.4       43.7    104.1
Development roads                   21.2     13.3      34.5
Traffic management                  13.2     14.7      27.9
Road maintenance                     1.7      1.8       3.5
Training                             1.4      3.6       5.0
Technical assistance                 9.0     15.8      24.8
Base Cost                     106.9      92.9    199.8
Physical contingencies               4.4      5.4       9.8
Price contingencies                  6.4      7.9      14.3
Total Project Cost /a           117.7    106.2    223.9
Financing Plan:
Bank loan                           43.8    106.2    150.0
Central Government                  27.0      --       27.0
DKI                                 46.9      --       46.9
Total                          117.7    106.2    223.9
/a    Includes taxes and duties estimated at US$10 million equivalent.



Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY                 1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
Annual                  16.1   21.9   30.1   32.4   26.4   20.1    3.0
Cumulative              16.1   38.0   68.1  100.5  126.9  147.0  150.0
Rate of Return:  40% (weighted average)
Map: IBRD 20491



INDONESIA
JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. THE URBAN SECTOR
A. Urbanization Trends and Policies
1.1       Population and Demography.  Indonesia is the fifth most populous
nation in the world, with an estimated population of over 162 million (1385).
The corresponding urban population is estimated at 40 million, which is a
modest proportion by middle-income country standards. However, urban popula-
tion growth over the next two decades is likely to be very significant. By the
end of the century 751 of all of Indonesia's population growth is expected to
have occurred in urban areas. The urban population is projected to nearly
double to about 76 million or over one-third of the projected national popula-
tion of over 210 million in the year 2000, and to reside chiefly (65X) on
Java. Currently, almost half (48Z) of the urban population resides in the 10
urban agglomerations with over 500,000 persons in size. These cities in
aggregate are growing at a somewhat faster rate (4.11 annually during 1971-81)
than the remaining smaller urban areas (about 3.31 annually), and are expected
to absorb the bulk of urban population growth over the next two decades.
About 650 cities and many more smaller towns exist in Indonesia. About 500 of
these have been identified as strategically important to national development,
ranging from the national capital, Jakarta, with a population approaching 8
million, to district capitals (known as Ibu Kota Kecamatan or IKK), some
having populations just over 3,000 persons, that perform important local
service functions.
1.2       Administration.  Urban development in Indonesia is synonymous with
local government development. Indonesia's cities and urbanized areas are
administered by autonomous local governments. There are over 300 Level II
Regional Governments including 54 Kotamadya (municipalities) and 247
Kabupatens (counties) which are responsible to one or other of 27 Level I
Regional Governments or Provinces (inctuding the Jakarta Capital District
Special Province--Daerah Khusus Ibukota or DRI).  The Ministry of Home Affairs
(MHA) is responsible for regional government affairs, but in practice tech-
nical assistance on spatial development and infrastructure provision is mostly
provided by the Ministry of Public Works (MPW) and, on financial matters, by
the Ministry of Finance (MOF). The National Development Planning Agency
(BAPPENAS) provides overall sector development oversight including development
budget allocations. The large number of agencies from these concerned



- 2 -
Ministries 1- and the often-uncoordinated specific programs and policies
supported by them in the attempt to accelerate se:vices during earlier
Repelitas have led to a fragmented and inefficient approach to the present
scale of urban development needs. The Government of Indonesia (GOI) has
recognized the need for a policy framework leading to (a) the strengthening of
local governments to better manage and finance their urban development respon-
sibilities, and (b) integrated planning and programming of urban infrastruc-
ture. GOI has issued a Statement of Policies for Urban Development and
adopted an Action Plan agreed with the Bank under Loan 2816-IND (Urban Sector
Loan), aimed at implementation and further development of these policies.
Sector policy development and program coordination is being addressed by a
high level coordinating team (Interagency Coordinating Team for Urban Develop-
ment or Tim Koordinasi--TKPP) representing the concerned Ministries and
agencies, and chaired by BAPPENAS.
1.3       Urban Infrastructure Finance.  Provision of most urban infrastruc-
ture is nominally the responsibility of Level II local governments. However,
local revenue authority and performance, as well as technical capacity of
local governments is not commensurate with local exi7nditure responsibil-
ities. Public expenditures o- urban infrastructure" grew in nominal terms
1/   Within MPW, the Directorate General Cipta Karya (DOCK) is responsible for
city planning, water supply, sewerage and sanitation, solid waste manage-
ment, and kampung improvement (KIP) through four separate implementing
Directorates, as well as for public housing through the state enterprise
FERUMNAS; the Directorate General Bina Marga pruvides assistance with
urban roads; and the Directorate General of Water Resources Development
assists with urban flood protection and bulk raw water supply. The Minis-
try of Commnnications' (MOC) Directorate General of Land Transport (DGLT)
is responsible for assistance on urban transport matters. Within MOP,
the Directorate General of Monetary Affairs is responsible for central-
local finance; the Directorate General of Taxation is responsible for
property tax matters (local governments' main source of revenue); and the
Directorate General of Budget administers transfers to local governments.
In MHA, development of local government is the responsibility of the
Directorate General Regional Development (DGBangda) and the supervision
of local government affairs is the responsibility of Directorate General
Local Administration (DGPUOD). Other Ministries and Agencies such as the
State Ministries for Housing, and Environment and Population, the Minis-
try of Health and BAPPENAS also play important roles in urban affairs.
2/   Urban infrastructure, for the purposes of this discussion, includes the
mainly Level II local governments' responsibilities of water supply,
flood protection and drainage, sewerage and sanitation, solid waste
management, kampung (generally low-income urban community) improvement
and roads. Other key sectors in urban expenditures such as power, rail-
ways, htealth and education are currently not part of GOI's integrated
urban development approach. Over time it is expected that these sectors
too will be brought fully into the integrated urban development program-
ming process.



- 3 -
under the stimulus ot GOI'a formerly buoyant development revenues from about
Rp 260 billion/year during Repelita II (1974-79) to about Rp 500 billion/year
during Repelita III. During Repelita IV (1984-89) public expenditures on
infrastructure (excluding public transport) are expected to average about Rp
560 billion/year while private expenditures (mainly through the housing
sector) are expected to average about Rp 150 billion/year; in total much less
than the Rp 900 billion/year forecast as the minimal need during the Repelita
by the Bank's Urban Services Sector Report (Report No. 4800-IND) in 1984.
During Repelita III public development and routine expenditures were financed
751 by Central Government and 25% from local government revenues. In the 20
largest Kotamadyas the ratio of central-local cost sharing was about 50:50,
and in DKI-i3karta about 40:60, but in all cases grant dependency has been
increasing.-   The economic constraints fecing Indonesia prevent the
continuation of this policy. In the future it is foreseen that urban
infrastructure programs must be increasingly funded from local resources and
OI has embarked on a series of measures to (a) classify urban infrastructure
ind clarify functional responsibilities of local governments; (b) improve
'-cal resource mobilization; and (c) improve central-local financing
m chenisms over the medium term.  Through measures supported by Loan 2816-IND
. '3 is implementing its new property tax law (PBB), reforming local tax
oilices and reviewing local taxes and charges legislation, improving cost
recovery through user charges for water supplies, establishing a municipal
development fund (known as the Regional Development Account or RDA), and
reviewing the central-local grant system.
1.4       Integrated Infrastructure Programing.  In addi ion to improving
revenue efficiency and cost sharing, GOI  with considerable assistance from
the United Nations Development Program and several donors including the Bank),
is giving equal priority to expenditure efficiency. Through the establishment
of an integrated urban infrastructure programming process (known as IUIDP) GOI
intends to strengthen local governments' capacity to generate development
programs based on local priorities and resources. Greater local participation
in planning, financing and implementation is expected to result in better
targetting of investments and greater commitment to operations and maintenance
(O&N). The use of integrated planning and judgeting techniques is expected to
achieve better program balance and more efficient targetting of Central
Government funding. Centrally planned and funded, but largely uncoordinated,
programs of the past have introduced imbalances into urban investment and
institutional development programs. Beyond the intersectoral imbalances
evident in the aggregated national picture (Annex 1), expenditure program
details in specific cities vary dramatically and central programs are often
not well matched with interregional or city priorities including Jakarta's.
Nationally, urban infrastructure expenditures are now dominated by heavily
3/   A full discussion of local government finance in Indonesia is contained
in the Bank's forthcoming report on Public Resource Management.



subsidized public transport expenditures in Jakarta and water resources
expenditures in medium/small 1yowns while poverty-focussed KIP and sanitation
expenditures are in decline.4   In most cases 06M efforts are lagging behind
investment.
1.5       In order to rationalize integrated urban infrastructure program
implementation (including donor assistance management) GOI intends in future
to differentiate between the needs and issues inherent to metropolitan
agglomerations, primary cities (population >500,000 in 001 parlance) and
secondary cities (population (500,000).  Larger centers will generally warrant
high priority for central monitoring, guidance and technical assistance.
Smaller centers will, in addition, warrant central financial assistance.
Development programs in each category will be sized to match institutional,
financial and implementation capacity of the local governments, but all will
be similarly based on (a) an integrated expenditulg program, and (b) resource
mobilization and institutional development plans.V  Training of local
governments in IUIDP procedures and techniques is now in progress in over half
of Indonesia's provinces. Strategic guidance to local governments and
4/   As shown in Annex 1, one third of annual public expenditures on urban
infra_tructure (excluding public transport) are currently for water
suppl which has grown in real terms by 14Z per year on average with
strong support from donors to its present expected level cf about Rp 260
billion in GOI's FY87/88. Urban-related flood protection accounts for
181 of expenditures and has been growing strongly at 221/year to its
current level of Rp 135 billion. The bulk of such expenditures are
usually incurred as part of river basin flood control schemes and also
have important rural development benefits. Although sewerage investments
have grown steadily (13X/year) and are now Rp 30 billion or 4% of total,
this has occurred from a very small base and impact on sanitation is
still very limited. KIP (and concomitant low-cost sanitation and solid
waste management) expenditures, the erstwhile flagship of GOI's poverty
and social welfare programs in the sector, have declined sharply (-5Z
/year) and now stand at about Rp 55 billion per year or 7.51 of total
expenditure in FY87/88. Urban roads expenditures have also shown strong
real growth (12%) in recent years although lagging traffic and currently
stand at about Rp 85 billion per year or 11% of total. In urban
transport terms, however, the roads expenditure picture fails to capture
GOI's costly proposed urban toll road and public transport
expenditures. As discussed in Annex 1, the inclusion of urban-related
railway and bus expenditures (averaging Rp 280 billion/year) into the
urban infrastructure expenditure program shifts expenditure and funding
balances dramatically.
5/   In the case of the largest cities implementation of their expenditure
programs would likely be carried out along sectoral lines as in the
present case with Jakarta. Under the overall umbrella of an agreed urban
infrastructure expenditure program for Jabotabek, DKI-Jakarta would
proceed with separate programs in urban transport and sanitation/water
supply under the Jabotabek I and II projects to be supported by the Bank.



agencies for the full implementation of IUIDP systems in Repelita V is being
formalated by Tim Koordinasi.
B. Jabotabek Region Developoent
1.6       Jabotabek (00I's mnemonic for the metropolitan conurbation
consisting of the region bounded by DKI, Kotamadya Bogor and Kabupaten Bogor
to the south, and the rapidly urbanizing Kabupatens of Tangerang in the west
and Bekasi in the east), will be the first metropolitan area to be addressed
under the GOI's emerging urban development policy regime. The predominant
city in the region is DKI-Jakarta, the national capital and seat of govern-
ment, as well as the largest city in Indonesia and the co mmercial and
administrative hub of the country. IWith a population approaching 8 million,
and an additional 1.3 million persons residing in the surrounding urban areas
(1986), Jabotabek ranks among the 25 largest metropoli in the world. The city
proper more than doubled in population between 1961 and 1980 (from 2.9 to 6.5
million) and is expectei to nearly double again between 1980 and 2000 when it
is estimated to reach 12 million persons. During the same time period, the
population of surrounding urban areas is expected to at least treble, leading
to a conurbation containing 17 million persons by the onset of the 21st
century.
1.7       Expenditures on urban infrastructure (including public transport) in
Jabotabek during Repelita IV are expected to total some Rp 1.7 trillion or 40Z
of total. Urban transport expenditures, chiefly for public transport (rail and
bus) investments and operating subsidies, account for over 702. Despite past
efforts, investment in Jakarta's infrastructure has not maintained pace with
growth and considerable deficiencies both in terms of availability and level
of service remain. Concern over adequate services in the capital, particu-
larly for the urban poor, is expressed at the highest levels. Consequently,
in line with Presidential Instruction INPRES 13/1976 and with assietance from
Loan 1336-IND (Second Urban Development Project) the development priorities
and options of Jabotabek were studied during 1979-82, and in 1984 recommenda-
tions were adopted into the Jakarta Metropolitan Development Plan of DKI-
Jakarta and the workplan of the DKI/West Java interprovincial coordinating
body (Jabotabek BKSP). The main features of the Jabotabek plan include (a) an
integrated growth and investment strategy based primarily on economic and
social perspectives; (b) a strong spatial dimension through the implementation
of a more environmentally sound, east-west alignment for future development in
order to avoid the increasingly negative impacts of the entrenched north-south
orientation, including: (i) pollution of the important acquifer recharge areas
to the south of the city, and (ii) high development costs in the environ-
mentally sensitive wetlands and poor soils in northern coastal areas; (c) a
major emphasis on water supply, sanitation, and flood protection needs and a
combination of guided land development and urban betterment approaches
focussed on primary infrastructure deficiencies (including roads); and (d) an
implementation strategy based on short-term subsectoral action programs and
longer-term institutional development-based and integrated solutions.
1.8       GOI and DKI, with assistance from the Japanese International
Cooperation Agency and Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) as well as
the Bank, have begun to implement the Jakarta Metropolitan Development Plan



although so far an integrated expenditure plan has not been formulated. To
date emphasis has been laid on water resources needs. Through Loan 2560-IND
(West Tarum Canal Improvement Project) urgently needed, additional raw water
is being brought to Jakarta under an agreement between DKI and the Jatiluhur
(River Basin) Authority which provides for full cost recovery. OECF are
helping finance treatment plants and trunk mains to distribute the treated
water. Under Loan 2236-IND (Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitation Project) a
proposed Second Jabotabek Urban Development Project is under preparation
intended, among other things, to market the new water supplies, rehabilitate
the existing distribution system (which leaks badly) and strengthen the
Jakarta Water Enterprise as well as regional water pollution control. OECF is
also providing major assistance to the Jakarta Flood Control Project, and Loan
2236-IND is also helping implement a pilot sewerage and low-cost sanitation
scheme including establishment of a sewerage enterprise.
1.9       Despite heavy expenditures on the Jakarta Outer Ring Road and the
Jabotabek commuter railway (both assisted by OECF), attention to Jabotabek's
urban transport issues has been lagging due to institutional weaknesses now
being addressed with assistance funded by Lean 2049-IND (Jakarta-Cicampek
Highway Project) and the lack of an integrated broad urban transport perspec-
tive. Improvement of urban transport conditions in Jakarta is now a high
priority for DKI and the Government. Through the proposed project and an
earlier companion project, Loan 2817-IND (Regional Cities Urban Transport
Project), it is expected that significant improvements in the urban transport
subsector, including public transport, can be accomplished, as well as
improvements in planning and programming of all sector expenditures in
Jabotabek for the future.
C. Urban Transport Subsector
1.10      Traffic conditions have deteriorated in Indonesian cities over the
past decade, caused in large part by an almost 15% annual increase in the
number of motor vehicles but also due to inadequate institutional response by
GOI and local governments to the specific needs of urban transport planning
and operation. The effect of this increase has been particularly acute in and
around major cities where most motor vehicles are concentrated. Jakarta alone
has 18% of all registered vehicles in the nation and 39% of all registered
passenger cars. At the same time there has been a serious degradation of
urban road networks. A recent survey of 64 cities and towns by DGBM concluded
that about 17% of the main road network is structurally unstable and liable to
physical failure in the next five years even with routine maintenance. About
32% of these networks is also geometrically inadequate and unable to carry the
projected Repelita IV traffic without extensive repeated congestion. In
Jakarta it is estimated today that some 60% of the arterial road network is
operating above acceptable levels of capacity, resulting in heavy queuing and
long periods of congestion throughout the day.
1.11      The key urban transport issues to be resolved in Jabotabek relate
to: (a) optimization of the urban transport expenditure program, particularly
the public transport elements (railway and bus modes); and (b) a variety of
related institutional weaknesses hindering sector development including
(i) clarification of agency responsibilities; (ii) strengthening of DKI-



- 7 -
Jakarta traffic management and engineering capacity; (iii) strengthening of
bus transport regulation and PPD bus company operations; and (iv) strengthen-
ing of DKI-Jakarta road maintenance capacity.
Urban Transport Investment Programoing
1.12      Investment in and maintenance of urban transport facilities in the
Jabotabek area over the period 1982/83-1986/87 totalled Rp 627 billion of
which Rp 98 billion (16Z) was contributed by DKI. The other principal
investors were DGBM (primary roads)--Rp 123 billion (20%); Jasa Marga (toll
roads)--Rp 71 billion (11%); and DGLT (public transport)--Rp 335 billion (53%,
of which 43Z was far bus transport and 57% was for rail). All planned
expenditures over the next five years by these agencies, if implemented, would
lead to a threefold increase in total--chiefly in the public transport area.
Although the proportion of investment in the past beween private and public
transport was reasonably well balanced, a disproportionate amount of the
public investment was spent on rail services which carry about 2% of motorized
trips, compared to buses which carry 52%. Projected expenditures accentuate
this imbalance even more seriously with 50% of planned investments going to
rail. This massive investment in rail is estimated to benefit as few as 6% of
travellers. On the other hand, bus systems which would carry about 56% of
daily trips would receive 8% of planned expenditures.
1.13      The inefficiencies evident in GOI's costly urban toll road program,
and public transport subsidies of the past, and the serious consideration
given to substantial rail-based transit investments in Jakarta are indications
of the latent deficiencies in current urban transport planning. The Bank's
dialogue with GOI since 1975, aided by technical assistance funded through
Loan 2049-IND has helped reorder priorities to some degree. Attention is now
being given to traffic management. traffic enforcement, road rehabilitation
measures, and selected new arterial road construction that can achieve high
impact at much lower cost within the financial means of DKI-Jakarta and the
concerned Central Government agencies. What is now required is to bring all
agencies together through the Tim Koordinasi mechanism and the IUIDP process
in order to develop a clear sense of prio.ities among urban infrastructure
expenditures based on the Jabotabek plan, including urban transportation
investments and O&M, within realistically estimated governmental resources in
order to assure better allocation of the limited funds available. Within the
urban transport subsector the significant investment issues are
(a) improvement of the road network capacity; (b) improvement of bus transport
and restraint of private vehicles; and (c) appropriate development of mass
transit and commuter rail systems.
1.14      Jabotabek Road Network Capacitv.  Within the Jabotabek road network
there is a pronounced lack of secondary arterials, whici results in traffic
concentrating on a few major thoroughfares which are congested over long
periods of the day. Moreover, for historical reasons the orientation of the
primary network lies in a predominently north-south direction and residential
and commercial expansion is constrained from proceeding on the eastern and
western fringes in accordance with official land-use planning. While all main
roads are paved, surface conditions are often poor. Curbs and foopaths are
exceptions rather than the rule, most roads being lined with ill-defined



- 8 -
sidewalks, ditches and open drains. Pedestrians are therefore often required
to walk on the roadway. Effective road width is further reduced by parked
vehicles, and a variety of slowmoving vehicles as well as undisciplined
transit vehicles. Conditions are described more fully in Annex 2. With
assistance from consultants funded under Loan 2049-IND, DKI's Development
Planning Board (BAPPEDA), and DGBM have studied network capacity constraints
and future demand, and identified a program of primary and secondary arterial
road and intersection construction and improvements aimed at relieving
congestion and providing significant east-west movement capacity. In
addition, an extensive program of traffic engineering and road safety
improvements to existing roads has been developed, including traffic signals
and bus priority measures. These low-cost measures contrast sharply with the
heavy expenditures proposed in urban toll roads by Jasa Marga. However,
following privatization of the toll road program recently, it is likely that
timing and effectiveness of such investments will be more appropriate and
impose a lesser burden on GOI resources.
1.15      Public Transport Conditions.  Altbhugh currently 55% of motorized
trips in Jakarta are by various forms of public transport, this mode has an
unfulfilled major role; leaving less efficient private transport to fill a
growing gap. Options for provision of effective public transport include rail
and bus-based transit systems, as well as local service bus and micro-bus
services. As discussed above, current plans emphasize a rail-based solution
and propose significant public investments in the State Railway's (PJKA)
Jabotabek commuter rail system while proposed bus system investments are
minimal. Studies carried out under Loan 2049-IND underscore the serious
imbalance evident in this strategy which provides for only some 2% of
projected trips in the region at a disproportiopqte cost and will likely
require significant annual operating subsidies.-   Bus-based solutions on the
other hand, although potentially much less costly would rely on exclusive bus
ways and traffic demand restraint policies yet to be developed. A review of
the proposed urban mass transport investment program in the light of
preparation of the Jabotabek expenditure program is clearly essential. A full
6/   The current proposals for the Jabotabek urban rail system involve
expenditures of some US$2 billion by the year 2005. The proposed system
is based on the upgrading of the existing 175 km rail network which links
Jakarta with suburban communities along the main radial railway lines.
Although the intention appears to be that this system should, among other
things, serve as a mass transit system for Jakarta, the linkages provided
do not correspond to the main flow patterna (particularly in the center
of the city). Consequently, demand is unlikely to match the original
feasibility study estimates. Although revised downwards considerably in
1985, estimates still predict a doubtful 26-fold increase in ridership
between 1987 and 1992. These estimates and the lack of consideration
given to complementary bus feeder services raise considerable doubts as
to the economic viability and operational success of the rail project in
its present configuration.



- 9 -
discussion of public transport issues in Jakarta is given in Annex 3; follow-
ing are some of the main concerns.
1.16      Bus Transport Policies.  The Government moved over the past several
years to replace privately-run scheduled bus services with subsidized, state-
owned services. This was done in part to improve upon the low level of
service provided by the private sector, and in part to keep fares low for
students and the urban poor. The shift has been dramatic although the
dominant proportion of public transport service is still provided by the
private sector through a wide array of services including mini-buses,
motorized three-wheeled vehicles, and taxis. In 1978 PPD (the State-run bus
company) operated 30% of all regular buses in Jakarta. By the end of 1983 it
had taken over 24 private bus companies that had been unable to remain viable
in the face of government-controlled low bus fares, so that over 97% of large
buses in Jakarta are now operated directly or controlled by Government.
Another state owned bus company (DAMRI) provides services with about 500 buses
in 8 regional cities. In addition, Government is currently in the process of
introducing publicly owned and operated mini-bus services to an additional 15
cities. The total cost of Government subsidies for public transport has been
significant. PPD revenues cover 50% of its total costs (including deprecia-
tion), requiring an annual operating and capital subsidy of Rp 37 millien.
GOI spending on bus subsidies during Repelita IV (198-4;-9) is expected to
amount to about Rp 170 billion, or 4% of total spending on urban services by
all levels of Government. In the current tightly constrained economic
situation, GOI has permitted a fare increase in the hope of withdrawing its
operating subsidy to PPD. While DAMRI and private operators appear to be
profitable under these circumstances, PPD, which carries about 44Z of all
trips by public transport, is required to provide unprofitable, socially-
justified services and has severe efficiency problems which limit its ability
to cover even its operating costs. The chisf issue in bus transportation,
having an important bearing on its role in mass transit solutions, therefore
becomes t:Y improvement of public bus company operations to achieve full cost
recovery.-
1.17      Bus service operations in Jakarta are hampered by congestion, bus
shortages, inefficient route planning and ineffective regulation issues,
exacerbated by bus crews attempting to maximize incomes on their rented
buses. Buses are so uncomfortable and schedules unreliable that anyone who
can afford to travel by alternative means does so. This, in the absence of
demand restraiat and parking controls encourages use of private transportation
7/   After PPD took over, fares were raised substantially in order to improve
PPD's financial pos.tion. But the company continued operating at a loss
and was unable to expand to meet growing demand. Mayasari, the one
remaining private operator of full-sized buses in Jakarta, has regained
its market share and operates 550 buses of all types with a fleet avail-
ability of 88% compared to 1,150 and 59% for PPD. Mayasari also exhibits
significantly more efficient staffing/bus ratios than PPD--7.5 versus
14.5. Overall, the private sector currently provides over half of total
public transport service in Jakarta.



- 10 -
which uses much more road space per accommodated trip. During October 1986, a
National Public Transport Policy Study outlined in preliminary form a set of
policies and actions that could lead to the supply of viable and efficient
urban public transport services which meet the needs of the public at minimal
cost to Government. This report was well received by Government and, with a
few reservations, was endorsed. Based on this study, a feasible action plan
of measures to overcome the bus issues has been formulated by GOI including
(a) strengthening of public transport planning and regulation capability in
DLLAJR; (b) consolidation and strengthening of PPD operations to achieve full
cost recovery (Annex 3). In addition, in order to combat congestion, various
measures to improve traffic flows, provide bus priority facilities and control
parking are being introduced by DLLAJR.
Institutional Issues in the Urban Transport Sector
1.18      The road law of 1980 and KEPRES 14/1987 have clarified functional
responsibilities among the various levels of governmea.. for ditferent classes
of roads, but. in practice, many road links within urban areas have not yet
been formally classified and corresponding responsibilities agreed by the
affected central, provincial, and city government agencies. The lack of
clarity in jurisdictional responsibilities, combined with limited financial
resources at the local government level, has resulted in DGBM assisting cities
in upgrading and maintaining parts of the urban road network which are not its
responsibility. Beyond financial and organizational problems, city staff
development in the provision of urban transport facilities and services is
weak and can be corrected only by concerted mid- to long-term training and
staff development programs. Recognizing that the local authorities are
unlikely to have sufficient technical and financial resources to meet the
needs in the sector, DGLT and DGBM will need to play an important role in
assisting local governments in the planning, design and funding of urban
transport facilities and services for the near to middle term.
1.19      Sector Organization.  At the national level, technical
responsibility for the urban transport sector rests with two agencies, the
Ministry of Communications (MOC), through its Directorate General of Land
Transport (DGLT) and the Ministry of Public Works, through its Directorate
General of Highways (Bina Marga or DGBM). The former is responsible for
sector oversight and planning of all transport modes, and for the regulation
and control of all land-based transport modes, including all forms of public
transport.  The latter is responsible for the Ietailed planning, construction
and maintenance of the national road network.-   Responding to the need for
greater attention to emerging urban transport problems, both DGBM and DGLT
have recently created urban directorates in their organizations. In contrast
8/   A separate State Entarprise, the National Toll Road Authority (Jasa
Marga), was established in 1978 to finance and manage all urban and
inter-urban toll roads. However, the Director General of Bina Marga is
chairman of its governing board, and DGBM has substantial influence on
Jasa Marga's toll road program through the planning and design of its
facilities.



- 11 - I
to DCBM's capacity, the DCLT's Directorate of Urban Traffic and Transportation
(LLAK) suffers from limitations in staffing and budget, although a succesful
traffic engineering training capacity has been established with assistance
from Loan 2049-IND at DGLT's training center at Bekasi. In practice, DGBM
plays a significant technical assistance role in helping local governments in
traffic management, as well as road construction and maintenance. Under Loan
2817-IND, DGBM is assisting four primary cities in this way, and the recently
approved Second Rural Roads Project will provide extensive assistance to
Kabupaten governments (including urbanizing Kabupatens). Tim Koordinasi is
currently reviewing agency roles, including formal recognition and strengthen-
ing of DGBM's role in traffic engineering and management, which would help
bring uniformity to and rationalize assistance to local governments.  In
addition to regulating public transport policy, DC.LT in effect cauiLrois the
state-nwned bus companies in the principal cities (PPD in Jakarta and DAMRI in
the main regional cities). Another national agency significantly involved in
urban transport is the national police force (for traffic regulation enforce-
ment).
1.20      In DKI-Jakarta, the BAPPEDA is responsible for the review and
integration of sectoral investment programs under DKI control. Coordination
with programs in the surrounding Province of West Java occurs through
Jabotabek BKSP (para 1.07). In practice, neither body exerts much influence
on centrally-funded programs of central agencies. The DKI-Jakarta public works
department (Dinas PU) is the agency responsible for the design, construction
and maintenance of the secondary and local road networks. The traffic and
transport planning department (Dinas LLAJR) is responsible for traffic
planning and the provision of traffic control devices (shared in practice with
Dinas PU which is also responsible for operation and maintenance of traffic
signals), and public transport regulation. Both Dinas have received technical
assistance under Loan 2049-IF which has begun strengthening their respective
capabilities. The local branch of the Traffic Division of the National Police
Force is responsible for the control and regulation of traffic. Further
strengthening of these agencies is necessary to better address traffic
management and transport regulation commensurate with Jabotabek's needs.
Urban Road Maintenance
1.21      There are about 3,400 km of roads of various width in DKI-Jakarta's
road inventory, however, an unknown but significant and rapidly growing amount
of roads provided by private developers has not yet been taken over by DKI.
Moreover non-vehicular kampung access roads do not feature in this inventory.
A sample survey in 1987 showed the general surface condition as 'fair'.
Expenditure in Jakarta on road maintenance (as distinct from improvement) in
1986/87 was about Rp 11 billion or 33% of transport expenditures by DKI-
Jakarta. About 70Z of this was spent on main roads. This amount is inadequate
for satisfactory routine and periodic maintenance, particularly of local
roads. Planning for maintenance is 'bottom-up' based on requests from local
offices, and 60% is carried out by private contractors and the remainder by
force account (limited to works costing <Rp 5 million). This strategy is
lacking in that most expenditure is for periodic deferred maintenance and
little for routine maintenance (which could prolong pavement life) due mainly
to lack of technical direction. The issues in road maintenance in DKI-Jakarta



- 12 -
are therefore: (a) improvement of planning procedures in order to achieve a
more cost effective maintenance strategy; (b) increasing the road maintenance
budget over time appropriately; and (c) handover and maintenance of private
sector investments in roads. MHA has recently issued a decree setting out the
procedure for handover of private infrastructure to local governments and
implementation of this policy is now required. MHA is also carrying out an
O&M policy study (funded from Loan 2408-IND--Fifth Urban Development Project)
intended to rationalize city government maintenance organization and asso-
ciated planning, budgeting and implementation procedures. This is to be
implemented in Regional Cities under Loan 2817-IND. While DKI-Jakarta's
present O&M system for road* is clearly superiur Eo that of many other cities,
some aspects of the forthcoming MHA guidelines should be implemented in
Jakarta.
Financing Expenditures in Urban Transport
1.22      In recent years direct central government spending on urban roads
(not including toll roads) has amounted to about 50% of all such investments,
and Central Government grants to local governments, for much of the remainder.
Locally generated (provincial and city) revenues account for about 10-20% of
funding, depending on location. In view of the pressing need for urban
transport investments and limitations on central government resources, it has
become clear that (a) cities will need to contribute substantially more of
their own resources for urban transport purposes (particularly maintenance),
and (b) a higher proportion of central government funding for urban transport
investments will need to be in the form of loans to cities rather than
grants. Financing of urban transport expenditures cannot, of course, be
considered in isolation from other urban infrastructure expenditures. The
situation is even more complex in urbanizing Kabupatens with substantial rural
infrastructure responsibilities. GOI has taken a number of promising steps to
assist local governments in increasing their financial participation in
development and increase cost recovery (para 1.03) from which DKI-Jakarta in
particular should benefit considerably. A fuller discussion of DKI-Jakarta
revenue improvement and expenditure financing is given in Chapter V below.
D. Bank Experience and Lending Strategy
1.23      Through its lending and sector work in Indonesia the Bank has sought
to (a) help formulate a realistic sector policy framework with particular
emphasis on planning, programming, finance and operations; (b) strengthen
agencies responsible for sector oversight and planning, implementation and
O&M, (c) improve resource mobilization and utilization in local governments,
and (d) focus project benefits on lower income groups. The Bank's strategy in
helping GOI attain both long and short-term goals is a step-by-step approach
with the agencies concerned involving mutually reinforcing sector level and
investment operations in parallel. The immediate objectives sought for the
sector and subsector are: (i) to improve expenditure efficiency in urban
infrastructure (and urban transport in particular) through an integrated
planning and programming approach; (ii) to increase local governments' finan-
cial resources and technical capabilities consistent with GOI's objective of
devolving more development responsibility; (iii) to improve traffic management
and road capacity; and (iv) to improve public transport conditions with



- 13 -
particular emphasis on the regulatory environment and the financial and
operational performance of the public bus companies.
1.24      The Bank has developed an extensive knowledge of the urban and
transport sectors through 12 urban projects (including one urban transport
project) agd nine road projects financed since 1969. Of these, ten have been
completed._   Overall, the institutional and development objectives of the
projects (which have had a strong poverty orientation), have been met.
Equally important has been the sucesss of project and sector work in assisting
the Government in formulating its overall program and policies in the sector.
Studies supported by the Bank and others during this period have helped in the
diagnosis and strengthening of local government fiscal and institutional
capacities, subsectoral investments, and O&M programming policies, and in
sector and housing finance and cost recovery. Drawing on this experience, an
Urban Sector Loan (No. 2816-IND) was approved by the Bank in FY87, which
addresses the longer-term issues in the sector and supports a number of areas
where policy and institutional reforms are needed. Among the difficulties
experienced in both urban and road projects to date have been: (a) an overly
centralized structure resulting in implementation inefficiencies; (b) con-
struction delays mostly due to cumbersome procurement practices; and (c) poor
maintenance of existing infrastructure. Experience in previous projects
involving DKI-Jakarta has been very good in general, particularly where DKI-
Jakarta has strong commitment to project funding and close control over imple-
mentation. A notable exception has been Loan 2236-IND (Jakarta Sewerage and
Sanitation Project) currently facing serious delays in completion of its
physical objectives. That project is the responsibility of DG Cipta Karye's
nascent Directorate of Environmental Sanitation and has suffered from lack of
any substantial involvement of DKI-Jakarta. The project has recently been
restructured to enable DKI-Jakarta to fully participate in its implementation.
1.25      The overall expenditure program for Jabotabek up to the end of
Repelita IV is subsumed in the sector expenditure program previously agreed in
terms of Loan 2816-IND (Urban Sector Loan, 1987) as illustrated in Annex 1,
Tables 1 and 4. A subsequent program for the Ropelita V period satisfactory
to the Bank would be determined in early 1989 (para. 2.7). Due to its magni-
tude, however, the implementation of the overall integrated urban infrastruc-
ture expenditure and institutional development program in Jabotabek would,
together with the proposed Bank support, be organized along broad sectoral
lines in order to facilitate program management in accordance with GOI's urban
development program format (para. 1.5). Under this approach the present pro-
ject will be concerned mainly with the urban transport aspects of the overall
9/   Three urban sector completion reports and Project Performance Audit
Reports (PPAR) have been issued to date: Loan 1040-IND - Jakarta Urban
Development Project (PPAR 4620); Loan 1049-IND - Five Cities Water Supply
Project (PPAR 6256); Loan 1336-IND - Second Urban Development Project
(PPAR 6329). The three transport sector completion reports and PPARs
issued to date are: Credit 154-IND - First Highway Project (PPAR 2098);
Credits 260 and 388-IND - Second and Third Highway Projects (PPAR 3267);
and Loan 1236-IND - Fourth Highway Project (PCR 5624).



- 14 -
Jabotabek program including major investments in roads and traffic engineering
as well as public transport. Following on the heels of this project GOI
expects shortly to undertake with Bank assistance a Second Jabotabek Urban
Developmnt Project which would mainly concern the urban water resources
managem_nt aspects of the overall program, i.e., raw and treated water supply,
waste disposal and water pollution control (para. 1.8). It is intended that
implementation of both projects would be managed and coordinated by DKI-
Jakarta to ensure appropriate consistency.



- 15 -
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin and Formulation
2.1       The principal focus of the project has been under discussion with
the Government for several years. Urban transport policy dialogue began in
1975 when the Bank was asked to comment on the German Government-financed
urban transport study for Jakarta. These discussions, and others based on
subsequent 1977 Bank mission findings, did not progress much due to the
Government's uncertainty about its approach to various urban transportation
investments being proposed by different agencies, and opposition to the Bank's
proposal to finance primarily short-term and relatively low-cost traffic
management and bus transportation improvements. During the early 1980s the
Ministry of Communications expressed renewed interest in the project, which
was followed up in 1984 with identification and preparation of a project
concentrated principally on traffic management and road upgrading measures to
be implemented by DKI-Jakarta.  During 1986 GOI introduced the concept of
integrated urban infrastructure development programming (IUIi4P) which provided
a broader context for the project and led to the present format.  The pro . t
as presently constituted was prepared with the assistance of consultants LU,
over a three-year period (1984-87) and was appraised during October, 1987.
Negotiations with the Government were held in Washington D.C. during
February 1-4, 1988. The GOI delegation was led by Mr. P.P. Simatupang, Chief
of Communications and Tourism Bureau, BAPPENAS.
B. Project Objectives and Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.2       The project's institutional objectives would be to:  (a) support
integrated infrastructure development planning and programming in the
Jabotabek region and urban transport programming in DKI-Jakarta in particu-
lar; (b) increase DKI's technical capabilities in preparing and implementing
road construction, and road rehabilitation and maintenance programs;
(c) improve traffic management in the region ; (d) improve Government's
policies, operations and regulations for public tLansport; and (e) prepare for
future integrated development expenditures in the urban sector. Through
phyeical improvements the project would (a) reduce traffic congestion in DKI-
Jakarta, (b) improve pedestrian access and road safety, (c) introduce public
transportation priority schemes, and (d) open up additional lands for urban
development in environmentally-safe fringe areas.
2.3       The principal strategy of the project is to improve expenditure
efficiency and resource mobilization in urban infrastructure, and urban
transport in particular, through an integrated planning and programming
approach that would build on institutional development commenced in earlier
10/ The consultants responsible for project preparation are a consortium of
Pamintori Cipta Ltd, BIEC International Inc., and PT Seecons (Indonesia)
in association with Colin Buchanan & Partners and T.P. O'Sullivan &
Partners (U.K.). The IUIDP aspects were prepared by UNCHS/UNDP Project
INS/85/005.



- 16 -
projects. The project would therefore serve as a logical extension of the
Government's and various donors' efforts (including the Bank's) in previous
urban and transport projects and would help to implement recent urban sector
policy initiatives.
C. Project Summary
2.4       The project would provide technical assistance for institutional
development and training in urban transport and urban management and include
physical works (mainly civil works and some equipment) for an extensive
program of road improvement and construction. Technical assistance would be
provided for (a) project implementation; (b) advibcry services in (i) inte-
grated infrastructure planning and programming; (ii) municipal revenue
improvement; (iii) urban transport planning and public transport regulation
development; (iv) traffic restraint policy development; (v) operational
improvements to public bus companies; and (vi) air quality monitoring;
(c) future expenditure program preparation; and (d) training in traffic
engineering. The physical components would include: (a) major upgrading of
about 90 km of primary and secondary arterial roads; (b) four major flyover
intersection improvements; (c) a four year program of traffic management and
road safety measures; (d) a four year program of road rehabilitation and
maintenance; and (e) about 35 km of development roads on the city's eastern
and western fringes and the former Kemayoran Airport site. These components
are discussed further below and detailed descriptions of the various physical
and technical assistance components are given in Annexes 4 and 5.
D. Institutional and Policy Development
2.5       The proposed project would address the following institutional and
policy development tasks through advisory services (about US$8 million; 3Z of
total project cost), aimed at five broad areas: (a) development if a five-year
integrated infrastructure investment program for the Jabotabek region;
(b) development of an integrated urban transport plan for the Jabotabek
region; (c) strengthening of national urban transport policy institutions;
(d) strengthening of DKI-Jakarta in revenue improvement and financial manage-
ment, transportation planning and regulation, and traffic management;
(e) improvement of public transport institutions; and (f) strengthening of air
pollution control policy and institutions. Assistance would also be provided
for the preparation of future integrated urban infrastructure projects in
Jabotabek and other large cities (US$3.3 million; 1%). Terms of reference for
the various assignments are outlined in Annex 5, Attachment 1.
Jabotabek Expenditure Planning and Programming
2.6       Integrated Urban Infrastructure Programmiag.  GOI has adopted a
policy of integrated investment programming as a precondition for Central
Government support for local government development (para 1.05). GOI will
expand the current Jabotabek planning and programing coordination arrange-
ments to undertake the preparation of a five-year expenditure program and
annual programs for the Jabotabek Level I and II local government areas during
FY89/90-93/94 in line with Tim Koordinasi IUIDP guidelines and Lhe RUTR Daerah
2005 master plan for DKI and structure plan for Jabotabek. The process to be
followed is described in Annex 1 and illustrated in Chart 2.
2.7       Advisory services included in the project would be provided by MHA's



- 17 -
Directorate General for Regional Development (DG Bangda) to BAPPEDAs of West
Java Province and DKI to help prepare the 5-year expenditure program and
initial annual program, financing plans and revenue improvement plans. The
work would also include the formulation and implementation of appropriate
environmental protection regulations and enforcement measures for the
environmentally-sensitive areas in DKI and West Java lying to the south of
Jakarta. Outline terms of reference are given in Annex 5. Full TOR were
prepared for negotiations by DG Bangda in collaboration with DC Cipta Karya
assisted by UNCHS/UNDP IUIDP Support Project (INS/85/005) and under the
guidance of Tim Koordinasi. The Jabotabek planning and programming process
arrangements were confirmed at negotiations and, GOI would enable and cause
the agencies concerned to carry out the preparation of and adopt by March 31,
1989 an integrated 5-year expenditure program and related first annual
program for Jabotabek (DKI-Jakarta, West Java Province and Kabupatens Bogor,
Bekasi and Tangerang, and Kotamadya Bogor) satisfactory to the Bank.
Thereafter GOI shall, in consultation with the Bank, prepare the subsequent
annual programs.
2.8       DKI-Jakarta Revenue Improvement.  The GOI's objective of
strengthening local government (as contained in the Statement of Policies for
Urban Development, para. 1.2) includes the strengthening of local government
revenues to help meet the growing burden of urban infrastructure financing.
GOI has begun to address this under the PBB Improvement Project being
implemented by the Ministry of Finance's Directorate General of Taxation (DC
Pajak) and assisted by the Loan 2816-IND. DKI, as the local authority with
the greatest revenue potential, will be a major beneficiary of the PBB program
to be implemented during the next two years. It is expected therefore that
DKI's revenues will show a significant increase over the next few years, and
its dependence on Central Government grants will decline as discussed in
Chapter 5. DKI's revenue potential lies chiefly in the assigned PBB tax and
in some of its direct routine revenues. Action plans (paras 5.7 and 5.10)
have been designed to facilitate a significant increase in DKI revenues over
the next few years in order to support DKI's expected development needs as
will be reflected in the forthcoming five-year expenditure program
(para. 4.3). DKI's financial management would be strengthened under the
action program also.
2.9       Assistance would be provided to (a) DKI-Jakarta's Dinas Pendepatan
(Revenue Department) to (i) improve tax administration (identification and
registration, assessment, and billing and collections), and (ii) support the
ongoing DG Pajak program for implementation of the PBB property tax; and
(b) BAPPEDA to improve financial management, in support of the revenue
improvement action plans. Outline terms of reference are given in Annex 5.
Urban Transport Action Plan
2.10      Recent studies estimate that person-trips in the Jabotabek area will
double during the 20-year lifetime of the current master plan to about 24
million/day from their present level of about 12 million. Current initiatives
in railway, bus and traffic solutions are proceeding more or less indepen-
dently and in sum offer an ineffective and unaffordable solution (para 1.15).
The project would attempt to lay the groundwork for an integrated multi-modal
solution based on a three pronged approach consisting of (a) strengthening the
subsector coordination and policy/planning framework; (b) preparation of an



- 18 -
integrated urban transport development program; and (c) implementing subsidi-
ary action plans aimed at improving the performance of all modes. The draft
Urban Transport Development Action Plan agreed at negotiations intended to
accomplish these objectives is summarized in Annex 2, and would reflect
various subsidiary action plans, as described below.
2.11      Urban Transport Policy and Program Coordination.  The significance
of the role of urban transport in efficient urban management as well as its
large investment and OEM needs warrant close attention by TKPP. In order to
better coordinate urban transport policies and related intersectoral policies
as well as urban transport investment programs TKPP has recently been
strengthened through formalization of the membership of the key agencies
concerned with urban traffic and transportation, DC Land Transport (DGLT) and
DC Bina Marga (DGBM). Representatives of DGLT and DGBM are now included in
TKPP's standing committees and an urban transport working group has been
formed (see Chart 1). As a condition of effectiveness TKPP would adopt an
Urban Transport Development Action Plan (para 2.10) satisfactory to the Bank.
2.12      Intermodal Planning.  An integrated urban transport plan for the
future of Jabotabek would seek to optimize the comparative advantages of the
different modes (private and public--buses and rail) and their infrastructure
requirements in a least-cost, viabl3 solution. Such a solution would
undoubtedly include a new mass transit component, as well as seek to achieve
efficiency in conventional existing systems. Separate rights-of-way (mainly
within existing ROWs) will be required since Jakarta's mixed traffic roads
will not otherwise permit a mass transit solution due to unavoidable conges-
tion. This approach is more fully described in Annex 2. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that GOI would cause DKI-Jakarta's Dinas LLAJR under
the joint supervision of DKI and West Java Bappedas, DGBM and DGLT and the
guidance of TKPP to carry out: (a) a review (based on available data), of
projected transport demand and existing modal capacities and roles, and
identify a transport corridor network together with policies and plans for an
integrated transport system including mass transit options, and discuss the
options and proposals with the Bank by March 31, 1990; and (b) in collabora-
tion with the agencies concerned (including PJKA and PPD) detailed action
plans for bus, rail and other modes to be discussed with the Bank by March 31,
1991. Outline terms of reference for consultants to be appointed by
September 30, 1988 to assist DLLAJR in this task are given in Annex 5.
2.13      Jabotabek Railway.  The current proposals for Jabotabek railway
development (para 1.15) indicate that project will not serve a useful mass
transit function but will be limited mainly to serving commuter traffic
between Botabek and Jakarta. These trips will likely constitute about 2-3% of
total Jabotabek trip demand in 2005. As part of the integrated urban trans-
port planning effort (para 2.12) the role of the Jabotabek railway and its
current development would be evaluated. An action plan for an appropriate
railway investment program and operational improvements intended to maximize
revenues and minimize investment and operating costs is expected to result
from these studies and the parallel work being carried out under the recently
approved Railway Technical Assistance Loan (Ln. 2891-IND).
2.14      Bus Transport.  The choice of mass transit technology and its
staging (buses, trolleys, trains) will be an important step, but in any event
the current condition of the Jabotabek public bus operations of PPD, if



- 19 -
allowed to persist, would not only inhibit an important option but also likely
result in an inadequate conventional service.  Irmediate action is needed to
restructure PPD's systems and operations in order to provide an effective and
viable large bus service in Jakarta (para 1.16). A similar situation exists,
although to a considerably lesser degree in DAMRI operations in regional
cities. An agreed Bus Transport Action Plan of measures for (a) restructuring
of PPD and (b) assistance to DAMRI, has been prepared and discussed with the
agencies concerned and is contained in Annex 3. Related actions by DCLT and
DKI's DLLAJR to strengthen regulation of public transport and improve
licensing terms and arrangements are also discussed in Annex 3. At negotia-
tions assurances were obtained that GOI would cause the agencies concerned to
implement with the assistance of consultants a PPD/DAMRI Transport Action Plan
and timetable satisfactory to the Bank.
2.15      Agreed terms of reference for the consulting assistance to (a) PPD
and DAMRI; (b) Dinas LLAJR (together with strengthening its urban transport
planning and traffic management and engineering capacity--para 2.16); and
(c) DGLT are outlined in Annex 5, Attachment 1.
Road Planning and Traffic Management
2.16      Effective road network planning and traffic management have been
hampered in the past due to weaknesses in organization and skills in the
agencies responsible. Responsibilities have been clarified and Dinas LLAJR in
DKI is being strengthened through reorganization and recruitment of staff to
address transport planning and traffic management and engineering, as well as
public transport planning and regulation (para 1.20). The project would
support the strengthening of Dinas LLAJR through the provision of the consult-
ing assistance mentioned above (para 2.15) to address traffic restraint
policies, traffic engineering measures, public transport planning and regula-
tion (see Annex 2 for DLLAJR's traffic management action plan and Annex 3 for
its public transport action plan). Formal training of new entrants would
occur through the DGLT training college at Bekasi (para 2.23).
2.17      An important adjunct to traffic management is of course traffic
regulation enforcement. In order to strengthen enforcement in Jakarta and
other cities, and improve understanding of trAffic management and engineering
principles, assistance would be provided to the National Traffic Police
Training College at Serpong for training and equipment (para 2.23).
Roads O&M
2.18      O&M of primary roads in DKI is reads ably well provided for but
local roads have received less than optimal attention. Moreover, many roads
provided by the private sector are often not recorded as part of DKI's
inventory and suffer premature deterioration. The project would support
incremental expenditures in O&M to be focussed on a planned local roads
maintenance program, based on an O&M planning system developed by the Ministry
of Rome Affairs for local government usage (para 1.21). Assistance wc,uld be
provided to DKI's Dinas PU in installing and operating the MHA system in one
of the City's five road maintenance units and in advising DKI on appropriate
hand-over policies for privately funded infrastructure. Agreed terms of
reference are outlined in Annex 5.



- 20 -
Air Pollution Monitoring
2.19      As a result of reduced congestion, better bus flows and bus engine
maintenance the project is expected to contribute to a lessening of motor
vehicle emission-related air pollution. In parallel, a comprehensive approach
to avoiding and controlling air pollution is being followed by GOI including
better spatial planning and recent initiatives to reduce lead content in its
motor fuels and improve engine technology and maintenance. In order to better
address and quantify Jakarta's growing air pollution problems the present
system of fixed and mobile air quality monitoring stations maintained by the
Meteorological Bureau (BMG) and DKI's Center for Urban Research (P4L) would be
improved and extended and impact monitoring by the Ministry of Health (Annex
10). The project would include advisory services to these agencies for the
upgrading of the existing system, provision of monitoring equipment, and
training in analytical techniques and interpretatt nn. An outline of the
agreed terms of reference is given in Annex 5,
Future Project Preparation
2.20      Engineering and advisory services will also be provided to:
(a) prepare future integrated urban infrastructure projects in other
metropolitan and large cities (as currently under study with assistance from
Loans 1972, 2408 and 2236-IND), and study the feasibility and appropriate
development management arrangements for the Kemayoran Airport Site development
(para 2.04), and (b) study the feasibility and prepare a project for a
possible mass transit system in Jabotabek (para 2.12). Terms of reference
would be prepared by MPW's Directorate General Cipta Karya and DCLT
respectively following completion of the preliminary studies.
E. Trainin'
2.21      Agencies Targeted for Development.  At the National Government
level, those agencies targeted for strengthening under the project are:
(a) the DCLT's Urban Transport Directorate (LLAK) for development of
urban transport policies and technical assistance capacity,
particularly for Jabotabek (and for other major cities in
collaboration with LLAJR), and for operational assistance to
publicly-owned bus companies (para 2.14);
(b) the DCLT's Transportation Directorate (LLAJR) for development of
vehicle emission control policy and strengthening of air quality
moni.;oring in Jakarta (para 2.19); and
(c) the National Traffic Police (SATLANTAS) for traffic law enforcement
and development of traffic management skills (para 2.23).
2.22      Within DKI-Jakarta those agencies targeted for strengthening are:
(a) BAPPEDA for urban infrastructure and Jabotabek urban transportation
investment programming (in collaboration with West Java BAPPEDA and
the Jabotabek BKSP planning coordination body), and financial
management (para 2.07);



- 21 -
(b)  Dinas Pendepatan for revenue and tax administration improvement
(para 2.08);
(c)  Dinas PU for road maintenance/rehabilitation (para 2.18); and
(d)  Dinas LLAJR for transportation network planning, traffic management,
traffic engineering and public transport regulation (para 2.16).
2.23      The foregoing agencies would benefit trom on-the-job training
provided by the various advisors under the technical assistance program
described in Section C above. In addition formal training under the project
as suomarized below (US$5 million; 2% of total project costs) would provide
classrom training and instruction intended to strengthen transportation and
traffic engineering education in Indonesia (details are given in Annex 5):
(a)  Traffic Engineering Education.  DGLT's Training College at Bekasi
has developed with assistance from Loan 2049-IND a successful
training curriculum for a three-year traffic engineering diploma.
Under this project this course would be expanded and continued and
in addition, a four-year full degree course would be established
together with shorc courses in public transportation engineering.
The courses would be opened to students from all levels of
government rather than just DGLT candidates as in the past. Campus
facilities would be expanded slightly to accommodate the expected
increase in student intake from 40 to 100 students per year.
(b)  Traffic Police Training.  The project would help establish the
training program of the new Traffic Police Training College at
Serpong by training trainers, developing curricula and implementing
new courses. About 600 students per year drawn from the 12,000
traffic police throughout Indonesia would be expected to benefit
from the college programs.
(c)  Traffic Engineering Practice.  The training program initiated under
Loan 2817-IND (Regional Cities Urban Transport Project) will be
extended to include traffic engineering training for Jakarta and
Botabek cities.
F. Physical Components
2.24      Physical works.  The project investments would address the current
backlog of road infrastructure, traffic engineering, and road maintenance and
rehabilitation needs of the DKI-Jakarta administrative area. The following
physical components were confirmed at negotiations and would be implemented
over a six-year period from April 1988 through March 1994:
(a)  Primary Arterial (National) Roads (US$29 million i.e., 13% of total
project cost): construction by DGBM of 10 km of new road links to
further develop the major road network of the city;
(b) Secondary Arterial (Local) Roads (US$66.2 million; 30Z): (i)
construction by DKI-Jakarta of 14 km of new road links, and (ii)
together with DGBH, widening or major reconstruction of 52 km of
existing road links to further develop the supporting arterial road
network of the city;



- 22 -
(c) Major Intersections (US$23.1 million; 10%): reconstruction of four
intersections (one by DGBM and three by DKI-Jakarta) through the
provision of grade separations (flyovers) to alleviate severe
traffic congestion;
(d) Development Roads (US$39.4 million; 18%): construction of about 35
km of new roads by DKI-Jakarta on the eastern and western fringes of
the city and on the former Kemayoran Airport site, together with key
infrastructure, to extend the arterial road system and to facilitate
city growth and development;
(e) Traffic Management (US$27.9 million; 14%): provision by DKI-Jakarta
of: (i) comprehensive improvements to the city main road network
(including selective repaving, drainage and geometric improvement
measures) which will involve less than full road reconstruction;
(ii) bus priority measures (including bus lanes), (iii) traffic
signal equipment at about 25 intersections; (iv) improvement of
individual intersections; (v) pedestrian improvements (including
provision and upgrading of footpaths along arterial streets, and
provision of at-grade and grade-separated street crossings), and
(vi) a city-wide street signing and road marking program; and
(f) Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance (US$3.5 million; 2%): four-year
program of routine and periodic maintenance (including institutional
development).
2.25      Technical assistance (US$12.8 million; 5% of total project cost) as
follows would be provided to DCBM and DKI to assist with project
implementation management and accounting, final engineering design and
construction supervision (terms of reference are outlined in Annex 5,
Attachment 1):
(a) to the DKI-Jakarta Project Coordination Office (JUPCO--located in
BAPPEDA) for overall project coordination and project accounting;
(b) to the DKI-Jakarta Public Works Department (Dinas PU) for final
engineering design end construction supervision of DKI-Jakarta road
construction components, and for assisting in the management of the
road rehabilitation/maintenance program;
(c) to DKI-Jakarta Traffic and Transport Department (Dinas LLAJR) for
further preparation of traffic management schemes under the project,
and for administering on-going traffic management programs; and
(d) to DGBM for final engineering design and construction supervision.



- 23 -
III. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Project Costs
3.1       The total project cost as shown in Table 3.1 below is estimated to
be about Rp 370 billion (US$224 million equivalent), including estimated
direct and indirect foreign exchange costs component of about Rp 176 billion
(US$106 million equivalent) or about 47% of total, and estimated taxes
equivalent to about Rp 16 billion (US$10 million). Base costs are estimated
as of January 1988. Physical contingencies have been estimated at 7.5Z for
civil works and equipment. Price contingencies are estimated at 10% for 1987,
5% for 1988, and 3.5% in 1989 and thereafter on domestic costs, and at 3.0% in
1987, 1% in 1988 through 1990, and 3.5% in 1991 and thereafter on foreign
costs. Price contingencies total Rp 24 billion (US$14.3 million equivalent)
or 7Z of total base costs plus physical contingencies. Land acquisition costs
estimated at about US$31 million are included in the base costs. Detailed
cost estimates are given in Annex 6.
Table 3.1: ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
Component                Local  Foreign  Total   Z   Local  Foreign  Total  Z
-- US$ million --  foreign ---Rp billion ----   total
Arterial roads
and intersections       60.4   43.7   104.1   42    99.6    72.1  171.7    52
Development roads         21.2   13.3    34.5   38    35.0    21.9   56.9    17
Traffic management        13.2   14.7    27.9   53    21.8    24.2   46.0    14
Road maintenance           1.7    1.8      3.5   52      2.8      3.0    5.8      2
Training                   1.4    3.6      5.0   73      2.3      6.0    8.3      3
Tech. assistance           9.0   15.8    24.8   64    14.9    26.1   40.9    12
Base cost (1/88)      106.9   92.9   199.8   47   176.3   153.5  329.6   100
Physical cont.             4.4    5.4      9.9   55      7.3      9.0   16.3      5
Price cont.                6.4    7.9    14.3   55    10.6    13.0   23.6         7
Total project cost/a  117.7  106.2   223.9   47   194.3   175.2  369.5   112
/a  Including estimated taxes US$10 million equivalent.



- 24 -
3.2       Cost estimates are based on (a) detailed engineering designs for 30X
of the road construction components and preliminary engineering designs for
all remaining civil works components (except those minor traffic engineering
and road rehabilitation works which will be developed on an annual program-
matic basis); and (b) the prices of technical assistance contracts executed in
1987-88. Detailed designs and tender documents for components to be imple-
mented during the first year of the project are mostly complete. Costs for
advisory services in support of institutional and policy development, project
implementation, and future project preparation are estimated to total US$24.8
million, comprised of about 240 man-years of local consultants and about 80
man-years of foreign consultants.
B. Financing Plan
3.3       Project Financing.  The proposed Bank loan of US$150.0 million would
contribute about 67X of the total project cost, or 70Z of the project cost net
of identifiable taxes and duties. The loan would cover the entire foreign
exchange costs estimated at about US$106 million and local costs of US$44
million equivalent. Counterpart funds would be provided by Central Government
(US$27 million) and by DKI-Jakarta (US$47 million) as shown in Table 3.2
below.
Table 3.2: FINANCING PLAN
Source                Local   Foreign    Total
---US$ million ----
Central Government    27.0                 27.0
DKI-Jakarta            46.9                46.9
IBRD                   43.8    106.2      150.0
Total            117.7    106.2      223.9
3.4       Flow of Funds.  For components implemented by DKI-Jakarta, Bank loan
proceeds totalling US$89 million will be on-lent under a subsidiary loan
agreement. The on-lent funds will finance about 65Z of the total DKI-Jakarta
components, with the remainder (US$46.9 million equivalent) coming from DKI-
Jakarta revenues. For components implemented by DGBM and DGLT, part of the
Bank loan proceeds (about US$61 million) and governmenL funds totalling US$27
million would flow as Central Government contributions. A detailed financing
plan is shown in Annex 8.
3.5       On-lending Terms.  GOI would bear the foreign exchange risk, and
will absorb the interest rate variation on the proceeds on-lent to DKI-Jakarta
at a fixed interest rate of 101 per annum. DKI-Jakarta would pay the commit-
ment fee on the portion of the total loan amount allocated for its components
under the project. The on-lending period would be the same as for the Bank
loan to the Government, i.e., for 20 years wich 5 years grace. Confirmation



- 25 -
of the main term and conditions of the subsidiary loan agreement between the
Government and DKI-Jakarta was obtained during negotiations. The foreign
exchange risk vill be borne by the Government. Execution of a subsidiary loan
agreement between the Borrower and DKI-Jakarta satisfactory to the Bank would
be a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan.



- 26 -
IV. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Implementation Arrangements
4.1       The project would be executed principally by DGLT, DGBM and DKI-
Jakarta. Certain minor components will be executed by DG Bangda and DG Cipta
Karya. All physical components under the project will be implemented by DKI-
Jakarta and Bina Marga.
4.2       Project Coordination and Monitoring.  DKI-Jakarta will be responsi-
ble for the overall project coordination and monitoring, and will establish
and staff a Project Coordination Office (JUPCO) under DKI's BAPPEDA for this
purpose. JUPCO will also be responsible for overall management and control of
all project components to be implemented by DKI-Jakarta. (These components
represent, in aggregate about 60% of the total project cost and 70% of civil
works to be implemented under the project). The Project Management Unit which
was established under the Urban Roads Planning Directorate of DGBM for prepa-
ration and management of the Regional Cities Urban Transport Project (Loan
2817-IND), will be strengthened to take responsibility for the coordination of
all DGBM project components, and for oversight of the project physical
components overall. This office will also provide support to DKI-Jakarta as
requested. (See Chart 3 for an overview of the project organizational
structure).
4.3       JUPCO would consolidate information from the various project
implementation units and prepare quarterly reports on project progress
(procurement, construction, financial and institutional) in Bahasa
Indonesia. Suammaries of the quarterly report in English would be prepared for
transmittal to the Bank. The report would be submitted through DGBM's Urban
Roads Planning Directorate which would review physical progress and assist in
resolving problems encountered with major structures. JUPCO would also
arrange for the preparation of consolidated project account statements for
annual auditing purposes. Consultants would be appointed to assist and advise
JUPCO in overall project coordination and monitoring of implementation and
project accounting. JUPCO would be responsible for preparation of the Project
Completion Report.
4.4       Implementation.  Each project execution agency will establish and
staff project management and implementation units to be responsible for the
management and execution of their respective projects as follows:
(a) DKI-Bappeda will be responsible for hiring of all technical
assistance required by BAPPEDA and coordinating all other technical
assistance required by DKI for the purposes of the project. DKI's
Dinas PU will be responsible for procurement and supervision of all
DKI component civil works, and goods and carrying out works by force
account other than traffic engineering works. DKI's Dinas LLAJR
would be responsible for procurement and supervision of civil works
and goods relating to traffic engineering improvements.



- 27 -
(b)  DGBM's Directorate PJK will be responsible for hiring of all
technical assistance and for procurement and supervision of all
civil works and goods related to the DGBM component.
(c) DGLT's Directorate of Urban Traffic and Transport (LLAK) will be
responsible for the procurement of all technical assistance,
training activities and works for the DGLT component.
(d) DGBangda will be responsible for procuring the Jabotabek IUIDP
advisory assistance and DG Cipta Karya will be responsible for
procuring the Kemayoran Site development and the Metropolitan/Large
Cities IUIDP assistance.
4.5       The abovementioned arrangements were confirmed at loan
negotiations. Agreed terms of reference for the assistance to JUPCO for
project coordination, and to Dinas PU and DGBM for assistance with final
engineering design and construction supervision are outlined in Annex 5.
Assurances were obtained from GOI at negotiations that the JUPCO consultants
would be appointed by June 30, 1988.
B. Implementing Agencies
DKI-Jakarta
4.6       The Public Works Department (Dinas PU).  rhe Department is organized
and adequately staffed to implement DKI-Jakarta's Rp 55 billion annual public
works program. The project, however, would increase the annual roads portion
of Dinas PU's program about 50% during the life of the project and, thus, a
modest amount of technical assistance for construction management and
supervision will be provided (para 2.6). Technical assistance will also be
provided to strengthen maintenance planning (para 2.20).
National Agencies
4.7       Directorate General Bina Marga.  DGBM is responsible for the
planning, construction and maintenance of the national road network except for
secondary and local roads in municipal areas. The organization is divided
into six Directorates: Planning, Urban Roads, three regional implementation
directorates, and an Equipment Directorate. Approximately 8,000 personnel are
employed by Bina Marga, of whom 4,000 are permanent employees. Of these,
approximately 1,500 hold professional qualifications and about 1,000 are
engineers. Despite significant staff increases over recent years and
substantial training efforts, there is still a recognized shortage of
qualified personnel. DGBM's policy in these circumstances is to make use of
consultants to fill gaps in key tasks such as construction supervision.
4.08      DGBM's Urban Roads Directorate will, under this project, assume
responsibilities under its second Bank-funded project. The Directorate was
set up in 1984 to respond to the growing problems in the urban transport
sector, is organized into three regional divisions and a research division.
The regional divisions of the Directorate are responsible for planning,
design, and monitoring of DGBM's urban investment program and the provision of
technical advice to cities.



- 28 -
4.09      Directorate General of Land Transport (DGLT) is responsible for
oversight and planning of the land transport sector including road traffic and
transport, ferries and inland waterways, and the technical supervision of the
State Railways Corporation and the two state-owned bus companies PPD and
DA41I. The Secretariate DGLT and Directorates LLAJR (Highway Traffic and
Transport) and LLAK (Urban Traffic and Transport) have the main responsibili-
ties in DCLT in regard to urban transport matters. In practice LLAJR influ-
ence is better established in relation to Regional Cities, and Jabotabek mat-
ters have been the main focus of LLAK since its formation in 1980. The Secre-
tariate's role at present (in the absence of appropriate capacity in the
Secretary General's Office in MOC), includes the coordination of different
land transport modal plans. LLAK as an etmerging force in urban transport,
suffers from weak staffing and lack of experience, as well as unclear defiy7
tion of its role vis-a-vis DGBM in traffic and transport planning matters.-
The project would provide assistance to LLAK for development of its public
transport planning and regulation functions as well as address the operational
problems of PPD and DAMRI in accordance with an Action Plan of measures based
on the recommendations of the National Public Transport Study (paras. 2.14-
2.16).
C. Implementation Schedule
4.10      The project would be implemented over a six year period, April 1988
through March 1994 in accordance with the implementation schedule shown in
Annex 6, Table 2. Detailed engineering and tender documents have been com-
pleted for all road components to be implemented during the first year of the
project. Related land acquisition (para 4.19) is proceeding satisfactorily.
The tendering process for the first set of contracts will begin during early
1988 and contract awards are expected during April/May 1988.
D. Procurement and Disbursement
Procurement
4.11      Civil Works.  The estimated total value of civil works under the
project is about US$155 million including contingencies. Larger contracts
(over US$3.0 million each) for road construction and corridor improvements,
totalling about US$60 million, will be procured following international
10/ In the GOI Urban Sector Policy Action Plan agreed under Loan 2816-IND,
(Uroan Sector Loan) Tim Koordinasi is examining the respective roles of
DGBM and DGLT and is expected to recommend assigning primary
responsibilities as follows: (a) for traffic engineering and management
local governments would be assigned responsibility following development
of their capacity; (b) at the national level DGBM would be assigned sole
responsibility for development of standards for traffic management, road
capacity improvement and the provision of traffic control and regulatory
devices; and (c) DGLT would take full responsibility for public transport
planning and regulation and gradually devolve this function to local
governments.



- 29 -
competitive bidding (ICB) procedures consistent with Bank guidelines. Minor
contracts totalling about US$95 million not likely to interest foreign bidders
would be procured through local competitive bidding (LCB) in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to tne Bank. (See Annex 7 for further details on con-
tract packaging). Foreign contractors would be eligible to bid on contracts
to be awarded under LCB procedures. About US$1.8 million for trafffic engi-
neering improv eme nts costing less than about US$5,000 each will be executed by
the DKI-Jakarta force account. These works are not suitable for private con-
tractors due to the difficulty in specifying the work to be performed.
4.12      Equipmnt.  Traffic signal and other related equipment totallitg
about US$4.1 million equivalent in contracts exceeding US$200,000 value, 'iill
be procured under ICB procedures in acccordance with Bank guidelines. Quali-
fying domestic manufacturers will receive a preference in bid evaluation of
15% or the import duty, whichever is less. Miscellaneous goods costing less
than US$20,000 equivalent and totalling not more than US$1 million may be pro-
cured by prudent local shopping.
4.13      Procurement arrangements for the project are summarized in Table 4.1
below:
Table 4.1:  PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Expenditure category                       Procurement procedure
ICB     LCB      Other      N.A.    Total
Civil works                         59.3     93.4       1.8                154.5
(44.7)   (74.5)    (1.3)/a            (120.5)
Equipment                            4.1      1.0                            5.1
(4.0)    (1.0)                         (5.0)
Technical assistance and training                      24.5                 24.5
(24.5)              (24.5)
Land and taxes                                                    39.8      39.8
(0.0)    (0.0)
Total                           63.5     94.4      26.3       39.8    223.9
(48.7)   (75.5)   (25.8)      T(0.)  (150.0)
/a   Force account works for minor traffic engineering improvements.
Note: Amounts in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.



- 30 -
4.14      Procurement Reviews.  Bidding documents for all civil works con-
tracts exceeding US$1 million equivalent in value and equipment contracts
exceeding US$500,000 in value (representing about 60% of the total value of
procurement) would be subject to prior review by the Bank. The balance of
contracts for goods and civil works will be subject to random post-review by
the Bank. A unit price analysis with supporting documents will be submitted
for Bank review before the first reimbursement for force account works is
claimed. Contractors for major civil and structural works would be prequa-
lified in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank. All technical
assistance would be procured in accordance with Bank guidelines and all tech-
nical assistance contracts will be subject to the Bank's prior review. All
proposed direct appointments would be subject to prior review by the Bank. A
summary of review procedures is given in Annex 7.
Disbursement
4.15      Bank loan disbursements would be made against the following cate-
gories of expenditures:
(a) 75Z of the cost of civil works executed under contract by DGBM and
DGLT;
(b) 75% of the cost of civil works and traffic engineering works and
100% of maintenance executed under contract and by force account by
DKI;
(c) 100% of the CIF cost of directly imported goods, 95% of ex-factory
costs of locally manufactured goods and 65% of imported goods
procured locally; and
(d) 100% of the costs of technical assistance and training-related
expenditures.
4.16      Tn order to facilitate disbursements, a Special Account would be
opened in Bank Indonesia for the purposes of the project by the Ministry of
Finance. The use of the Special Account would be limited by GOI (in terms of
present regulations) to withdrawals relating to expenditures on contracts paid
wholly in local currency. This category is expected to include almost all
civil works under the project totalling about Rp 255 billion (US$155 million
equivalent). The account would be maintained in US$ and an initial deposit of
US$6 million (equivalent to expected average disbursements during a four-month
period) would be made. Witbdrawals would be made on the basis of (a) SPMs
(Orders-to-Pay in respect of APBN DIP expenditures) or (b) SPMLKs (Orders-to-
Pay in respect of loan-funded expenditures by DKI) issued by the MOF's
Directorate of Budget Administration (TUA) for eligible project expenditures,
and (c) debit advices issued by Bank Indonesia.
4.17      At the initiative of GOI, replenishments of the Special Account
would be made monthly or whenever the balance reaches 50% of the initial
deposit amount, whichever occurs first. The estimated replenishment schedule
and related disbursement schedule is shown in Annex 8, Table 2.
Replenishments would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOE)



- 31 -
procedures satisfactory to the Bank or, in the case of expendit.res related to
contracts procured under ICB procedures, full documentation. Supporting
docuL.entation for the SOEs would be maintained by TUA and DKI's Project
Coordination Office (JUPCO). Disbursements against expenditures in respect of
contracts involving foreign currency payments would be made following IBRD
direct payment withdrawal procedures.
4.18      The proposed disbursement period of 7 years is consistent with the
disbursement profile for the urban sector in Indonesia. This schedule is con-
sidered reasonable since project preparation, including detailed engineering
and land acquisition, is well advanced. Due to the expected commencement of
implementation as from April 1, 1988 prior to loan signing, the Bank would
retroactively finance eligible expenditures incurred after March 31, 1988 up
to a maximum of about US$5 million. The loan closing date would be March 31,
1995.
E. Land Acquisition
4.19      Land acquisition under the project is substantial, involving acqui-
sition for road widening in well developed areas, and for new roads on the
developing urban fringes of the city. The total land acquisition cost (esti-
mated at US$30 million) represents nearly 13% of the total project cost and
affects road construction and traffic management components representing
approximately 68Z of the total project cost. Approximately 250 ha of land
alongside existing rights-of-way needs to be acquired to accommodate the road
construction components under the project. About 80 ha related to the western
guided land development would be acquired by DKI-Jakarta under agreements with
private developers that will provide for thev reimbursenent of DKI's costs.
The resettlement aspects of the land acquisition program are discussed in
para. 6.9. To reduce the risk that delays in land acquisition will adversely
affect project implementation, the project implementation schedule has been
phased in stages to take into account the time it will take to assemble the
land. All needed properties would be acquired during the budget year prior to
the implementation of the component concerned in accordance with well estab-
lished procedures. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that land acqui-
sition and resettlement required will be carried out in accordance with a plan
and implementation schedule satisfactory to the Bank.
F. Accounts and Audits
4.20      JUPCO as the lead project coordination unit (para. 4.2), will have
overall responsibility for establishing and monitoring the use of a uniform
project accounting system. Subproject financial records arn accounts will be
maintained by JUPCO based on copies of financial and supporting documents ob-
tained from the agency project managers and relevant external agencies con-
cerned with project funding, payment and reimbursement. JUPCO would transmit
to the Bank on at least a quarterly basis up-to-date subproject account
recor1s consolidated into a single project account for monitoring purposes
and annually for audit purposes. The audit statements would deal with the
Central, and DKI-Jakarta government funds provided as well as disbursements
by the Bank, and would include opinions on all expenditures including those
made against Statements of Expenditure. While the accounting and auditing



- 32 -
approach outlined above is agreed to in principle, no staff have been
appointed to date to establish an operating system. Accountants would be
appointed as part of the advisory assistance to JUPCO (para 2.6). Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that (a) the consolidated project account,
including documentation on Statements of Expenditure# will be audited annually
in a timely fashion by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and
(b) DKI-Jakarta will submit annually to the Bank certified copies of the
audited project account no later than nine months after the end of each fiscal
year co_ eencing in FY88189.



- 33 -
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS OF DKI-JAKARTA
A. Current Financial Condition of DKI-Jakarta
5.1       National Overview.  Overall regional government expenditures grew
during Repelita III at over 25% p.a. on average (chiefly due to the influence
of the INPRES program).  Total expenditure by regional governments during
Repelita III was about Rp 13.5 billion, representing about 5% of GDP. The
proportion spent on urban infrastructure and services was about 5%. Unless
there is some major reordering of priorities, local governments must mobilize
more revenue in order to sustain even present expenditure levels much less
provide for future growth (para 1.3). The sources of finance for Level I and
II regional governments are: (a) central government grants (including DIP
grants administered by central government departments and INPRES and SDO
grants channelled for development and routine expenditures respectively);
(b) assigned revenues, levied by central government but assigned wholly or in
part to regional government (e.g. property tax (PBB) revenues); (c) revenue
from local taxes and service charges, including revenues of local enterprises
and service departments; and (d) loay!L to regional governments and enterprises
(from domestic and foreign sources)."'  There is no single comprehensive
source of information on regional government finance but consolidated
accounts' prepared by Bank staff indicate that total revenues of local
governments in 1983/84 (not including grants through the development budgets
(DIPs) of ministerial line agencies) was Rp 3.9 trillion, comprised 75Z of
central government grants (consisting of 53% routine and 47% development
grants), 13% local taxes and charges, 3.5% PBB, 0.8% loans and 7% others. The
role of grant finance as a proportion of regional government revenue has been
growing but this trend clearly must change in the light of the recent fall in
central government revenues.
5.2       DKI-Jakarta is a unique Level I local government (Province) with
revenues and expenditures typical of both a city and a province. The fiscal
base of DKI-Jakarta is stronger than that of other cities in the country. Its
per capita resources for example, are more than three times those of Surabaya.
As shown in Annex 9, Table 1, in the last six years (GOI's FY81/82-FY86/87),
despite uneven performance in individual categories of receipts, its total
resources have almost doubled from Rp 217 billion to Rp 409 billion, repre-
senting an average annual growth rate of almost 14% in nominal terms or some
11/ Local enterprise accounts (e.g. water enterprises) are maintained
separately and do not figure in local government accounts other than in
the form of transfers to the enterprises as equity or routine budget
support or from the enterprises as profit sharing. The various sources
and their trends and characteristics and recommendations for
strengthening of local government finances are discussed in a racent
sector study of local government finance carried out as part of a
forthcoming Bank review of public resource management in Indonesia
(Report No. 7007-IND). Several of the recommendations are under
implementation with assistance from Loan 2816-IND.



- 34 -
42 in real terms during this period. While part of the increase resulted from
larger transfers from the Central Government (i.e. SDO routine salary grants),
self-generated revenues have also increased steadily overall, at an annual
average rate of 13X in nominal terms (about 31 in real terms) during FY81/82-
86/87, comprising 522 of its total resources per capita in FY86/87. This was
mainly through the performance of service charges which grew at over 162 p.a.
during this time. Local taxes, however, showed no growth in real terms during
this period despite a growth in GRDP of over 10X p.a. DKI-Jakarta is rela-
tively less reliant than other Indonesian cities on central government budge-
tary support for both routine and development expenditures but, as indicated
in the,211lowing Table 5.1, Jakarta receives considerably more in per capita
terms.-
Table 5.1: FISCAL BASES OF DKI-JAKARTA AND OTHER REGIONAL CITIES IN FY85/86
Expenditures                     Resources           Per-capita  Revenues
Population                                                                         as X of
City        1985/86      Routine  Dev't  Total  Local   Central   Loans    Revn. Res.  resources
(million)     --------------- Rp billion -------------------         Rp'000
DKI          6.85           178     231    409      213    185        12        31    60      52
Surabaya      2.25           19      17      36       19     13        4         8    16      53
Bandung       1.64           15      11      26       12     13        2          7    16     45
Medan         1.64           11      17      28       10      6       12         6    17       36
Semarang      1.32           10      15      25       8      13        4         6    19      33
Total   13.70          233      291    524      262    230       34         19    38      50
5.3       Development funds derived from DKI-Jakarta's oywl resources (i.e.,
excluding assigned taxes (Ipeda/PBB) and Inpres Date II)_  and transferred
from the routine budget, increased by 11. p.a. in nominal terms from Rp 80
billion in FY81/82 to Rp 146 billion in FY86/87, representing 682 of the
city's development funds in the latter year. Central government development
12/ The inclusion of ministerial line agency development expenditures in
Jakarta (excluded from this analysis of DKI's fiscal capacity) influences
this indicator significantly. If the bus and railway expenditures dis-
cussed in par&. 1.7 are taken into account per capita expenditures by
Central Government in Jakarta exceed Rp 160,000--severalfold the national
average.
13/  Inpres Dati II is allocated to DKI's Level II local governments (about Rp
60 billion in 1986/87) and is not regarded as a Level I development
revenue for the purposes of this discussion.



- 35 -
grants in the same year (Inpres Dati I) contributed 5% of total development
funds. Although revenues from property taxes (Ipeda/PBB) increased at a rapid
annual average rate of 23% during FY81/82-84/85 to Rp 16.6 billion, they de-
clined during the next year by -39Z as the new PBB tax was late in commencing.
Nevertheless, PBB receipts recovered strongly in FY86/87 to Rp 27.5 billion to
contribute 7Z of total development revenues. Substantial assigned revenues
are expected when the property tax (PBB) becomes fully operational
(para. 5.8). Development funds in FY86/87 actually declined therefore from
their high point in FY84/85 of Rp 239 billion to Rp 215 billion. Moreover,
the development funds include DKI-Jakarta's borrowings which have increased
considerably since FY84/85. The contribution of loans to development funds
increased from 1% in FY82/83 and 83/84 to 6% in FY84/85.
5.4       Routine expenditures have grown steadily by almost 14% p.a. during
1982/83 to 86/87 from Rp 91.5 billion in FY81/82 to Rp 195 billion in FY86/87.
Personnel costc account for 60% of routine expenditures (funded mainly by the
SDO grant), and materials and repairs for 31%. During the last two years
routine expenditures buoyed by grant support increased faster than direct
routine revenues giving some cause for concern. The overall growth of de-
velopment expenditures is fairly consistent with the growth of its develop-
ment funds. Patterns in subsector expenditures were quite uneven during this
period but transportation (18%) and education (15Z) were the most important
subsectors overall. The largest portion of development funds in FY85/86 was
allocated to the rehabilitation and new construction of urban roads and
bridges which represented about 19% of the city's total budget, followed by
education sector expenditures (15%), market development (12%) and health,
including water supply and sanitation (10%). Unlike smaller cities, DKI-
Jakarta finances its development projects (as distinct from Central Government
projects implemented without substantive DKI participation), largely from its
own resources. In FY86/87 nearly 70% of total development expenditures were
financed from its own revenues (including assigned taxes and borrowings), and
the remainder came from Central Government, mainly through Inpres grant allo-
cations.
B. Project Impact on DKI-Jakarta Finances
5.5       Ten-year budgetary projections for DKI-Jakarta are presented in
Annex 9, Table 2. These estimates are subject to modification as a result of
the forthcoming Jabotabek expenditure program preparation (para 2.9) but for
present purposes assume the following: (a) Central Government grants for DKI-
Jakarta would, in the case of INPRES remain constant in nominal terms, and in
the case of SDO would increase by 8% (4% growth plus the projected 4% rate of
inflation) during FY87/88-95/96; (b) general recurrent expenditures (including
O&M) would increase by 8% per year in real terms; (c) general development ex-
penditures would increase by 4% in real terms and (d) DKI-Jakarta would con-
tinue to undertake special development projects, including the proposed
project, during the next 10 years, roughly maintaining the present distri-
bution of development expenditures among sectors. Even with conservative
revenue assumptions reflecting a reduction in Central Government development
grants in real terms for the projected period, DKI-Jakarta is expected to have
sufficient revenues to support the proposed project as well as ongoing
development projects. Revenues from local taxes and charges are expected to
increase 10% p.a. and PBB revenues 17% (para 5.07). While a substantial
commitment of its own funds will be made to the project (approximately 35% of



- 36 -
total DKI subproject costs), its direct capital contribution would be in an
affordable range, representing 5% of city development budgets for the next six
years (FY88/89-93/94). The remaining contribution would be covered by Bank
loan funds, which woujg be on-lent by the Central Government through a subsi-
diary loan agreement.-   The subloan would constitute about 8% of the city's
development budget during the project period. DKI-Jakarta would bear the debt
service burden (principle and interest at 10% per year) of the subloan with a
repayment period of 20 years including a five-year grace period.
5.6       The borrowing capacity of DKI-Jakarta would continue to be strong in
the next 10 years. Assuming that the projections of revenues and expenditures
indicated in para. 5.4 above are accurate, DKI-Jakarta will be able to serve
its debt obligations without any financial difficulty. The projections indi-
cate that the level of overall debt service burden, including existing and new
loans, would be about 6% of projected development budget during this period.
This is less than one half of the conservative debt service ceiling for
regional governments established by the Ministry of Home Affairs, i.e., 15% of
total development funds excluding loan funds.
C. DKI-Jakarta Revenue Improvement Plan
5.7       For DKI-Jakarta to afford an expanding development program of the
scale assumed and at the same time meet its financial obligations, it will be
necessary at least to increase its local tax revenues by 10% per year and pro-
perty tax revenues by 17% per year in nominal terms during the next 10 years.
The growth rate for direct revenues is in line with historical growth rates
for FY81/82-85/86 when local tax revenues increased by 13% per year. Given
this recent trend in revenues and the potential for improvement in tax admini-
stration and collection efficiency, increases of this order in real terms are
considered to be easily achievable. This scenario, however, does not yet
fully reflect GOI's emerging urban infrastructure programming policies. As
part of the Jabotabek five-year expenditure program preparation (para. 2.6)
the questiols of (a) DKI-Jakarta's functional and financial responsibilities;
(b) central-local cost sharing and cost recovery policies; (c) Central Govern-
ment grant and loan assistance to DKI-Jakarta; and (d) appropriate DKI-Jakarta
revenue improvement strategies, for all urban infrastructure expenditures will
be reviewed. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that DKI-Jakarta will
14/   In the future the Ministry of Finance's Regional Development Account
(RDA) is expected to be the sole source of municipal borrowings and is
intended to lend at consistent, viable rates to cities for suitable
appraised projects. Although established in 1986, its operations under
the direction of the MOF's Directorate General of Monetary Affairs, are
not yet fully developed. COI is currently studying RDA lending policy
with assistance from the Harvard Institute for International
Development. The studies wi,l include recommendation of appropriate on-
lending terms for the Bank loan funds. Consultants funded by UNDP to
assist with operationalization of RDA are expected to be appointed
shortly and will help introduce RDA as a fully functional operation by
FY90/91.



- 37 -
prepare by March 31, 1989 and implement a revenue improvement plan that shall
increase DKI-Jakarta's local tax revenues by at least 6% per year from
April 1, 1989 until the project has been completed.
5.8       A major contribution to DKI-revenues is expected from the assigned
property tax. Implementation of the new property tax during FY87/88 and 88/89
by the MOF's Directorate General of Taxation is supported by technical assis-
tance funded under Loan 2816-IND (Urban Sector Loan). Implementation strategy
focusses on revaluation of high-value properties which account for about 70%
of total PBB assessments. Some 50% of these properties are located in
Jakarta. Concurrently, improvements in the mass assessment 3ystem for lower-
value properties will also be introduced. Annual average increases of at
least 25% in total PBB revenues from the FY86/87 level of about Rp 25 billion,
are targetted for the next few years but as revalued properties are included
in the tax roles from FY90/91 onwards, much greater increases are expected.
Much of the increased revenue in the medium term, perhaps some 70%, is likely
to accrue to DKI-Jakarta and would form a significant proportion of its
development revenues.
5.9       As an assigned tax, PBB tax revenue increases are largely governed
by DC Pajak initiatives and actions in the areas of recording, identification,
registration, valuation, assessment, billing and collection. Longer term ef-
forts to improve performance are being undertaken by DG Pajak's PBB Project in
all of these areas which should result in significant increases in revenues
from 1991 onwards. In the meantime there are several actions which can be
taken in the near term, with the assistance of DKI, which would provide the
basis for further improvement. DKI has important resources in mapping and
land information, as well as tax billing and collection responsibilities. By
means of a combined Directorate PBB/DKI effort it is expected that, without
any increase in the 20% assessment ratio, the following would occur in the DKI
administrative area before FY94/95: (i) the coverage ratio of taxable proper-
ties would be improved from 66% to 90%; (ii) the total value of registered
properties will have risen by 60%; and (iii) the collection ratio will have
improved from 40% to 70%. This would indicate a potential increase in PBB
revenues from their expected 1987/88 level of Rp 33.8 billion to about Rp 227
billion in FY 1995/96--an average of 35% p.a. compared to the 17% p.a. tar-
getted. The actions to be carried out (in conjunction with implementation of
the longer term DC Pajak's PBB Project) include the following:
(a) Updating of mapping and identification:
(i)    DC Pajak would assign to DKI by June 30, 1988 the role of
maintaining up-to-date mapping for the DKI area's fiscal
cadaster; DKI would provide such updated maps to the KIPDA; and
KIPDA would use the maps promptly for tax object identification
and record purposes; and
(ii)    DG Pajak would obtain from DKI its recent property survey data
relating to 250,000 higher-value area properties (about 40% of
which are not currently on KIPDA records), and KIPDA would
incorporate the information as appropriate into its re-ords by
December 31, 1988;



- 38 -
(b) Updating of registrations: KIPDA and DKI Dinas Pendapatan would
cooperate in registration belore December 31, 1988 of new taxpayers
identified by the updating process;
(c) Billing: Preparation of all tax billing will be caried out by PAIK
as from January 1, 1988; KIPDA and Dinas Pendapatan will cooperate
in delivering the bills; and
(d) Collections: DG Pajak will introduce a system permitting payment of
taxes by taxpayers directly to local banks. Init;ally, the system
will be introduced for Books III, IV and V taxpayers. Arrangements
will be made in the system to overcome local government cash flow
problems which may result from such direct remittances.
5.10      Confirmation of the foregoing PBB action plan was obtained at
negotiations and GOI gave assurances that it would cause DKI-Jakarta and DG
Pajak to carry out jointly an action plan such that PBB revenues from the DKI-
Jakarta PBB tax area increase by at least 13X per year in real terms on
average from April 1, 1989 until the project has been completed.
5.11      The results of the PBB tax improvement are expected to benefit the
larger cities in the medium term and Jakarta in particular due to the distri-
bution of high value properties which make up the source of the majority of
PBB revenues (para. 5.8). As a means of redistributing these resources GOI
intends to restrict development grants to these larger cities which would have
improved capacity to fund development from the increased PBB revenues both
directly and through borrowing. Assurances were obtained from GOI at negotia-
tions that, until the project has been completed, development grants and
development budget allocations (DIPNAS) of the MPW for urban infrastructure
that is the responsibility of DKI-Jakarta shall not exceed their FY88/89
levels in nominal terms.
D. DKI-Jakarta Financial Management and Accounting
5.12      In common wiLh all regional governments DKI-Jakarta follows finan-
cial management and accounting practices prescribed by MHA. Responsibilities
are fragmented rather than concentrated in a single finance department.
Budgeting, authorization and control of expenditure are the responsibility of
the city finance office (Biro Keuangan); policy and programming are the
responsibility of the Bappeda; revenues are administered by the Dinas
Pendepatan; and cash management is the responsibility of a separate cashiers
office. Auditing is carried out by an Inspectorate (Inwilda). In addition,
each department has a finance section which handles budgeting and payments,
and maintains financial records, and project units have similar
arrangements. The MHA regulations governing financial matters are deficient
in several respects; for example, in the lack of discretionary practice
permitted on matters such as expenditure authority and budgeting for routine
expenditures. Budgeting procedures and formats are not useful for policy or
management decisionmaking and difficult to coordinate among different levels
of gove--afent.  Not suprisingly DKI-Jakarta's annual statements are difficult
to reconcile as a result of the budgeting and accounting formats in use.



- 39 -
5.13      Several initiatives are now underway to improve financial management
and accounting in regional governments. Planning and budgeting approaches are
being addressed through the introduction of multi-year programming under the
IUIDP approach (para. 1.4) and will be introduced to DKI-Jakarta under the
project (para. 2.7) including assistance in financial management policy
development to Bappeda which would inter alia, identify the issues in DKI's
financial management.  Under Loan 2408-IND (Fifth Urban Development) a study
of local government financial management and accounting is proceeding in four
pilot cities. Reform of the Dinas Pendapatan and the revenue manual is
proceeding in nearly 100 cities under Loan 2816-IND.  It is expected that a
large scale program of local government financial management and accounting
reform including DKI-Jakarts will follow from this effort within the next two-
three years.
5.14      A further important initiative from the budgeting standpoint is the
classification of infrastructure and related functional responsibility
(including finance), between central and local goverrments, now proceeding in
10 major cities including DKI-Jakarta under Loan 2816-IND.  Relative
responsibilities for urban roads functions have already been agreed for four
major cities under Loan 2817-IND. The portion of the project funded by DKI-
Jakarta comprising improvement and new construction of local roads and
associated technical assistance, is consistent with the allocation of
responsibilities under GOI's road law of 1980. Agreement between DGBM and
DKI-Jakarta on appropriate classification of of the DKI road system has yet to
be ratified however (see Annex 9, Table 3).  Consequently, responsibility for
the improvement of certain arterial road links (constituting 14% of project
costs) has been assumed for historical reasons by DGBM.  DGBM involv.ment in
such improvements is useful at this time in strengthening of in-house
experience in urban roads development but unjustified central government
funding of such improvements should be phased out in the near future. DGBM
and DKI-Jakarta have therefore agreed on a classification satisfactory to the
Bank, of the components of the DKI-Jakarta road network as provided for in the
Borrower's Road Law of 1980.



- 40 -
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Project Justification
6.1       The proposed project would primarily improve the transport and
traffic conditions in DKI-Jakarta through significant upgrading of existing
road infrastructure, the construction of new roads and missing links, and
city-wide traffic management measures, as well as bus operations
improvements. The investments proposed are aimed at reducing traffic
congestion and travel times, and improving traffic enforcement and road
safety.
6.2       The project will also have significant institution building benefits
at both the city and national levels. The project will contribute to the
improvement of the professional and technical capabilities of DGLT and DKI-
Jakarta agency staff in transport planning, traffic management and road
maintenance as well as enhancing Central Government's ability to prepare and
supervise comprehensive urban transport investment programs.
6.3       Important longer-term benefits are also expected from the
implementation of GOI's urban sector development policies and in particular
from the introduction of integrated planning and programming of urban
infrastructure expenditures and local revenue improvement in Jabotabek.
B. Economic Evaluation
6.4       Because of the large backlog of transport works needed in DKI-
Jakarta, and local and central government funding constraints, the list of
candidate improvement schemes in the city far outstrips available financial
resources. In order to establish priorities the economic benefits of all
major proposed improvements were quantified and used as a basis for selecting
components for this project. Vehicle operating cost (VOC) savings and travel
time savings for work related trips were used as the basis for determining
most economic rates of return. The average internal rate of return (IRR) of
the project components for which benefits can be quantified, and which
represent 54% of the total project investment costs (net of advisory
services), is estimated at over 40% including time savings and VOC (see
Table 6.1). The IRR for individual components varies from 27X to over 100%
for road construction schemes, and ranges between 37% and 72% for major
intersection improvements. The average IRR for road construction and
intersection improvements, even with increasing costs 20% and decreasing
benefits 15%, is estimated at about 30%. The development road components,
representing about 13% of the total project cost, are not justified solely on
VOC and travel time savings grounds, as projected traffic volumes over the
next several years will be low until adjacent land is developed. However, by
using low-cost initial construction standards, these roads can also be
justified by the increased land values they generate. The estimated IRR for
these road links varies from 40% to 75%. Due to the difficulties of measuring
the benefits of many smaller and disbursed improvements, the benefits of the
traffic management and road maintenance/rehabilitation components, which
represent another 15% of total project costs, were not quantified. However,
these schemes, by virtue of their relatively low cost and concentration on



- 41 -
road links with either high travel volumes and/or advanced stages of
disrepair, are expected to have rates of return at least comparable to the
higher cost road and major intersection improvements. The relatively high
rates of return for project components reflect their fill-in nature in an
environment of already congested conditions and rapidly growing traffic
volumes. (See Annex 11 for details of the economic analysis.)
Table 6.1: SUMMARY OF ESTIMATED ECONOMIC RETURNS
Internal Rate of Return (Z)
Economic                            Costs    Costs+20Z
cost                              +20%      benefits
(Rp billion)      10-year IRR                    -15%
Component              Average   Range   Average   Range    Average    Average
Primary arterial          43    42-44        73   45-102         63          54
(National) roads
Secondary artrl.          27     5-38        44    31-62         33          27
(Local) roads
Major intersections        8     7-10        62    37-73         52          46
Development roads          4     1-12        52    40-75         47          40
C.  Urban Poverty Impact
6.5       The precise impact of the project on the poverty group is difficult
to estimate because the project benefits would accrue to the population as a
whole and the economic development of DKI-Jakarta. The approximate proportion
of the population of DKI-Jakarta falling below the relative poverty line
(US$258/capita in 1985) is about 20%. Almost all the principal road
components of the project (which account for about 60Z of project benefits)
are located on heavily travelled public transport corridors, where it is
estimated that the average daily flow of low-income travelers represents about
10Z of person trips. Thus at least a minimum of 6% of the project benefits
would accrue directly to the lower income groups.
D. Environmental Impact
6.6       The project is expected to have a significant net positive
environmental benefit through its potential influence on beneficial land use
and air quality over the longer term. Short term negative impacts will occur
during construction but would be minimized by appropriate construction
techniques. Resettlement of about 1,000 families would be needed during the
five year land acquisition period. The various impacts are sunmmarized below
and further details are given in Annex 10.



- 42 -
6.7       A major long term impact of the project is expected to lie in the
reorientation of the Jabotabek development pattern towards an east-west axis
and away from the environmentally-threatening north-south pattern of the
past. A Bank-funded study of Jabotabek development needs and priorities
showed that new development (led by the existing road network) was unavoidably
locating in the poorly serviced and flood-prone wetlands of the northern
coastal area and the aquifer recharge area of the agricultural uplands to the
south (para 1.7). Seventy percent of Jakarta's residents currently rely on
groundwater as their main source of water. Development of the southern areas
could increase run-off and pollute the remaining infiltration. Recommenda-
tions for reorientation and control of north-south development have been
incorporated in the Jakarta Master Plan (RUTR Daerah 2005) and extensive
development of the eastern and western fringes of DKI is underway (residential
development in these areas is being assisted in part by Loan 2725-IND -
Housing Sector Loan). The project would provide local access to the eastern
and western areas of the city as well as arterial connections to the main road
network and increase capacity for east-west movements. It would also provide
technica. assistance to help better define environmentally sensitive areas and
develop appropriate development controls and policies (para. 2.9).
6.8       The road construction and road maintenance and rehabilitation compo-
nents will include drainage facilities; widening, strenthening, and improving
of road surfaces and geometry; and provision of pedestrian sidewalks; all of
which are expected to improve drainage and reduce periodic flooding, and re-
duce traffic noise and accidents. These same improvements should collectively
contribute to improving traffic flows which will have a positive, though
limited, effect on air quality through reduced vehicle emissions. In order to
monitor air quality better and help MOC develop appropriate vehicle emission
standards and controls, the project would support strengthening of Jakarta's
air quality monitoring system and develop air pollution control policies and
standards (para 2.19).
6.9       While significant longer-term benefits are expected, certain road
construction components involving land acquisition will have at least a
temporary adverse impact due to disruptions caused by taking parts of some
properties and, in some cases, the partial or total demolition of residential
and commercial structures. It is estimated that about 10,000 parcels of land
totalling about 250 hectares will be acquired, on which about 10,000 residen-
tial structures and business structures will be partially or totally demo-
lished. Most occupants are expected to continue dwelling or working on the
remaining plot but approximately 1000 families may need to relocate (See Annex
10 for details). MWA and DKI-Jakarta are responsible for land acquisition and
have well established procedures successfully applied in past Bank-funded
urban projects for compensating land owners for properties and businesses
taken or relocated and have made adequate provision in the project budget. A
plan satisfactory to the Bank was agreed at negotiations for the project land
acquisition and resettlement (para 4.19). As part of the agreed plan DKI-
Jakarta will monitor the socio-economic impact on the families affected and,
during the first year of the project, formulate recommendations for improve-
ments in its procedures and their implementation that would be incorporated as
necessary in the later years of the project.



- 43 -
E. Risks
6.10      The principal project risk relates to the achievement of the insti-
tutional development objectives of the project, particularly the establishment
of integrated planning and programming mechanisms, and the strengthening of
traffic and public transport management. The policy decisions and coordina-
tion needs of an integrated program will be considerable. GOI has, however,
established a high-level coordinating team (TKPP) including all involved
agencies of MHA, MPW and MOF, with working level groups focussed on specific
aspects falling into the broad categories of planning, implementation, finance
and institutional development, and specific task forces to deal with special
sectoral issues such as water resources management, and urban transport
development. Assurances were ^btained at negotiations that Tim Koordinasi
would oversee (a) the Jabotabek program development, and (b) the Jabotabek
Urban Transport Plan preparation (paras. 2.7 and 2.11).
6.11      The number of qualified engineers and technicians employed by the
city in the field of urban transport is well below what could be regarded as
the normal requirement. For this reason the project preparation included a
study of the manpower development needs and a review of the city's transport
related institutions. The proposed technical assistance and training programs
have been based on these findings and designed to meet the needs of DKI-
Jakarta. In the short run the assignment of advisors to key agencies will
ensure satisfactory implementation of the project. Although the principal
benefits of the training program will only begin to come on stream after one
or two years, on the job training and workshops designed to improve both
management and technical skills should provide some immediate benefits.
Another concern is that the potential benefits that should accrue due to
improvements in traffic management may not be fully realized because of poor
enforcement of traffic regulations. This aspect of traffic management has
been fully investigated during project preparation with the full cooperation
of the traffic police. Training and equipment are included in the project to
improve police efficiency in the field of traffic control and safety.
6.12      The main concern is the possibility that the public transport ob-
jectives of the action plan may not be fully achieved. The PPD public bus
company restructuring is at risk due to the inherent difficulties in major
restructuring of large state enterprises. The Jabotabek urban transport re-
view (para 2.12) may not be timely enough to prevent major commitments that
could represent serious distortions in urban infrastructure expenditure in
Jabotabek for many years to come. In order to lessen the risk in the PPD case
a detailed, monitorable action plan has been devised (para 2.14) and agreed
with the government and PPD management including the assignment of senior
management to be responsible for restructuring and the appointment of consul-
tants to assist in the design and implementation of efficiency measures. In
the case of Jabotabek Railway assurances have been obtained under the recently
approved Railways Technical Assistance Loan that a review of the Jabotabek
Railway project will be undertaken by GOI and the findings discussed with the
Bank. In addition that Loan also provides for annual reviews of the PJKA
planned expenditures by the Bank.



- 44 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1       During negotiations assurances were obtained from GOI that:
(a) GOI shall prepare or cause DGLT, DGBM, DKI-Jakarta and other rele-
vant agencies to prepare and adopt by March 31, 1989 an integrated
five-year expenditure program and the related first annual program
for the Jabotabek region, satisfactory to the Bank. Thereafter COI
shall in consultation with the Bank, prepare the subsequent annual
programs (para. 2.7);
(b)  GOI would undertake a review of projected transport demand and
identify a transport corridor network together with policies and
plans for an integrated transport system in the Jabotabek region
including mass transit options, which review will be furnished to
the Bank by March 31, 1990. Consultants for this purpose shall be
n ;piointed by March 31, 1989. Thereafter detailed action plans for
Lus, rail and other modes will be furnished to the Bank by March 31,
1991 (para. 2.12);
(c) GOI shall implement or cause to be implemented a PPD/DAMRI Transport
Action Plan for the Jabotabek region in accordance with a time
schedule satisfactory to the Bank (para 2.14);
(d) GOI shall have appointed or caused to be appointed the consultants
to assist (i) in transport network planning by September 30, 1988
(para. 2.12); (ii) in air quality monitoring by January 1, 1989
(para 2.19); and (iii) the Project Coordination Office by June 30,
1988 (para. 4.5).
(e) GOI shall cause DKI-Jakarta to be responsible for overall project
coordination, accounting and monitoring and shall cause to be
established a Project Monitoring Office under DKI's Bappeda
(para. 4.5);
(f) GOI shall cause all land acquisition and tesettlement related
actions to be carried out in accordance with a plan and
implementation schedule satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.19);
(8) (i) the consolidated project account, including documentation on
SOEs, will be audited annually in a timely fashion by independent
auditors satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) DKI-Jakarta submit
annually to the Bank certified copies of the audited project account
no later than nine months after the end of each fiscal year
commencing in FY88/89 (para. 4.20);
(h) GOI shall cause DKI-Jakarta to prepare by Marck 31, 1989 and
thereafter implement a revenue improvement plan that shall increase
DKI-Jakarta's local tax revenues by at least 6Z per year in real
terms from April 1, 1989 until the project has been completed
(para. 5.7);



- 45 -
(i) GOI shall cause DKI-Jakarta and DC Pajak to carry out jointly an
action plan such that PBB revenues from the DKI-Jakarta PBB tax area
increase by at least 13X per year in real terms from April 1, 1989
until the project is completed (para. 5.10); and
(j) GOI shall ensure that, until the project is completed, development
grants and development budget allocations (DIPNAS) of the Ministry
of Public Works' for urban infrastructure that is the responsibility
of DKI-Jakarta shall not exceed their fiscal year 1988/89 levels in
nominal terms (para 5.11).
Conditions of Effectiveness
7.2       The following are conditions of loan effectiveness:
(a) adoption by TKPP of an Urban Transport Development Action Plan
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 2.11); and
(b)  execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between GOI and DKI-Jakarta
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.5).
Recommendation
7.3       Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project
is suitable for a Bank loan of US$150 million to the Republic of Indonesia for
20 years including five years' grace at the standard variable interest rate.



- 46 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
INDONESIA
JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Urban Infrastructure Expenditure Programring
National Overview
1.        The total expenditure on certain aspects of urban infrastructure
(raw and treated water supply, flood protection and drainage, sewerage and
sanitation, solid waste management, Kampung improvement, and roads, but
excluding public transport) by central and local government during Repelita IV
(1984-89) is expected to be about Rp 2.8 trillion.  Detai ; are summarized in
Table 1 in nominal terms and in Table 2 in real terms. These summaries,
compiled from Bank staff estimates, indicate that expenditure on urban roads
is expected to amount to about to about Rp 90 billion per year or 16Z of total
during this period. In comparison with other middle income developing
countries this proportion is quite low; a fact emphasized by the generally
poor traffic conditions in Indonesian cities. However, the tables do not
include expenditures on urban bus and railway services. Expenditures on these
aspects of urban transport are estimated to be about Rp 280 billion per year
since 1985 (about Rp 94 billion on bus investment and operations and some
Rp 186 billion on railway investments, rehabilitation and operations-mainly
in Jakarta). Therefore, total urban transport expenditures would amount to
Rp 2.04 trillion, nearly 49% of overall urban infrastructure expenditures
including urban transport, i.e., Rp 4.2 trillion. The balance of expenditures
between roads, buses and railways is heavily weighted in favor of railway
expenditures confined mainly to Jabotabek (this imbalance is discussed fully
in Annex 2). Consequently, the need for additional expenditures in roads and
buses during Repelita V is great, particularly in larger cities.
2.        Funding of the urban transport program is sunmmArized in Table 3 and
details o' the urban roads funding is shown in Table 4. Central and local
government resources will have contributed about equally to the urban roads
program, but 80% of the costs of bus and rail services are being met from
Central Government resources since intern 1 cash generation in the various
state enterprises involved is quite weak.,   Under the current budgetary
constraint, Central Government funding for both railways and other modes is
scarce and heavy reliance is being placed on foreign borrowings, mainly from
OECF and the Bank.
Jabotabek Expenditures
3.        A breakdown of urban infrastructure expenditures in the Jabotabek
area during Repelita IV is not readily available. However, spending on urban
infrastructure (not including public transport) in DKI-Jakarta during this
1/   The State Railway (PJKA) is currently a department of the Ministry of
Comuications but will be converted into a state enterprise shortly.



- 47 -                                  ANNEX 1
Page 2
period is estimated to be about Rp 520 billion or 182 of total. If public
transport expenditures are included then DKI-Jakarta would account for Rp 1.7
billion or some 40X of total. This is more than twice the national average of
$71 per capita expenditure (including public transport).
Jabotabek Expenditure Planning and Prograo ing
4.        GOI will expand the current Jabotabek planning and programming
coordination arrangements to undertake the preparation of a five-year expendi-
ture program and annual programs for the Jabotabek Level I and II local
government areas during FY89/90-93/94 in line with Tim Koordinasi IUIDP guide-
lines and the RUTR 2005 master plan for DKI and structure plan for
Jabotabek. The following process would apply:
(a)   ocal governments will continue to prepare detailed area plans,
(with assistance as required from TKTD), local expenditure programs,
financing and revenue plans in consultation with respective
BAPPEDAs;
(b)  Jabotabek Planning Team/Tim Teknis, assisted by BKSP, will
inventory, asseos and coordinate sectoral master plans, in
consultation with respective BAPPEDAs;
(c)  Sector agencies (central and local); will continue to prepare
sectoral plans and feasibility studies in accordance with approved
master plans where available and under the direction of BAPPEDA
Tk I;
(d) BAPPEDAS Tk I will prepare (through RAKORNAS) and endorse the 5-year
and annual IUIDP expenditure programs and financing plans for the
proposed Natioral, Provincial and local development projects and O&M
in their respective parts of Jabotabek; coordination between
Provinces (and with their respective Level II local governments and
with central government agencies) and preparation will be
facilitated by BKSP; the programs will focus on the water resources
(raw water, water supply, sanitation, drainage, water pollution
control), urban transport (roads and traffic, buses and railways),
and housing (KIP, public housing, Guided Land Development)
subsectors;
(e) Tim Koordinasi will provide urban development policy and IUIDP
programming guidance to BAPPEDAs and approve the Jabotabek sector
plans, and 5-year and annual programs.
5.        Technical assistance included in the project would be provided by DG
Bangda to BAPPEDA Tk I JABAR and DKI to help prepare the 5-year expenditure
program and initial annual program, financing plans and revenue improvement
plans. The work would also include the formulation and implementation of
appropriate environmental protection regulations and enforcement measures for
the environmentally-sensitive areas in DKI and JABAR lying to the south of
Jakarta. Outline terms of reference are given in Annex and full TOR would be
prepared for negotiations by DG Bangda in collaboration with DC Cipta Karya
assisted by the UNCHS/UNDP IUIDP Support Project Team and under the guidance
of Tim Koordinasi.



INDOUISIA
JAJOTABA URtBN DEVELOPIUN? PROJECT
National Urban Sector Expendlturesr 1983/84-1988/89
S6-ry Application and Sources of Fund., by Agency
1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89    1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/67  1987/88  1988/89
~~~~~(Rp billllon)_(S
Apliceatton of Funds
.Develop_nt Zxpenditureu           247.3   336.4   352.6    315.9   613.2    597.2          76.1     78.4    75.4    73.7       81.7    78.0
liter  *'Uppiy            106.5  -13 1. 7  12 1.1 6. 24".4  24.8                          M        WX        My      YT            
Hbaan waste                        7.1      9.8    13.0    18.2    30.0    20.5            2.2      2.3      2.8      4.3      4.0      2.7
Drainage and flood                35.7    36.3    51.7    45.9   131.9   143.5            11.0      8.5    11.1    10.7    17.6         13.7
Solid waste                       15.7    12.3       7.9      6.6    18.1    17.2          4.8      2.9      1.7      1.5      2.4      2.3
KIP                               40.6    28.5    40.7    23.4        37.5    49.1        12.5      6.6      8.7      5.5      5.0      6.4
Roadr                             54.6   129.9    75.6    70.6    84.3    100.5           16.8    30.3    16.2    16.5        11.2      13.1
Planning, training & overhead     14.3    13.1    32.0    30.2    46.2    40.0             4.4      3.1      6.8      7.0      6.2      5.2
_peratlon and NaIntenance             77.7     92.7    114.8    112.5   137.3   168.2          23.9     21.6    24.6    26.3    18.3    22.0
Total                           325.0   429.1   467.4   428.5   750.6   765.4           100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0          e
Sources of Funds
DIP                                126.3   215.9   166.1       83.2   178.6   201.1         38.9    50.3      35.5    19.4    23.8    26.3
Cipta Karya                       7.    76.5    38.0                 105.3    102.5 26 T57.3         10              14.      Ti6rIM
Pengairan                         37.3    39.7    38.1       21.3     43.9    40.7        11.5      9.2      8.1      5.0      5.8       5.3
Bin  Marga                        15.5    99.7    30.1        8.3    20.5    48.2          4.8     23.2      6.4      1.9       2.7     6.3
Other                              0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      9.0      9.6        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       1.2      1.3
Foreign Aid                         22.3    42.6    73.9   103.7   266.1   243.6             6.8      9.9     15.8    24.2    35.5       31.8
Cipta Karya                       20.2    40.0      61.9    80.2    178.6    132.6         6.2      9       !.3  1     8. 17   23.     17.3
Pengairan                          2.1      0.0      4.3    10.9    72.3    81.3           0.6      0.0      0.9      2.6      9.6    10.6
Dina Marga                         0.0      2.6      7.6    12.6    13.8    28.4           0.0      0.6      1.6      2.9       1.8      3.7
Other                              0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      1.5      1.3        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0
Subtotal DIP + Foreign          148.6   258.5   240.0    186.9   444.8   444.7           45.7    60.2      51.3     43.6    59.3       58.1
Domestic Loans                       3.5      7.7     11.0     12.1    39.4    44.7          1.1      1.8      2.4      2.8      5.2      5.8
IAPBD I & II (IDn1. INPRES)        172.9   162.9   216.5   229.5   266.3   276.0            53.2     38.0    46.3    53.6    35.5    36.1
Level I                            SO       5.8      6.5        7     22       15.3        1.5       1.       .4       2.0T     2.T        
Level II                         109.0    80.6    118.9    122.3   146.2   145.5          33.5     18.8    25.4    28.5    19.5         19.0
PDAM                              58.9    76.5    91.1    98.5    98.9   115.2            18.1     17.8    19.5    23.0        13.2    15.1
Subtotal local expenditures     176.4   170.6   227.5   241.6   305.7    320.7           54.3     39.8    48.7      56.4    40.7      41.9
Total                           325.0   429.1   467.4   428.5   750.4   765.3           100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Soarce: Date from Staff Apprai"l Report No. 6598-IND (Urban Sector Loan).



INDONESIA
JABOTAJEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Notional Urban Sector Expenditures. 1983/84-1988/89
Summary Applicatio;i and Sources of Funds (Real 1983/84 Rupiahs)
1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89    1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89
(Rp billion) -                                                  (Z)
Application of Funds
Development Expenditures              247.3    305.1    299.3    238.9    426.4    396.9           76.1      78.4      75.4     73.7      81.7      78.0
Water supply                        79.3      96.6    111.8      91.6    184.5.4    150.5       12T4      1.T    -28-.2       1.         =5
Human waste                          7.1       8.9      11.0      13.8     20.9      13.6         2.2       2.3      2.8       4.3       4.0       2.7
Drainage and flood                  35.7      32.9      43.9      34.7     91.7      95.4        11.0       8.5      11.1     10.7      17.6      18.7
Solid waste                         15.7      11.2       6.7      5.0      12.6      11.5         4.8       2.9      1.7       1.5       2.4      2.3
RIP                                 40.6      25.8      34.5      17.7     26.1      32.6        12.5       6.6      8.7       5.5       5.0       6.4
Roads                               54.6    117.8       64.2      53.4     58.6      66.8        16.8      30.3     16.2      16.5      11.2      13.1
Planning, training & overhead       14.3      11.9      27.2     22.8      32.1      26.6         4.4       3.1      6.8       7.0       6.2       5.2
Operation and Maintenance              77.7     84.0      97.5      85.1     95.5    111.8         23.9      21.6      24.6     26.3      18.3      22.0
Subtotal                          325.0    389.2    396.8    324.0    521.9    508.7           100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Sources of Funds
DIP                                   126.3    195.8    141.0       62.9    124.2    133.6         38.9      50.3      35.5     19.4      23.8      26.3
Cipta larya                         73.5      69.4      83.2     40.5      73.2      68.1        22.6    1T7.8    21T         12.5      14.0     13.
Pengairan                           37.3      36.0      32.3      16.1     30.5      27.1        11.5       9.2      8.1       5.0       5.8       5.3
Bina Marga                          15.5      90.4      25.6      6.3      14.3      32.0         4.8      23.2      6.4       1.9       2.7       6.3
Other                                0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      6.2       6.4         0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       1.2       1.3
Foreign Aid                            22.3     38.7      62.7      78.4    185.1    161.9          6.8       9.9      15.8     24.2      35.5      31.8
Cipta Karya                         20.2      36.3      52.6 6     0.60.6    1T24.2    1-2         T.2     T3T       13.3     18.7      25.       17.3
Pengairan                             2.1      0.0       3.7       8.3     50.3      54.0         0.6       0.0       0.9      2.6       9.6      10.6
Bins Marga                           0.0       2.4       6.5       9.5      9.6      18.9         0.0       0.6       1.6      2.9       1.8       3.7
Other                                0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      1.0       0.8         0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.2       0.2
Subtotal DIP + Foreign            148.6    234.5    203.7    141.3    309.3    295.6            45.7      60.2     51.3      43.6      59.3     58.1
Domestic Loans                          3.5      7.0       9.3       9.2      27.4     29.7         1.1       1.8       2.4      2.8       5.2       S.G
APBD I & II (Inl. INPRES)             172.9    147.7    183.7    173.5    185.2    183.4           53.2      38.0      46.3     53.6      35.5      36.1
Level I                               5.0      5.3       5.5       6.6     14.7      10.2         1.5       T1.       1.4     -.T       -iT:     2T.
Level II                           109.0      73.1    100.9       92.5    101.7      96.7        33.5      18.8      25.4     28.5      19.5      19.0
PDAN                                58.9      76.5      91.1     98.5      68.8      76.6        18.1      17.8      19.5     23.0      13.2      15.1
Subtotal local expenditures       176.4    154.7    193.1    182.7    212.6    213.1            54.3      39.8     46.7      56.4      40.7      41.9
Total                             325.0    389.2    396.8    324.0    521.8    508.7           100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Soure:t Deta froe Staff Appraisl lamport No. 6594- DD (Urban Sector Loan).



-50 -ANNA i
Table 3
INDONESIA
JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Urban Transport Expenditures
During Repelita IV (1984/85 - 1988789)
Rp billion                  X
Apglication of Funds
investment
Urban roads /a                                   460.9                    22.6
Public transport
Buses /b                                        94.0                     4.6
RailwaFy(Jabotabek) /c                         864.0                    42.4
Operations and Maintenance
urban roads /a                                   176.3                     8.6
Public transport
Buses /d                                       378.0                    18.6
Railwady(Jabotabek) /e                          65.0                     3.2
Total                                    2,038.2                  100.0
Sources of Funds
Central Government
Ministry of Public Works /a                    206.8                    10.1
Ministry of Communications I/f                 488.1                    23.9
Foreign aid
Ministry of Public Works /a                     65.0                     3.2
Ministry of Communications                     592.4                    29.1
State Enterprises
Buses /d
PPD                                            180.0                     8.8
DAMRI                                          124.0                     6.2
Railways - PJKA /e                                16.5                     0.8
Local Governmant /a
APBD I & II (including INPRES)                   365.4                    17.9
Domestic borrowing                                 0.0                     0.0
/a  Urban Sector Loan (2816-IND) estimates; not including toll roads.
T7  Estimated fleet replacement and expansion costs (PPD Rp 70 billion and
DAMRI Rp 24 billion).
/c  Stage I and first-year Stage II Jabotabek Railway costs.
T7  Based on PPD 1985 operating results.  PPD revenues estimated at Rp 36
billion/year and costs at Rp 56 billion/year and DAMRI revenues estimated
at Rp 25 billion/year and costs at Rp 20 billion/year.
/e  Estimated Jabotabek Railway operating costs (approximately Rp 15
billion/year). Operating revenues based on 1986 results (Rp 4.1
billion/year).
/f  Including estimated capital and overating subsidies to PPD and PJKA.



INDONESIA
JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Application and Sources of Funds - Urban Roads Subsector. 1983/84-1988/89
1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89    1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988189
(Rp billion)                        (X)
Application of Funds
Development Expenditures            54.6    129.9      75.6    70.6      84.3    100.5        70.5     84.2     69.2     70.7      70.1     65.4
DKI                               20.1      94.9     32.4     32.3              30.7   2        5 . 61      .5 31. 280
Large cities                       18.1     16.1     19.1     22.4     26.0     54.6        23.4     10.4     17.5     22.4     21.6      35.5
Other                             16.4    18.9       22.1     16.0     26.0      15.2       21.2     12.2    20.2    16.0       21.6       9.9
Operation and Maintenance            22.9    24.4      33.6     29.2     36.0     53.1        29.5     15.8     30.8     29.3      29.9     34.6
Total                            77.5    154.3    109.2      99.8    120.3    153.6       100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0   100.0   iOO.O
Sources of Funds
DIP                                  15.5    99.7      30.1      8.3     20.5     48.2        20.0     64.6     27.6      8.3      17.0     31.4
Bina Marga                        15.5    WT         30.1     t7       T5            :              *4I2  -   WU  TU            T7        n T
Other                              0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0         0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Foreign Aid                          0.0       2.6      7.6     12.6     13.8     28.4         C.0      1.7      7.0      12.6     11.4     18.5
Bina Marga                         0.0       2.6                       13.8     28.4 0 . 0            1.7      7.0     12.6      11.4     18.5
Other                              0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0         0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Subtotal DIP + Foreign            15.5    102.3     37.7     20.9     34.3      76.6       20.0     66.3     34.5     20.9     28.5      49.9
Domestic Loans                       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0         0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
APBD I & II (incl. INPRES)          62.0      52.0     71.5     78.9     86.0     77.0        80.0     33.7     65.5      79.1     71.5     50.1
Level I                            0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0         0.0      0.0      0.0      T6        0.0 0W.
Level II                          62.0      52.0     71.5     78.9     86.0     77.0        80.0     33.7     65.5     79.1      71.5     50.1
PDAM                               0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0         0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Subtotal local expenditures      62.0      52.0     71.5     78.9     86.0     77.0       80.0      33.7     65.5    79.1      71.5      50.1
Total                            77.5    154.3    109.2      99.8    120.3    153.6       100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0   100.0    100.0
Notes:  (1) Does not include urban toll roads or public transport expenditures.
(2) Local Government contributions all attributed to Level II.
(3) O&M include betterment program in project years.
Source: Data fromt Staff Appraisal Report No. 6598-IND (Urban Sector Loan).



ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDONESIA
JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Traffic and Transport in Jabotabek
A. Population, Traffic and Road Network Data
1.        Jakarta is the capital and largest city in Indonesia.  It is located
on the north coast of Java and had an estimated population of 7.75 million in
1985. It is between three and four times the size of each of the four largest
provincial cities in Indonesia, namely Surabaya, Bandung, Medan and Semarang,
three of which are also located in the main island of Java. A comparison of
the population figures and growth rate of Jakarta with the other principal
Indonesian cities is given in Table 1.
Table 1: CITY POPULATION AND GROWTH RATES
1971/a       1980/a       Growth rate    1985/b        Growth rate
city        population   population       1971-80      population      1980-85
(million)    (million)         (X)         (million)        (X)
Jakarta           4.58         6.50           3.97          7.75           3.58
Surabaya          1.56         2.03           2.97          2.25           2.01
Bandung           1.20         1.46           2.20          1.64           2.35
Medan             0.64         1.38           8.91          1.64           3.51
Semarang         0.65          1.03           5.25          1.32           4.93
Regional cities
combined         4.05          5.90           4.27          6.85           3.03
/a   Census data.
7i   Estimate.
2.        The number of vehicles and the growth in the vehicle fleet in
Jakarta between 1981 and 1985 are shown in Table 2. Current vehicle fleets
and comparative growth rates for the other major cities are also shown in this
table. Apart from motorcycles, it will be seen that Jakarta has one and a
half times the total number of vehicles in the four regional cities combined,
there being a preponderance of cars and buses in Jakarta. Buses include all
sizes of bus, including minibuses and paratransit vehicles. There are six
times as many buses in Jakarta as in the other cities, though they serve a
comparable population. (The motorcycles in Jakarta, however, represent only
80Z of the number in the other cities.)



- 53-                          ANNEX2
Page 2
Table 2: VEHICLE FLEETS AND GROWTH RATES
Year            Car      Truck       Bus      Total    Motorcycle
Jakarta         1981         246,153    97,369    38,321   381,753       492,792
1982         275,139   112,494    49,827   437,460        570,972
1983         299,164   126,859    62,515   488,538       628,414
1984         323,715   141,141    81,783   546,639        673,061
1985         351,673   159,207   102,638   613,518        741,040
Growth rate          9.3Z     13.1%      28.0%      12.6Z       10.7%
Surabaya        1985          67,931    57,364      2,376   127,671       290,650
Growth rate         10.7%     20.2%       5.3Z     11.0%         8.9%
Bandung         1985/a        75,190    42,350      5,905   123,445       227,560
Growth rate          3.4%      9.4Z      17.2%      5.8%         9.6%
Medan           1985/a        51,770    30,429       6,346    88,545      207,665
Growth rate         12.8%      9.4%      13.4%      11.7%        6.9%
Regional        1985         227,219   154,918    16,630   398,800        916,950
Cities
combined   Growth rate          7.8Z      12.4Z      12.4%      9.6%         8.3%
/a Estimated from provincial figures.
Table 3: VEHICLE OWNERSHIP IN 1985
(Vehicles per 1,000 population)
C;;y          C, a ow-~r~L- .    u^1 l ---    ie-^ -h4v,  Motorevele ownership
Jakarta                45                 78                           94
Surabaya               30                 57                          129
Bandung                46                 75                          139
Medan                  32                 54                          127
Semerang               24                 45                          145
City average           33                 58                          134
/a   Cars, trucks and buses.
Table 3 shows vehicle ownership rates for the principal cities; only Bandung
compres with Jakarta in car ownership. The vehicle fleet in Jakarta expressed
as a proportion of the national fleet is shown in Table 4.



- 54 -                          AN   2
Page 3
Table 4: PROPORTION OF THE NATIONAL FLEET REGISTERED
IN JAKARTA, 1985 (2)
City           Car      Truck    Bus     Motorcycle    Overall
Jakarta            38.5    20.1      55.9        16.8         18.2
Regional cities
combined           24.7    18.0       9.1        20.8         17.7
Jakarta and
regional cities
combined           63.2    38.1      65.0        37.6         35.9
3.        The size and classification of the road network in Jakarta is shown
in Table 5. Under this classification, which is due for updating, the primary
roads (72 of the total) are the responsibility of Central Government.
Table 5: CITY ROAD NETWORKS AND CLASSIFICATION
Primary      Secondary      Local          Total
km    X      km      X      km    Z       km      Z
Jakarta /a                237   7      227   7      2,890   86    3,354   100
Regional cities
combined /b               273   8      593   17    2,587   75    3,453   100
Source:   /a  Consultants' analysis of DKI records, 1987
Th City surveys.
B. Traffic and Transport Situation
4.        Traffic Congestion.  The existing network of principal arterial
roads in Jakarta is generally good with the use of large multi-lane roads,
grade separation and service roads on the main routes. It is supported by a
less satisfactory system of secondary roads, which are not always fully con-
nected. The system is, however, insufficient to deal with the relatively high
vehicle growth rates; this has resulted in increasingly serious levels of
traffic congestion over many parts of the system for several hours each day.
This is particularly evident over most of the central area and especially
severe in the traditional central business district (CBD), which has become
-:l:tw:, -  Cr                 --- - th    - f     the M-e-r- .-"-  n



55                            A ANS 2
Page 4
the south. The historical growth pattern of the city is reflected in a strong
north-south orientation to the road system; there is an absence of east-west
roads and movement in this direction is generally difficult. The city
administration, DKI-Jakarta, wishes, however, to develop the city in an east-
west direction to avoid the consumption of environmentally sensitive lands to
the north and south.
5.        Government has concentrated on the development of radial toll roads,
one to the airport, one to the south to Bogor/Ciani and one to the west to
Tangerang. A fourth (the Cikampek toll road) is nearly completed eastwards to
Bekasi. An inner ring motorway (46 km long) due to be completed in the early
1990s already penetrates well into the central urban area. An outer ring
motorway of 54 km in length will be constructed at a later stage. The general
scale and layout of the primary arterials and urban motorways would be well
suited eventually to the development of bus ways.
6.        Traffic Management is poorly understood and has not been used to a
significant extent as a means of improving traffic flow.  The traffic control
equipment is becoming elderly and there is insufficient understanding of its
correct use, largely due to a lack of training. Parking in the central areas
is permitted to an undue degree. This not only serves to encourage the use of
private vehicles in travelling to the center as opposed to public transport;
it creates excessive reductions of capacity on existing principal streets due
to the pressure of parked vehicles. Major programs of traffic improvement
measures are required to improve the flow of traffic in the CBD and on many of
the radial roads. There is a major need for the strengthening of the traffic
engineering capability of the city's traffic and transportation agency, Dinas
LLAJR, to prepare and implement traffic improvement schemes, monitor traffic
flows and assist in the coordination of the efforts of the planning and regu-
lating agencies involved in the urban transport sector.
7.        Road Maintenance.  This popularly takes the form of asphalt over-
lays, without comparable attention to drainage and the preservation of good
road profiles. Even so, there is no evidence as yet of a serious inadequacy
of maintenance on the primary roads, which would reduce road lite or capa-
city. There is, however, a serious deficiency in the attention (both in terms
of expenditure and methods) directed towards the maintenance of local roads.
8.        Public transportation plays a major but inadequate role in the move-
ment of people in the metropolitan areas of Indonesia. In Jakarta, 55% of
person trips are by various forms of public transport, of which 44% are by
city- bus, and about 2% by rail. Public transport modes include double-decker
buses, single-decker buses, minibuses, taxis, three-wheeled motorcycles and
three-wheeled pedal cycles as well as the Jabotabek commuter railway. In
general, the buses and minibuses operate on specified routes along the main
arterials. Taxis and three-wheeled vehicles provide personal door-to-door
services. All forms of public transport are regulated by the authorities, but
their operations are uncoordinated. Apart from the publicly operated PPD
buses all public transport vehicles are privately owned. The rail service and
PPD buses operate at a loss and are heavily subsidized by central government,
although privately operated buses can operate profitably. The public bus
-..e ^e-Ot h.e amna-ato vi&hta nf wAv. much as bus ways- bus



- -6 -                         ANNEX 2
Page 5
lanes or other priority measures; being mixed with private transport it will
inevitably suffer increasing delays and reductions in the level of the service
and of profitability in future years, unless suitable measures are taken to
give adequate priority to buses. A full discussion of the public transport
issues is contained in Annex 3.
C. An Integrated Urban Transport Improvement Plan for Jabotabek
Present Situation
9.        Recent projections show the number of trips in the Jabotabek area
growing from 12 million in 1985 to 24 million in 2005. Public transport will
be required to play a major role in meeting this demand. There is currently
no integrated public transport development plan which would deal with these
demands in an efficient way. The only plan that exists is the Jabotabek Rail-
way Master Plan which would: (a) link urban centers in the Botabek area; and
(b) link these centers to Jakarta. This rail system, together with local bus
services, would serve the relatively limited public transportation needs of
Botabek residents only. Because of its location, and limited capacity, the
railway would not service the public transport needs of DKI Jakarta resi-
dents. Bus service, on the other hand, is constrained by lack of planning and
weak performance of PPD, the main carrier. The problem of bus efficiency is
further compounded by the large growth in private vehicles which are causing
increasing congestion. There is therefore an urgent need to develop an urban
transport improvement plan for DKI Jakarta which: (a) responds to existing
and potential demands of Jakarta residents; (b) can be integrated at minimum
cost with the existing bus services and passenger railway; and (c) encourages
efficient use of existing rights of way.
10.       The most basic objectives of such a plan should be:  (a) that it is
cost effective; (b) that it responds to the existing and potential demands;
and (c) that it is affordable, economically justifiable and financially viable
(operates without subsidy). Unfortunately the public transport system, either
the Jabotabek railway system or the PPD bus system, does not meet these
criteria. The master plan for the railway calls for the investment of almost
Rp 3,400 billion (US$2.0 billion) by 2002. Over the next five years the rail-
way investment would consume over 86% of planned expenditure in public trans-
port to serve only 1.7% of motorized trips in the Jabotabek area. The railway
will therefore not be cost effective, and is unlikely to be so in the
future. Although the railway system improvements were justified on the basis
of the relief they would bring to the road network, the level of demand and
its dispersed pattern are such that a more cost effective system could be
achieved by the use of buses.
11.       Similarly, the PPD bus operation also fails to meet the above
criteria: it is not cost effective, in that it is unable to achieve more than
a 60X turnout of buses; it fails to meet existing travel demands, causing
severe overloading and the need for additional private services, and it has
been unable to exist in the past without government grants. In summary, the
present plan consists of investing in, and subsidizing the operations of (a) a
very expensive rail service for which there is little demand; and (b) an
iuefJ                          k ent bus  perati n  .ch d.it . ver  hea,w AamnAa  *  tnnhl  -tn tnvFr



- 57 -                         ANNEX 2
Page 6
its costs. On the other hand, the private large bus operator in Jakarta, and
the public operator in regional cities are able run profitable services and
can expand their fleets from internally generated funds. An efficient and
reliable bus service could serve both local, and mass transit needs of
Jabotabek cost effectively.
12.       The first issues that need to be addressed in developing a cost
effective transport plan for Jabotabek are: (a) how to correct the imbalance
of expenditure between rail and bus; (b) how to develop local and mass
transport plans for Jakarta which meet the current and potential demands; and
(c) how to improve the efficiency and viability of the bus operations.
Several recent studies have attempted to address some of these issues, but
none of them have formulated an integrated approach to tackle all of them at
the same time, and produce a balanced least-cost solution. Following, is a
broad strategy and an action plan, as agreed with the Government, for the
development of an integrated plan.
Formulating a Strategy and Transport Action Plan for Jabotabek
13.       Based on the conclusions and recommendations of the recent stadies
there are some immediate decisions that could be taken in defining a public
transport strategy which would lead to a mass transit solution. First, in
order to achieve maximum operational efficiency, the various transport modes
making up the system should be capable of operating on segregated rights of
way. Second, in order to keep costs as low as possible, the systems should be
at-grade except to avoid conflicts with other modes, and should make full use
of existing rights of way. Third, recognizing that public transport modes are
more efficient in terms of road space than private vehicles, and that ulti-
mately there will be a need to restrain private cars, the rights of way pro-
posed for the public transport could make use of existing road space. Fourth,
in order to introduce system efficiencies the various modes used should be
integrated to permit easy transfer from one mode to another. With these
principles in mind an integrated urban transport concept plan could be as
follo a:
(a) a network of public transport corridors which would form the basis
of the proposed Jakarta mass transit system;
(b) a number of public transport interchange points which would enable
Botabek rail passengers and Jakarta mass transit passengers to
change modes;
(c) various levels of systems, made up of totally segregated facilities
along the main transport corridors, and semi-segregated systems (bus
lanes) along the main feeder routes;
(d) the staged introduction of higher capacity vehicles along the public
transport corridors starting with buses (guided or free), or trolly
buses, and developing to trams or light rail, as demands and
capacity requirements increase; and



- 58 -                           ANNEX 2
Page 7
(e) the implementation of traffic management and traffic resr-3int
measures.
14.       The initial steps in developing proposals for an integrated urban
transport system are set out in the following action plan and sumarized in
Attachment 1:
(a) evaluating the rail master plan in the context of a cost effective,
integrated mass transit development, and making appropriate improve-
ments to the plan;
(b) identifying the principal mass transit corridors within the DKI
Jakarta boundaries;
(c) drawing up conceptual proposals and carrying out feasibility studies
for a system of bus ways (ultimately to be used by guided buses,
trolley buses, trams, or light rail transit vehicles) and bus
priority measures to be integrated with the principal railway inter-
change points;
(d) carrying out (in the medium term) the detailed design and implemen-
tation of the integrated mass transit development proposals;
(e) expanding the network, and types of services and routes in line with
urban growth, greater densifica'cion of development and higher
incomes; and
(f) improving traffic conditions on the road network, particularly for
buses through the use of traffic management measures.
(g) improving existing bus service planning and regulation (through
strengthening of public transport authorities) to achieve affordable
and reliable ie&vices;
(h) implementing and action plan for the improvement of PPD operations,
mansgement and finances, and increasing the supply of public trans-
port through greater private sector involvement;
15.       The first Jabotabek Urban Development Project would attempt to
implement this program through specific technical assistance, training and
studies aimed at assisting: (a) LLAK and Dinas LLAJR with network planning
and intermodal coordination, public transport planning and regulation, and
traffic management, with particular emphasis on bus priority measures (see
Section D below and Annex 3); (b) PPD with management and operations (Annex 3)
and (c) the National traffic Police, SATLANTAS, with traffic operations and
enforcement (Annex 3). Special studies would be undertaken to review the
Jabotabek rail proposals, prepare feasibility studies for a mass transit
system and carryout a parking study to develop a traffic restraint policy.
Training programs would also be undertaken for staff of the DGLT, LLAJR and
SATLANTAS. The project would also make provision for the eventual detailed
design of the mass transit proposals, the construction or, imporcaun  roau



- 59 -                          ANEX 2
Page 8
links, traffic management schemes and bus priority measures. Terms of
reference for the technical assistance required for the foregoirg are outlined
in Annex 5.
D. Road Planning and Traffic Management Action Plan
Present Situation
16.       Currently the planning of roads in Jakarta is not done on a
systematic and comprehensive basis. Coordination with public transport
planning and general transport planning within the city is weak and there is
little coordination with the planning of roads in the Botabek area. There has
not been until recently a single organization within DKI Jakarta with an
overall and continuing responsibility for road planning with its own technical
support staff able to develop a consistent and robust planning function in
this field.
17.       The Physical Facilities (Communications) section within Bappeda has
an overall view of road planning and traffic management but its staff are few
in number, mostly concerned with policy matters and program coordination. It
does not have its own technical department that can undertake the preparation
of schemes and it relies on other supporting departments for assistance in
technical appraisal of alternative plans and policies, initiation and develop-
ment of planning proposals, on-going coordination with other authorities, and
the detailed formulation of policies, plans and programs. The updating and
development of road and traffic plans is not handled as a continuous process.
18.       Dinas LLAJR has responsibility for traffic management, which is
intimately related to end dependent on the planning of roads but has, up to
now, had little hand in overall road planning. Dinas Tata Kota (city
planning) is involved in the planning of networks and roads generally but
mostly for housing and other developments of green field sites. Dinas PU
(public works) j  the agency responsible for detailed design and construction
of local roads._
19.       The majority of principal roads in the DKI area have been developed
by DG Bina Marga, (or Jasa Marga, the toll road authority), often with the use
of overseas funds. Consultants have normally been employed to assist in the
preparation of plans on a scheme by scheme basis. The general alignments and
design standards have been set for each scheme by Bina Marga; the selection
1/ It is proposed that Dinas Tata Kota continues to exercise its responsi-
bilities for the planning of roads to provide access within new develop-
ment areas. Over the general network of roads providing traffic circula-
tion within the city, however, the traffic management responsibilities
and experience of Dinas LLAJR will necessitate the development of an
expertise and interest in overall road and traffic planning. Dinas LLAJR
will clearly be in a pre-eminent position to give advice to Bappeda on
matters affecting the general network of roads and traffic circulation,
anrtlu iandrSteCS it-i^-t eZ



- 60 -                          ANNEX 2
Page 9
and progra ing of schemes has been dependent on the availability of loan
funds. Since 1982, the design of these schemes has been based on compre-
hensive traffic forecasts prepared in connection with an overall Structure
Plan for the year 1985 to 2005 developed by D.K.I.
20.       An extensive network of primary roads has been developed in this
way. The planning of these roads has, however, been chiefly based on the
development of a primary network of rings and radials performing a rational
function in establishing main links between Jakarta and the rest of the
country and with other facilities of national importance, such as the air-
port. The resulting road system does not always lend itself particularly well
to the needs of DKI Jakarta in providing for internal traffic within the
city. Considerable severance of land has taken place, making serious diffi-
culties for cross-town traffic; excessive distances are travelled due to
inadequate provision of U-turns and cross-movements; provision for buses could
be greatly improved; the planning and implementation of a road system designed
to encourage the stated DKI policy of East-West development is still tenuous
rather than dominant, and a lack of balance between new construction of
traffic management proposals is only now beginning to be corrected; and the
introduction of toll roads within the urban area has brought disadvantages to
general intra-city movement. The strengthening of the DRI to develop its own
organization to encompass road planning and traffic management is clearly
needed so that full weight can be given to DKI interests, now that a basic
framework of primary roads has been established.
21.       Responsibilities for traffic management and traffic engineering in
DKI lie with lDinas LLAJR. DLLAJR also has responsibilities for public
transport regulation and licensing, as described in Annex 2. Up to now,
however, its organization and staffing and the technical expertise available
within the organization has meant that it has had little opportunity to carry
out survey and analysis to provide a basis for developing traffic management
schemes, let alone their planning, design and implementation. The same
applies to its sub-dinas concerned with traffic engineering (traffic signals,
traffic signs, etc.); this has been necessarily mainly concerned with
installation, operation and maintenance and no staff is available for survey,
planning and design of traffic schemes to tender document stage or to provide
supervision advice during construction.
Action Plan
22.       Objectives of the Project in relation to road planning and traffic
management functions within DKI Jakarta are:
(a)  Planning and development:
(i)   to establish road planning and traffic planning on a
continuing basis as a part of overall transport planning;
(ii)   to establish overall road planning policies and programs
within the context of the Jakarta structure plan; and



- 61 -                          ANNEX 2
Page 0l
(iii) to plan individual road and traffic management schemes on
the basis of surve and analysis within the context of
overall policy objectives; and
(b) I-pleentation: To prepare and implement individual schemes in the
fields of traffic management, traffic engineering and parking
control
Action Plan
23.       In order to achieve the above objectives, Dinas LLAJR, the organiza-
tion responsible for traffic management is being strengthened considerably by
reorganization both to embody functions, not currently been undertaken and to
give increased power and ability to carry out other functions relevant to the
improved management of traffic on the road system. These new improved
capabilities lie in:
(a) transport planning;
(b) road and traffic planning;
(c) survey and analysis;
(d) traffic management planning and design;
(e) area traffic control;
(f) traffic engineering, signs and traffic signals;
(g) monitoring of traffic operations.
24.       The reorganization would be supported during the project period by:
(a) introduction of a program for recruitment of suitable new staff (54
persons over a 3-year period to cover all aspects of
reorganization);
(b)  introduction of a major program of staff training, in house, at the
Road Transportation and Traffic College at Bekasi (both full time
and short courses - Annex 5), and overseas;
(c)  implementation of substantial program of traffic management measures
over a 5-year period;
(d) design and implementation of a program to establish a practical
policy of traffic restraint and parking control to reduce congestion
in central areas; and
(e) the provision of technical assistance from experienced personnei in
transport planning and traffic engineering in cairying out the above
program (Annex 5).
25.       The foregoing institutional development program for Dinas LLAJR
would be carried out in conjunction with the strengthening of the public
transport functions (as described in Annex 3, Section D) under the guidance of
Directorate LLAK.



ANIU 2
- 62 -                                                                  Atteeat
Paleo
IND0NSIA
JA3OTAS3U  U3A  DEVSLOPIISIT PROJICT
Urban Tranopwrt Action Plan
Conpleted
ObJ.sctive                                  Task                                 Action by                    by                  Monitor
A.  Improve the                 Institutionalize coordination mecha-             TIPP/OCLI/DCBi;/DlI               06/88        Institutional develop-
coordination of            niem  for urban transport planning                                                               sent
urban transport pol-
icie and planning
1.  Strengthen Tim Koordinasi (TlPP) to         TKPP/DKI/DCBI/DCLT                03/88         Transport planning coor-
address urban transport s*ctor                                                              dinstion.
issues and programs.
2.  Establish urban transport capacity          DKI/BOTABEE                       03/88         Transport planning coor-
in Jabotabek IUIDP mechanim.                                                                dination.
1.  Develop urban               Prepare an Integrated urban transport           W.PP/DGLT/DCBN/DKI                 12/90        Adopt recommendations of
transport policies         development program and action plans                                                             systes review report
and strategies for
the Jabotabak area
1.   System review:                             DKI/JARAR/Consultants             09/89         Report accepted
(a) Define the transport needs of the
Jabotabek area based on existing
studies and data.
(b)  Evalu*ta role and capacity of all          DKI/JA8SR/Consultants             09/89         Report accepted
existing modes and networks.
(c)  Identify principal transport cor-          DKI/JABAR/Consult.;ts             09/90         Report accepted
ridors and prepare policiea and
plans for an integrated transport
system including mass transit
options.
2.   Action plans:                              DGLT/DKI/JABAR/                   03/91         Report accepted
Consultants
(a) Develop action plans for road,
rail, bus and other modes.
(b)  Evalucte role and options for sass         DKI/Consultants                   03/91         Report accepted
transit.
(c)  Carry out feaibility studies to            DKI/Conoultants                   12/91         Report accepted
develop an integrated mass transit
system for DKI Jakarta.
C.   Improve the                Bus Transport
efficiency and            1.   lmprove planning and regulation of          LLAJR/DCLT/Consultants            12/90         New plans and regula-
performance of the              bus services by strengthening DCLT                                                         tions
existing road                   and LL.AJR.
transport systems
and networks
2.   Improve management, operations and         PPD/Consultants                   12/90         Meet targets agreed in
finance of PPD.                                                                            PPD/DAJRI action plan
3.   Encourage efficient complementary          LLAJR/Consultants                 01/89         Possible additional
private-aector operations.                                                 co_mence       routes
Road Network
1.   Develop parking and traffic               DfI/Consultants                    12/89         Reports. parking i_-
restraint stratey.                                                                        provements
2.   Implement existing traffic  anage-         DKI/Consultants                   06/88         Improve traffic flow
ment. control and bus priority                                             co_ence
program.
3.   Develop and implement traffic en-          SATALANTAS/Consultants            01/89         Improve traffic flow
forcement program.                                                         co;ence



- 63 -                                  3
Page 1
INDONESIA
JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Public Transport Operations in Jabotabek
A. Overview
1.        Public transport is currently the major means of personal movement
in the larger Indonesian cities. In the Jakarta metropolitan area (Jabotabek)
both rail and road-based public transport is available. In other cities road-
based transport is generally the only available mode for intra-city movements
by public transport. Even in Jakarta the railway (a commuter systea between
Jakarta and the surrounding Botabek area), carries only about 22 of motorized
trips--approximately 55,000 passengers per day. About 7 million (or 54x) of
Jabotabek's total of 13 million trips/day in 1986 were motorized with about
91X of all trips occuring in Jakarta.  Road-based public transport (buses,
taxis, and bajajs) operated by the private and public sectors carries 52.22 of
motorized trips. Total trips in Jabotabek are estimated to increase to about
22 million by 2005 and about 15.5 million of them would be motorized. Coping
efficiently with this increase requires careful planning for maximum use of
public transport. A discussion of the integrated, multi-modal approach
required to provide a cost effective solution to Jabotabek's urban transport
needs is given in Annex 2. The approach would include improvements to the
efficiency of the bus and railway state enterprises concerned.
2.        Both existing public transport modes in Jabotabek suffer from severe
institutional and financial problems. The State Railway (PJKA) operations are
unprofitable ir. general and current investment plans for ugrading the
Jabotabek commuter rail system (totalling almost $2 billion) are unlikely to
make a significant positive impact on serving the potential trip demand or the
financial performance of PJKA. On the other hand, Jakarta's large bus
operator, the state enterprise PPD (which serves 44X of all trips by public
transport in Jakarta) is also unprofitable and provides a low level of
service. The enterprises incur operating deficits related to their Jakarta
operations totalling about Rp 29 billion/year on average. In addition Central
Government is currently responsible for financing their capital expansion
programs in Jakarta totalling some Rp 87 billion/year on average.
3.        Following is a discussion of the issues relating to the efficiency
of the public transport institutions in Jabotabek. Part B will address the
State Railway (PJKA) and Part C the State Bus Companies (PPD in Jakarta and
DAMRI in regional cities), including the actions agreed with government
intended to address their respective issues. The PJKA action plan development
would, however, depend in part on the findings of the consultants to be
engaged under the forthcoming Railways Technical Assistance Loan negotiated
recently. The PPD and DAMRI action plans will be addressed under the present
project together with strengthening of the bus transport regulatory
environment described in Part D.



- 64-                           ANNEX 3
Page 2
B. Jabotabek Railway System
Urban Transport in Jakarta
4.        Recent surveys undertaken in 1985 for the Arterial Road System
Development Study (ARSDS) in the Jakarta metropolitan area, show that there
are some 13 million person trips per day (of which 7 million are motorized).
The largest proportion of these trips (91.3%) are made by DKI Jakarta
residents within the DKI boundary. About 4.3% of person trips (608,000) are
between Jakarta and the Botabek area and the remainder are trips within the
Botabek area, and a small number of through trips. Of the 608,000 trips
between Botabek and Jakarta only 76,000 are "to work" trips. Thus, there is
very little current demand for commuter services between Jakarta and Botabek.
5.        The ARSDS surveys also highlighted:  (a) the heavy reliance on
public transport modes (53.9% of motorized trips); (b) the major importance of
the bus system (52.2% of motorized trips) and (c) the very minor role of the
rail system (1.7% of motorized trips - approximately 55,000 passengers per
day). Because of the under supply of buses and the improved economic
circumstances of the citizens, taxis and bajas are playing a more important
role. In Jakarta itself, 50.2Z of motorized trips are made by public
transport 49.8% by bus and 0.4% by rail. In the Botabek area 63.7% of
motorized trips are by public transport, 56% by bus and 7.7% by rail. It is
clear therefore, from the above, that the real system contributes very little
to the Jakarta public transport system and plays a minor role in the Botabek
area.
Future Transportation Demand
6.        Although, several estimates have been made of the future demand for
rail, there is a divergence of opinion as to the likely future modal split.
The revised rail feasibility study, by the JARTS rail study team in June 1985,
predicts 15% of trips by rail in 2005--26 times greater than at present. This
study states that for rail to achieve this level of usage it would be
necessary to provide significant bus feeder services to the railway lines.
7.        Figures from the ARSDS study estimate 22 million person trips in
2005 (15.5 million motorized) and indicate that the maximum likely demand for
a well improved rail system in 2005 would be 5.9% of motorized trips - 16
times greater than at present. Without the large investment in rail the
proportion of trips by rail would be 2.1%. These recent estimates appear more
reasonable given the fact that: (a) they are based on recent survey data;
(b) the railway lines are not well placed with regard to the planned activity
centers set out in the Jabotabek master plan; and (c) the increasing trend for
manufacturing and residential growth to Locate in the Botabek area.
8.        Within DKI-Jakarta the ARSDS study predicts that by 2005 only 0.4%
of motorized trips would be by rail. It is clear therefore, that the proposed
Jabotabek rail system will not have a significant role in resolving urban
transportation problems in Jakarta. Nor will it be the most cost effective
method of resolving the problems of transportation in the Botabek area. The



-65-                            AM=K  3
Page 3
rail proposals have been justified by the relief they are supposed to bring to
the road network by reducing demand for road space. However, the level of
demand and its dispersed pattern are such that a more cost-effective system
could be achieved by the use of buses.
The Rail System
9.        The master plan for the Jabotobek railway system involves the
upgrading, expansion and improvement of about 175 kilometers of existing
railway track which currently serves multiple uses (long and medium distance
passenger services, commuter services and freight and goods transportation).
The proposed master plan for the Jabotobek rail system concentrates on the
commuter rail function with the objective of improving regional passenger
services linking Bogor, Tangerang, Bekasi, Serpong and Tanjungpriok with each
other, and with Jakarta. Because of its limited coverage, both in the Botabek
area, and in Jakarta, and the need for railway track to serve multiple uses,
the system would never be able 9 operate as an urban mass transit system to
serve the needs of DKI Jakarta.-
The Costs
10.       The implementation of the Jabotabek rail master plan would be
completed in four stages by 2002. The total cost of the plan based on October
1987 prices is Rp 2,260 billion (US$1.98 billion) of which about 70Z is in
foreign exchange.-   The average annual investment of the program over the
eighteen year period of the plan is Rp 220 billion (US$133 million).  The
costs of each stage in local and foriegn currencies are shown in Table 1.
1/   The maximum headways that could be achieved with such a system, after
considerable signalling improvements, would be six-to-eight minutes. A
mass transit system would normally require two-to-three minute headways,
which would only be possible on an exclusive rail track with grade
separation at crossover points. The low ridership would not justify such
improvements.
2/   The unit costs of major elements of the system such as the proposed 8.5
km elevation of the Central Line appear quite high not only due to the
complex structures involved but also because all existing stations will
be rebuilt. A solution needs to be found to the problem of the 22 level
crossings that would be eliminated by the elevated section but the
mission was unable to determine that the least cost solution to this
problem had been found. While an overall justification for the project
was provided in the feasibility study of the system, the designs of
specific components of the system need to be reviewed to ensure that
costs have been minimized adequately.



- 66 -                          ANNEX 3
Page 4
Table 1: JABOTABEK RAILWAY IMPROVEMENT ESTIMATED COSTS
Local      Foreign /a         Total         (Total)
(Rp billion) (US$ million) (Rp billion) (US$ million)
Stage 1   1985-87         210.37           214.67        654.58          342.16
Stage 2   1988-92         400.82           577.05      1,352.95          819.97
Stage 3   1993-97          81.03           195.49        403.59          244.60
Stage 4   1998-02         271.78           404.38        939.01          569.10
964.00        1t391.59      3,260.13        1,975.83
/a   All of the foreign exchange spent on the project to date (11% of the
total) has been in Yen loans, over 30 years, at twc and one half percent
interest rate. Loans for Stage 2 are being negotia,ed with the
Governments of Japan and France.
Improvement Stages
11.       The principal project items in each stage are listed in Table 2
below. Stage 1 is almost complete and the preparation of Stage 2 is well
advanced. Stage 3 and 4 are still at a preliminary design stage. The major
feature in Stage 2 is the elevation of 8.5 kilometers of the central line
between Manggarai and Jakarta Kota. This section of the line crosses 21 roads
and contains 7 stations. These works will be completed in three sections.
Work on the first section represents about 38Z of the total Stage 2 costs and
has reached an advanced stage of tendering. Other planned Stage 2 works
involve, the rehabilitation of 3 depots and a workshop, the completion of the
loop around the center of Jakarta, the doubling of track, electrification, a
new station and the purchase of new electric rail cars.



- 67-                           ANNEX 3
Page 5
Table 2: JABOTABEK RAILWAY MASTER PLAN COMPONENTS 1985-2002
Component                  Description
Stage I (1985-87)
Western line:        Electrification Manggarai-Kampung Bandan-Jakarta Kota
Central line:       Doubling of track Duren Kali Bata-Dcpok
New station, University of Indonesia
Diesel cars (20); electric cars (20)
Power supply improvement and minor items
Stage II (1988-92)
Central line:       Electrification Manggarai-Depok; Jatinegara-Bekasi
Doubling of track Manggarai-Pasar Minggu
Elevation of track Jakarta Kota-Manggarai (8.5 km)
Loop:               New station, Kampung Bandan
Doubling of track, Kampung Bandan
Tangerang line:     Rehabilitation of track and signals
Serpong line:       Rehabilitation of track and signals
General:            Depot (3) and workshop improvements
Additional 64-110 electric cars
Minor items
Stage III (1993-97)
Tangerang line:     Doubling of track
*            Serpong line:        Doubling of track
Central line:       Grade separation Manggarai and Jatinegara
Additional electric rail cars
Minor items
Stage IV (1993-97)
Additional cars (totalling 908 electric rail cars)
Double track, new line Jakarta Kota-Airport and
Tanjungpriok-Cibinong
Minor items
Issues
12.       The most important issues are:  (a) the scale of the proposed
railway improvement program, and (b) the imbalance between the level of
investment in railway with that proposed for bus transportation in
Jabotabek. The proposed average annual expenditure for the rail system over
eighteen years will be Rp 180 billion. Over the next five years the average
annual expenditure will be even higher reaching almost Rp 270 billion. To
spend such huge sums of money to benefit, at the best, of less than 1% of
Jakarta based passenger movements and 6X of Botabek passengers movements,
could constitute a serious misallocation of resources under present circum-
stances. For example, as an alternative, a small fraction of this expenditure



- 68 -                          ANNEX 3
Page 6
could provide major improvements in mass transportation in Jakarta through the
introduction of segregated bus ways and expansion of the bus fleet.
13.       The scale of the project is out of balance with the rest of the PJKA
operations. Even with the expected soft loan conditions, the annual loan
repayments after stage 2, would be approximately equivalent to the existing
net annual operating loss.  The abovementioned JARTS revised feasibility study
says in this respect that, "...the financial aspects of the project are not
necessarily optimistic and the Government must be prepared to support the
project even after the construction, mainly in servicing debts." Any hope of
PJKA reaching some degree of self sufficiency, and reducing operating
subsidies, would be out of the question for several decades, if the current
program of investment is maintained.
14.       While there is no doubt that the scale of the proposed Jabotabek
passenger rail system is questionable, the existing rail infrastructure and
services provide a transportation resource the use of which, if continued,
could be improved at a lesser cost by: (a) providing bus feeder services to
the main stations; and (b) completing the loop around the center of Jakarta.
Other cost effective improvements at an affordable scale could then be imple-
mented over in the longer term. Future intermodal transport planning in
Jabotabek should provide for maximum use of the existing rail system, thereby
helping to reduce overall transport system costs in Jabotabek, and improve
PJKA revenues, although a financially viable service is still unlikely.
15.       The present plan seems to have been conceived in the absence of a
wider, integrated urban transportation plan for the Jabotabek region and,
moreover, is now inconsistent with Central Government's concerns over its
budgetary constraints. Under the GOI's forthcoming integrated urban transport
planning exercise for the Jabotabek region, the role and capacity of Jabotabek
Railway would be evaluated and appropriate measures adopted into an action
plan for (a) the integration of the railway system into a least-cost overall
solution and (b) improvement in its operational efficiency. The evaluation
would be carried out by DGLT with technical assistance provided by the
Government of Japan. The Government of Japan will also assist PJKA during
1988 in the planning of bus feeder services and other measures intended to
maximize effectiveness of the railway as an urban transport mode. The find-
ings of the evaluation and planning would be made available to and discussed
with the Bank. The conclusions would be incorporated into the integrated
transport plan to be prepared by DGLT, DGBM and DKI with assistance provided
under this project (see Annex 5 for TOR). Under the terms of the abovemen-
tioned Railway Technical Assistance Loan, the Government has initiated an
accounting system for the Jabotabek Railway to create a separate cost center
in PJKA accounts. Experience with the operating results obtained from these
accounts would be used to help determine an institutional action plan of
measures intended to improve the Jabotabek railway system efficiency.



- 69 -                          ANNEX 3
Page 7
C. PPD and DAMRI Bus Operations Action Plan
Jakarta Bus Company - Pengangkutan Penumpang Djakarta (PPD)
16.       Background.  PPD State Enterprise is the major bus operator in
Jakarta with a fleet of about 2,000 vehicles, including 400 double deckers.
PPD is licensed to operate 1,823 buses on 105 routes entailing a minimum
output of 1,500 buses. In practice the daily output seldom exceeds 1,100
buses and may fall short of this figure during the day as a consequence of
breakdowns and staff failures. There are 289 licensed bus routes serving the
city, the remainder being operated by the private sector, including one large
bus operator with 880 conventional single-deck buses, and around 4,000 inde-
pendently owned mini-buses and para-transit vehicles. A significant propor-
tion of the PPD operation was originally in private ownership but had been
unable to remain viable as a consequence of a government-controlled low fares
policy. Fares were increased early in 1987. Since 1983 PPD has been engaged
in rationalizing its structure and operational policies. New Directors were
appointed in 1985, four having held management posts in the undertaking, the
Technical Director coming from DGLT office. During 1984/85 consultancy
assistance was obtained from London Transport International (LTI) dealing with
fleet maintenance and associated supply problems and during 1985/86 there was
a major study of operations (funded from Loan 2049-IND Jakarta-Cikampek
Highway Project) which has made numerous recommendations which could lead to
an improved operational performance and the eventua;l viability of PPD. Until
a viable performance is demonstrated PPD operations will be consolidated and
no further expansion permitted.
17.       Key Problems.  Key performance indicators for PPD and DAMRI
operations are shown in Table 3 below. In common with most major city bus
operators PPD is beset by problems, the most significant of which are as
follows:
(a)  Management Structure.  PPD does not own its bus fleet which is
bought and owned by the Ministry of Finance, nor does it have in
practice the appropriate capital and accounting structure for a
State Enterprise. Reporting lines are divided between the
Ministries of Finance and Communications with some conflict of
objectives. In the circumstances it is difficult to establish the
actual financial position of the undertaking, or the actual cost of
providing the public bus service in Jakarta.
(b)  Bus Rental Payment System (WAP-Wajib Angkut Penumpang).  Crews pay a
pre-determined sum of money to PPD, based on the outcome of a
passenger survey, for operating a bus on a route and keep the
remainder of the revenue collected from passengers.  The system is
described i4detail in the above mentioned PERUM PPD Operations
Study 1986.1"  For PPD to maximize its revenue it is essential to
have an accurate base count of passengers carried on each service,
2/   In Project File (see Annex 12).



- 70 -                          ANNEX 3
Page 8
but it is evident that the passenger total on which WAP is based has
been seriously underestimated, causing a substantial loss of
revenue. The calculation is made on a per bus basis with adjust-
ments being allowed for buses which do not complete a full shift,
student cheap travel, etc. Thus with a regular failure to meet the
licensed daily output and some evidence of manipulation by crews to
maximize their earnings (delaying departures from termini and other
restrictive practices) giving an irregular and unreliable service to
the travelling public, there is a leakage of a significant propor-
tion of potential revenue. The operations study indicates that this
leakage constitutes as much as 75Z of crews "wages" and the leakage
may overflow into other staff groups. Comparison between a revenue
forecast supplied by PPD and a conservative estimate (on the basis
of 1,000 buses carrying 1,000 passengers each on 313 days a year)
shows that there is a possible shortfall of Rp 7.2 billion when
allowances for student travel and other adjustments have been taken
into account. The actual loss may be much greater.
(c)  Flees Maintenance.  The procedures for planned maintenance suggested
in the LTI study have only been introduced at two depots and the
overall condition of the fleet gives cause for concern. Daily
availability is consistently below 60% and the consequential and
consistent overloading of vehicles must cause premature failure of
engines, gearboxes and suspensions. Vital tools and equipment items
are not available at depots, often due to lengthy procurement
procedures, and there is an urgent and continuing need to improve
the skills of workshop staff so that better use can be made of the
facilities available.  Though many are only five years old, more
than fifty of the double deck buses are out of service due to lack
of spares or following serious electricai fires. Many of these
buses have been completely cannibalized.-   Performance varies
considerably between depots. On consecutive days in October 1987
one depot achieved 86 on the road from 116 double deckers (74%)
A'ilst another depot only ran 150 from 232 single deckers (64%)
(d) Reduction of Costs. A significant cost for any bus operation is the
level of manning and the Operations Study identified 14.5 employees
per PPD bus operating at November 1985 compared with ratios of 7:1
in the private sector and 6:1 in DAMRI operations. The ratio of
drivers and conductors would be correct if PPD was achieving an
output of 1,500 buses each day; nevertheless, service buses are
often cancelled because of crew shortage. The ratio of administra-
tive staff per bus is high even though by comparison with conven-
tional bus operations PPD have no staff engaged on time schedule
compilation, ticket handling, publicity or marketing.
3/   A major reconstruction exercise would be required to make these buses fit
for service and a cost of Rp 50-60 million per bus has been suggested.
New single deckers with substantially lower operational costs and simpler
ftaintenance needs could be purchased for the same outlay.



- 71 -                           ANNEX 3
Page 9
(e) Quality of Service. Because of the combined effects of vehicle
shortage and the WAP system, PPD has limited control over the
quality of service provided. Routes are licensed for a specific
number of buses (including provision for 15% spares) but vehicles
are tied to the licensed route giving no flexibility to deal with
serious shortfalls on other routes caused by mechanical failures.
The license is not specific regarding the actual number of trips to
be provided in the course of the day or at any period of the day.
PPD does not issue a time schedule but crews are expected to perform
a number of trips consistent with the estimated journey time and the
length of shift. In practice the drivers play a large part in
determining the pattern of service as they manipulate journeys to
maximize earnings above their WAP requirement. Whenever possible
departures from the terminal are delayed to ensure that buses are
well loaded and the consequential gaps in service become further
extended when traffic delays are encountered along the route,
especially at peak travel times. Conditions at termini are far from
ideal as big buses and minibuses compete for inadequate road space
and passengers attempt to interchange between services. Buses are
frequently seriously overloaded, to the extent that danger exists of
boarding or alighting accidents or from the consequences of a
serious collision or bus fire. Public information regarding routes
and frequencies is virtually non-existent (Dinas DLLAJR publish a
list of all licensed routes but first or last times are not shown
nor is there any indication of service frequency). In the circum-
stances it is not surprising that many employers have commissioned
private charter services to ensure that staff without personal
transport are able to get to and from work. Without the provision
of an attractive, regular ar;d reliable service there is a real
possibility that the PPD share of the public transport market will
be further eroded by private operators.
(f) Financial Performance. Since it has the status of a Perum the
government expects PPD to operate on a commercial basis and make a
profit. Some services (around 30%) are pioneer or otherwise
unprofitable routes required by the Government of Indonesia for
social reasons. Overall profitability has not been achieved and in
recent years PPD has incurred substantial losses, partly due to the
government's past policy of low fares but also due to its own poor
operational effeciency. A major factor has been the operation of
the double deck fleet with its higher first and subsequent running
costs. Direct operating costs have not been covered leaving large
sums to be found from the public purse. By comparison, in a similar
operational environment the private large bus operator, appears to
have remained profitable. Recent performance figures provided by
PPD are set out below:



-72 -                           ANNEX 3
Page 10
1985      1986      1987 /a
Revenue                   20.9       35.6      22.7
Direct costs              20.4       37.8      18.1
Indirect costs             0.5        3.6       1.0
Other expenditures         6.2       10.2       9.1
Deficit                7.2       16.8       6.2
/a 1985 PPD 1 only
1986 PPD 1 and PPD 2
1987 PPD 1/PPD 2 First six months only
(g) Environmental Measures. Tvo aspects of environmental pollution have
a bearing on the activities of PPD. Even through buses form a small
proportion of the total traffic generated emissions, it is important
that PPD is seen to be taking effective steps to deal with excessive
smoke from buses. Under normal circumstances fuel economy measures
as part of an effective routine maintenance plan will also result in
smoke reduction.
18.       Actions Taken to Date.  In some of the problem areas action has
already been initiated as follows:
(a) WAP System. In general the only action taken has been to revise the
WAP payment to reflect the March 1987 fare increase. Some routes
have had new passenger counts, but the effect has been minimal and
PPD revenue losses remain significant.
(b) Fleet Maintenance. The effect of measures taken to date has been to
improve average output by 50-100 vehicles a day, but it still falls
400 short of the 1,550 basic licence requirement. Based on
projected new bus deliveries PPD expects to have 1,823 operational
vehicles by January 1988 with a potential daily output of 1,463
buses. By September 1988 there should be an operational fleet of
1,916 buses (including 76 single deck and 15 double deck spare
buses). This should be sufficient to ensure the licensed output of
1,500 buses each day. The measures taken to date are as follows:
(i)    In accordance with suggestions made by the LTI team and
endorsed by the Operations Study, buses have been
reallocated so that each depot deals with only one type of
vehicle. This has a direct benefit in stores control and
parts stocking, as well as reducing the skill span
necessary for maintenance tasks. Standard maintenance
procedures are possible and this in turn makes the task of
work allocation and supervision less onerous.
(ii)    774 new single decker buses are in course of deliverv.
The majority are intended to replace out-dated and o'der
vehicles, but some are intended for fleet expansion end
the operation of new services. 447 of these buses are



- 73 -                        ANNEX 3
Page 11
already in service, and completion of the contract by
March 1988 will constitute renewal of one third of the PPD
fleet. In addition 40 additional double deckers are due
to enter service early in 1988. If earlier experience
with these sophisticated buses is any indication, their
nuisance value wtl outweigh any short-term contribution
to fleet output.-
(iii)    A new central overhaul facility at Bekasi is in course of
construction by DGLT capable of dealing with a fleet of
4,000 vehicles. Whilst this may be a generous over-
provision, it will create a facility to undertake the
heavy repair and reconstruction of PPD buses among others,
freeing PPD depot resources to concentrate on routine
maintenance, inspections and rectification. The works
is expected to be operational early in 1988, but opera-
tional and financial objectives have not yet been
determined.
(iv)    PPD have in preparation a program of depot rehabilitation
covering eleven locations, improvements to the head office
premises and the construction of a new depot. Outline
costs of this program are about Rp 17.75 billion; funding
sources are not confirmed.
(c) Reduction of Costs. Some positive steps have been taken in reducing
excessive staff costs. There has been a freeze on recruitment and
total staffing at the end of September 1987 was 14,479. This com-
pares with 16,663 in November 1985. During the same period mainte-
nance staff have increased by 128, a feature that must be welcomed.
PPD has identified a lack of managerial skills and will be recruit-
ing 12 graduates under a program prepared by the University of
Indonesia among others and covering a variety of specialist areas.
Subject to final agreement of contracts the University of Indonesia
is expected to also be involved in a project  3 determine an optimum
staffing level on a per bus basis which will ue useful in guiding
future policies. Steps have been taken to introduce a career
structure for managers and to this ent,depots have been classified
by size and type of vehilce operated.,   A progressive disciplinary
system exists for dealing with persistent absenteeism and other
offences, and at one depot 27 staff had been discharged during 1987.
4/   Fleet expansion and replacement, bus specification and procurement are
not controlled by PPD but by a DGLT committee. Full control of such
decisions by PPD in future would be an important aspect of its
restructured operations.
5/   Thus a Class 1 depot has 200 single or 120 double deck buses, Class 2 has
160 single cr 80 double deck, Class 3, 120 single deck and Class 4, 80
single deck.



_ 74 -                          ANNEX 3
Page 12
(d)  Financial Performance.  As indicated in the previous section,
performance in the first six months of 1987 was better than in 1986,
but this is largely due to the effects of the fare increase. Worth-
while improvements will only flow from a much more realistic
approach to the level of revenue obtained through WA? coupled with a
dramatic reduction in staffing levels. The Ministry of Finance has
announced that there will be no subsidy for bus operations in
1988. Whilst this may be achievable in the actual cost of opera-
tion, it may not be appropriate to expect PPD to provide non-viable
social services without some form of targetted subsidy.
19.       Action Plan.  An Action Plan for improvement of PPD operations and
finances is set out in Table 4. Technical assistance would be provided to PPD
to help implement the plan and train staff (for TOR see Annex 5). Five
principal objectives have been identified for the Action Plan as follows:
(a) Strengthen the Corporate Management Structure
-    PPD to become a properly constituted Perum with an appropriate
organizational and financial structure and a full public
utility accounting system.
-    Bus fleet ownership to be vested with PPD.
-    A Deputy President Director to be appointed with adequate
authority and responsibility 4n all functional areas to ensure
that the Action Plan is effectively implemented.
-    Corporate and operational planning functions to be
strengthened.
(b) Improve Revenue and Financial Performance
-    WAP to be revised to reflect an accurate passenger count for
all services, and wages and salaries adjusted to compensate for
elimination of the existing unofficial reward system. WAP to
be calculated as a daily figure for each route and levied
according to the number of buses operated instead of the
present deduction on a per bus basis.
-    PPD to maintain control of WA? with a continuous monitoring
system updating the initial blanket survey.
-    Alternative methods of fare collection to be studied to see if
a cost effective system is available which will meet the
operational system in Jakarta.



- 75 -                          ANNEX 3
Page 13
(c) Improve Fleet Maintenance and General Efficiency
-    Bus output to attain consistent achievement of 75Z of license
figure by June 1988 and no less than 85Z by December 1988.
-    Breakdowns in service to be reduced by 501 by June 1989.
-    LTI maintenance program to be introduced at all depots by June
1989.
-    Central Works project to be reviewed by DGLT and appropriate
service to be provided to PPD at cost.
-    Decision taken to repair or scrap derelict double deckers.
-    Early decision required whether serviceable double deckers
should be replaced or overhauled to give a further 5-6 years
service.
-    Tools and equipment procurement program established for all
depots.
-    Skill training program introduced to develop the ability of
existing maintenance staff.
-    Possible introduction of incentive schemes based on vehicle
output and breakdown reduction.
-    Establishment of emergency repair teams so that routine
maintenance work is not disrupted by requests for rurnning
repairs and immediate action.
-    Establishment of spare vehicle float to cover "casualties."
(d) Reduction of Costs
-    University of Indonesia programs to be expedited and
implemented.
-    Graduate entrant program developed to determine optimum number
of continuing program.
-    PPD to issue formal guidance on expected levels of attendance
and performance following WAP revision.
-    Further training opportunities to be provided for supervisors
and managers (e.g. DGLT Training College short courses in
public transport).



- 76 -                          ANNEX 3
Page T4
(e) Quality of Service
-    Route costing formula to be developed to permit targetted
subsidies to pioneer, protocol and social services.
-    DLLAJR/PPD to define trips per hour on route licenses.
-    PPD to develop basic time schedule for each route to improve
performance and set up monitoring process.
-    DLLAJR/PPD to establish formal recording procedures for
arrivals and/or departures at major termini. Possible use of
mechanical or computer recording to be investigated.
-    DLLAJR to consider implementing the 1982 Bus Stations report to
improve pubic access to services and facilitate interchange
between routes.
20.       Privatization.  Promotion of private sector public transport
operations is one of the policies set out in the Minister of Communications
Decree No. 91/1987. However, it is also Government's policy at this time to
provide publicly owned services on all strategic routes in larger cities in
order to ensure an adequ.te, reliable transport service in view of the
possible social and political ramifications of an unreliable or interrupted
private service. Official policy restricts private services to non-strategic
or feeder routes. Notwithstanding the failure to private services in Jakarta
i3 the past (during the period of heavily controlled fares), private large bus
operations in Jakarta appear to be profitable under the new fare structure.
Privatization of PPD operations was an option considered by the Government as
an alternative to the restructuring now proposed. However, the relatively
profitable performance of Perum DAMRI (as discussed below) offers some hope
that the PPD operations might be continued successfully with appropriate
measures as described above. PPD will be monitored closely in its efforts to
achieve its new financial and service objectives. In the event that PPD does
not perform satisfactorily on any of its routes by due date, its licenses for
those routes will be revoked and the routes turned over to the private sector
and further restructuring carried out. It is expected that this approach
would be repeated for a further cycle but in the even that improvement is not
shown, additional measures may be applied in time, such as privatization of
certain depots, installation of a private operating company, or indeed,
privatization of the entire operation should conditions deteriorate
sufficiently.
Regional Cities Bus Company - Perum DAMRI
21.       Perum DAMRI provides bus services in about 8 larger cities under the
direction of a central head office in Jakarta. During 1985 a study of DAMRI
operations in the four largest cities served (Bandung, Medan, Semarang and
Surabaya) was carried out by consultants (study in Project File, see Annex
12). The study was limited to these cities in order to complement the ongoing
Regional Cities Urban Transport Project (assisted by Loan 2817-IND). Revenues
from these operations constitute about [70%] of DAMRI's overall revenue. As



- 77~ -ANNEX 3
Page 15
may be seen from Table 3, DAMRI performance indicators are relatively good.
However, some improvements are desirable as discussed below and an action plan
(Table 5) and consultants assistance (outline TOR are given in Annex 5) has
been provided for in the project. The following discussion focuses mainly on
DAMRI's operations in Bandung which are not un-typical of problems and
approaches applicable to all DAMRI operations.
22.       Background.  DAMRI was established in Bandung in May 1978 with 68
buses. Daily output of 54 buses carried 16 million passengers on one route.
By 1986 the fleet had grown to 229 with 140 in daily service on 9 routes
carrying 54 million passengers. In October 1987 there was a fleet of 227
buses of which 181 were operational. Budgetted staff strength of the unit was
1,080 with 1,048 actually in post giving a ratio of 1:5.8 per bus. In 1986
the Bandung unit produced a small profit having covered all local costs and
made its 40Z contribution to central overheads (including provision for
depreciation and interest). Plans have been made for four new routes which
will be opened up as additional buses become available. These routes are
currently served by private minbuses but it is anticipated that the lower
fares of DANRI (Rp 150 compared with Rp 200-350) will attract enough passen-
gers to make the DAMRI operations viable. There are currently about 4,000
minibuses and para-transit vehicles in the Bandung area.
23.       Key Problems and Potential Remedies.  Although, on the evidence from
Bandung, DAMRI does not face the problems of PPD, there are areas where
significant improvement could be achieved.
(a) Management Structure. In common with PPD most of the DAMRI fleet
has been purchased and is owned by the Ministry of Finance.  Provi-
sion is made for depreciation and interest: payments but the situa-
tion could be improved if full Perum status cculd be achieved with
complete financial accountability and capital structure. This would
reveal the true financial situation of each DAMRI unit.
(b) Fares System. All DAMRI urban operations utilize an accountable
ticket systemand in consequence are much more aware and in control
of their total revenue.  A major revenue leakage was identified and
eradicated in Surabaya and at Bandung 10 conductors have been
discharged during 1987 for ticket offences. Ticket and security
procedures should be reviewed to reduce losses and en route ticket
checks should be reinforced.  In Bandung passenger totals are
reviewed each month as a means of checking on potential revenue and
the possibilitv of introducing a continuous monitoring procedure
should be examined. Existing statistics and returns would be
adapted to analyze individual route revenues and costs. This would
permit the allocation of targetted subsidies should the need arise,
as well as assisting in the determination of service levels.
(c) Fleet Maintenance. If the Bandung unit is typical this is the most
critical area for DAMRI. From the whole fleet of 225 there is 63%
availability butif 46 withdrawn buses are disregarded there is 77%
availability of the operational fleet. This is achieved despite the
most primitive engineering facilities with minimal pit provision,



- 78 -                          ANNEX 3
Page 16
shortage of tools and equipment and an inadequate supply of neces-
sary vehicle spares.-/ Bandung buses have daily oil and brake
checks with mileage based maintenance routines leading up to over-
haul at 20,000 kms. Daily maintenance needs are well documented and
subject to availability of spare parts some ove:night repairs are
undertaken in order to maximize morning output.
(d) Reduction of Costs. The bus/staff ratio at Bandung is now 1:5.8
compared with 1:7.2 in November 1985 and unlike PPD some DAMRI staff
are employed on ticket and schedule preparation. The only apparent
staff economy of any significance would be to reduce the number of
conductors to one per bus and this may not be practicable in the
short term. The management presentation indicated that costs were
kept under stringent control but a further review may be worth-
while. Efficiency indices for Medan suggest a deterioration in the
staff ratio since November 1985.
(e) Quality of Service. Bandung buses are issued with individual time-
cards and arrivals/departures are recorded at termini with adjust-
ments being made by the timekeeper to ensure regular intervals in
the event of scheduled buses breaking down or not entering
service. Bandung route 1 operates at 1-1/2 minute intervals at peak
times and observation at a terminal confirms that this frequency is
maintained and well supervised. Route information appears in the
local press. Bandung buses carry ovcr 1,000 passengers per day but
in a city with a population of 1.5 million there is potential to
develop passenger carryings well beyond the current 54 million per
year. As indicated above there are plans for additional routes in
Bandung. Similar situations apply in Medan, Semarang and surabaya,
suggesting situations apply in Medan, Semarang and Surabaya,
suggesting that despite the alternative minibus and para-transit
facilities available in each city DAMRI could increase its market
share if service provision and quality was improved.
(f) Financial Performance. On the evidence available from Bandung
competent management can produce not only operational profit, but
also financial self sufficiency. There is ample passenger potential
in each of the cities to achieve or come close to profitability
6/   The Bandung fleet is made up of 112 Tata buses dating from 1977 (41 now
withdrawn), 50 Hino and 60 Mercedes. The Tata buses, designed and built
in India are well suited to Indonesian conditions and there are 420 in
the DAMRI fleet. Despite their conditions and there are 420 in the DAMRI
fleet. Despite their age they are regarded as the backbone of the
Bandung fleet. Unfortunately, spares are in short supply so that canni-
balization is necessary. When new the Tata buses cost $21,000, at the
same time a new Mercedes cost $36,000 (for a less robust bus). If
vehicle purchase decisions were in the hands of DAMRI it seems likely
that operational factors would be given proper weight with better
provision being made for procurement of spares.



_79                              ANNEX 3
Page 17
though in the short term it may be appropriate to provide targetted
subsidies for socially necessary routes and injections of capital to
provide adequate maintenance facilities.
24.       Action Plan for DAMRI.  The Action Plan is set out in Table 5 below
but some specific comments follows:
(a)  Strengthen Corporate Structure
-    DAMRI to become a properly constituted Perum with a capital
structure and full public utility accounting system.
-    Bus fleet to be vested in DAMRI.71
(b)  Improve Revenue and Financial Performance
-    Devise route costing system to permit subsidy payments where
appropriate.
-    Strengthen ticket checking and security.
-    Introduce continuous monitoring of passenger carryings.
(c)  Improve Fleet Maintenance and Efficiency
-    Program to improve maintenance work area facilities.
-    Program of tools and equipment procurement.
-    Skill training program introduced to develop the abilities of
exicting staff.
-    Establishment of spare vehicle float to cover "casualties."
Revise license conditions to permit vehicle flexibility.
-    Workload plans and output targets for all depots.
-    As in the case of PPD the economics of retaining double deck
buses in the DAMRI fleet should be fully evaluated.
7/   Subsequent to the bus fleets being transferred to the ownership of PPD
and DAMRI the possibility of devising a combined vehicle replacement and
rehabilitation program should be reviewed. This review should take into
account the central overhaul facilities of both undertakings giving
particular attention to possible mutual use of the new PPD overhaul
works.



- 80 -                          ANNEX 3
Page 18
(d) Reduction of Costs
-    Training opportunities for supervisors and managers.
-    Review conductor staffing level.  One per bus in off-peak as
first step.
-    Introduce computer reporting and information systems where
practicable.
-    Review journey times foilowing traffic management improvements.
(e) Quality of Service
-    Comprehensive demand survey in each city to determine optimum
route pattern.
-    Develop mechanical/computer logging of terminal times.
-    Improve publicity and image.
D. Bus Transport Planning and Regulation
25.       Role of Government.  The effectiveness and feasibility of the PPD
and DAMRI action plans will be severely handicapped without (a) concomitant
strengthening of the regulatory authorities; and (b) improvements in route and
operations planning, as well as (c) bus priority measures in the road network;
and (d) enforcement of the traffic regulations concerned.
26.       Large size city buses, both publicly and privately-owned, are
licensed to operate on individual routes. The same applies to smaller buses
(mikrobus) and minibuses (mikrolet). The regulation of bus frequencies and
time schedules is not, however, adequately controlled and is, in practice,
largely in the hands of the individual operators and their bus crews. In
Jakarta, regulation is the responsibility of the local authority DKI-Jakarta
through its Dinas LLAJR. In other cities such regulation is in the hands of
provincial bodies, who, like Jakarta, are expected to act in accordance with
advice and guidance from the national authority, Directorate LLAK of the DCLT.
Dinas LLAJR Action Plan
27.       In Jakarta, important objectives of the Project, in relation to bus
transport planning and regulation, are:
(a)  Planning and Development.  (i) to establish public transport plan-
ning as a part of overall transport planning; specifically, to
introduce overall network planning with medium and longer-term per-
spectives, as well as for short term route development; (ii) to
relate the provision of bus services to existing and potential
demand; and (c) to introduce, where and when appropriate, new types
of service, including high quality services into the system.



- 81 -                          ANfEh 3
Page 19
(b) Regulation and Control. (i) to license public and privately-owned
bus services (for all types of bus operating on fixed route
services) so as to comply with overall planning objectives; (ii) to
improve the regulation and control of bus operations (public and
private) by introducing a system of route tendering; and (iii) to
achieve a tighter control of bus frequencies, bus schedules and
reliability of service through the licensing system.
28.       In order to achieve the above objectives, Dinas LLAJR, the organ-
ization responsible for bus regulation, would be strengthened considerably by:
(a) building upon the re-organization already begun in order to embody
functions, not previously undertaken, and to give increased power
and ability to carry out other functions relevant to the provision
of an improved quality of service in public transport operation.
These new and improved capabilities lie in:
(i) transport planning;
(ii) public transport planning;
(iii) survey and analysis;
(iv) bus route and service scheduling and licensing;
(v) monitoring of operations;
(vi) vehicle testing;
(vii) supervision of terminals; and
(viii)   traffic engineering.
(b) Introduction of a program for recruitment and training of suitable
new staff (54 personnel over a 3-year period).
(c) Introduction of a comprehensive study of public transport require-
ments in Jakarta to develop policies, plans and programs for LLAJR.
(d) Implementation of a substantial program of traffic management
measures, in particular, the introduction of bus priorities, bus
lanes, etc. to improve speed and quality of service of buses in
relation to private vehicles.
(e) The provision of technical assistance from experienced personnel in
public transport planning and operations and traffic engineering in
carrying out the above program (details are given in Annex 5).
Urban Transport Planning and Bus Regulation at the National Level
29.       As the largest Indonesian city, Jakarta is encountering the problems
of urban transport planning to a higher degree and on a more extensive scale



ANNEX 3
- 82 -                          Page  o0
than other Indonesian cities. It has been helped in responding to this situa-
tion by its status as both province and city, and by its greater resources,
whereby it has been able to set up its own organization, namely the Dinas
LLAJR, to deal with the problems of public transport planning and bus regula-
tion. This organization, although it requires both strengthening and widening
of its organization and activities, is at the forefront of practical knowledge
and experience of urban transport planning, bus regulation and supportive
traffic management for bus transport operations because of the nature and
extent of the problems it encounters in Jakarta.
30.       Other Indonesian cities have similar problems in transport planning
and bus regulation, albeit to a lesser degree. They also have much smaller
resources, in terms both of financial and institutional resources, within
their own organizations to respond to the problems presented to them in this
field. They are primarily dependent for advice and guidance on the DGLT, the
national authority responsible for transport planning and bus regulaticn
amongst a range of related functions and responsibilities.
Organization of the National Authority
31.       The DGLT has established the Directorate of City Traffic and Trans-
portation (LLAK) to be the national authority responsible for urban transport
planning, traffic and transport systems development, integration of services,
traffic engineering schemes and regulations. The LLAK is a small directorate,
however, concentrated in Jakarta without any regional offices, anid largely
with little contact with regional organizations and their problems. In
-ractice there is no direct channel for policies and technical expertise
developed by LLAK to be made available in terms of advice and guidance in
urban transport planning, let alone in terms of more positive assistance, to
the city authorities within the regions, where the major problems of urban
transport planning and bus regulation arise.
32.       In response to this situation, the longer established Directorate of
Highway Traffic and Transportation (LLAJR) which is a large organization with
widespread regional offices, give support to local dinas and cabang organiza-
tions in the provinces and cities. As a separate organization, at the same
level as LLAK, the LLAJR in practice supplies advice and guidance to regional
cities at the local level whereever called for and to deal with the probl ms
that in practice arise, whatever their precise nature and scope. In urban
areas a preponderance of these problems inevitably involve the field of urban
transport planning, city bus regulation and traffic management. There is
naturally, therefore, a large degree of overlapping with what are intended to
be the responsibilities of LLAK and for which LLAK is intended to be the
repository of the principal expertise at the national level. This situation
insulates LLAK from direct knowledge of the problems and experiences in urban
transport planning across the country. It also gives limited opportunities
for any knowledge and experience that has been acquired by LLAK to be passed
on to regional organizations.



ANNEX 3
Page 21
LLAK Action Plan
33.       The objectives of the LLAK action plan must be to:
(a)  strengthen the knowledge, experience and technical capability of
LLAK in urban transport planning, transport systems development and
integration of public transport services; and
(b)  assist DGLT in establishing, by re-organization, by modification of
existing procedures, or by the development of special units, better
avenues of conminication or an improved devolution of responsi-
bility, so that LLAK can discharge its responsibilities in an effec-
tive manner throughout Indonesia.
34.       In order to achieve the above objectives, the following program
would be undertaken:
(a)  a delineation of the responsibilities of the DGLT in the field of
urban transport planning, transport system development, the integra-
tion of public transport services and traffic management and an
assessment of any strengthening of LLAK required to fulfill these
responsibilities most effectively;
(b)  the identification of any changes in organization within DGLT to
enable the duties of LLAK to be most effectively carried out;
(c)  the preparation of a detailed action plan to implement any changes
that are required including the development of a program of staff
recruitment and training, both within LLAK and to meet the antici-
pated national needs for the staffing of urban transport planning
organizations throughout Indonesia; and
(d)  the provision of technical assistance from experienced personnel in
urban transport planning and public transport development, opera-
tions and regulation in carrying out the above program (See Annex 5
for details).
Enforcement
35.       Effectiveness of traffic engineering measures including bus priority
measures is dependent to a large degree upon enforcement of the traffic regu-
lations and loans. Enforcement is the responsibility of the National Police,
Traffic Division (SATLANTAS). The project would include arrangements for
better consultation and coordination between the regulatory agencies and
SATLANTAS and for improvement in training of SATLANTAS officers in traffic
engineering and accident investigation as well as traffic laws and regulations
(see Annex 5 for details).



ANNEX 3
- 84 -                         Table 3
INDONESIA
JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
General Efficiency Indices: DAMRI in Medan, Surabaya and Semarang
Compared with PPD in Jakarta and DAMRI in Bandung
DAMRI    DAMRI      DAMPI     DAMRI      PPD
Medan   Surabaya  Semarang  Bandung  Jakarta
Total fleet (in regular use)            73      217        127        194    1,942
Total number of personnel              357    1,044        638     1,054   16,663
Buses operating (average day in
11/85)
Regular buses                       31      133         76       138    1,040
Patas buses /a                      18        9          7         8       109
Total (Regular + Patas)            49      142         83       146    1,149
Personnel/bus operating                7.3      7.3        7.6        7.2     14.5
Number of crew staff (driver +
conductor)                           191      807        433       800   10,511
Crew/bus operating                     3.9      5.7        5.2       5.5       9.1
Number of noncrew staff                166      237        205        254    6,152
Noncrew staff/bus operating            3.4       1.7       2.5        1.7      5.4
Fares/passenger/trip
Regular buses (Rp)                   125      125        125        100      150
Patas buses (Rp)                     200      200        200       200       250
Passengers/bus/day                     491      775        654     1,036       611
Passengers/trip                         43       58         48        65        52
Passengers/km                         2.25     3.26       2.58      5.23      2.71
Passengers/crewiday                    128      136        125        189       67
Passengers/personnel/day                69      105         85        144       42
Revenue/trip (Rp)                    6,335    5,843      5,303     6,512    7,618
Revenue/km (Rp)                      330.3    330.2      284.8     522.4    404.7
Revenue/crew/day (Rp)               18,804   13,784    13,812    18,807    9,927
Revenue/personnel/day (Rp)          10,060   10,655      9,374    14,275    6,262
Revenue/passenger (Rp)              146.78   101.15    110.21      99.70   149.23
Revenue/bus/day (Rp)                74,164   78,337    71,455   103,668   90,814
/a Air conditioned special service busee.



INDONESIA
JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PPD Action Plan
Objective                     Task                                             Action by            Completion by      Monitor
A. Strengthen corporate       1. Implemnt PUUM  charter                       NDF/PPD/DGLT              01/89          Balance sbeet opened 01/89
*tructure and mn-            - Appoint accountants to prepare books
aU_nt                          and opening balance for 01/89
2. Assign senior director                       DOLT                      03/88          Appointmnt
- Responsible for Implementation of
recovery action plan
3. 3 tablish planning function                  PPD/Consultants           01/89          Vuaction establiaba at subdirector-
- Corporate plans                                                                    ate level
- service plans
U. Improve revenue and        1. Revise WAP                                   PPD/Consultants           01/90          Revised VAP operational
financial perfor-            - Accurate passenger loading survey
mnce                         - Revise VAP fees
- Implemnt bonus scheme/incentive mea- 
sures (including maintenance steff)
2. Devise basic route cost for social and       DLLAJR/PPD/ODF/           03/89          loute costing
protocol routes to clarify subsidy          LLA*
3. Set revenue targets for depots               PPD                       01/89         lRven  increased
4. Explore revenue collection alternatives      PPD/Consultants           01/90          Revised revenue plan adopted
- Fares systm
5. Maximize service provision                   See C and D            See C and D       See C and D
C. Improve fleet main-        1. Improve maintenance inspection and rec-      PPD/Consultants        01/89-01/91       Performace tiproved in 3 depots.
tenance and effi-            tification procedures                                                                 improvement costs identified
ciency                       - Install LTI scheme at all depots
2. Set bus engine/overhaul/unit output          PPD/Consultants           04/89          Targets identified
tarsets and performance standards for:
- 6 months
- 12 months
fIEI



Objective                     Task                                               Action by             Completion by      Monitor
C. (cont'd)                   3. Prepare workload plan for central              DCLT/PPD/Con-          05/89 onwards      Outputs increased by 5X per year;
works/depots                                  sultants                                  central garage (Deksi) status and
- Implement targets                                                                    operations defined
4. Establish "spare" vehicle float for            PPD/DLLAJR/DGLT           09/68           Spare vehicles available and in ue,
routine _intenance and breakdown cover                                                 regulations mnded
- Aund licensing regulations
- Identify vehicles/relicense
- Establish depot procecures
5. DesigDate staff for emrgency/break-            PPD                     Conplete          Staff designted procedure working
down/running repairs only                                                               in progress
6. Tools and equipment program                    PPD/Consultents           04/89           Order/d livery schedule
- Contract doeunts                                                      10/89
- Procure and install
7.  Skill training program                        PPD/Consultants           04/89           Syllabus
- Design program                                                    05/89 onwards       Number of staff trained
- Set up training facility
- Implement
8. Future of double-deck;re                       PPD/MWF/DGLT/             06/88           Decision
DLLAJR
9. Dispose of derelict vebicles                   PPD/MIOF                  12/88           Detes of disposl
- Implment
D. Reduction of costs         1. Reduce staffing levels                          PPD/Ministry of           11W86           Staffing records to achieve
- Plan prepared                               Manpower                                  bus:staff ratio of 1:7
- Implement recomendations
2. Productivity iuproveenc                        PPD/Consultants       01/89 onwards       Monthly returns; dates of chang
- Operating staff
- Technical staff
- Administrative and anagement staff
3. Review stock control and procurement           PPD/Consultants       01/89 onwards       Reduction of coots; reduction of
policy                                                                                  out-of-stock requieitions; reduction
of bus nonavailability; reduction of
buses required for service
4. Improve journey times                          DLLLJR/PPD            See DLLAJ
- Effect of traffic management program                              actionm plan
'V.4i;
w . F



Objective                     Task                                               Action by             Completion by      Monitor
E. Quality of service         1. Revise license conditions to define            DLLAJR/Conaul-         01/89 onwards      Revised licenses; route planning
trips per hour                                tants                                    criteria agreed
- Review principal routes
- Implement licensing
2. Limit PPD to routes on which it can            DLLAJR/PPD            05/89 onwards       Licenses revoked
conform to license requirement
- Define routes/sections
- Revoke appropriate licenses
3. Introduce alternative operations for           DLLAJR                05/89 onwards       Licensee granted; servlces comme
Ex-PPD routes/sections
- Identify alternative bids
- Implemnt services
4. Comprehensive demnd survey                     DLLAMR                    10/19           Survey completed
- Define new routes for open tender                                     12/89           Survey analysed
- Invite/award tenders
5. Terminal arrivals/departures fully             DLLAJR/Connul-            09/88           Records
recorded and monitozed                        tants                     06/89           Specifications
- Develop mechanical/computer logging
6. Introduction of basic time schedules           PPD/Consultants           01/90           Production of schedule
for city buses
7. Further action on 1982 bus stations            DLLAJR/LLAK/              06/90           Recomendation
report                                        Consultants               12/90           Schme complete
- Review report
- Feasibility study at selected
terminals



INDONESIA
JABOTAEK URBJAN DEVELOFRIENT P8OJECT
DAMRI Action Plan
Objective                    Task                                             Action by            Completion by     Monitor
A. Strengthen corporate      1. Implement Perue charter                      M0F/DAHRI/DGLT            01/89         Balance shet opened 01/89
structure                    - Appolnt accountants to prepare books
and opening balance for 01/89
2. hAsign senior director responsible for       DGLT                     01/88          Appointment
implemntation of action plan
S. Improve revenue and       1. Devise basic route cost for                  DLLAJR/DAMRI/            01/89          Route costing
financial perfor-            social/protocol routes to clarify            1DF
maCe                         subsidy
2. Set revenue targets for depots                    DAMhI               01/S9          mavemn Increased
3. Explore revenue collection alternativea      DAI/Consul-            01/90          evimsd revenm  plan adopted
- Fares systm                               tants
4. 2aximdie service provision                   See C and D          See C and D        S.e C ae  D 
C. Improve fleet min-        1. Iuprove maintenance inspection and rec-      DAM/Consul-            01/89-01/91      Depot perforeme imroved
tennce and eff1-             tificatton procedures                       tants
ciency
2. Set bus engine/overhaul/unit output          DMI/Consul-              C4/89          Targets Identified
targets and performance standards for:      tant.
- 6 months
- 12 months
3. Prepar, workload plan for central            D&M/Consul-          05/89 omrards      Outputs inerease  by SI per year
works/depots                                tants
4. Establish "spare" vehicles float for         DAMI/DLLAJR              09/88          Spare vehicles available and In um
routine maintennce and breakdown cover
- And licensing regulations
- Identify vehicles/relicense
- Zatablish depot procedures
5. Tools and equipmnt program                   DAMI/Consul-             04/89          Order/delivery schedule
- Contract documente                        tants                    10/89
- Procure and install



Objective                     Task                                               Action by             Completion by      Monitor
C.  (cont'd)                  6. Skill training program                          DAMRl/Consul-             04/89          Syllabue
- Design program                              tants                 05/89 onwards       Imber of staff trained
- Set up training facility
- Implement
7. future of double-deckers                       DARI/IMOP/DGLT            06/88           Decision
- Decision
- Implement
D. Reduction of costs         1. Productivity improvement                        DAMRI/Con.ul-         01/89 onwards      Manthly returns; dates of chean
- Operating staff                             tants
- Technical staff
- Administrative and managesent staff
2. Review stock control and procurement           DAMI/Consul-          01/89 onwards       Reduction of costs; reduction of o/c
policy                                        tents                                     requiremente; reduction of 1RAs;
reduction of basee required for ser-
vice,
3. Improve journey tims                           LLAJR/DAMRI           01/89 onwards       Measures isplm nted under Loan
- Effect of traffic mnagement program                                                   2817-neD, rtgional Citiec Urban
Transport Project
E.  Quality of service        1. Revise license conditions to define             DLLAJR/DAMRI/         01/89 onwards       Revised licenses
trips per hour                                Consultants
- Review principal routes
- Implement licensing
2. Comprehensive demand survey                    DLLAJR                    10/89           Survey complcted
- Define new routes for alternative                                     12/89           Survey analysed
operations                                                            06/90           Routes awarded
- Invite/award tenders
3. Terminal arrivals/departures fully             DLLAJR or DAMkI           06/88           Records
recorded and monitored                        DLLAJR/DAMRI/             06/89           Specifications
- Develop mechanical/computer logging         Consultants
4. Introduction of basic time schedules           DAMRI/Consul-             01/90           Production of schedule
for city buses                                tants



- 90 -                                                                  AlI    4
JAIOTAW UhRW  DSVSLONUN  PROJCT
Decription of Pro ect Physical Comoonents
rldanwovrke
Sac-                     _S-river bridge
tio.   Leagth                                 P0-flyover
Scheme                              ref.    ()           odwork                    CA-canal bridle         Coments
Primary moadand 11xJor ArterIals
fioIt-Dusctt-Lrioar   11              2.30        4-lane saglo c.-y          Short-span U5           NoY road follows lina of extsting road; hence
(ED complete)                                       *ad 2-lame  ervtce                                 now constructton, videning *ad overlsy are all
roads on  ach side                                 featured
III    1.60        2-lase dual c.ways          Short-open U            (Sme improvemnts recently undertaken)
Pondoxk Finaa-Pajospongn          1      2.80         Dual 6  c.var  except     2 short-span aU          1.65 kh  of Section I already under constructioa
(S onlr)                                           for length between                                  as separate contract
I   Rbaynran Iaru and Putri
it     *.70    )  PIju for which dual          I FO (Keb.baru) /a      Palerabh ro recomnded construction by 1995
I   10r coveys recomended    2 _ll-pxn KS
I PO (Put.Nijau)
Paer  linggu-D  wk                 I         3        2-lone new/4-lane
(D completer                    111                 widening                                           Existing road follows the Jakarta/Dogor railway
II             4                                                       line which It crosses at a ntuber of level
IV1  12.7          Low protection                     -                crostsng.  Proposed road will be both aidee of
V                                                                      the railway and io Intended to be phased con-
VI  i          T             ttruction (now 1993).
5.7            widening to 9m 
Outer Rina Roc4 (Nest)            I       5.6         Initial Stage earthwork.  2 ehort R                Grade separation recommended at inittal st
II     *.1         for 2-lane dual c.ways    2 R   t- 31  span        for major intersections wtth Airport Toll aoad
separated by land for      2 R4 - 31a span         and Ierak T1ll Road, grade wep ratlon (if
Toll Road. Roads vlll                              required) at railway will mean 2 FOe.  All will
function as Arterial                               require extra  ED  especially for structures.
roads until Toll road
is built when they will
become frontage roads.
Outer Ring Road (South)           la      1.04        Initial Stage - 2-lane            -Phasing of conetruction requires Sections It to
lb     2.00        dual c.wayo separated       6. die. Aruco           VIII to be con pleted and open to traffic before
III    2.50        by land for Roll Road.    2 RB - Twin boxe          Sections I and IX.  Both latter sectione
V      0.55        Roads will function as             -                Include connectionn Into existing or proposed
Arterial roads until                               toll roads
Toll road Is built when
they will become
frontage roads.
VI     0.83    1   2-land dual c.way on
viI    0.40        a a different alignment     RIB- 3 spans at 31.
VIII   1.10    1   frou the proposed Toll   See coments                For proposed junction of ORR(S) with JI.Rsyo
road                                               Bogor, the existing river bridge over x.eru
CIjentung ti to be widened substantially.  Thie
IX     2.40        Seem as Sections I to V   2 RS - 13. span           will require extra FED.
II     1.10    1   Section. already con-              -                (Sections VI, VII. VIII are subject to site
IV     2.18        s structed                                          work now)
Secondor Arterials
--ra ^r Pat"                      Important  aissing link In the secondary road network In North         The canal bridges vlll form part of en advance
(FS end prelimtnary design)    Ja it.         Ilx  feature is the provision of a flyover approxi-      contract (LCB) to include demolition * rvices
mately I km In length to *ccomodete a dual 2-lane c.way. The           relocotion, construction of canal bridge.
schema Includes canal bridge*. junction Improvement and road           retaoinng walls and ground-level works.  Thle
improvemnts at grade.  For the existing canal system. high-water   would provide the main contractor (ICE) vith a
levels have been established by DPU-DKI to match the requiremnts   clear site at the west end of the schme and
of a future flood protoction Scheme.  Any proposed canal bridges    proper access to working areas.
oust provide adequate clearance to thiS VL. This results In
fututc ro d levels approxiuately 1.6x above those existing, which
affec,s ground-level end elevated works.
Sudiresn-JatinAgra                2.64   New road                                4 short-Span RI         This schem  ie  slated to the Minangkubeu F0
3.25   Major road  1 9m frontage road.         I major RI (Ciliwung)  Scheme. which - the recommended component of
0.11   Ninor road  ) Improvment                I FO (Sudirman)         the original Pejoepongan-Natrrxn scheme.
Dll D vloment Roads
-a1t wing                           a       1.60        2-len. dual c.ways          I CB widening
(FED complete)                                      (2.37 km) and 3-lane       I Cb and demolish
dual covey on existing    existing
D      4.00        Due  3-lane
3      1.39        3-lone duel c.way on
extsting alignment
F      0.50        3-lane duel cwv     
new link
H      1.26        Pavemant strengthening
East uSng                         CC/Fl 3 20          New dual 2-Iane            3 RU
(PS coplete)                    Eg     1.60         Nev dual 3-lane
CC     5.40        Dual 2-lane/3-lan-
.a  TShi my be affected by Rebayoran Lms schem.



Stem                                     (he)    A4x                                         Description
I72 enowlte)                                  J. Itldpamt                                W1 -  --_t~ toeavi d the   t  problm  eJ tio  (Jl. gym
lkvk/Jl. Nsjowebttl and a lobgo structure ltinkig Ji. Iaym
srguk/Jl. GCsh No" to JI. Ubrdeka  crat.
The reco_mmed schw  is for a 2-las. dual c.may flyover
approximtely 470u  eog i.celudiag approach rao".  toether
with groundilevel j emtiom improvement.
Seo_  flyover                                    Ji. Pager so*m/Jl. Er_mt smder/           Three sebhwa hev  bsen coeidered. uea ebcoamating otf 
(Fs complete)                                 J1.  r_t  ay&/J. Brunt Switasg            3-las. deal c.. y flyover.
The recom_ded schema ti for a flyover to eccoodate fl-S
mowyints - total length apprombuately 525. lacludiva
approach roe. Grouad-level Improvements to all major june-
tios is Included.
Mvsu*abuu Flyover                               flw  lk between Jl. tingkabou sad          Th total lesgth of the link rod to approxlmtly  Miu. The
(PS complete)                                 J1. Dipomeoro to rolls  congas-          total length of the flyover would be approximtely 460u
tion  is lasr  _amput ar*e                Including raps.  It would acomodate the 2-la-  duel c.way
c*d it would cross the Hanggerai-Tanah Abang railway ed  the
proposed FPjo"pougan-)trma road.  At the southern end, the
flyover '-uld ltink Into the existing road netvork vie a mew
riv,.r bridge over Keli Hltonb (span Xs) where the proposed
road is 3-lane dual c.may.
Prouka  Flyover                                  J1. IMtrts Dxi_/Jl. Sal_ba  laye/         Three schema have been consid*red - 2-lane dgal c.wey cape-
(Prs-FS complete)                             J. N8tr1MRn MaYa/JI. iraukg               city flyovers in either N-S or *-1 direction cnd a one-way
3-lna capacity flyover to take treffic from 8-N. The letter
acbes is recommended for consideratin,. to full FS atage.
Traffic ;neaont
Due Prority Iassurs
ounung Saharl-Jatinegra              9.33                                               The schemes comprise dinor road widening. nstallation and
modificatton of traffic and junction Improvements, traffic
signals, a footbridge, signing and the marking out of the
speatil bus-priority lanes.
(FED complete)
J1. Cya Tapn-Jl. hnsyis Ashart       3.58                                               A pubitcity campaign will be mounted by Dt writh assietanc-
)                                        from consultonte
n1. ITraat Bundor-Jl. Suprapto       4         ) 
Tuga Tani                            0.50                                               Thie schem  comprises minor road widening, signal changes,
signs and road mrkings to improve traffic circulation at
thie busy junction *outheat of Nerdeka Square.
Ji. Rasuna Sald-Jl. Diponegoro       0.50                                               Thie scheme comprises minor road widening ond Improved traf-
fic signl staging at a major junction of a gecondary arter-
ial road.
Jl. lekandar Dinata-Jl. Dewi        10.00                                               A 10 km corridor improvemnt  cheme has been identifted from
Sertika-JI. Raya No.lor                                                               Jatinogara towards logor following the route of 31. iekandtr
Dinsta, 31. Dewl Sartika sad i1. Ray* Bogor. Improvemente
will be required to junctions, signs. footways, markings and
bettor facilities at signals for to-turning vehicles.
Taush Abang Traffic  xagam_nt                  (riD complete)                           The schem  will comprise nm  road construction, road widening
Sch&a                                                                                 and junction improvemnte including  *igtl changes . signis
and road mrkinlSe to improve traffic circulation In tho arca.
As part of the nsw link road construction, two new mall epan
bridgee are required and to Increase pedestrian facilitias.
two naw footbridges are propoeed over the river either side
of the exitting road bridge carrying J1. Kebon Rlati.
rAbeyoran Low                                                                           levliw of earlier traffic  management schea and revision in
the lght of Increase frequency of railway-level croailng
closures.
OLLAJR
31  program                         A general program of traffie engineering work including arca and corridor schemes (Involving 55 strxts)n  iso-
lated intersections, ba-priority mocures (77 km of roadway), traffic signl installations, and po sibly con-
trol system. pedeatrian improvements *trsct signing and road marking. This will be carried out by the DtLJA
with the help of the GPO and a technical aontstance program.
Road  bAbilitation end hitntenance
DPO Progrm                            A four-yer progrm during M8-93 of contract work carried out In conjunction with a technical as*iotance pro-
gram inolving the application of improvd mthods of assess_nt and mnagemnt of road matntenance require-
mnte.



- 92-                          ANNE-5
Page i
INDONESIA
JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Su mary of Training and Technical Assistance
1.        The project includes an extensive program of training and technical
assistance for institutional development in urban infrastructure expenditure
program-ing and local government revenue generation, transportation and
traffic regulation and operations, transport planning, traffic management, and
air pollution monitoring, as well as highway engineering design and supervi-
sion services. Following are summaries of the training component (Part A
below) and individual technical assistance requirements for project
implementation (Part B) and institutional development (Part C). An overall
sumary and implementation timetable is shown in the attached Table 2.
A. Training Summary
Training Objectives
2.        One of the principal bottlenecks in infraatructure development in
Indonesia is the limited professional and technical capabilities of government
agencies and the city authorities. The proposed project will attempt to
relieve this situation by improving coordination, and strengthening the
agencies responsible for the planning, management and operations of the urban
transport sector. These objectives will be achieved through providing tech-
nical assistance for the development and expansion of in-country training
establishments as well as on-the-job training during individual advisory
assignments. Selected staff will also be sent for overseas training. More
than half of these will be trainers who will assist, on their return, in the
expansion and development of the existing training establishments. The three
training programs to benefit under the project are described below. Details
of the costs, impacts and monitoring indicators are provided in Table 1.
Directorate General of Land Transport, Bekasi Training Center and College
3.        In 1980, the Ministry of Communications' Land Transport Training
Center was established including the Road Transportation and Traffic College,
now located at Bekasi, in the Jabotabek area. The main function of the
College is to train senior technician staff for the road transport sector of
the Directorate General. of Lar-d Transport. The College runs a 3-year full-
time vocational training course with a capacity of 40 students per year. The
courses include traffic engineering, transport planning and public transport
operations. The College together with the Land Transport Training Center is
also capable of running short courses. At present a 2-week course is held
four times a year and a 3-month course for middle management is taught at the
Land Transport Training Institute at Tegal. The Bank has been supporting the
development of the College since 1983, during which a new curriculum has been
introduced, and the short courses have been added.



- 93 -                         ANNEX S
Page 2
4.        The proposed loan would be used to continue the development of the
College through 1988 and 1990 by: (a) providing technical assistance to
expand the full-time course to 4 years; establish a short (3-month) course in
traffic engineering, transport planning, and public transport regulation and
planning, for local government staff; and establish in-service training
courses in public transport operations and management for bus company staff;
(b) expanding the campus to double the existing college throughput on the
3-year course; and (c) providing training equipment and facilities. Details
are summa rized in Attachment 1.
5.        Planning and implementation of the campus expansion and the physical
works would take place in 1988/89, allowing completion in time to expand the
student intake in 1990. The fourth year extension of the full-time course,
and the short-term training for local government staff would be implemented in
1989 and the short in-service courses for bus company staff would be imple-
mented in 1990. A further eight staff from DGLT would be sent for overseas
Master of Science courses, four each in 1988 and 1989. Most of these would
return to assist in the development and expansion of the College; others would
be assigned to various posts in DGLT. One of the immediate beneficiaries of
the short course would be the Dinas LLA.i of Jakarta although the course would
also be open co other local government establishments.
National Traffic Police (SATALANTAS) Training College
6.        The National Traffic Police Training College is located in a new
building at Serpong, within the Jabotabek area. The College provides:
(a) basic in-service training covering traffic duties, laws and procedures;
and (b) higher level courses on specialized subjects such as traffic
engineering and accident investigation. Both cstegories of courses are held
three times per year, involving a total of 300 students. There are currently
12,000 traffic police in Indonesia of which 6,000 have received basic traffic
training. Of these 6,000, only 2,000 are left--the remainder have either left
the service, or retired. The major challenge now facing the College is to
increase its throughput, expand the higher level courses, and improve the
scope of teaching. It is estimated that the existing College facilities have
the capacity to accommodate 600 students per year.
7.        The proposed loan would assist the College to reach its objective by
providing technical assistance to:  (a) train about 40 existing College
trainers; (b) develop new curricula for the basic and higher level courses;
and (c) implement these new courses. Provision would also be made for over-
seas training of five trainers, and the purchase of teaching aids. The
technical assistance contract would also provide advisory services for the
Jakarta Traffic Police for improving enforcement procedures, particularly with
regard to public transport priority measures and road safety. The proposed
technical assistance program is summarized in Attachment 1.
Ministry of Pubic Works Regional Training Centers
8.        Under the Regional Cities Urban Transport Project (Loan 2817-IND)
the Urban Roads Directorate of Bina Marga will set up short-term training
courses in four of the Ministry of Works Regional Training Centers including



- 94 -                           AN= 5
Page 3
Jakarta. These courees will provide training for senior, middle, and junior
manage ent, as well as technicians from the local government offices in
Bandung, Hedan, Semarang and Surabaya. These courses will cover traffic and
highway planning, road maintenance, and use of computers, mainly focusing on
the technician and junior management level.
9.        An additional four man-months of technical assistance has been
included in the proposed Jabotabek Urban Development Project so that these
courses can be  ade available to the DKI Jakarta and Botabek staff.  These
additional resources will be used to provide trainers and materials for the
courses and to supervise, monitor and evaluate the course impacts. Further
details of this program are included in the Staff Appraisal Report for the
Regional Cities UT Project (Loan 2817-IND).
Table 1: JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPHENT PROJECT - TRAINING PROGRAM
Training   Training       Students         Throughput                                Man /a   Cost
Agency     Center  Ezisting  Proposed  Exis.  Prop.            Components           months  Rp bln.
DCLT       Bekasi   DCLT       DCLT          40    100  Technical assistance         138:4.4   5.1
Local gov't              Overseas training                      0.5
Public trans.            Teaching aids & equip /b               0.3
operators              Campus expansion /c                    0.4
6.3
SATLANTAS  Serpong  National  National    300    600  Technical Assistance /d    24:48    0.7
Police    Police
Overseas Training                      0.13
Teaching Aids and Equip. /e            0.2
1.1
DGBM       Jakarta  Regional  Jakarta and    Add'tnl  Technical Assistance             6:15     0.20
Public   Cities    Botabek staff  courses
Works    staff
/a   Approximate foreign:local consultants man months required.
7T   Laboratory equipment, vehicle workshop, field survey equipment, traffic counters, speed
meter.
/c   Includes extension to dormitories and classrooms.
7i   Includes approximately 6 man months for technical assistance to Jakarta traffic police.
7e   Includes approximately Rp 140 million for equipment to Jakarta traffic police to be
determined during stage 3.



Itsa 2 -  ra.lezA AUnSA           A   TRAISIl  4IMi     Smhs.
...............                          ...........................................................................................................................
Suis-                            hrnpm_siho t atlmt.dM       lprs        IProw-. Ieop ets,  ;  lurato            IOWA   Devlw  ;m_   im     Om"tt                          ppaft  ; mta    lip    Fore. I c      s  6600s
mB. fIftihu    COMee_R lt_n             s.wy/   cwt/s             _ annm     mnt t-u TO  I bid!                    I lesitn. bidu/prp tedMoc. rwiw  na.m  centr                                   _ '
Mmv                  ~.bat   Cap mInn)   Foreig   Lcal                      lb    dms.        115m      1                          intuit.         (anItteL)           I         I_
~~~~~~~~~~~~............................................. .......... ................................................................................................. ............................................................................................_.....
Tralinfr 
Al SILT SM  trainift projct exten: SIT DIP          6.251 /          e          D        01/15     2/11    2/U        2/U    S3/1       41 1 4M         S/       6/Q      7TM       Wu        S/
Talins                                      5,15        In       414
IslleohAps                                    491
lyiput                                         ml                     I LO
CtP      fIen                                 562
*2 SKi trofning SUIT aimrt cuKeill DIP                2Q5         6       15    DA        5JS01    6/SB     7M1       7/U       /S      9/US     9/U     Ism 1      1/      12/*     1/U       tIS
A3  SATLUTAS traini   d              DM  DIP          706        24      40    Da   0S/            S/IS     7/U       7/U      SS       9/U      0/U      10/U    Il/U      12/      I/U   t i/
9d_pnt                                        36                         IO
0toteal       7,527       1a       46
Todgnicst tAsisturs
gffwsri  nd .etrctwti,n swn:                    1"1.94
.................. ....................................  ......
01 Sfl  _W~  proj cosrd a*l o         1 OSKI (KA)    ,405        40      120
e2 Contguitiin sselwiion A                          1.45         40      120  r0A        01S/      2M      2am5                     _S                            S/U       4/       5         m
KSI  isne P  mru   _ I:           S41 (11.0
U3     r/c ntruction worvm e                         , 724      235      7t5    O
54     toad aIsntas                                   446        12      36    0C        55U        VS      7/AS      7/U      /U       9/U      9/U      lam      Ilm       1MIN    1/U       1/
05 OM  FE/cotnrtlrcon mom wisim. D    DIP           7,051       1"       570 CP          01/U      2S       2/US      2/M      3/S      1.*      1/U      5/U      6M       6I       AM        VA/
In tituti..l dst I nc:                           12.011
el Jabetab    iUIDP amo    DIP                      114          30     e        A       01/m      2M       2/          --4  /S                                  US      41/S    5A2         mm
SKI SIe LLAc R t at ist_ 1 :     SIT DIP
C2        prt nm t_kst  ptlino                      2,73         75     225
CS     liMit tr_- it reguation                        "a         18       514    MOO)*   01/U      3/U      SIN       3/U8    1M        5/S      5/m      6/IS  vo           7/U       ll      5511
64     Paring potlicy                                   S        Is      5   1
Cs      Traffc _nugm,t                             1&9          35      165  1 Cl       01/U      3/55     3/U       S/U      4/U      5/U      5/M      6/0      6/I   r /         B/l       01/I
e6 W1I S1m  Plpn_ an riMes           KI (MA)          520        14      42              01/U      S/U      3/U11     3/U      4/U      5/1      5/U       /M      4/U       7AIS    am        mm
Iporosnet advim
SIT:                             IT  Dip
t7       UlA SI   t p  truprt asist.                  64        Is       51    Cl       U/IS      /M       7/U       7/U      Bs       9/           1     0/U    11/U       2U       11/      amUP
CB     PtO Wars  u1 aplm t/d                        2,50         45 t 5   35  1
BMW  advisers, od Ofpmot                      eV         15       a  )    tr0/               /I      /m        2/      S/U AB   41/U1. 4/U        S/U      AM        7/U   t/I         SI/U
9t      LUIIJ Air potlutian _n1toring IT SIP          111         5        9    O7        U/Il
Od Wd_WO                                SOD                        ICI
tut. proe ct prp          fn:ps ti                6,0
1 Proect A - Hs trit                                2   S  e     5e      150  t             I      6/U         G      7/U      SI       9U       9/U      1m       1/U        U       1/U      Il/t                                 * 
02 PrOecwt * - IftrWLot'eo city f/   507/  DIP   1,0             is      00    07        es/U      AM       7/U        7/U     8/       9/U      9/m      1 0U     li/U     1gm       lip       1/UP 
03 Projsct C - Kouml.m   P1/ISSIK   NM0 SIP         1,0          is      US     07       05/U      6/IS     7/U11     7/U      S/I      9/U      9/U      10/U    li/U       lam1    I/U       0l/U
*obteal      37.227       IM    2,914
........      ------   ...... ......
Total         4,754     1,156   3,30 |
a  1t of o  (tif   had  nnotl_nt distribhim  of ftoJ gvlftet a n    Ir  to bc rwcaed In tms of fi  l U)t                                                                                                                l1
/b  SIA   drect pointsnt. CP - copetfit   ph_Ors: * -                 led cnrat;
Pt   Pp llflcatimn rulred
Ic Allowane fwr futt eat FS/90.1. SILT wItt s1at sitarnetlts fmi  fr F ISr  In rde to einmc  early am
bOttr   ns continuity. If o r fwdi   tfnmd ls tcr_tHnt                    I bn    re t d for ther troanheg paposa.
Id HtintBm. e          t.t bon  wd mbimn tasts, sns (1.              l. tl *fr 99 *rd 1          - IO *a LU MraZant)
/O  MV1ins 1d u.lvticsl sGulpo.t .1d  ietitmes. l*uacorty alippias.



- 95 -                    AUM    5
Attacheent I
Page 1
INDONESIA
JABOTABUK URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Training and Technical Assistance - Outline rerms of Reference
A. Training
Al. DGLT Road Traffic and Transportation College (RTTC)
Executing Agency:      Directorate General of Land Transport (DOLT)
Objectives:    Consolidation and extension of RTTC training program and
facilities including:  (a)  consolidation of existing three-
year diploma course; (b) establishment of four-year degree
course; (c) provision of in-service training courses for local
government staff; (d) establishment of public transport
operations and management courses; (e) continuation of M.Sc.
scholarship program; (f) expand the campus to double the
existing college throughput on the three-year course; and
(g) provide training equipment and facilities.
Costs                                  Man-months                 Cost
Foreign     Local         (Rp million)
Trainers and course expenses          138        414             5,123
Fellowships                                                        494
Equipment                                                          272
Campus expansion                                                   362
Total                          138         414            6,251
A2. DKI-Jakarta Training
Executing Agency: Directorate General Bina Marga (DGBM)
Objectives:    Provide short-term training courses for senior, middle, and
junior management as well as technicians from local government
offices in traffic and highway planning, road maintenance and
use of computers (based on program developed under Loan 2817-
IND, Regional Cities Urban Transport Project).
Costs                                  Man-months                 Cost
Foreign     Local         (Rp million)
6         15               205
Total                           6          15               205



- 96 -                     AM!=L5
Attachment 1
Page 2
A3. SATLANTAS Training and Equipm_nt
Executing Agency: DGBM
Objectives:    (a)  Training about 40 existing college trainers; (b) develop
new curricula for basic and higher level courses; (c) implement
the new courses; (d) provision of training aids and equipment.
Costs                                   Man-months                Cost
Foreign     Local         (Rp million)
Training                               24          40               706
Equipment                                                           364
Total                           24          40             1,170
B. Project Implementation
B3. DKI-Jakarta Project Coordination Advisers
Executing Agency: DKI-Jakarta BAPPEDA
Objectives:    To assist the Jabotabek Urban Development Project Coordination
Office (JUPCO) in the areas of: accounting and financial
control; project planning, (engineering, transport, and
institutional development), adiinistration and monitoring
(including land acquisition and resettlement)(Assignment
combined with B2 below).
Costs                                   Man-months                Cost
Foreign     Local         (fRp million)
40        120             1,485
Total                           40         120             1,485
B2. Construction Supervision (A)
Executing Agency: DKI-Jakarta BAPPEDA
Objectives:    To assist in the supervision of the construction of civil
engineering works of Pasar Pagi Viaduct.



- 97-                      -M      
Attachment 1
Page 3
Costs                                  Nan-months                Cost
Foreign     Local         (Rp million)
40        120             1,485
Total                           40         120            1,485
DKI Dinas PU Assistance
B3. Final Engineering Design and Construction and Supervision (B)
Executing Agency: DKI
Objectives:    To assist in the final engineering design and supervision of
construction of civil works (several contracts).
Costs                                  Man-months                Cost
Foreign     Local         (Rp million)
235        705             8,724
Total                          235         705            8,724
B4. Road Maintenance
Executing Agency: DKI-Jakarta
Objectives:    To improve road maintenance management, prepare a road
maintenance and rehabilitation progrsim and to assist Dinas PU
to carry out these works. To review policies, regulations, and
procedures for adoption of privately-funded infrastructure.
Costs                                  Man-months                 Cost
Foreign     Local         (Rp million)
12         36               446
Total                           12          36              446
B5. DGBM/FED Construction Supervision
Executing Agency: DGBM
Objectives:    (a)  To assist the relevant offices of Bina Marga and to ensure
construction work is carried out in accordance with the
engineering design and contract documents.
(b) To prepare the final Egineering Design and review future
projects under the direction of Bina Marga's Regional
Betterment Office IX.



ANNEX 5
- 98 -                     Attach ent 1
Page 4
Costs                                  Man-months                Cost
Foreign     Local         (Rp million)
190        570             7,054
Total                         190        570             7,054
C. Institutional Development
Cl. Jabotabek IUIDP Advisers
Executing Agency: DG BANGDA
Objectives:    To assist Jabotabek regional governments in the preparation of
capital expenditure programs for Repelita V and of individual
annual expenditure programs within the framework of the IUIDP
Institutional Development Action Plan.
Costs                                  Man-months                Cost
Foreign     Local         (Rp million)
30         90             1,114
Totel                           30          90            1,114
C2 Transport Network Plmaning Regulation
Executing Agency: DGLT
Objectives:    To develop an integrated urban transport development plan and
related action plans for each transport mode concerned, for
Jabotabek for the period up to 2005, review existing and future
demand based on urban public transport in Jakarta and devise
new route and service plans and schedules
Costs                                  Ma'-r"months               Cost
Foreign     Local         (Rp million)
75        225             2,784
Total                           75         225           2,784



AM=I 5
- 99 -                     Attach ut 1
C3  Public Traasort Emlatiou
!szcutio &hcza DCLT
Objectives:    To assist in the review of regulstion of licensed services and
to detevaim actual s"rvice requiremmats. (Study to be carried
out in coajunction with C2).
Costs                                    u-wmstbs                 Cost
foreign     Local         (Rp million)
18         54               668
Total                            18         54               668
C4.  Parking Poli
Executing A4enc: DOLT
Objectives:    Review stret car parking and prepare proposals to improve
traffic flow; review rev_uo collection and enforcement proce-
dures  nd prepar  proposals to increase city revenue from such
cbanges. (Study to be carriod out in conjunction with C5).
Costs                                   Ken-months                Cost
Foreign     Local         (Rp million)
16         54               668
Total                             18         54               668
CS. Traffic Monagemeat
Executins Asgecy: DOLT
Objectives:    To assist Dias. LLAJR with further detvlopunt of its five-year
progrem in traffic managemnt and buv priorities.
Costs                                   Man-moths                 Cost
Foreign     Local         (Rp million)
35        105             1,299
Total                             35        105             1,299



ANMUX 5
- 100 -                    Attachmeot 1
Page 6
C6. DKI Revenue Ilurovea nt and Financial Management
Executing A4ency: DKI
Objectives:    (a)  Preparation and assistance in implementation of Direct and
PBS revenue Improvement Actions Plan.; (b) assistance in
preparation of Repelita V IUIDP Expenditure Program for DKI
Jakarta; (c) review of DKI financial management policies and
rrangements.
Costs                                  Man-months                 Cost
Foreign     Local         (Rp million)
14        424              520
Total                            14        424               520
C7. LLAR National Public Transport
Ezecuting Agency:  DMTI
Objectivess    To assist and upgrade the capabilities of DGLT (LLUAR) staff in
the detailed formulation, development and implementation of
urban public transport policy.
Costs                                  Man-months                 Cost
Foreign     Local         (Rp million)
18         54               668
Total                            18          54              668
C8. PPD/DAMRI Bus Management and Operations Improvement
Executing Agency: DGLT
Obiectives:    To support the management team of PPD and DAMRI in the imple-
mentation of action plans to improve the management, operation
and provision of public transport bus systems in Jakarta and
regional cities.
Costs                                  Man-months                 Cost
Foreign     Local         (Rp million)
PPD                                   45         135             2,500
Dawi                                   15         45               900
Total                            60         180            3,400



-101 -                       AS=  5
Attachment I
C9.  LLAJR Air Pollution Monitoring and Equipment
Executinc Agency: DCLT
Objectives:    To improve air quality monitoring and analysis in DKl-Jakarta
and help develop national vehicle emission control strategy.
Costs                                   Man-months                 Cost
Foreign     Local         (Ip milllon)
3          9               111
Equipment                                                           800
Total                              3           9               911
D. Future Project Preparation
Dl. Mass Transit Feasibility Study
Executing Agency: DGBM/DCLT
Objectives: To be determined by assignment C2.
Costs                                   Man-months                 Cost
Foreign     Local         (Rp million)
50        150             2,000
Total                             50         150             2,000
D2. Medium/Large Cit-r
Executing Agency: DGCR
Objectives:    Contiliuation of project preparation initiated under Loan 1972-
IND (Urban IV).
Costs                                   Man-months                 Cost
Foreign     Local         (Rp million)
75        200             3,000
,.o0tal                           75        200              3,000



i  - 102 -                    inAttac!mt 1
D3. Kes"oran Site Dewelopent
Ezecuting Agencyl DOCK
Objectives:    (a) determine appropriate arruooito and coscepto for
developaot of former Kimyoram airport site, and 'b) prepare
feasibility studio and bid doe_m ets for lot pbase of
infrastructure deoelopm_t.
Costs                                    n  me th                 Cost
Forign      Local         Ot  1illio)
75        200             1,000
Total                            75         200             1,000



- 103 -
INDONESIA                                              ANNEX 6
JAJOTABEK URB1AN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                     Page 1
1114. I -SWItUY OF PROJECT CI13 (Utp ofIllion)
LUd   ...... Wrk, ~aipeet ud teas. easiatanee ....--- Total ..
comooent                       ApaWy  (not)    lose  Cmntirsp iuuIb         Net        Tax    Total
/a             coat  Pkpsical   Price      tat       /c   WEITA    Cost           II
toed and intersection comtmuction:       33,63    131,079    9.331   14,075   154,9616  6,974   161,962   195,598    52.91
major arteril tods                      9,400    31,736    2,3W    2,645    36,761    114M   -33,415    45,015    13.01
Outer Rirg Read Weet            I    5,500    16,925    1,249    1,333    It.=2       879    20,406    2S.96      7.01
Outer Rtins Reed Souths         B    4,100    14,511    1,111    1,311    17,23        71     18,00     22,109    6.011
lecondary arterial reeds:              20,417   72,231    5,417    7,443   45M9    3,819   8,911   109,338    29.61
9uncit-Lfngker                  I       20      4,04       35       116    4,412       202    4,484    4,954      1.31
Pinving.Pejapponge              a       650   16,112    1,206    1,921    19,269      866    20,115    20,74      5."1
Nfnugu-Dopok                    I       460    6,500       41s      320    7,506       329    ?d41      8,296     2.25
Pnear Paul                      0     1,920    16,351    1,226    1,180    16,757      864    19,601    21,521    5.1
TedsUS Jatin.raW-SUdirMn        0    9,537    15,365    1,152    1,73      16,26      822    19,077   21,614      7.71
Tebus P&JosponSan-11stramon     0     7,400   13,841    1,036    2,161    17,860      767    17,807   25,207      6.12
Najar intereectiwa:                     3,613    27,112    2,033    3,9910   33,135    1,491   34,46M    36.239    10.35
Haruaf fltyover                 I       626    7,175       536      672    8.385      377    8,74       9,389     2.51
Sames flyove                    0     1,495     7,520      564    1,251    9.335      420    9,755    11.250      3.01
Niningkebau fLyover             0         0    6,643       496    1,105    8,247       371    8,618     8,618     2.31
Pramuka-Mtrimn ftyover          0     1,492     5,774      433      9%1     7,146      323    7,490     8,96      2.41
Guided Land Geoveopaent:                 14,992    39,759    2,962    5,060    47,801    2,151   49,952    64,944    17."5
Eastern Areon:                          9,151    15,93     1,195    2,272    19,400     67     20,273    29,454     8.01
Rwout CU/FF                     0    7,861    353          26       49       ,86       174    4,042    11,922     3.25
Route II                        0     1,300     2,286      171      289    2,747       124     2,670    4,170     1. 11
Jatinegara-Route cc cosmection   0        0    10,494      787    1,504    12,78      575    13,361    13,361     3.61
Weastern Arom:                              0    14,426    1,062    1,676    17,151      77     17,958    17,958    4.95
Route I                         0         0    2,738       20       10      3,066      13      3,153    3,183    0.91
Route 0                         0         0    10,224      767    1,446    12,457      561    13,017    13,017    3.51
Route a                              0        0832          62       61      956       43       999       999     0.31
Rout P                          0         0       521       39       38       59S      27       625       625    0.25
RouteRN                         0         0       III        a        a       127       6        133      133      .01
Kemmyoren Site                    U     5,811    9,400       70     1,112    11,217     S0S    1,721    17,53      4.71L
Trafffic Managemment:                     2,9681  40,841    3,066    3,824   47,752   2,149   49,901    92,09    14.31
Area/corridor Improvement:              2,9681    5,123      384      304    5,811      242    6,073    9,061       2.51
Kebsrorn km  /a                Die      544       844       43       62       969      44      1,013    1,557    0.41
Tendsh Abens I                  D     1,892     2,091      15?       54    2,.M        104    2,405     4,297     1.25
Tugu Tani                       0         0       421       32       31       484      22       50        SOS    0.11
Resume Said-Diponcomrz          a         0       166       12        7       185       8        194      19      0.11
basil Ssrtika.Kr.J*ti-RAyo Pager  0     552     1,601      120      ISO    1,871       84      1.955    2,507    0.71
Sua priority aaaweao:                       0    5.k40       39       144    5,777      240    6,037    6,037       1.61
Genung Sari-Jatinagara          0         0    2,3         25        78    3,1         136t3,15 33,13             0.9
Kyal Topa-Nasyls Aa)lsari       0         0       370       28        6       403      1a       421       421    0. 11
Kromt lunder-Su.prepto          0         0    2,136       160       61    2,357       106    2,443     2,443     0.71
Ofnee LLAJR program:                        0   30,500   2,28       3,376   36,163    1.627   37.791   37,791    10.25
Traffic sigmals                      0 0        5,0        37       40     5,6          0     606       606       1.6
Intersection iqprovammnts       0         0    9,600       72     1,120    11,440     $15    11,955    11,955     3.256
Pedestrien isprovemmnts         a         0    4,000       300      467    4,767      214    4,961    4,9611    1.31
Signing wd morking              0         0     1,900      143      222    2,264       102    2,346     2,366     0.61
1w priority progree             0         0    10,000      750    1,167    11,917      536    12,453    12,453    3.41
Rehiebi LItation wW Naintenanes:              0    5,500       413     642    6,554       29      6,849    6,849      1.9
PrlwryroIdI                                           0        0        0        0        0         0         0    0.05
Secondary end local roads         0         0    5,500       413     642    6,554       29      6,849    6,849      1.91
Sub-total civil woerks end eefpnt    51,610   217,201   16,290   23,604  257,09    11,569   268,664   320,274    86.71
............... ...  ...  ......  .................



- 104 -                                              Ane 6
INDONESIA                                                  Table 1
JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPNMUT PROJECT                                              Page 2
TOMS 1 -   MM         OF PSOECT C1T$ (lp sittim)
._... .... _.... ........ ...... ..... .. .. .._. ......... . ...... . ... ... . ...... .. ... .._. ............ . .... .... .. . ........ .. ... ._...... . . .. __..      
L         . --------- Verks, q*p_t        tech. asiste. -------   ---- .    Totai
cam t                             Agency  (nst)        se"    Cant ingancesb         Mt         Tax      Totat
/a               cast   Phyical   Price         cost       /e        E & T A    Cost       X
.. ..  ......................... ........................... ................ ............................... ___............. ......................... ....
Tdnicat Assist :                                   0    37,226          0         0    37.226    3,723    40,99    40,949    1t.1X
.................. .. ..         ........   .......   ........ -----  ........._.  ....... _..........   .._. ....   .. _....
To Jotask IUIDP assistance            N                1,114                          1,114       111      1,225      1,225      0.31
To Ki-Jakart.:                                   0    21,079          0        0    21,079    2,108    23.107    23.187          6.3%
.. _...... .........------  ......   ......... ------   ......... ... .... _...... .. ..._   ..... .
EAPPIDA m stwnc:
Project coodinatf n              D                 1,425                          1,40        149      1,634      1,434      0.4%
Future projewt preparatfon    D/C                  3,000                          3,000       300     3,300      3,300       0.9X
Dbir    Pe,kpton reue   iep    0                        5D20                          520        52        s72        s72      0.2%
Dils LLAA assistance:
Trport netwok pluming             L                2.7,                           2.74        278      3,062      3,062      0.81
Public trport reulatfon    L                         "6                            "4          67        73         m        0.2%
Parking policy                    L                  668                            68         67        735        7        0.2%
Traffic *.rbsont                 L                 1,299                          1.299       130      1,429      1,429      0.4%
Dins PU ms istance:
FED/construction aupevision   D                   10,209                         10,209    1,021    11,230    11,230         3.0%
Poad mint nanc                   0                   446                            446        45        491        491      0.1%
To DC Bino   rge:                     a          0     7,054         0         0      7,054       705      7,759      7,759      2.1%
_  .................. ..------.......   ...... ..........   ....... ........   .......   ......
FED/lonstructior supervision                         7,054                          7,054       705      7,759      7,759      2.1%
To DC Ld Trnport:                     L          0     4,97          0        0      4,979       496      5,477      5,477      1.5%
........_......................... .....; ....... .   ......   .........   ..... ... .   .......   -------... ......
Nat. public tranrport  sssfetnce                       6L                             666        67        735        ns       0.2%
PPD asistance                                        2,500                          2,500       250      2,750      2,750      0.7%
DCARI asistance                                        900                            900        90        990        990      0.3%
LLAJR aIr pollution monitoring                         911                            911        91      1,002      1,002      0.3%
To DO Cipto Xarys future projects  C                   3,CW0                          3,000       300      3,300      3,300      0.91
Training                                           0     7,526          0         0     7,526       753      8,279      6,279      2.2X
........ ......   ......... ... ...   ... ...   .... ....   ......   ......... . . ...... ........,.......... .. ... ...  .
DCLT RTTC training nd *qu _pnt L                     6,251                          6,251       625      6,676      6,876      1.9X
SATLANTAS training                  a                1,070                          1,070       107      1,177      1,177      0.3%
OK1 training (RC'T)                 0                  205                            205        21        226        226      0.1%
Total project cost                   51,610   261,953   16,290   23,604   301,647   16,044   317,691   369,501   100.0%
,,,,,,.,.,,,,...... .. ........  , .......   .........   ...... ...... .   .......   .... ..   ---- -----   .......   ......
------------ ----.. . ............ .................... ...........................................................................
/a Legna: I - DO Olne Morge 0 - KI-Jakarto L - DO Lad Trnaport N - NUA, DO SCngde
U - Unallocated puidins outce  of Kmsyoran site dewtlopmnt study
/b  Physcal contingeny allowane s                        7.51
/c  Taoe appled to locl costs only                      10.0%                         90.0% - goods
/d  Esti0ted forolgn exchane ndo                      S5.0% - eivil works
/o Costs shared: MI - land; DM - remainder



- 105 -
INDONESIA                                                Annex 6
Table 2
JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                          Page 1
.... .... .... ..... ......... ................ ................   ........
WATA Expwitue flow (S pwr  D0I T)
Ce"nant                          Agency
/a           W"S   6190  9091   1/     9293M    94
...................................................................................
lord rnd intersction Constnuetion:
..................................
Major  rteial  road:
Ouwtr  ing Road Most              a              16.0X 2W.5  20.0   20.5X  1S.05
utew ling lod South               I              15.05  15.5X  23.5X  24.0   23.
Secardry artrial roas:
Buncit-LiueWr                     *              50.OX   O.0X
PinenwPJejmn p   n i                                    10.01  25.m  25.05  25.5  15.05
minu-Dpoek                                       20.05  40.5X 40.05   0.5   0.05O   0.5X
Pesar Pau9                        D              15.05  15.5X  40.05  30.05   0.05
T*us Jatinegars-Sudirwan          D               0.5X  10.05  20.05  35.01  35.OX
TebAu PeJo mng n-Natr_mn          D               0.5X   0.OX  10.0X  20.0X 30.O5  40.0X
Major intersections:
Narmni flyover                                                 50.   50.0X   0.OX   0.OX
Seim  ftyover                     D                             O.OX  1.0%  4U.OX  40.0
Niningkabau flyoesr               D                               .OX  15.05  45.01  40.01
Pramuke-atr_mn ftlyovr            D                             O.OX  1S.OX  45.05  40.05
Guided LeD Devtont:
.......................
Eastem Ares:
loute CC/FF                       D                      0.5  10.01  20.5X 40.05  30.05
RoutEE                            D                      0.5  20.0X 30.05  50.X
Jstinegare-Route CC comenction   D                             15.0  15.0  55.0   15.0X
4esterm Areas:
loute S                           D             40.01  40.01  20.0X
lout* D                           D               O.OX  0.5  10.0  30.01  40.0   20.01
loute E                           D                      0.5 100.05
Route f                           D                      0.5O 100.5O
Route N                           0                      0.5 100.05
em_yworn Site                       U                      0.5  20.   50.X 30.OX5  0.
Traffic Maneglent:
.................
Area/corridwr Ifprovamn t:
Ksbayoran Lm_   /*               D/2                          100.05   0.5X
Tenh Abun  I                      D              60.5X 40.05  0.0
tugu Tani                         D 00.5 100.0X
Rlam   Said-Diponogro             D                    100.05
D ud Sartika-Kr.Jati-Iaya Bogor D                        0.5  50.X 50.X
s  priority moures:
CumxV Seri-Jatlnegare             D              50.05  50.05
Kysi Tap-NsyiAse"Sri              D             100.05
Krmt hunder-$uprapto              D              50.05   .OX
Dines LLAJR progre_:
trafftic signls                   D                     30.0   30.OX  40.05   0.5l   0.5I
Intersectfon impravwments         0              0.5 20.50 20.0 20.0 20.5  20.05
Pedestrian iap4vmts               0               0.5X 20.05  20.0X  20.05  20.05  20.05
Signir4 wid mrking                0               0.50 20.0 20.0 20.0 20.5  20.05
Sus priority progrm_              D               0.5  20.5  20.5  20.0  20.0  20.05
Ra hbilitatton ad MaIntenance:
..............................
Prilary reads                       a                .OX  20.5  20.5  20.0  20.0   20.5X
Swcndry and local road              0               O.OX  20.5X 20.5  20.5  20.X 20.05



- 106 -
INDONESIA                                      Annex 6
Table 2
JABOTASEK URDAN DEVELOPKENT PROJECT                              Page 2
... .. ....................... ................................................... .... ..... .
WATA Expadi ture flto (S per  01T)
/a             "       0/90 90/9l "1l  9V9   93/%
Tecnical Assistance:
....................
To Jabot"  IUIDP assistance       N             60.0  20.01
To DKI-Jak rta:
LMFDA assistance:
Project coordination          D             10.01 20.05  20.0S  20. 0   20.0X  10.X
Futuro project preparation    3/C                  20.05  50.05  30.05
31ne Pe    ton revemw  fepnut 0                      50.0S  50.05
Dlnes LLAJR asistane:
Tranport network pltming      L                    30.05  50.5O  20.05
PubLic transport regulation    L                   50.5O  SO.5
Parking polie                L                   100.5O
Traffic *mnWgant              L                   100.5
Dlnes PU mssistame:
FED/construction vemrvision   0             25.5X 20.05  20.05  20.05  10.5   5.5X
Road mintanance               0             25.5X 50.5S 25.05
To DO Sine Norge:                 s
FED/conrtruction superviuion                  15.5  20.05  20.5  20.05  15.05  10.05
To DC Lnd Transport:              L
Not. pubLc traport assistame                  50.5X  50.05
PP assistance                                 SO0.  50.5
DM   as waist aC                              50.5  50.05
LLAJR air pollutlon menitoring                       50.5  50.0X
To DO Cipta Karys future projects  C                   50.5O  50.05
Training
DOLT RTTC training wrd equip.nt L             20.5  20.05  20.05  20.05  20.05
SATLAMTAS training              C             25.0X  50.5X 25.5X
OKI training (RCUT)             I                           50.5X 50.5X
Total project coat
............ ... ..........................                         .....
/9 Annu Inftlation rates:
Domestic:  S.5   3.51   3.51   3.51   3.51   3.51
Foreign:    1.01   1.5   3.S1   3.51   3.S   3.51



DONOSIA
JAUOTABC URBAN DEVMLOPMUNT PROJECT
Procurement Guidelines
Procurement Review Procedures
Prlor review requirements
Aggre-                                        Bill                                       Post-award review
Procure-       gate                    Inst. to    Tech.       of                   Bid                    requirmaots
sent         limit        Adver-    bid/gen.    specs.   quanti-   Contr.   oval. I   Prequallf.  (contr. documents
procedure        (2)       tlsement      cond.    I plans    ties        doc.     award    procedure   bid eval. & award)
Equiument
> $200,000                    ICB         no limlt      /a, /b        /c        /f                   /h         h                      Not applic.
< $200,000                    LCB         no limdt        /                    none       none     none       none          oee            L
<  $50,000               LCB (prudent   $1 million       T           T_        none       none     none       none         nose            t 
shopping)
Civil Work,
> $3,000,000                  ICB         no limit      /a, lb         d        /f                    h                                N t  ot applic.
> $1,000,000                  LCB         no limit       /A                     __w                                                    l 7i-  not applic.
< $1,000,000                  LCB         no lidit       W            /e       none       none     none       none         no_           ]    kO
LCL (force      $900,000       7_          _e        none      none      none       none        some !l,  
account)
Technical Asslstance             -          no llt        l,  b         /a         _h                            /h           t          not applic.
/a Generel advertisement placed In "Development Forum."
7   Optional specific advertiem ent placed in "Development Forum."
7R Documents to conform to provisions of lank's "Sample Bidding Documents for Procurement of Goods."
7   Docments to conform to provisions of Lank's "Sample Bidding Documents for Procurement of Works."
a lank concurrence Initially required on adiertising procedures and general conditions.  Then Bank prior review necessary only If changes ore
made In the procedures or standard agreements.
/f  Standard specificacions to be used; specific provisions to be used as and when necessary.
T Nonstandard documents specific to contract and not previously reviewed by Bank.
All bid evaluations and award recomendations.
71  Procedure to be reviewed by Bank.
3 Review by World Bank, Jakarta Office.
P Recording and relabursement by Statement of Expenditure (SOE) procedure.
71  Bank review of consultant short lists.
7i Documents to conform to lank's Guidelines for the use of consultants by World Bank borrowers.



- 108 -                            AANNX 7
Table 2
INDONESIA
JABOTABEK URJAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Procuresent Guidelines
Sumaary of Contracting Arrangements
Number of contracts
DGBM                   DKI                     Total
ICB      LCB           ICB       LCB           ICB       LCB
Civil Works
Primary arterials                1/a      10            -         -             1         10
Secondary arterials              2/b      7             3/d       7             6        14
Intersections                    l/c      -             3/e       -             3         -
Guided land development          -        -             1/f      14             1        14
Traffic management               -        -             -         7             -         7
Total                         4       17             2        28            11        45
Goods and Equipment
Traffic signals                  -        -             I         -             -
/a Outer Ring Road West - Section III.
/b Pondok Pinang-Pejompongan - Kebayoran Baru Flyover and Section III/Putri Hijau
Flyover.
/c Harmoni Flyover.
/d Pasar Pagi Viaduct; Jatinegara-Sudirman (part); and Pejom.-Matraman (part).
/e Senen, Mlningkabau, and Pramuka-Matraman Flyovers.
/f Jatinegara-Route CC connection.



- 109 -                        AMT    u
Table 1
INDONESIA
JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Bank Loan
(US$ million)
Cumulative              Expected disbursements
Semester       project ex-                 Cumulative        Profile/b
Semester    ending        penditure/a    Amount    Amount         %          (X)
1      12/31/88                        10.0       10.0        6.7         6
2      06/30/89           24.7          6.1       16.1       10.7        11
3      12/31/89                         9.0       25.1       16.7        20
4      06/30/90           84.3         12.9       38.0       25.3        29
5      12/31/90                        12.0       50.0       33.3        40
6      06/30/91          112.3         18.1       68.1       45.4        52
7      12/31/91                        13.0       81.1       54.1        62
8      06/30/92          159.6         19.4      100.5       67.0        73
9      12/31/92                         8.0      108.5       72.3        79
10      06/30/93          202.4         18.4      126.9      84.6         85
11      12/31/93                         5.0      131.9      87.9         90
12      06/30/94          223.9         15.1      147.0      98.0         95
13      12/31/94                         2.0      149.0      99.3         98
14      03/31/95/c                       1.0      150.0     100.0        100
/a Including nonreimbursable expenditures.
/b Urban sector profile for Indonesia.
/c Loan closing date.



- 110 -
INDONESIA                                                    Annex s
Tale- 2
JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPENT PROJECT                                                  Page 1
TAU 2 - aEnU1IIW. PASIAN PIUAICII                                                   WUU 9
............................................................................ ................................................................................................. 
F im,ut    LW  .............CiVil Works aM SWIgM4 ......T.........                         otal....   t   ----
Ca_aNhtI/Agney                     simc     (fat)        mm     Cant ilgole              Not        Tax      Tot
/I                 cat   PwAiu    al   Prie         Mt                  0161        Cat         x
............................................................................................................................
2.1 OsryhCam5mAt
boed -   Intrsectian Castryatfan:              33s3a   131.09    9,t1   14,67t    154,M               4,99      141.9"    to 6          5.91
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.............. ......... ...... ......... ......    . .......   ......  ........   ...... ........    ...... .........    .......
06 Bins Marga                                11,764    65,515    4.919    5,6411    74.105    3.439    73.413    91.315
AM   11.7,4    14,7           1.101    1.2F1    17.049    3.413         20,477    32.3
KM          0    50.911   3.,61         4.410    "9.13            6    "5,134      ".13
lI-Jakart                                    21,W.       45,44    4.9"1      6.3W       73         S.4 PA     0.349   106.1
------ .....   -....    ......   ......    ......   ......    .......
APO   21044    14,474        1,06       1.05      17,415    3.546    230,01        41,40
Ka          a    51:0e    3 ,U          4,541    613W6            0    41,367    41.3w
Guided Lwd 0Owtlp          t:                   14,9       39,75      2.2    5.040    478,01    2.151    4952    44,94                  17."
...............                                ......   ......    ......   ......   ......    ......   ......    .......
02-Jakart                             AP      9.161   t   ,71          50        673      0.05    1,646         973       16.93
31.         0    230650    1,774    3.076    23,499               0    23.49       2 .409
emyoran Sfte                          AM      5.311       Z,i04       156        39       2.510       505       3015       8,00
Ku          0      r.29s        547       as       G,0?           0       r.7o      3,70
Traffic  _Nagsmnt:                               2,961    40.63    3,005    3.624    47.752    2.149    49,901    53.,                  14.32
..................                             .............. ..... ......    ........ ......   ......... ......   ........ ...... ......... ..... ........... .... ...
4 cinSirm                                          0         44          3        62        9           44      1.013      1,013
...... ........ ......   ........ ......    ------.. ......    ............ .... ........... ..... ...
APO         0        169         14        14        2i          44       231          241
KM.         0        655         49        48         752         0        752         752
NI-Jokarta                                    2.963    40,019    3.001    3,762          46.70      2,105    46.00        51.67       14.02
...... ------.. ......   ........ ------    ------.  ......    ................ ................. 
APO    2.963       7.739        so        743      9,062    2.105       11.146     14.156
LN.         0    32,200    2,421    3.019    3,7720               0    37.O20      37,720
Aldabilttatien ard Maintene:
...............................
OKI-Jakarta                                        0      5500        413       "42       6.554       295       4.549      6,49       1.92
......   ------.. ......   ........ ......    ........ ......    ............ .... ........... ..... ...
AMI         0           0         0         0           0       295        395         295
31.         0      5.500        412       442      6,554          0      6,554      4,554
Tonicatl Asusitonce/Trainfng:                        0    44.752           0         0    44,752    4,475    49.227    49,37            13.3
,.............................         .       ........... ......   ........ ....... ........  ........... ......   ........ ....... ......... .... ... ..... ...
00 Slns Megrg                         3ll          0    10.329           0         0    10,329                 10,329     10.329
APNN                                                          1,133      1,133      1.133
DO Land Te_uort                       Ull          0    14,49           0         0    16"49                  14,449    16.649
A1M                                                           1.44       1,445      1.445
OK-Jakart                            3II          0    12.640           0         0    12Z40                  12."0      12,40
APN                                                           1,246      1,244      134
00 IAMNoA                             1u1          0       1114          0         0      1,114                 1,114      1,114
AM                                                            111.4        111         111
DC Cipta Kcrys                        31           0      4,000          0         0      4.000                4.000       4,000
AMI                                                             300        300         300
Total                                    51.610   261,953   16,290   23,404   301.047   16,044   317,691   349,501    100.02
............................................................................................................................
/f  Legend:  APOI - Natfnl  develomnt budt t   3ll - Foeign lton (I=)   APO  - OI Level I datq wont   ISt
/h  Loan  mo t apivstant to approx 701 of total project ceat not of taxes, disbrsed e  foties:
Total         Expdituro fInaned fro  lton procecd
Diaburssmsnt categor     Agency          cat                          -              unt    -----
(ip  tn)          S             (p atn) (UI stn)          S
..........................................................................................
1. Civil sork             DONN             ,371         7a              ".595        41.57      27.71
OKI         156,394          74             121,51        73.t4      49.22
2.05                       DM I                           OX 0                0       0.00        0.01
DN            6.554         102               6*,554       3.97       243
3. Equipmnt                NI             5.776         1001              5.776       3.50        2.3X
4  Tech. ast/Tranini   All               44.752         1001             44.752      27.12        5. 12
5. Lan  ard tae            All           67,6S4           oX                  0       0.00        0.01
Total                              369,501                         24T,506      150.00    100.01
~~~~~~~,,,.....           .... ...                        .... ...    ......    .....



-ill-                                            Annex 8
INDONESIA                                             Table 2
JABOTABEK URBl DEVELOPENT PROJECT                                          Pg 2
TAKL  2 -   1 IT    P01W FINAINS  N                                                                        03.5-U
~~~~~~~~S"tS.......... Cit^rt.................... ......... ..... .... ..  .......T  ....t  .......................
FuWfIq  Le .       ...... Civil works aid eoupnt ....To.....a..
C I ONtJAsoly                  sceu   cnst)    Earn T      mtisuis s          et         TM      Totl
/i               Not  Phicalt  Prie          owt               cm & a      Cast      X
............................................................................................................................
2.2 Suwmy by Agac:
DO 1ifs 0nars:                          11,7      76.756    4.962    5,743    P.4       0 4.      1,0      1637.    20.11
................... ........ ...........   ....... .........   ......   -------. .......   -------... .......
AM    11,7      14.665    1,115    1.25    17,24      4.4      21.W6      33.56
I          0   61,695    3,W       4.453    70.21t        0    70,216    7.216
O Lwd Tr *    st:                            0    16.4"         0         0.   14."44     , -1.4  15.314    18,314     5.01
......   -------.  ................................... ......... ...................
_I         0         0        0        0         0    1.,4       1.4s      1,G4
KIU        0    16,"9         0        0    16,649        0    16,"9    16."9
0     1.114        0        0     1,114      111     1,125      1.225     0.31
..... ..... .......   ------... ......   -------.. ---  ............ ....... ..... ........ ..............
Do00W*"                           M          0         0        0         0         0    111.4       111       111
uL         0      1114        0        0      1114        0       1114      1114     0.3x
0     4.000        0        0     4.000      300     4,300     4,300      1.21
...... ....... ......0.......................
DCiptKrys                         AM         0         0        0        0                  00       300       300
uL         0      4000        0        0      4000        0      40G0       4000     1.1
DKI-Jokarta:                            34,013   154,032   10,603   16.749   151.384    8.859   190,242   224,255    60.7x
.......... ...... ...................... .....--......
AP o 4.0013    20.923    2,16V9   3,471    34,53    8.659    43.422    77,435
KM         0   125,109    8.434   13,278   146.21         0   146,.21   146,821
KImyoren Sito                            5.811     9,400      705    1,112    11,217      s05    11.721    17532
..... -.  .......  - ---    ......   ....................
AM     5,811     2,104      156      249     2,510      505     3,015      6,6
0               7r,29s     s47      863     6,706        0     8.706      8,706
Total                               S1,610   261,953   14,290   23.604   301,67   14,044   317,91   349,501   100.01
-----                      ......   .......   .........  ..........  .......  ............. .... ............ ........ .... ............ ....................... ...
2.3 Sumiry by source:
MU:                                     17T.5     16,949    1,2      1,534    19,771    7.164    24,942    *.,5ss    12.11
I ...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... ..... ... .... ......   ...... ..... ..;..... ......   ........ ..... ...... ........ ...
06 tinr NW" DIP                     11,754    14,5    1.115    1.205    17244    4,60s    21,670    3456
!   DC Lord Trwn pert DIP                O         0        0        0         0    1,465      1,445     1.445
O oned DIP                               0         0        0        0         0       111       111       111
j  wClpta Krya                           0         0        0        0         0       300       300       300
jK.mmran Sf to                       5,611     2,104      156      249     2.510      ss       3,015     8,626
EL: A                                        0   21,061   12,01    18u,99   247.50r         0   247r,s0    247r,5s   67.0
......  .;.... . ..... .... ... . .....  ...... ..... ........ .......   ......... ........ ..............
06 slni  "woo DIP                        0    41,6 33            4,45     7o,216         0    70.216    70,213
DC Lerd TraMprt DIP                      0    14,"9         0        0    16.449              16,649    16,"9
Do Warm" DIP                             0     1,114        0        0     1,114               1,114     1,114
I(LK                                     0         0        0        0         0        0          0         0
DO CiptC Kwyt                            0     4,000        0        0    4,000               4,000      4,000
DKU-JakartO 0   125,109   6,434   13,2                                   1 2            0      14.621   146,021
Km-ren Si to                            0     7,294      547      643     6,706        0    3.704       6.704
APM  OKI-Jakwto                         34,013    26,92     2,169    3,471    34,53    6.59    43,422    77.435    21.01
Totel                             51,410   261,953   1,.290  25,04   301,847   14,044   317,691   369,501   100.01
..... ...... ...... ....... .......... ...... ---..... ...... ...... ....... ... . ... ..... ......... ..... ......... ..... ............ ......



INDONESIA
JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE 3 - DISWJRSENENTS (Ep million)
.......................................... ........................... ........................................................  .............................................................. ...... ............. ..
Coapnhnt                                88/89             89/90            90/91            91/92            92/93             93/94
GO0     IDRD    001       1i8D    00G      IBRD    0OD      IOD    001       IDD    601        ISD
....... ............ ............... ................................ ..... ......... ....... ...............  I.............
Total disbursement (Rp million)  18,475  22,243  24,801  40,712  26,435  52,661  24,147  53,786  19,619  51,094   8,516  27,011
------.C----------  (USS million)            13.48            24.67            31.92            32.60             30.97            16.37
OK! disbursement   (Rp million)   8,512   9,436  12,597  18,118  16,042  26,508  17,434  31,961  15,180  36,633   7,669  24,065
(USS million)            5.72             10.98            16.11            19.38            22.20             14.58
DMU  disbursement  (Rp million)   9,546   8,632   8,419  13,796   6,342  18,900   4,995  15,345   3,409  10,549              847   2,947
CUSS mitlion)            5.23              8.36            11.45             9.30             6.42              1.79
DGLT disburse.ent  (Rp sillion)       328   3,284       688   6,876      343   3,432      181   1,807      125   1.250         0       0
(USt million)            1.99             4.17              2.06             1.10             0.76              0.00
Other disbursement (Cp million)        89      891   3,096   1.923   3,709   3,741   1,537   4,653         905   2,612         0       0
(USS million)            0.54              1.17             2.27             2.82             1.58               .00
Special account replenishment (USS mtn)    6.00 /a            21.88            30.11            32.43             26.37            23.11
Cumulative                16.11            37.99            68.09           100.52            131.89           150.I 0
...............................................................................................
03-Feb-88 /a  Initial deposit Rp 10 billion equdvaLent; replenishment during year assumed to total Rp   10.11 bin
i-'m



- 113 -
INiESIA                                                     "_ 
Tele I
FInswial Statnte K-Jakwte    11               -u              biliten)
........................................................................................................................
*------------------ tot Fical Yar  ------ -------------   ----  tt .g e
Aeeunt                           1911/62   loam     1M/4   19641U    196 50/            191?6       MU"            2    grtt  rate
(Actual)  (Actual)  (Aetual)  (Actust)  (Aetml)  (Actwl) S1/62/ -3                       U1/U2-m7
........................................................................................................................
*Outime Acesuat:
Baceipte:
Central gevt e.hId1es                62.5       6.5        66.5       74.2       9I. 1  108.7          4*2.5       31.2        9.7X
Leatl turn.                          U.S        94.6      116.2      29.4       1336.       65.4       722.1       47.33      10.2X
Serce earg    la                     20.2       25.3       33.9       41.3       42.5       46.2       209.4       13.72       16.01
Ltocl entsrises                       2.5        3.2        4.6        6.7        4.9       10.1        32.0        2.12      14.4
Otber                                 ;.2        5.5        6.4       22.6       31.9       10.1        60.9        5.32      50.OX
Total receiPts                    171.9      196.3      229.6      274.4      312.2      340.5      15X2.9      100.86      12.7X
.........---- -- -..            .....       ....       .....      ....       .....      ...        .......      .....
:............
*  PerecansL                         54.9       58.1       69.2       85.2      107.4      1!3.1       497.9       59.5X      14.4U
Nuterfels                            17.4       21.6       27.8       31.4       39.1       S.5        174.7       20.9X      17.6X
RUpire  nd    Inmnt                   9.8       13.2       13.0       16.9       17.6       17.2        67.7       10.52       12.4U
IOthes                                9.4       12.7       13.7        9.6       13.6       16.9        76.3        9.1X       7.92
Total eenditures                   91.5      105.6      123.7      143.3      177.6      194.6       836.6      100.02      14.22
..................              .....      ....... .....          .......  ....... .....           .......    ..... .......... .............
Tremfet to  ev t waent             80.4       92.7      105.9      131.1      134.4      145.9       690.3       45.22      10.86
D0lqm   Accunt:
leciptse
Balance carried forward              26.9       37.2       59.2       76.S       66.6       29.0       295.4       2S.72      19.92
Central go..t day. grants/b           7.5        9.0        9.0        9.0       10.0       10.0        54.5        4.72       5.92
Tromfes frm  routint   cent          60.4       92.7      105.9      131.1      134.4      14S.9    * 690.3        60.0      10.8X
Prperwty tax (IPEDAMIS)c              8.2       10.5       14.9       16.6       10.2       27.5        6.9         7.42       4.5X
Oevalpnt lenow                        4.2        4.4        0.7        8.9       11.8        9.5        39.5        3.42      22.9X
Othrs/c                              -1.3       -1.9       -2.4       -2.8       -1.4       -7.4       -17.2       -1.52       1.S5
Total rceipts                     125.9      151.9      167.2      239.3      231.6      214.S      1SO.4      100.OX      13.02
..............                  .....      .....   .    .....    .....   .    .....     .....  . ... .......   ..... ..................... ..
Expand. distrib. nat
Expwnditures:                                                                                                             of surplus blance /
............                                                                               -------------------~~~~~~~~~. ... .. ... .. ..
Traportation                         15.3       22.6       13.7       22.S       14.0       33.6       121.7       14.32    121.7        18.42
Edution                               8.6        6.4       10.6       16.7       29.1       39.0       110.4       13.02    110.4        16.72
hoalth                               21.9        4.2       11.1        3.9        7.S       10.7        59.3        7.02      59.3        9.0X
C nity  h&Aing                        0.1        2.5        0.6        2.1        3.3        6.5        15.1        1.82      15.1         2.32
Deprtmontal expnditures              11.1        5.3       19.3        9.5       11.5       19.3        76.0        8.92      76.0       11.52
Corce                                 1.4        1.3        0.6        4.1        3.4        7.4        18.2        2.12      18.2        2.8X
Otner/d                              26.5       45.8       51.3      107.7      123.7       53.3       406.3       47.9X     216.0       32.7X
SUrtotel                        84.9       86.1       107.2      166.5     192.5      169.8       609.0        9f.9X     616.7       93.42
Debt service                          3.8        4.6        3.5        6.2       10.1       15.2        43.4        5.12      43.4        6.oX
Total expsnditures                 88.7       92.7      110.7      172.7      202.6      185.0       652.4      100.02    660.1       100.02
..................                .....  .  ......     .....        .        . .....  ...... .... -----  ..... .  .....  ..... .    .....  ......... ..................................
Closing balance                    37.2       59.2       76.5       66.6       29.0       29.5
........................................................................................................................
lae  Chargn   d Incr_ from servico dapsrtanta
/b  IWUS Doti I only; not including I1MES Ooti II _mnts received by Levtl  II amcies In OKI:
1981/82   1962/13   1913/84   1964/85   19S/16   19J6/87            Total
.......   .......   .......... -------   .......... .......    .......... ... ................ ...
23.1       27.5       32.1       52.4       56.8      60.5        191.9
/c Oroas receipts; standard dactions included In 'Other' div. reipts ltin
/d  Including  urccounted-for differnces beten recorded ad actual clcains balance as follows
1961/82   1962/83   1963/84   1964/5   195/86   1906/87             Total
15..... ....... 6------ .      .     .     ....   .......   .......    .......
15.6      21.9       33.7        Wa.        54.3     -30.3        192.3



- 114 -
Tale 2
1O66A                                0s I
ffnecafl projection.  KI-Jakwta   9S7/S-1M5i, - p billion)
..................................................................................................................................
'''''''''''-------I 1  ................................... m    fftTw......................... ,,,,,,,,,,,,
Acounit                       1W/U   19w9   "PA 1C              /      11/911  1"M19    1M/            1/        1""In   grW& rte
forecat fore t  Frect  forecast  Frct  foeat  foest   foe t  fooat  a6/-96
..................................................................................................................................
Rotifne'AccoAsta
eceipts:
Central so't suk.de/s/a          117.4     15.6      136.9    147.9        Y.    172.5         15.3        1.2      217.3       6.01
tocal taxes/b                    185.2    203.5        2.4     10.3       21.5      3.5        M5.6    40.5        46.7        12.91
SarvIco chagoe/b                  51.7      56.0      ".9       72.7       81.4      9.2       102.1     114.4      13.1       12.96
Loal enterprses/b                 11.3      12.7      14.2       15.9      17.6      19.9       22.3      25.0       U.0       12.96
Othe/o                            10.9      11.8       12.7      13.7      14.6      1.0        17.3       IS.?      3.2        6.911
Totat rwcepts                  376.6     416.7     461.1     510.5      545.3     45.1       6U .7     M.6    052.3          10.73
..............                 .....   .   ....   .....   . ... .    ..... . . .....  ..... . . .....  ..... . . .....  ...... .............. ......... ..........
Expenditures;
............
hisam 1/0                        132.9    143.6    155.1        167.5     130.9     19.3       211.0     227.6      26.1        8.96
;  atiarfts/c                     4.2       52.2       61.5      72.6      65.7     101.1      119.3      140.6     166.2      18.09
Repairs nd m_Intewnc/c            20.3      23.9       20.2      33.3      39.3      46.4       54.7       64.6      76.2      16.96
Others/a                          16.2      19.7      21.3       23.0      24.6      26.6       2Z.9      31.2       33.7       6.03
Total expnditures              215.6    239.3    2W.1        296.4    330.7    369.6         413.9    46.5        522.2      11.72
------------------             .....     .....     .....     .....      .....     .....      ...       .....      .....
Transfer to Dew't accoit       161.0     177.3     195.0    214.1    234.6    256.5          279.6    304.4    330.1          9.4X
Develtont AccoLmt:
Ieceipts:
Utence cwrrfed forward            29.5      14.8       10.0       5.7       8.6      24.6       45.5      72.4       48.3
Central govlt dev. grents         10.0      10.0      10.0       10.0      10.0      10.0       10.0       10.0      10.0       0.0l
Truwfers fro  routine cent       161.0     177.3    1ff.0      214.1      24.6    256.5        279.6    304.4    330.1          9.43
Property tax CIPEDA/ M)/d         33.8      38.6       48.6      64.8      5.0       95.6      102.7     110.0      116.7      16.93
Deeopment loons
Others/a                          -3.4      -3.9      -4.9       -6.5      -8.6      -9.6      -10.3      -11.0     -11.7      16.l
Total rwceipts                 230.9    237.0      256.9    26.1        330.7    377.3       427.7   4U5.8    493.5          10.0O
................ ... .............. ........ ........  .....  .......  ..... ......  .........    ....... ..........   .......
Expenditures:
............
-eportationfe                     35.3      27.9      33.9      39.5       43.2      43.5       39.0      68.6       75.6      10.03
atin.                         41.0      45.0      49.5       54.5      60.0      66.0       72.5      79.6       57.6      10.01
Ith                            11.2      12.4      13.6      15.0       16.4      18.1       19.9      21.9      24.1       10.03
saii.y hosing                   6.8       7.5       8.3       9.1       10.0      11.0       12.1      13.3       14.6      10.03
srtrAinttl eenditures          20.3      22.3      24.5      27.0       29.7      32.6       35.9      39.5       43.4      10.03
wece                            7.8       6.5       9.4      10.3       11.4      12.5       13.8      15.1       16o7      10.03
...ara                           57.6      96.6     106.2     116.6    126.5       141.4      155.5     11.1      188.2       10.03
Subtotal                     210.1     220.2    245.5    272.2        2g9.2    325.1       346.7     409.4    450.4        10.03
Debt service (existing)            6.0       6.6       7.7        7.3       6.9       6.6        6.6       5.9        5.3      -1.53
Debt c rvice (AJOP 1)/h                                                                                   22.1       22.1
Total expnditures              216.1     227.0    253.2    279.5    306.1         331.9      355.3    437.4       477.8      10.4X
.........................----........----.....................................
Closing balane                  14.8      10.0       5.7        6.6      24.6      45.5       72.4      48.3       15.7
* Note: Fer asuaptfon  a" attachd footnote  list (pog  2)



- 115 -
Tobm 2
pw 2
TlAM  2-- FINWCIAL PTICTII  - ASUWTIUS
/e  ftutinr grants asa.d to Increas         C.0  p.o. (41 gOt   d        4.KX inftlotIn)
hb  Tom assid to increase        12.0X p.o. (U Xroat ptus lntlttion)
is eN asamd to Increas           1.O p.s. (141 gowt plus intletion)
/d  PS growth essuad to ceotnor to tellowing targets:
19/U   INS/1         195/090   1990/91   191/92 9M9         19M/93      1994/9   19S/U
....... ........   . -------  .......... .......  ........ .. -------  -------. . ....... ..... .......... .........................
Registrations (641)        OX        5X      lOX         5X O                21 1X Is                      1X
Valuation                  1        4X         X       151       15X        41        4X         a1        a
Aaaesamnts (20X)           01        ox        OX        OX        01        ox        ox        OX        Os
Coltections (401)         0o         51       lOX       101       lOX       51         21        21        11
Total ail  growth         4        IS%       2a"       331       331       llX        71        71        a
Clotative growth           41       191       S0X       9X      1651      191S      21eX      238X      259
U.S. (D0 Pajok projectionr)         301       20%       31X       371       501       331X      30        211
(DO Poajuc uu tlative)         301       51       1151      1951     3421       4881      665 126a
/e Stwuiard MU deductions
/t Expenditure growth  s aumd to be        10.01 p.s.   61 growth plus intlottcn)
/g Inctluding KI'x JUDP I project exponditure:
1968/89   1909/90   10/91   1991/U2   192/93    1993/94    Total
.......   -------  -------  .......   -------  -------   .......
DOI direct cash contribution       8.S      12.6      16.0      17.4      15.1        7.7     77.3
DKI borrowing (SLA)                9.4      18.1      26.6      32.0      36.6       24.0    146.7
Total                         17.9      30.7      42.6      49.4      s1.7      31.7    224.0
Total as X of maaloble
dvtmop -nt turds                 7.41     11.91     14.0X     14.91     13.71      7.4"
Borrowing as X of dav funbd:
JUDP I borrowings                4.01      7.01      9.21      9.71     9.71       S.41
Total berrowings                 6.6X     10.01     11.8%    11.8       11.51      7.21
JUDP I expsndtturw as X of
total dlv. *xpediture 88-94     12.81
Debt service as X dsv. fund        2.91      3.01      2.51      2.1X      1.1        1.       5.OX      S."1
Debt service *r I ot NU           19.11     19.81    16.91      13.91     12.01      10.31    38.41     37.01
ceiltnq (151 058)
/h Sub-loan  gremnt tass 101 Interest. 20 yers repaym nt, S years grace



- 116 -
Annex 9
Table 3
IUDXUESIA
JABOTADL UtRAl DIVU03T PJIJECT
Road Cla- dification: Aane  Financi l Responsibilities/a
--- Road classification ---
Item                              Primary        Secondary
Land acquisition                           C              L
Road construction                          C               L
Road improvements                          C              L
Traffic engineering                        L              L
Traffic signals (investment and O&M)       L              L
Signing and marking (investment and O&M)   L              L
Street lighting (investment and O&M)       L              L
Routine maintenance                        L              L
Periodic maintenance                       C              L
Rehabilitation                             C              L
Legend: C - Central Government L - Local Governaent
/a   Draft; based on agr-ements under Loan 2817-IND - Regional Cities UTP



- 117 -
Annex 10
Page 1
i-DLA
JABOTABCK URBAN DKVUOPKIT POJECT
Knvirotmntal Ict
1.        Care has been excrc-.sed in the design of this project to avoid or
eliminate possible long term negative environmental impacts and to mitigate
the short term impacts of project construction in the Jabotabek area. The
project is also intended to contribute to the protection of the environment
through regulatory and institutional development features which should be of
benefit not only to the Jabotabek area but also of national significance.
2.        The environmental concerns addressed by the project are classified
in three broad areas of potential negative impact: (a) metropolitan area
growth and its impact on surrounding land use; (b) vehicle emissions and
their imoact on air quality; and (c) construction and its impact on the
local population, chiefly in terms of its land acquisition and resettlement
consequences.
A. Land Use
3.       Recent Jabotabek metropolitan development planning studies
supported by Loan 1336-IND (Second Urban Development Project) identified
land uses in the areas to the south and north of the existing Jakarta
urbanized area as unsuitable for dense development on environmental grounds.
4.        The area to the south is productive agricultural land which has
also been identified as an importact acquifer recharge area of critical
importance to Jakarta's groundwater supply on which over 70% of its 8
million inhabitants currently rely. Dense development of this area was
forseen as likely to both reduce recharge and cause pollution of much of the
remainder. Control of development by DKI-Jakarta in this area is difficult
because much of the area concerned lies under the jurisdiction of the
adjoining Province of West Java. Close collaboration is needed between the
authorities concerned in order to identify the extent of the sensitive area
and to apply and enforce appropriate development controls in this area.
However, controls based on environmental concerns have either not yet been
formulated or not yet implemented by the respective Governors who are the
responsible authorities.
5.        The area to the north (which is fully under DKI-Jakarta control)
is coastal swampland typical of many parts of Java. Such land is difficult
and expensive to develop and service due to poor soil conditions and
flooding hazards. It has however attracted major facilities in the past
such as the Tanjung Priok harbour and its related industry as well as the
Ancol recreation complex (sited on reclaimed land). The area has therefore



- 118 -
Annex 10
Page 2
become a significant soturce of employment. But like many sarginal lands in
such circumstances, it has also become the home of many lov income citizens
of Jakarta. North Jakarta's Kampungs are among the most badly serviced
areas of the city. DKI-Jakarta has great difficulty providing even
essential services to its North Jakarta citizens because of the development
costs involved and wishes to discourage further commercial and industrial
development in this location to avoid exacerbating the area's social
problems.
6.        Under the growth pressures facing Jakarta there is considerable
pressure to develop in the sensitive northern and southern areas (as well as
to increase densities in established central areas) due in large part to the
present north-south orientation of Jakarta's road system which has emerged
from the historical pattern of trade movement. Access to lands in the
eastern and western areas of the city, which are better suited to develop-
ment at reasonable cost, is severely constrained. In order to counteract
this trend DKI-Jakarta has committed to develop an alternative east-west
development axis which is now embodied in its development Master Plan (RUTR
2005)--based on a Jabotabek master plan prepared by a national planning
committee chaired by BAPPENAS. The plan provides for a reasonable distri-
bution and balance between residential, commercial and industrial land uses
and development densities for future development, as well as appropriate
recreation space having regard to the strong economic considerations lying
behind the plan. Its success however will depend upon the provision of
adequate access to the new areas and capacity in cross-town links to
facilitate movement between the areas.
7.        This approach reflects a policy of 'Guided Land Development' by
DKI-Jakarta as a positive means of influencing development patterns
through key urban infrastrucure services rather than reliance on land use
controls which have proven singularly unsuccessful in the past. In the case
of environmentally sensitive areas which should not be developed, such as
the northern and southern areas in question, it is also necessary to impose
enforcable controls as well as deliberately limit services in such areas.
However, this strategy can be frustrated in Indonesia due to the ability of
Central Government agencies to initiate and implement well-meant development
in local govenment areas but without meaningful consultation. In order to
help avoid such conflicts in future, the Government has decided to
decentralize urban infrastructure planning responsibility fully to local
governments and to program infrastructure expenditures by all levels of
government on the basis of an integrated development plan.
8.       The project will support the implementation of DKI's east-west
development axis strategy through (a) construction and improvement of
development roads and key arterial links, and (b) through a study of the
environmentally sensitive southern area and the necessary development
controls. It will also support the integration of planning and programming
in the Jabotabek area through establishment of the institutional mechanisms
and capacity to implement this (see Annex 1). As part of the formulation of
appropriate environmental protection criteria to be included in the
appraisal of proposed expenditure program components, the abovementioned
environmental study would strengthen GOI guidelines for environmental impact



- 119 -
Annex 10
Paice 3
analysis/l in infrastructure development. The guidelines would be a, Lied
in future road development feasibility studies, commencing among others with
the study, supported by the project, of the proposed Pasar Minggu-Depok Road
improvement which would traverse the sensitive area to the south of the city
discussed above.
B. Vehicle Emissions and Air Pollution
9.       Uncontrolled vehicle emissions constitute a major cause of air
pollution in large cities where heavy or congested traffic conditions occur.
Jakarta suffers acute problems in several locations for this reason from
time to time although official monitoring records indicate tolerable and
even improving conditions in the city as a whole. National regulations
being formulated by Ministry of Environment, are still in draft, but
DKI-Jakarta has issued ambient air quality guidelines. Recent tests at city
bus terminals showed Total Suspended Particulates to be 500 micrograms/m3 in
contrast to the tolerable level of 260 specified in the guidelines.
10.       Important influences on vehicle emission concentrations such as
land use planning, road network development, and traffic engineering
development are being addressed in Jakarta, and the improving trends in
overall quality can be attributed to some extent to improvements in these
areas. In addition important initiatives are being taken to reduce lead
content in motor fuels, but other aspects of vehicle technology (engine
combustion, catalytic converters, etc) are several years away from serious
consideration in Indonesia.
11.       A critical area of action needed lies in further reductions in
congestion by means of traffic restraint and public transport development,
particularly a clean mass transit system. These are longer-term measures,
as is establishment of a pollution control authority empowered to set policy
and enforce appropriate regulations. However, in the short term important
a         A fundamental problem facing environmental protection in
Indonesian development programs is the lack of environmental engineering
capacity in the public works agencies of central and local government
agencies and their local consultants. Loan 2258-IND (First Ministry of
Public Works Manpower Development Project), is currently supporting
development of environmental engineering policies and criteria in the
Ministry's Bureau of Planning. Although establishment of criteria and
guidelines will be an important step, the training of urban planners and
engineers in environmentally sound approaches and practices, and the
establishment of environmental resources units in public works agencies
will be essential to achievement of meaningful results. The Bank's support
for establishment of environmental resource management curricula in higher
education programs in Indonesia (Loans 1904 and       -IND) should improve
awareness and capabilities of Indonesian practitioners to address environ-
mentally related development issues in the longer term. In the near term
there is a great need for in-service training of government and consultants'
staff to equip them to address the issues to the extent possible.



- 120 -
Annex 10
Page 4
steps towards institutionalization of air pollution control would be to:
(a) improve the present monitoring system in order to (i) better quantify
the components of Jakarta's air quality problems; (ii) better identify and
prioritize critically polluted areas; and (iii) identify related adverse
impacts on health; as well as (b) improve engine maintenance (particularly
diesels) through better vehicle inspection and enforcement.
12.       Monitoring of air quality in Jakarta is carried out by the MOC'c
Geophysical and Meteorlogical Center (BMG - 5 fixed stations), DKI's Urban
Research Institute (P4L - 4 mobile stations), and the Ministry of Health
(DepKes - 2 fixed stations). These stations are equipped with only high
volume sampling equipment and when operational are capable of monitoring
only a few parameters (Total Suspended Particulates, S02, NOx, and Ox).
MOC's Directorate of Road Transport (LLAJR) is responsible for vehicle
testing but has few test centers (which concentrate exclusively on
commercial vehicles) and is poorly equipped with smoke detection or CO
analysers.
13.      In order to help Government upgrade its air quality monitoring
capabilities an air pollution control expert would be provided under the
proposed project to (a) advise on air quality and vehicle emission control
policy; (b) evaluate the existing monitoring system and recommend an
appropriate upgrading program (with equipment to be procured under the
project); and (c) advise and train GOI staff in use of the equipment and in
analysis and interpretation of the data. Outline terms of reference are
given in Annex 5. These would be refined by LLAJR which would take the
lead in forming and chairing a working group to oversee the development of
the monitoring system.
C. Land Acquisition and Resettlement
14.      All road construction and improvement components were subjected to
a cursory environmental impact analysis by the consultants during the feasi-
bility study phase. All schemes were systematically examined to some degree
against a list of criteria including: conformity to Master Plan and impact
on existing land use and communities (including land acquisition and
community severence), traffic and pedestrian impacts; services and utilities
disruption; land values; and expected pollution due to noise, appearance and
vehicle emissions. Many components consist of improvements to existing roads
and in such cases it was possible to assert that conditions after improve-
ment would be better than before. In cases where permanent intrusions
(e.g. vehicle noise) or temporary negative impacts from construction were
identified these were minimized to the extent thought appropriate and
weighed against expected benefits to arrive at an acceptable net positive
benefit. The examinations were, however, based mainly on subjective
judgements following discussion with the implementing agencies. Although
one proposed component was rejected at appraisal on environmental grounds
(due to possible adverse developmental impacts) it is unlikely that any
major errors have resulted in the remaining individual components. (On the
whole urban services projects in Indonesia usually result in net positive



- 121 -
Annex 10
Page 5
environmental benefits due to their main purpose in relieving environment-
ally bad conditions resulting from existing low levels of urban services).
The sole residual major concern lies in the magnitude of the aggregate land
acquisition and the possible displacement and resettlement implied.
15.       According to GOI estimates about 10,000 households and busines-
ses will be affected by the project. This very large program (to be carried
out over about 5 years), will touch some 40-50,000 persons and disrupt -uch
economic activity. DKI-Jakarta would be responsible for the acquisition
program which would be carried out by land acquisition committees. Well
established and reasonable procedures exist to process the acquisitions and
compensate ownersZ2. Adequate budgetary provision has been made for the
compensation. A coordinated plan for acquisition of the land was brought to
negotiations which will follow these procedures. The details of the
properties to be acquired and the relocations involved are giver in *;he
following Table.
16.       Actual relocations requiring resettlement are expected to be
comparatively few since most acquisition Involves only a narrow (2-3 m)
strip of land along the involved property's frontage. In most cases the
owners are able to rebuild or modify their dwelling or premises on the same
plot and continue occupancy. Persons most affected are renters and
squatters crowded out by the plot reductions. DKI-Jakarta pays only
monetary compensation and in the case of affected persons who are not
property owners it attempts to help such persons find PERUMNAS rental
housing or, where requested, to help them join in transmigration schemes or
return to their native village. Business owners (if licenced) are
compensated for loss of economic activity according to a set rate.
17.      Progress and experience with the acquisition and resttlement
program would be monitored by the Project Coordination Office (JUPCO)
assisted by the project management consultants. Details would be reflected
in the quarterly report. The early experience would be evaluated by JUPCO
and its consultants by June 30, 1989 and any improvements necessary in the
procedures or their implementation would be incorporated in the later phases
of the program.
/2.       Procedures for land acquisition in urban areas are based on MHA
Instruction No. 2/85 and have been further developed by DKI-Jakarta under
Governor's Decree No. 700/86. The MHA instruction prohibits the forcible
movement of people and there have been few com plaints by persons in urban
areas affected in the past. DKI procedure includes public meetings to
present the project to the community affected and to take its views into
consideration. The right of way for the agreed scheme is staked out to
determine the property affected. A land acquisition committee is appointed
by the Mayor which meets with individual owners to collect information and
discuss values and compensation for the land and its improve ments
(buildings and ancillary structures, crops, trees, etc) according to various
categories and criteria. The committee's recommendations are sent to the
Governor for final approval. After approval ompensation payments are made
by the project office following which clearance may proceed.



- 122 -
_ 10
mIIA                                                 T*lo 
LWd A_usitiu  l _Ao
lb. of steimm to be WtlaiVy
or tsdlt  dmotiabd
3iet-    Am    d. of   TStU            _      m-             ---- P eV---.
Yw of of-uw  to be  plot  m. of Ptemmm psimt Tosremy  I   coItm
c_nuwmt                      Cotruct   Ot  As  rod offstt  otfiutM  otniet. eUsWt                    eo_  ts    as
is     aIPmn)  the)               /A                                 (O1/A)    /d
NOed  u  Inteersetlon C tructln:
............... ....................... .......
Kajor  rterial r_e:
Outer Rtig Road Wet            1       5S.50     43.9    2al       Pw        1"                  0      1003
ter Rlngr od South             I       $,100      S.C      19       19o      190                 0      1001
Swcondary etew at roa    :
tmmit-Lingksr                  1         250      0.3        2                                   0      tOOX
Pfn w-foJo apang               1         640      0.6        9        9                         9       lO10
fnWumD-epok                    t         460      4.0       l6        I        1                 0      1001
Psr Pai                        1       1,90       1.5      312      342      ZO        a       51            3/S1
Tobus Jetinesgr-S4dirtn        2       9.537     16.0      96       977      43       42      332       40X 3/91
Tabus P.jopesum.listrmn        3       7.500      6.4      m        672      432      21Z       22       OX 3/93
NIjror ntesoctfa.:
Nrmoi fel tvor                 3         4M       0.3        1        1                 1       0       1001
Senan ftlyor                   S       1.45       2.0      190      1ZB      12t                0        0  3/92
Niningkbbu flyov r             4           0      1.9      150      133       54       24       40      0  3/91
Prmuke-Nhtro_ n ftyowmr        5       1.492      1.2       *6       64       56       6         0       01 3/92
Eost *nd Wet Guided Lsd Dotslpm ut:
Estern Armc:
-oute CC/FF                    2       T001      65.4    3270       756      510      116      130      0  3/89
Route EE                       2       1t300      9.4      446      20       9         2       114       as 3/US
Jstinegara-Routo CC carcntf   4            0      4.2      Z60      342      178       11      53       0  3/91
We ton Arto:
Route I                        1           0    30.6       29       lSS       67      1                60 41 3/69
Route D                        2           0    40.6    2116    1140         444      155     541            319
Routo E                        2           0      2.1      112       f5       39       19       7            3/91
Route F                        2           0      0.6       36       27                        19            3/91
Routc 1                        2           0      3.9      214       94       34       20      40            3/91
Traffle _anhgmnt:
. ..... ................... _
Aros/corride  lprovomnt:
K.ayoran Les  c                3         544  Vna                                                       100l
Twnsh Abag 1                   1       1092       2.6      I"       314      205      109       0        0  3/69
Tuu Toni                       3           0      0.0
Roam   Soid DIpnhgro           2           0      0.0
D.Sartikr-Kr.Jatl-Rays Magor   3         552   n/a                                                       0  3/90
Total                              4511t9    250.7  10.03    59"    3 3441    1,046    1.455
.. ......  .... ..... ..... .....  ...  ...
/  TOar 1 I  01 FY18
/b Approimto  umo ascertained from awfeal auvy photogras
/c Approxt_tly 5 pero  per household
/d  Acqlsition wilt in  eeral multi-yew project ceam  proeed in stgm.



- 123 -
Annex 11
Page 1
-IA
JADOTAD  nUDA  DNW=AOINT PR*JECT
Analysis of Economic Benefits
1.  Costs and benefits of the various conponents have been compared
between several options by means of benefit-cost analysis conforming to the
methodology and criteria described below. The feasibility indicators
consist of the First-year Rate of Return (FYRR), the Internal Rate of Return
(10 year IRR) and the Net Present Value (10 year NPV) as calculated at a
discount rate of 15% per annun. The sensitivity of the indicators to changes
in costs and benefits was assessed for each option assuming an increase in
costs of 20% and additionally a decrease in benefits of 15%. The results
are summarized in the following Table 1.
Hethlodologx
2.   ProJect Costs.  The evaluations are based on economic costs and
benefits at constant end-1985 prices. Costs are estimated net of tax but
include routine and periodic maintenance costs equivalent to 2.5% of capital
cost (excluding land). Environmental impact costs were assessed as marginal
in virtually all cases and were not quantified.
3.  Benefits.  Benefit calculations were considered separately for the
periods prior to and following commissioning of the facilities concerned.
Benefits were calculated on the basis of forecast reductions in vehicle
operating costs and time costs for traffic moving at the morning peak hour
based on 'with project' and 'without project' scenarios. Traffic flows and
vehicle distances were calculated for various 'base years' (1990 and 1995
for traffic management schemes plus 2000 and 2005 for road improvement
schemes) by means of a computerized traffic network model for Jakarta.
Vehicle speeds were assessed for each road link concerned enabling costs per
vehicle-km to be compared for eight representative vehicle types based on
fuel, oil and other running costs, as well as vehicle standing costs,
passenger and goods time costs and accident costs. Annual benefits were
taken as equivalent to 3,250 peak hour benefits.
4.   The vehicle operating costs used (running, standing and accident costs
as derived for urban conditions) are shown in Table 2 for selected speeds.
The value of time saved is also an important benefit to all urban
transportation improvements. Even at the highest speeds they comprise
56% of total costs for buses, 42t for light passenger vehicles, 35% for
cars and 28% for taxis. The time savings values used are shown in Table 2
also. Full details of the economic analysis procedures and derivation of
the costs are available in the Project File (Annex 12). Details of the
economic analysis of each component are given in the respective feasibility
study also available in the Project File together with a summary update.



JA0TUAK 133I EWOFtEUT  PRECT
Eenomic Arlysis Slunry
...................................................................................................................................................................... .............................................................................. .................
to gasitivity
CUwit                             taigt      Capital cest  Ecoeic _A t                --------                  - Forect trtffic  ------------   ------ Cacity -----   FM  I       WV    Cestat=  cesta
Cko)     Total   cost/t i etu  0   cost            1990         19iS        200e         2005    Existing      Prop               (la yea) (Is war)  if to -S mots-151
-- ---------- ( Ip an) -------- o--    --e--         --- - -t                  onr  )   -------------------------a)I X        t         pgln       X          I
...................................................................... ........................................................................................................................... _...
Road mrd Interstion Contruction:
..................................
ilJor arterial roeok:
Outer tire Road Vast/c             10.6  25.906    4.861    4.146        s09         1400        2`170        3180        4300       2730         4250       66        1.        3,662      38        3
Outer Ring Road  uth/a/c          10.0   22,109    2,211    3,650       522      2400-3550   1050-5760   2610-3650   3280-510  27SO-4250        4250                 102       "623       U         7
Semrmy arterial roeof:
Melt-Lingker/a                      6.6    6,934       748     "6         S2      1930-22e9   2679-3676   3907-49M9   503-6424    4950            4950       22        33         5,0       2         2t
Pilng-P.jf pnganfe                  5.9   20,765    3,519    3,005       472      1647-4205   20f2-4040   2909-5275   390-6351       3700         4750       67        79        29,11    67        s5
Nlinngu-0spok/a/c                  14.4    8,296       S76      45       619       G00-2700   2700-3000   3000-3900   4100-5300      2250         5950       22        10        79568
Poer lagi Viaduct                   0.9   20,405   22,672   19,271       317         2000        2500                                 /b          4000       38        40        21t316     Is        o0
Tebus JatineWr-Sudfram              6.0   27,555    4, 593    3,904      377         7000        90o                                  /b          e          SO        39        25.513     3S        30
Tein Paejaporgai-Natrrn             6.7  24,237    3,617    3,076        340         3499        4576                                 lb          4667       30        31         9, 74     27        23
Najor intoruetins:                                             /d
lannIflyover                        n/a    9,010      nVa    7,658       131         4000        4300                                3100         4000       a2         72       17,446     62       55
Srn  flyowar                        nea    9,610       n/e    9,274      146                     4376         4447                    /b          SO0        83         73        3,30      63       s5
Hiningkobu flyover                  nV     80035       n/a    6,830       9          1           3721                                 lb         4150        28         37        4,223     31        27
Prm*a-Natrmn flyowr                 nr     8,721       n/a   7,113        174 tb                                                                  6000       72        65          97       5S        49
Ecrt and Vast Guided Loed 0evlt nt:
Eastern Areas/c:
Route C/FF                          5.1   11,612    2,150    1,828        163     1400-3700                   6000               3200-6000        6000       67         75       25.5       a         56
Rleute EE                           7.3    3,841       526      447       34      1300-2100                2000-4400             2000-4400        4400       29         4e        2."7      33        as
Vetern Ares/e:
Rtute O                             3.2    3,071       we       816       as      1900-2400                2300-4400                  lb       275s-4400     47        56         3,625     4        3          i-
Rlute 0                             0.1   12,053    1,488    1,265       247      1100-41000               400-s50                    lb          6000       45        57        tlMM       1.       40         i
Route E                             7.3      942       129     lO        22       500-900                 40O0-5900                 1925         6000       13        44.        1442      39       34
Route F                             05       512    1,161       990        9         900                      325O                    1925        6000       43         S          ,I'm     50       43
Route                               2.8      124        4        38        3      1300-1900                   4400                     lb         4400       514        5           175     48       41
Traffic Naiemnt:                                                  /d
..................
Are/corridor id rvnt/2 :                                                                                                                                          /
Kesyrn Lm                       network    1,513    n/a       1,286       Is      2115-2553   2053-27                             840-2900    3500-56r    n/          na          9,831
Tbah Abaig I                    network    4,194   nfa        3,565       60      126t-2141   1652-2e05                              1004      2500-3500    n"t      n"t          ,.6
Tugs Tail                       -4.r         684    Va          411       12         3049                                             /b         nVa         nea      n/a         S,
Rasuss Soid-olpogoro            netwkrk      185   nra          1S         4                 Intersction isrovesants                                        nWe       n/a         1,179
D. Sartike-Kr.Jeti-Rwa    er netwkrk    2,523    n/V          2,060       54                 Intersction iprw_entsxWe n                                                V          5,7ff
Su  priority mtsues/:
Cwie Sati-JatinWMra                 8.7    3,017   nV           295               4352-7181                                      4760-9440   41760-900       nVa       Va        12 I"
Kyai Tep-Nayim Asyhwa               3.7      403    n/a          93 1n425-30M5   1S41-4151                                       240-.520    3020-4720        W/        /a       12,9
Krmt Sundar-Dpeprto                 4.4    2,357    nao         455               4392-6300   4745-67M5                          00-6520    6000-76         na        n"a       t6 ,
Dines LMit traffic progrf    network   32,706    n/a           29,509                  n/a         n/a          "/a         n/a        env          n/s       '00        '406
iRdoibitation aid ftintend:                                       d
.............................. ........................ .
Secandery    le twat roed/g       network    5,914    n/h       5,323   nV             "tor /a     n/a          Va          na          We          nl        '00        '40
Total                         2751 la
/0  Traffic date reprsentotive for mtinpto  etie  with differing traffic dinidP
lb  No existing rod
/C  Capital costs Incude for  e        t sp t     (94 bllion total) not Incltud in iSP t; Stag  I ben its ae coprable
/d  Total t  _ c IC   t of e        t
Jo  Tneic  It liU >00t   for traffic   n nt adg
If  Inctuding traffic sipult, interection ad _eetrim ioints  sitl   min  ranrkin  mi b   priority  _esures
/   Pt_ prxop-  of routine ad periodic aIntwoc   e cted   l  typically  100 



'i  amlWis - Velict, pwatie, Tim  ad  accidt costs by Vehicle Ti9  (9p/ba)
....................................................................................................I......................................................................... .................................................................................... ....................
(lA)                         (is)                         (2)                          (3)                          (4)                          (5)                          (46)                         Cal
- PrV   ca.                 .   Tl -                      Lt ea r - - --------   .....                            - -  -- Lit _e ..                  luk ..              .  bOar epsi..                   ----   ..
Ovara h wup  speed (W)                 1s       3e        4S        15       30        45        Is       30        45s       O        20        so        la       a         4         1o       a5        46                 J         4is                is        3
Aveu_ smomn    i( w)   15    30    45                                Is    30    45               1S    50    45               11    24    40    10    25                                Is       a         4                  3         46        I        a         Be
.... .. ......... ..................... ........ .............. .... ....... ....... ........ ........ .......... ......................................... ............................................................. ...... ......... ........ ......  ....... ........ ....
Iestir, Costs
...............
_dnois cert/b                             73.8      56.9   so.         73.f      56.9     $5.1    100.0       70.7     62.3   22.1 195.6   146.9              9.3      64.1     56.6       5.4    164.2    13.5        17.6      15 r .3  1A        476      5L4       34.6
nt iu ctic                                46.S    46.5       4.5       77.2      36.6   28.?    124.4         43.2     42.1    317.9   15.o    106.0   133.1           53.3      33.3      35.3   134.1       6.9        6.1       6.1       6.1     S1.1       5.6      1 .6
leTta                       120.3   105.4    101.6    151.0        97. O .      .6    26.4    133.9    100.4   544.0   354.6    292.9    22.4             MA.4      3.9    52.7   2M.3   242.7    I5.1   28.4   2n.?                    W.S        2.6    5S.6 A
Tim costeid
..........
p_eer _d                ti   cos t s  1u  .s        E.       55.6  I0.S    50.3          33.5   454.0    117.0        73.0   713.0    565.0    310.0          6.9       6.3       0.2      6.6       3.4       2.      12.2       Li        6.1     3.3       14.7       9.6
Acci.        cost                               4.0       4.0       4.6      4.0       4.0      4.0       4.0       4.0      4.0      10.0      16.0     10.6       4.0       4.0      4.6       6.6       6.6      6.6       4.6       4.6       4.6      2.6       2.6       2.6
..... .... *.....
Tot                        29.6    195.2    W1.4   85..S   IS               116.3   464.4   25.    166.4  1724.0              9.6   402.9   23.S   11.?    94.1   54.3 3 3.7 .                   2.M        4.3      315.5    32.     U19         3.?    6a.4
.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
to  Lte-O         price
l   Icludireng et of tw,. *l, tires. mint_te (pwet_ ad  1*1w), ad  Mive-bond   eleclotion
/C   mcludlag cast of timbasd dI               istia. I itrst  (151 P.*.). dr*ivwerr . ad                  r 5iaemb
id  _sasur tia vl ta  based ae 96    m    inten m      edJetod Op 15t pa. wd wiflted fwr bairer d Wlw* um.
os  tin  vata baWd en ipliad iuwetp cost raatim  seeinq    17.12ft1.



- 126 -
Anne x 12
INDONESIA
JABOTABEK URBAN DEVEIOPMENT PROJECT
Documents Retained in Proiect Files
1. Jakarta Transport Investment Program Review
June 1987 - JUTP Consultants to Directorate General of Land Transport.
2.  Perum PPD and DANRI Operation Study 1986
- JUTP Consultants to Directorate General of Lane. Transport.
3.  National Public Transport Policy Study - 1986
- JUTP Consultants to Directorate General of Land T:'a.-eport.
4. Jakarta Nass Transit Options Study. - 1986
- JUTP Consultants to Directorate General of Land Transport.
5.  Traffic Restraint and Parking Policy Studies - 1986 - 87
- JUTP Consultants to Directorate General of Land Transport.
6. A 5 Year Indicative Program for Traffic Engineering anh M-nagement on
DLLAJR, DKI 1987
- JUTP Consultants to Directorate General of Land Transport.
7. Jakarta Traffic Nanagement and Road Network Development Study 1982-83
and 12 technical papers
- CBP Consultants to Directorate General of Land Transport
8. Jakarta Urban Transport - Feasibility Studies (20 Volumes)
Consortium Consultants 1986-89.
9. Road Maintenance Study - Consortium Consultants 1989.



SIA
Jabotabek Ur Dan Deveiopment Project
Organization Structure of inier-Agency Coordinating
Team for Urban Dlevelopment (Tim Koordinasi)
Minister for
National Development
Planning/Chairman
BAPPENAS
Chairman - Deputy for Economic
Inter-Agency                    Affair BAPPENAS
Steering           Vice Chairman-2 A*       A
Committee           Members - 9 **
E   Executive Secretary
Executive           Assistant Executive
Secretariat           Secretaries - 4
Working Group 1                W Working Group11.                                             Working Group IVan
Urban Development                   Program                     Working Group 1ic               Institutional and A
Poliies &     Programs    mplementation                        Fnanci A  esources            Manpower Deveopment
F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
aDrcoGe al  o plclaLit Wrtorkina  ona u Auno           ryofoeullAfar -  emr
3. Dieco Genra ofR                    I Deeopet  Iiisr of Hom  Afar_-M                      e
5 Vice Chairman I - Director  dGewa Mointarry ofnanof Fce-ece
Vice Chairman n - Deputy Socia & Cultural Affairs. BAPPENAS
**t Deputy Regional Development. BAPPEMAS                                              - MINIber
2- Director General of Pubhlc Administration and Regional Autonomy. MWNstry of Horne Affars - MSembor
3. Director G3eneral of Reg'ioa Development, Ministry of Home Atfalrs                - Mibr
4. Secretary General of the Minnstry of Public Works                                 - Member
5. Director oeneral of the Budget, Minis ry of Finance                               - Me9mber
S. Director General of Human Settlements. Ministry of Public Works                   - Member
7 Director General of Highways. Mhstry of Public Works                               - Menmber 
S. Director General of Land Transport. Ministry of Communications                    - Menber 
*** Including Urban Transport Working Group.                                                                                 I
cAW441 I la



INDONESIA
Jabotabek Urban Devlopment Project
Jabotabok Integrated Programming Operations Structure
Tim Koordinasi
Sector                         I                         Sector
Agencies                                                 Agencies
j         +  ~~~I _I                 I                I 
DK-J[atBKSP Jabotabek
Staf f
BAPPEKO TkIl                         BAPPEDA Tkl
BIR02 TkI_                           BAPPEDO Tkl
DNAS2 Tkil                           BIR02/DINASz Tkl
CakAw411tI lb



INDONESIA
Jabotabek Urban Development Prolect
Organization Structure for Project Implemntation
Tim Koordinasi
DG Land                       DG BSia                  i                   DKI                         DG               OG cipta
Transport                       Marga                                    Jakarta                      Bangd                Kary
Dector,te  .  .Directorate                                                          Directore
Directotats                                                             Urban       |im
Urban Roads                                                           DUvropan                Shivm
Planning                                                            D_eopnt               Program
(Dir PJK)
Directorate          Directorate             *DINAS LLAJRt
Transportation       Urban Trans-                               BPEADNSU                                Tinf tic 
& Traf fie        port & Traffic            I(Pubic Works)                                          Tasot
(LLAJR)              (LLAK) 
t   ct
Coordhnation
Offie (JttPCO)
l-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
PPD/DAMRI
Bus Cornpauii
Project         Proloct                  Project           Project         Project          Project           Project           Project
-Manager        Managers:                Mana              Manager:        Manage:          L anager              |            t
Director       -Traf fic 8a DG~Thil                       -OI-K/OI
Polutlon        Transport                Assistance        Technical       Physical         TraffI            T ch              Law
Study           Studes                  -DGBUM &           Assistance      Components       Management        Assestance        C*As,
-PPD/DAMRI               SATLANTAS                         -Construction     Components                    I1uV
Assistance              Training     111ISupvis    II                                                            emorw.
-LLAK                   -DGM                               Assistanc|                                            S ud    |
Assistance              Physical    I 
-Training                Comnponents
Legnd - --Monitoring and coordination
- - - Reporting                                                                                                              C'41   tIC



- 1)0 _
Chart 4
'  StS-XA~~~~...... ...E}
I-jI
I                            1~~3:
I                               t.j
Xi



- 131 -                                   Chart 5
INDONESIA
Jabotabok Urban Development Project
Organization Structure of DKI-DINAS LLAJR
Chief of DINAS
Dep. Chief of
DINAS (Traffic)
Dep Chief of
DINAS (Trannport)
_ _   I    _             l    _~~ I
BAGIAe            BAGIAN:               e     ;AGIA
Porsonnol          Accounts             Adinstrton
SIuD-DINAS:        SLA                       SU-DNASS             SUB-DlNAS:.          SU-DINAS
Programming        Trat Eng%& Tranr-         Public Transport     Bus Licensing a      Taxi & Froight
_& Monit"ton       _part Pkn"& Designl       _Planning a Momit.   _  uakss V*nce   _Licning a B G.
Data a            Area Traffi                 Survey &               City
Documentation    ~~Control                 Reerh~1Taxis
Documentation           Area I                   Reh                1us$                                           I
Route                CityOte
Programming            Area H                   Schoduding            Bue                     Ilsma
Monitoring            Ara                        Tariff              Intercity             Freight
& Evaluation                                     Section               Buses              Transport
Transport           Transport                    PubTac notBusiness                      Business
|     Plannhng        Planning                 Operansport          Guidance             Guidance
UNIT: Traffic   1             UNIT;        1       UNIT                (UIT
Eng. Operation    ITransport                       Terrinal             Vehicles
S Maintenance   J             Services             T L_Trrminals _      Testing
Area Traffic                General              General              General
Control                   Affairs              Affairs              Airs
Trdffic    l         l    Weigh              Terminal &           Mechanical
Si81gnals           4    Bridges             Shelter Plan.        & Equipment
Traffic Signs              Tow*Trucks            Termna                PULO V
=&M Ma r kSin gs         oTationscMENTENG lS
Other Traffic                Driving           Maintenance       UMNTENG VTS
Functions                  SchoolsENVT
Revenue
SUKU DINAS                           Coloction               T  3
Traff                             Public A                         _ubkc
Engineering     Adiitain           Transport
VTS 6
cak\w41 t t 1



NOTES



MAP SECTION



LrA.LANU                             |- - -POVE -OUMQAS
)BW                 _                               BT N&SIONAK I OUNDAS\.S
MALAYSIA                                                                                                                                      .IA0OTABEK URI5A                               LOIMlI
1,~~~ ,                                                     ,         Y)HSRRk;A          -'","
> ,J  \,_   ;    V  > _ .   .                                   AIRP                             ._ _>                                ~~~~~~~               ~           ~         ~~JAVA SEA  X- N
KALWAITA
~_A  \                 NTAN !            A        (
-               }  ~~~~~~.SIJAWks                                  IRA  JY
JAKRATA         I.
-     AWA
106,30                            I WAS                             1o0o                            l~I
JABOTABEK AREA                                                                                   600-
TA GERANG
FEGOOINGBAUNE GBOUNDWATUR RE OR SOiL UNSUITA-LE                SECONRY URES
Z O E    L O W  LYIN G                                       FU TUIN NS                                      , RIVERS -  P O S E   P R O J E C
_/-                                                  -  - DELYCACIRTA BOUNDARY URBAN DEVELOP TART ERIAS
Z  Y CON DA RY IIIIE HI G H LA N D \      . . . . . . . . E D Y   A RTSE  IA LS
PU   I   OSROAINS  ZONE                            G OOD  LRYINAGE ES    GCO N ASTEL64            RFOORY AGSRICULTUES/rj Y*-\
SIVERS  PO R UIT A 4BL E VELOPM ENT FOR  URBAN  DEVE OPM TT AF          M AN A Y S CHEME    F   ,,l
DK.I. JA B RTA B   BOUNDARY                 ZOAN E    EV   STEEP  LO PEN T    .   A  A        j        DEPO K    R T
_  EHYSICAL CONSTRAINTS ZONE   GOOD DRAINAGE FRESH GROUNDWATER.POORLOCALCMAINRROADS
GOOD DRAINGAG  LIANTED GRO UNDWATER SOI.
GOOD AGRICULTURE                                                                                                                                                          . r  r n w_                         ,
ZONE V LOWNTAINS PLANSRIER'I                                                                                                                                                                                  IA,
106      Y 30                      0645                  NATURAL FOREST AREASLIROITEDAGRICULTURE  T05
FERI



