Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 2932 IND
                              Loan Agreement
                   (Jabotabek Urban Development Project)
                                  between
                           REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                           Dated April 20, 1988
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 2932 IND
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated April 20, 1988, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part
of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
Page  2
      (a)   "Bappeda" means the Borrower's Regional Government Development
Planning Board;
      (b)   DAMRI" means the state-owned bus company established and
operating under Government Regulation No. 30/1982;
      (c)   "DGBM" means the Directorate General of Highways (Bina Marga)
in the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works;
      (d)   "DGLT" means the Directorate General of Land Transport in the
Borrower's Ministry of Communications;
      (e)   "DKI-Jakarta" means Jakarta Special Capital Province;
      (f)   "Jabotabek" means the local government administrative areas
comprising Jakarta, Bogor, Tangerang and Bekasi;
      (g)   "PBB" means the Borrower's land and building tax;
      (h)   "PPD" means the state-owned bus company established and
operating under Government Regulation No. 32/1984;
      (i)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement;
      (j)   "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan provided for in the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and
      (k)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and DKI-Jakarta pursuant to Section 3.03 of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to one hundred fifty million dollars
($150,000,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in United States dollars a special account in Bank Indonesia on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments
out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1995 or such later
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per
annum for each Interest Period equal to one-half of one percent per annum
above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior
to the commencement of such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such
Page  3
Semester.
      (c)   For purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means the six-month period commencing
                  on each date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  including the Interest Period in which this Agreement is
                  signed.
            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the
                  outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June
                  30, 1982, expressed as a percentage per annum, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank.
            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the second six
                  months of a calendar year.
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and,
to this end, shall carry out the Project through DGLT, DGBM and DKI-Jakarta
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall relend part of the proceeds of
the Loan to DKI-Jakarta under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and DKI-Jakarta under terms and conditions which shall
have been approved by the Bank which shall include the following:
            (i)   interest shall be payable on the principal amount of the
                  Subsidiary Loan, withdrawn and outstanding from time to
                  time, at a rate per annum equal to ten percent (10%); and
            (ii)  the principal amount shall be repaid over a period of
                  twenty (20) years, including a grace period of five (5)
                  years.
      (b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any portion thereof.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect
Page  4
of the Project of the departments including DKI-Jakarta or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                  (a) of this Section including those for the Special
                  Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
                  not later than nine months after the end of each such
                  year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                  scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
                  reasonably requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                  said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
                  the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all
                  records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
                  other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                  and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the
Borrower and DKI-Jakarta; and
      (b)   an Urban Transport Development Action Plan, satisfactory to the
Bank, has been adopted by Tim Koordinasi.
      Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely,
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized by the Borrower
and DKI-Jakarta and is legally binding on the Borrower and DKI-Jakarta in
accordance with its terms.
      Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
Page  5
                                ARTICLE VI
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            c/o Director General of Budget
            Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
            P.O. Box 139
            Jakarta, Indonesia
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  FINMINISTRY                   DJMLN IA 45799
                  Jakarta                       DEPKEU IA 44319
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
                  Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
                  Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                  REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                  By /s/ Dadang Sukandar
                                                Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu,
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                                     Asia
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed
in each Category:
                            Amount of the
Page  6
                            Loan Allocated             % of
                           (Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)     Civil Works for           35,000,000        75%
    Part A of
    the Project
(2)     Civil Works               69,000,000        75%
    for Part B
    of the Project
(3)     Civil Works for            6,500,000        75%
    Part C of the
    Project
(4)     Maintenance                4,000,000        100%
    (Part B of
    the Project)
(5)      Equipment                 5,000,000        100% of foreign
                                                    expenditures,
                                                    95% of local
                                                    expenditures
                                                    (ex-factory
                                                    cost) and 65%
                                                    of local ex-
                                                    penditures for
                                                    other items pro-
                                                    cured locally
(6)     Consultants'              20,500,000        100%
    services
(7)     Training                   5,000,000        100%
(8)     Unallocated                5,000,000
        TOTAL                    150,000,000
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
and
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures:
    (a)   prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $5,000,000, may be made
in respect of Categories (1) and (2) on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after March 31, 1988; and
    (b)   under Category (3) until the studies and documents referred to in
paragraph 10 of Schedule 5, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank,
shall have been completed.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to:
    (a)   support integrated infrastructure development planning and
programming in the Jabotabek region and urban transport programming in DKI-
Jakarta in particular;
Page  7
    (b)   increase DKI-Jakarta's technical capabilities in preparing and
implementing road construction, and road rehabilitation and maintenance
programs;
    (c)   improve traffic management in the Jabotabek region;
    (d)   improve the Borrower's policies, operations and regulations for
public transport; and
    (e)   prepare for future integrated development programs in the urban
sector.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time
to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
1.  Construction of about 24 km of new primary arterial road links in the
Jabotabek region.
2.  Widening or major reconstruction of about 34 km of existing road links
in the Jabotabek region.
3.  Reconstruction of an intersection in the Jabotabek region through
provision of grade separations.
Part B:
1.  Construction of about 14 km of new secondary arterial road links in DKI-
Jakarta.
2.  Reconstruction of three intersections in DKI-Jakarta through provision
of grade separations.
3.  Construction of about 35 km of new development roads on the eastern and
western fringes of DKI-Jakarta.
4.  Comprehensive traffic management improvements in DKI-Jakarta by
providing, inter alia, improvements to the main road network, bus priority
measures, traffic signal equipment, selected intersection and pedestrian
improvements, and a street signing and road marking program.
5.  Improving road rehabilitation and routine and periodic maintenance in
DKI-Jakarta.
Part C:
    Development of the former Kemayoran Airport site including pre-
feasibility and feasibility studies and construction of urban
infrastructure.
Part D:
1.  Development of a five-year integrated infrastructure development program
for the Jabotabek region.
2.  Development of an integrated urban transport plan for the Jabotabek
region.
3.  Strengthening DKI-Jakarta in: (a) revenue improvement and financial
management; (b) transportation planning and regulation; and (c) traffic
management and restraint.
4.  Strengthening the Borrower's air quality monitoring capabilities in the
Jabotabek region.
5.  Strengthening of national urban transport institutions and public
transport institutions in the Jabotabek and other regions.
Part E:
Page  8
1.  Strengthening the Borrower's training capabilities in:
    (a)   traffic engineering education;
    (b)   traffic police training; and
    (c)   traffic engineering practice.
2.  Preparation of future integrated urban infrastructure projects in other
large cities and a study of the feasibility, and preparation, if necessary,
of a possible mass transit system in Jabotabek region.
3.  Strengthening the Borrower's capacities in Project implementation,
advisory services, training and preparation of future programs by the
provision of technical assistance for all of Parts A, B, C and D above.
                                 *   *   *
    The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1994.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                        Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                        (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 1 and July 1
    beginning January 1, 1994
    through   July 1, 2008                    5,000,000
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as
    of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
    3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section 3.04
(b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                        Premium
                                  The interest rate (expressed as a
                                  percentage per annum) applicable to the
                                  balance outstanding on the Loan on the
                                  day of prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                     0.15
    before maturity
More than three years but                     0.30
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                       0.55
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not                    0.80
    more than 16 years
    before maturity
More than 16 years but not                    0.90
Page  9
    more than 18 years
    before maturity
More than 18 years before                     1.00
    maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Indonesia may be granted a margin
of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Contracts for civil works estimated to cost less than $3,000,000
equivalent per contract may be awarded in accordance with the Borrower's
local competitive bidding procedures in effect at the date of this
Agreement.
2.  Civil works relating to traffic engineering improvements and road
maintenance, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,800,000 equivalent,
may be carried out by force account.
3.  Goods: (a) estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent may be
awarded in accordance with the Borrower's local competitive bidding
procedures in effect at the date of this Agreement; and (b) estimated to
cost less than $20,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank; provided, that the goods referred to in
(a) and (b) above shall not exceed in the aggregate $1,000,000 equivalent.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract for civil works estimated to cost
the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, and each contract for equipment
estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account,
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
Page  10
withdrawals from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.
Such contracts shall be retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c)(ii) of
this Agreement.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                          Implementation Program
1.  The Borrower shall prepare, or cause DGBM, DGLT, DKI-Jakarta and other
relevant agencies to prepare and adopt by March 31, 1989, an integrated five
year expenditure program and the related first annual program, satisfactory
to the Bank, for the Jabotabek region as referred to in Schedule 2 (D) (2).
Thereafter, the Borrower shall, in consultation with the Bank, prepare the
subsequent annual programs.
2.  The Borrower shall undertake a review of projected transport demands and
to identify a transport corridor network, together with policies and plans
for an integrated transport system in the Jabotabek region, including mass
transit options, which review shall be furnished to the Bank for discussion
by March 31, 1990. Consultants for this purpose shall be appointed by March
31, 1989. Thereafter detailed action plans for bus, rail and other modes
will be furnished to the Bank for discussion by March 31, 1991.
3.  The Borrower shall implement, or cause to be implemented a PPD/DAMRI
Transport Action Plan for the Jabotabek region, in accordance with a time
schedule satisfactory to the Bank.
4.  The Borrower shall have appointed, or caused to be appointed, the
consultants to assist: (a) the Project Coordination Office, by June 30,
1988; (b) in transport network planning, by September 30, 1988; and (c) in
carrying out Part D (4) of the Project relating to air quality monitoring,
by January 31, 1989.
5.  The Borrower shall cause DKI-Jakarta to be responsible for overall
project coordination, accounting and monitoring, and shall cause to be
established a Project Coordination Office under DKI's Bappeda. In addition,
the Borrower shall cause other Project management arrangements to be
satisfactory to the Bank.
6.  The Borrower shall cause all land acquisition and all resettlement-
related actions to be carried out in accordance with a plan and
implementation Schedule satisfactory to the Bank.
7.  The Borrower shall cause DKI-Jakarta to prepare, by March 31, 1989, and
thereafter implement a revenue improvement plan that shall increase DKI-
Jakarta's local tax revenues by at least 6% per year in real terms from
April 1, 1989 until the Project has been completed.
8.  The Borrower shall cause DKI-Jakarta and DGPajak (the Borrower's
Directorate General of Taxes) to carry out jointly an action plan such that
PBB revenues from the DKI-Jakarta PBB tax area increase by at least 13% per
year in real terms from April 1, 1989 until the Project has been completed.
9.  The Borrower shall ensure that, until the Project has been completed,
development grants and development budget allocations (DIPNAS) of the
Ministry of Public Works for urban infrastructure that are the
responsibility of DKI-Jakarta shall not exceed their fiscal year 1988/89
levels in nominal terms.
Page  11
10.        With respect to Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall:
    (a)   carry out, and furnish to the Bank for comment, a prefeasibility
study for developing the site referred to in such Part; and
    (b)   establish a development management entity, satisfactory to the
Bank, to carry out (i) a feasibility study and (ii) detailed engineering and
contract document preparation for the first phase of the development of such
site.
                                SCHEDULE 6
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3),
(4), (5), (6) and (7) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$6,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special
Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance
with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as
follows:
    (a)   On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a
deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for replenishment
of the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. On the
basis of such requests, the Bank shall withdraw from the Loan Account and
deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of
payments made out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such
deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts,
as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for such
deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for
which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to or at the
time of such request, such documents and other evidence as the Bank shall
reasonably request, showing that such payment was made for eligible
expenditure.
5.  (a)   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
no further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Bank when
either of the following situations first arises:
          (i)   the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals
                should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan
                Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
                the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
                this Agreement; or
Page  12
          (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
                eligible Categories, minus the amount of any outstanding
                special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to
                Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the
                Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
                amount of the Authorized Allocation.
    (b)   Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out
of the Special Account (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified
by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank, deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank
shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount for crediting to
the Loan Account.
