Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17116-IND
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan. 2932-IND)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
October 17, 1997
Transport Sector Unit
Indonesia Country Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp.)
(January 1988)
US$1.00 =Rp 1,650
Rp. I million = US$606
(March 1997)
$US 1.00 = Rp 2252
Rp. I million = US$444
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric Units
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAPPEDA        Regional Government Development Planning Board
BAPPENAS    National Development Planning Agency
DGBM           Directorate General Bina Marga (Highways), MPW
DGCK           Directorate General for Human Settlements (Cipta Karya)
DKI-Jakarta    Special Capital Region (Daerah Kusus Ibukota) of Jakarta
ERR            Economic Rate of Return
FIRR           Financial Internal Rate of Return
GOI            Government of Indonesia
IDC            Interest During Construction
IUIDP          Integrated Urban Infrastructure Development Program
JABOTABEK   Jakarta Metropolitan Region comprising the local government administrative areas of
Jakarta, BOgor, TAngerang and BEKasi
JUPCO          Project Coordination Unit in DKI-Jakarta, BAPPEDA
MHA            Ministry of Home Affairs
MPW            Ministry of Public Works
O&M            Operations and Maintenance
PBB            Property tax (Pajak Bumi dan Bangunan)
PJM            Medium Term Expenditure Program
RAP            Resettlement Action Plan
REPELITA       Five-Year Development Plan
SATLANTAS   National Police
TKPP           Interagency Coordinating Team for Urban Development
TNPR           Transport Network Planning and Regulation Study
Vice President: Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director: Dennis de Tray
Sector Manager: Jeffrey S. Gutman
Task Manager: Edward Dotson



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Ln. 2932-IND)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------i
EVALUATION SUMMARY -------------------------------------------------------------------- ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. INTRODUCTION------------------------------------------------------------------__-  __ 1
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES ---------------------------------------------------------------------------  1
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES ---------------------------------------------------- 3
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION -------------------------------- 4
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY --------------------------------------------------------------------- 5
F. BANK PERFORMANCE --------------------------------                                     5
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE ------------------------------------------------------------------- 6
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME -------------------------------------------------------------------- 7
I. FUTURE OPERATION ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- 7
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED ------------------------------------------------------------------------ 8
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1:        SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS --------------------------------------------------- 11
TABLE 2:       RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS----------------------------------------------- 13
TABLE 3:        PROJECT TMETABLE ------------------------------------------------------------ 1 5
TABLE 4:        LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL ------- 1 5
TABLE 5:        KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION -------------------------- 16
TABLE 6:        KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION --------------------------------- 1 6
TABLE 7:        STUDIES/TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT ------------ 1 7
TABLE 8A:    PROJECT COSTS ------------------------------------------------------------------ 21
TABLE 8B:    PROJECT FINANCING ------------------------------------------------------------- 2 1
TABLE 9:        ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS --------------------------------------------- 22
TABLE 10:       STATUS OF COVENANTS IN LOAN AGREEMENT ------------------------------ 23
TABLE 11:       COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS ---------------- 24
TABLE 12:       BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS -------------------------------------------- 24
TABLE 13:       BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS ------------------------------------------------- 25
APPENDICES:
A. EXPERIENCES WITH LAND ACQUISITION AND RESETTLEMENT
B. ICR MISSIONS' AIDES-MEMOIRE
C. BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION To THE ICR
Map IBRD 20491
This document has a restricted distribution  and may be used by recipients only in the
performnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






i
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Ln. 2932-IND)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the JABOTABEK Urban
Development Project in the Republic of Indonesia, for which Loan 2932-IND in the amount of
US$150 million equivalent was approved on April 12, 1988 and made effective on September
26, 1988.
The Loan was closed on March 31, 1997 compared with the original closing date of
March 31, 1995. The final disbursement took place on August 27, 1997, at which time a balance
of US$ 1,316,048 was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by a team consisting of Mr. Edward Dotson, Senior Urban
Transport Specialist and Task Manager, Transport Sector Unit, and Ms. JoAnne S. Nickerson,
Senior Program Assistant, Urban Sector Unit, Mr. William Hardi, Transport Operations Officer,
Resident Staff Indonesia, of the East Asia and Pacific Region. Ms. Concepci6n E. Del Castillo,
Anthropologist, Human Resources Division, Asia Technical Department, was responsible for the
review of experiences in land acquisition and resettlement. The Report was reviewed by Mr.
Jeffrey Gutman, Manager, East Asia Transport Sector Unit. The Borrower provided comments
that are included as Appendix C to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during an Implementation Completion Mission in
March 1997. It is based on material in the project file and interviews with GOI officials and
Bank staff. Further discussions with the Borrower on the draft ICR were held during a follow up
mission in July 1997. The Borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by providing data, by
commenting on the Bank's assessment and by providing its own evaluation of the project's
execution.






ii
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Ln. 2932-IND)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
Already in the late 1970s urban transport problems in Jakarta were becoming severe, and work on a
Jakarta urban transport project was begun. During 1986 the Government of Indonesia (GOI) introduced
the concept of integrated urban infrastructure development programming (IUIDP) grouping together
urban transport, water supply and sewerage, drainage and flood control and kampung improvement
(KIP). The project area was then extended to cover the whole metropolitan region called JABOTABEK.
Due to the size of JABOTABEK, it was not possible to undertake all IUIDP activities under one project.
Therefore, they were broken down into three projects with the first JABOTABEK Urban Development
Project (JUDP 1) dealing with urban transport.
Project Objectives and Description
Objectives. The institutional objectives of the Project were: (a) to support integrated infrastructure
development planning and programming in JABOTABEK and urban transport programming in DKI-
Jakarta; (b) to increase DKI-Jakarta's technical capabilities in preparing and implementing road
construction, and road rehabilitation and maintenance programs; (c) to improve traffic management in
JABOTABEK; (d) to improve the Borrower's policies, operations and regulations for public transport;
and (e) to prepare for future integrated development programs in the urban sector. Through physical
improvements the project would (a) reduce traffic congestion in DKI-Jakarta; (b) improve pedestrian
access and road safety; (c) introduce public transportation priority schemes; and (d) open up additional
lands for urban development in environmentally safe fringe areas.
Components. The project had three components: technical assistance, training and physical works. The
technical assistance was for (a) project implementation support; (b) institutional and policy development
advisory services in integrated infrastructure planning and programming; municipal revenue
improvement; urban transport planning and policy development (including bus and rail systems); air
quality monitoring; road planning and traffic management; road maintenance and future project
preparation. The training was in traffic engineering. The physical works included: (a) construction of
10 km of new primary arterial roads (b) new construction or major upgrading of about 66 km of
secondary arterial roads; (c) intersection improvements by construction of four major flyovers; (d) about
35 km of development roads on the city's eastern and western fringes and the former Kemayoran Airport
site; (e) traffic management and road safety measures; and (f) road rehabilitation and maintenance.
Covenants geared toward meeting these objectives included (a) preparation and adoption of an integrated
five-year expenditure program; (b) a review of projected transport demands and identification of a
transport corridor network together with policies and plans for an integrated transport system for
JABOTABEK; (c) implementation of a Bus (PPD/DAMRI) Transport Action Plan; (d) preparation of a
plan and implementation schedule for land acquisition and resettlement acceptable to the Bank; (e)
implementation of a revenue improvement plan; (f) implementation of an action plan to increase tax
(PBB) revenues by at least 13% annually.



Evaluation. The project objectives were clear, except for physical objective (d), which did not specify
that "environmentally safe fringe areas" meant areas on the east-west development axis. They were
ambitious at the time of project appraisal. Experience shows that the risks were correctly identified. The
major risks not identified relate to escalating land prices, delays in land acquisition and difficulties with
resettlement.  The objectives and project components were sufficiently clear to permit detailed
adjustments in project scope in response to changes in the Borrower's circumstances over the nine-year
implementation period. The project was quite demanding for the Borrower, and there was little scope for
all its objectives being accomplished in a single operation.
Implementation Experience and Results
Achievement of Objectives. The SAR did not include quantifiable criteria for judging the achievement
of objectives, except in the urban transport, PPD and DAMRI Action Plans. This assessment is,
therefore, based on a combination of the available measurable indicators and professional judgment.
Overall, the project was satisfactory in meeting its development objectives, with varying degrees of
success among objectives. The lowest level of achievement was in relation to improvements in
integrated programming, and in policies, operations and regulations for public transport. The physical
improvement objectives for public transport priority and pedestrian access were also not fully realized.
Local traffic congestion is still apparent, but traffic moves steadily if slowly, despite large increases in
vehicle ownership and travel demand. Traffic growth has simply outstripped road network development.
Costs. Total project costs were estimated Rp. 369.5 billion (US$223.9 million equivalent) with an IBRD
loan of US$150 million. Actual project costs were Rp.552 billion (US$274.5 million equivalent)
Financing arrangements changed little other than that the percentage of IBRD's contribution to the civil
works category for primary arterial roads was reduced from 75% to 55% following project
reformulation. DKI contribution increased dramatically due to increases in land costs. (See Part II,
tables 8A and 8B.)
Schedule. The project was appraised in October 1987. Board approval came in April 1988, and the
project became effective in late September 1988. The project was reformulated in November 1991 when
infrastructure for the former Kemayoran Airport site was dropped. Two separate one year extensions of
the loan closing date were granted to allow time for maximum achievement of the projects' development
objectives. The loan closed on March 31, 1997.
Main Factors Affecting Implementation of the Project. Factors outside of government control were
increases in the cost of land which delayed implementation, and public outcry over bus priority measures
which effectively stopped their implementation.  Of factors within government control, poor
performance with respect to resettlement had the most adverse effect on project outcomes, and left many
of those resettled worse off. Lack of commitment to policy recommendations limited the extent of the
improvement in public transport operations and traffic congestion. Delays in land acquisition and utility
relocation, reactive project coordination rather than proactive project management, and variable transfer
of knowledge from consultants (all factors under implementing agency control) also affected the project
schedules.
Economic Analysis. For primary roads, the 10 year internal rate of return (IRR) estimated at appraisal
was in the range 45% to 102%. The recalculated IRR for the same sub-projects is in the range 54% to
110%.



iv
Performance of the Bank. The performance of the Bank was generally satisfactory, except for
resettlement. It could have been better on procurement. The Bank should not have added the
unappraised component related to the former Kemayoran Airport site at negotiations. Bank resettlement
procedures and policy requirements in place at the time (OMS 2.33) were inadequately reflected in the
project design. Resettlement specialists were not included in the task team during preparation and the
early years of implementation. Supervision missions did not conduct site visits specifically to address
resettlement issues until later in the project (1992-93) when people had been moved and construction had
started. In the initial stages, the Borrower considered the Bank's procurement requirements too time
consuming.
Performance of the Borrower. There has been a generally strong sense of ownership of, and support for
the project by all agencies. During the course of the project the Borrower (and the Bank) were able to
adjust the project's scope in response to changing circumstances but within the development objectives
on two occasions: project reformulation in November 1991, and the first Loan extension in March 1995.
When construction quality was cited as questionable, the Borrower took steps to improve the quality of
contractors and of design and supervision.
Three aspects of Borrower performance require some discussion.  These concern resettlement
performance, policy recommendations not acted upon, and the role and responsibilities of JUPCO. The
Borrower did not produce a resettlement plan acceptable to the Bank, even though the Loan Agreement
required one. The Borrower focused on delays to project implementation caused by delays in land
acquisition, and not on the social and economic impacts on those involuntarily resettled. The results of
the project's TA were sound on the whole, but the Borrower's commitment to implementing some of the
policy recommendations waned. The role of JUPCO in the project was clearly misunderstood. The
agency acted as little more than a point of contact between the Bank and the implementing agencies, and
was reactive rather than proactive in coordinating and monitoring project activities.
Project outcome is rated as satisfactory except for resettlement which is rated unsatisfactory.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
The most important lessons of the project are the following.
Project Management. The project office that is the prime point of contact with the Bank should be
designated as a Project Management Unit (PMU) and given appropriate and clearly defined project
management rather than coordination responsibilities in the loan agreement and project implementation
plan. However, meaningful project management will only happen if there is a mechanism for senior
officials of executing agencies to meet, discuss and agree on changes to project components.
Training. Well defined and focused training programs linked to implementation of project components
produce results.
Road Construction. Land acquisition/resettlement and relocation of utilities should be completed before
construction starts. In JABOTABEK, the cost of acquiring land is such that building new roads may be
less expensive (but potentially more socially disruptive) than widening existing ones. Interagency
arrangements for utility relocation in Indonesia require strengthening. The Borrower indicated that Bank
involvement facilitated implementation of road construction by allowing agencies multi-year budgets.



v
Policy Implementation.   To produce implementable and sustainable outcomes, institutional
strengthening has to include the arrangements for (i) financing the program, (ii) adoption of plans and
programs (to protect them from political and private sector development pressures), and (iii) an
overarching authority with the technical, financial, and decision making ability to review and make
decisions on proposals which are not in accordance with the plans and programs.
Technical Assistance. For TA to produce good quality outputs that are likely to be implemented
requires (i) consultants services to be the responsibility of the end user of the outputs, (ii) for this end
user to have the capacity to manage the consultant, and (iii) for actions to be taken to correct poor
consultant performance.
Resettlement. Lessons learned from this project have already been incorporated into urban and transport
projects appraised since late 1995, and included in loan agreements and project implementation plans.
Since the implementation of this project, more rigorous Bank procedures for resettlement on road
projects in Indonesia have been developed.  They make satisfactory resettlement planning and
performance on an individual road subproject a condition of disbursement.  To support project
implementation, TA is provided to strengthen the capacities of the agencies that are involved in
resettlement. Other support is provided by Bank staff from the resident mission, as required. More
detailed lessons are provided in the main text and in the resettlement appendix.
Public Transport and Parking. Social dimensions of implementing public transport and parking policy
changes pose greater challenges than the physical ones. For such policy changes to have any chance of
being sustainable requires government commitment from the outset, and Bank support to Government
during the difficult times
Future Operations. The roads built under the project are the responsibility of the Directorate General of
Highways and DKI. They will maintain them as part of their normal activities. Traffic flows and speeds
on the roads will be routinely monitored by DLLAJ-DKI. Any operational difficulties would be brought
to light by this monitoring, and remedial traffic management measures required to ensure the most
efficient use of the roads can be designed in response.
Sustainability. The sustainability of the civil works and training components is deemed likely. The
sustainability of the TA component is likely except for the policy TA which is uncertain. Accordingly
overall sustainability is likely. However, the sustainability of the project depends on continued
improvements in institutional arrangements for the integration, updating and implementation of plans
and programs, in the management and operation of the transport system, expansion of capacity
(particularly for public transport integrated with urban development), and demand management. The
recommendations from TA studies undertaken during the project provide a sound basis from which to
develop firm proposals.



1
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Ln. 2932-IND)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. INTRODUCTION
1.     Already in the late 1970s, urban transport problems in Jakarta were becoming severe,
and work on a Jakarta urban transport project was begun. During 1986 the Government of
Indonesia (GOI) introduced the concept of integrated urban infrastructure development
programming (IUIDP) grouping together urban transport, water supply and sewerage, drainage
and flood control and kampung improvement (KIP). The project area was then extended to cover
the whole metropolitan region known as JABOTABEK. Due to the size of JABOTABEK, it was
decided that it would not be possible to undertake activities in all the IUIDP areas under one
project. Therefore, they were broken down into three projects. The first JABOTABEK Urban
Development Project (JUDP 1) dealt with urban transport; the Second JUDP (Ln. 3219-IND)
with water supply and sewerage, and the Third JUDP (Ln. 3246-IND) with KIP and drainage and
flood control.
2.     The life cycle of JUDP 1 from initial project brief to loan closing spanned 17 years.
When project preparation commenced, there were very few high rise buildings in Jakarta, no
urban toll roads, no grade-separated intersections for road or rail crossings, only a few isolated
areas of severe traffic congestion, and extremely poor public transport services and pedestrian
facilities. While the quality of public transport services and pedestrian facilities has improved
little during the intervening period, the city and the greater metropolitan area have developed
dramatically. The urban transport challenges have been impacted by the rapid pace of high-rise
commercial development in the city center and extensive industrial and residential developments
in the BOTABEK periphery, and by the associated growth in car and motorcycle traffic. The
expanding toll road network has shaped the region's spatial development, and has also greatly
influenced traffic patterns and flows within the city.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
3.     Objectives. The project's institutional objectives were: (a) to support integrated
infrastructure development planning and programming in the JABOTABEK region and urban
transport programming in DKI-Jakarta in particular; (b) to increase DKI's technical capabilities
in preparing and implementing road construction, and road rehabilitation and maintenance
programs; (c) to improve traffic management in the region; (d) to improve GOI's policies,
operations and regulations for public transport; and (e) to prepare for future integrated
development expenditures in the urban sector.
4.     Through physical improvements the project would (a) reduce traffic congestion in DKI-
Jakarta; (b) improve pedestrian access and road safety; (c) introduce public transportation



2
priority schemes; and (d) open up additional lands for urban development in environmentally
safe fringe areas.
5.      Components. The project had three components: technical assistance, training and
physical works. Technical assistance (TA) was grouped together as follows
Project Implementation Support to assist with (i) project management; (ii) final engineering design;
and (iii) construction supervision; and
Institutional and Policy Development for advisory services in (i) integrated infrastructure planning
and programming; (ii) municipal revenue improvement; (iii) urban transport planning and policy
development, (iv) air quality monitoring; (v) road planning and traffic management; (vi) road
maintenance; and (vii) future project preparation.
6.      Training. In addition to on-the-job training by various advisors under technical
assistance, formal training in traffic engineering was offered as follows:
Road Traffic and Transport Training College (RYTC) to expand courses at this DGLT facility at
Bekasi;
SA TLANTAS to help establish a training program at the new traffic police training college at Serpong
by training trainers, developing curricula and implementing new courses; and
Traffic Engineering Practice to extend the program initiated under the Regional Cities Urban
Transport Project (Ln. 2817-IND).
7.      Physical Works components, as originally conceived, included:
Primary Arterial Roads for construction of 10 km of new road links by DGH:
Secondary Arterial Roads for new construction or major upgrading of about 66 km of primary and
secondary arterial roads;
Major Intersections improvements to four major intersections through construction of flyovers;
Development Roads (about 35 km) on the city's eastern and western fringes and the former
Kemayoran Airport site;
Traffic Management to provide (i) comprehensive improvements to the main road network which
will involve less than full road reconstruction; (ii) bus priority measures; (iii) traffic signal
equipment; (iv) intersection improvements; (v) pedestrian improvements; (vi) signing and road
marking by DKI-Jakarta; and
Road Maintenance for a four year program of routine and periodic maintenance, including
institutional development.
8.      The project objectives were clear, except for physical objective (d), which did not
specify that "environmentally safe fringe areas" meant areas on the east-west development axis.
However, they were ambitious for a Borrower with the lack of experience, staff and management
capacity in urban transport that was the case at the time of appraisal. Experience shows that the
risks in achieving the objectives were correctly identified. The project scope was demanding for
the Borrower and in reality there was little prospect of all the objectives being achieved in one
operation. Although there were only three main components, their execution involved seven
implementing agencies, four at national level and three within the local government of DKI-



3
Jakarta. Having the coordinating agency, the JABOTABEK Urban Projects Coordination Office
(JUPCO), as a DKI level agency led to problems in dealing with the national level agencies. The
major risks not identified were those of escalating land prices and delays in land acquisition
which delayed implementation, and difficulties with resettlement. Opting to have JUDP 1 cover
the JABOTABEK region rather than DKI Jakarta was technically the right decision but increased
its complexity of the project. In practice, the BOTABEK area received little attention.
9.     The objectives and project components were sufficiently clear to permit detailed
adjustments to the scope of the project in response to changes in the Borrower's circumstances,
during the project's nine-year implementation period. Such changes occurred on the occasions
of the November 1991 reformulation and the first Loan extension in March 1995.
10.     On the first occasion, civil works for the Kemayoran Airport development site
component were replaced by increased technical assistance and training. For the loan extension,
uncommitted funds were allocated to management and implementation of road maintenance,
traffic management, air quality monitoring and emission inspection equipment, and the initial
preparation of a possible future project. A further extension was granted to allow time for the
project to achieve its development objectives to the maximum extent possible.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
II.     Quantifiable criteria for judging the achievement of objectives were not included in
the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), except in the urban transport, PPD and DAMRI action plans.
Tlhis assessment is therefore based on a combination of measurable indicators (where available)
and professional judgment. Overall, it is considered that the project has been satisfactory in
meeting its development objectives, with some variation in degrees of success among objectives.
The design of the project was generally appropriate for achieving the objectives. Training linked
to the implementation of the project was successful and produced graduates who went on to
management positions in technical units. Demand for places at the Road Traffic and Transport
College now outstrips supply. More TA and training should perhaps have been included in the
development of road maintenance management systems (this was added at the time of the first
loan extension), and in multi year programming and budgeting.
12.     The JUDP 1 main road construction and junction improvements provided much
needed increases in road network capacity. Local traffic congestion is still apparent, but traffic
moves steadily if slowly, despite large increases in vehicle ownership and travel demand.
Without these investments, road congestion in many areas of the city would today be acute.
With them, it is already bad in many corridors during peak periods, but the worsening congestion
does not imply that the JUDP-I road and junction investments failed. Traffic growth has simply
outstripped road network development. For primary roads, the 10-year internal rate of return
(IRR) estimated at appraisal was in the range 45% to 102% The recalculated rate of return for
the same sub-projects is in the range 54% to 110 %. For sub-projects added during the course of
the Project the 10 year IRR's are in the range 40% to 94% for new roads and 43% to 99% for
road rehabilitation and maintenance.



4
13.     The lowest level of achievement has been in relation to improvements in the integrated
programming of transport investments, and in policies, operations and regulations for public
transport. Clarity with regard to project beneficiaries (in this case public transport users) would
have helped in focusing attention on the key steps to achieving improved levels of service and
operational performance. The physical improvement objectives for public transport priority and
pedestrian access were also not fully realized.
14.     The one unsatisfactory result concerns resettlement. This did not meet the Bank
requirement that no one would be adversely affected by the project. Furthermore, it has not been
possible to determine with any accuracy the numbers of people adversely affected and the extent
to which they were affected.
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
15.     Factors not generally subject to government control. The main factors in this
category were increases in the cost of the land, and the public reaction to bus priority measures.
Land acquisition costs increased almost threefold from original estimates. Land price increases
delayed implementation of new road construction, but did not force any road schemes in the
project to be abandoned. Adverse public reaction to bus priority measures effectively stopped
their implementation. The Borrower commented that in the early years of the project the time
taken by the Bank in reviewing procurement and generally responding to GOI correspondence,
was a cause of delay.
16.     Factors generally subject to government control. Poor handling of resettlement by
GOI (and the Bank) was the main factor here. GOI's focus in resettlement was on property and
not on the consequences of depriving people of land and assets, nor on the social and economic
aspects of physical displacement. As a result, there were little attempt to ensure that those
displaced were not worse off as a consequence of the project. Records of persons resettled were
not routinely maintained. What evidence it has been possible to gather from tracer studies
suggests that at least half the people displaced are likely worse off, but since they cannot be
identified now, additional compensation cannot be offered.
17.     There was limited discussion and a lack of commitment to the implementation of
policy recommendations from studies funded by the project, especially in the case of the public
bus company (PPD) and parking. This in turn limited the extent of improvement that could be
achieved in public transport operations and reduction of traffic congestion.



5
Factors generally subject to implementing agency control
18.     Implementation delays. A large amount of land acquisition was completed before the
project started. However, where this was not the case, the time required to acquire land and the
potential for delay was not taken into account in the scheduling of road works. This resulted in
delays to complete major links and open them to traffic, as well as substitution of road schemes
in the implementation program. Poor interagency coordination and insufficient anticipation of
potential delays in the relocation of utilities also led to delays in the completion of road works.
19.     Project coordination. JUDP 1 was the first GOI project where the idea of a single
"window to the Bank" was tried, with the idea of making dealing with the Bank simpler for the
various executing agencies. JUPCO was intended by the Bank to take an active role in project
coordination and monitoring. However, JUPCO misunderstood its coordination role. It tended
to be reactive rather than proactive in dealing with issues that arose during the life of the project.
JUPCO's effectiveness was compromised by the fact that it was a DKI-Jakarta agency, and as
such did not enjoy the same position of responsibility in the administrative structure as the
central government agencies with which it was dealing.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
20.     Sustainability of the project outcomes depends on continued improvements in the
mechanisms for delivery of integrated programs, in the management and operation of the
transport system, expansion of capacity (particularly for public transport) integrated with urban
development, and demand management. The recommendations from studies funded by the
project, particularly the Jakarta Urban Transport Short Term Improvements (JUTSI) and Jakarta
Primary Road Infrastructure Improvement Project (JPRIIP), provide a sound basis from which to
develop firm proposals (see Table 7). The current size and structure of both the traffic
management unit (DLLAJ) of DKI-Jakarta and the Urban Directorate in DGLT provide the basis
for further strengthening and expansion which is needed to match the size of the task and to
assure sustainability of project outcomes. The road agencies in DKI and DGH are already in a
better position to produce sustainable outcomes, with some expansion of planning and
programming skills.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
21.     The Bank's performance was generally satisfactory, but the following weaknesses
should be noted.
Kemayoran Airport Site. The funding of redevelopment of this site was dropped soon after the
project began, after a review of the feasibility study for redevelopment. With hindsight, the Bank
should not have agreed, without a conventional appraisal, to the GOI request at negotiations to
add this component.
Resettlement. Bank resettlement procedures and policy requirements of the time (OMS 2.33,
issued in February 1980) were inadequately reflected in the project design, although the Loan



6
Agreement required resettlement to be carried out in accordance with a plan satisfactory to the
Bank. Resettlement specialists were not included in the task team during preparation and the
early years of implementation. Supervision missions (1990-92) did not conduct site visits
specifically to address resettlement issues until rather late in the project (1992-93), by which time
few mitigation measures could be effective. Resettlement problems were not reflected in reports
to management. Even so, the Bank did not take action on the failure of the Borrower to provide
a resettlement plan. From 1993 to the end of the project, a concerted effort was made to locate
and identify those most adversely affected and to design and implement a program to assist them,
but with limited success. This program, known as the Land Acquisition, Compensation and
Resettlement Action Program is ongoing.
Procurement. Bank procedures were considered too complex and time consuming by the
Borrower. Delegation of responsibility for ICB procurement to RSI would have expedited the
approval process, as well as raising the threshold for ICB to US$5 million or more.
Disbursement schedules at the start of the project should have been more realistic and taken
account of the time necessary to complete final engineering designs and land acquisition.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
22.     There has generally been a strong sense of ownership of, and support for the project by
all agencies. Flexibility was shown by the Borrower (and by the Bank) during the course of the
project in adjusting the project's scope in response to changing circumstances but within the
development objectives, on the occasion of Project reformulation in November 1991, and at the
time of the first Loan extension in March 1995. Construction quality during the project was
mixed as is recognized by all parties. When this was raised as an issue, the Borrower took steps
to improve the quality of contractors and of design and supervision.
23.     Three aspects of Borrower performance require some discussion. These concern
resettlement, policy recommendations not acted upon, and the role and responsibilities of
JUPCO. The Borrower did not produce a resettlement plan acceptable to the Bank, even though
the Loan Agreement required one. The focus was on delays to project implementation caused by
delays in land acquisition, and not on the consequences of depriving people of land and assets or
the social and economic impacts on those involuntarily resettled. This approach reflected in part
the Bank's initial supervision concerns with the property and expropriation aspects of land
acquisition, to the disregard of the social dimension. When the Bank did raise concerns on the
social and economic impacts on those resettled, the Borrower was slow to respond.
24.     The lack of progress on implementing certain policies and programs is understandable.
Institutional arrangements within both DKI Jakarta and JABOTABEK provide no mechanism for
the ratification, implementation, and updating of transport policies and programs that are
integrated across all the central and local government agencies involved. While policy decisions
on buses, parking and transport network planning should be within DKI's responsibilities, in
practice DKI's ability to implement urban transport policy recommendations appears limited
when implementation also requires action by central government agencies. The policy
recommendations had social and economic consequences for bus drivers, bus passengers and



7
motorists, consequences that provoked opposition. Human resource factors in DGLT and
DLLAJ-DKI during the project were not conducive to implementing the policy
recommendations. (For example, there was no urban transport directorate in DGLT from 1991 to
1996). The human resource factors have now been largely overcome, and the current size and
structure of both the Urban Directorate in DGLT and DLLAJ-DKI provide the basis for further
strengthening and expansion which is needed to match the size of the task. But the other
institutional shortcomings remain.
25.     The concern with JUPCO stems from the definition of its role as a single window to
the Bank with responsibilities to coordinate information from various project implementation
units, (rather than to act as an overall project management unit), and its place in the
implementation arrangements. JUPCO was correctly located in BAPPEDA-DKI, but in the
organisation structure for project implementation, DKI Jakarta was shown as only one of five
agencies reporting to the Interagency Coordinating Team for Urban Development (TKPP), the
other four being from central government. As a result JUPCO tended to be reactive, particularly
at the time of project reformulation and loan extension, rather than proactive in preparing the
consolidated data required by the Bank. JUPCO deferred more substantive decision making on
project management to TKPP, whose role and responsibilities were not discussed in the SAR.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
26.     Overall Assessment. Overall, it is considered that the project had some very positive
results and achieved its main development objectives. All the construction works carried out
under the project are being heavily used and have high rates of return. The training component
was well defined and yielded very good results. The TA component had mixed results as
acknowledged by all. Institutional-building TA did a reasonably good job of transferring of
knowledge. Policy TA was less successful.
27.     The main shortcoming concerns the poor resettlement performance. The findings of
this review agree with the unsatisfactory outcome of the project on resettlement (the project has
been rated "3" in the Bank-wide review of resettlement since 1994). This fundamental issue has
to be factored into the final rating of the project. It is considered that the unsatisfactory
resettlement performance be noted, but that overall the Project be rated satisfactory.
I. FUTURE OPERATION
28.     The roads built under the project are the responsibility of the DGH and DKI and will
be maintained by them as part of their normal activities. Maintenance programming techniques
developed under the project will facilitate these activities, and permit maintenance requirements
for these roads to be monitored. Traffic flows and speeds on the roads will be monitored by
DLLAJ - DKI as part of their normal activities. Any operational difficulties would be brought to
light by this monitoring, and remedial traffic management measures required to ensure the most
efficient use of the roads can be designed in response.



8
29.     The Bank should continue to monitor the progress made on the implementation of the
Land Acquisition, Compensation and Resettlement Action Program. This follow-up will
demonstrate the Bank's desire and dedication to seeing that its policies on involuntary
resettlement are followed.
30.     In terms of project follow-up, studies have been undertaken as part of the project
which could form the basis for the preparation of a future Jakarta Urban Transport Project.
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
31.     The most important lessons of the project are:
(a) Project Management. The project office that is the prime point of contact with the Bank
should be designated as a Project Management Unit (PMU) and given appropriate and clearly
defined management rather than coordination responsibilities in the loan agreement and
project implementation plan. One of the key lessons with regard to project management is
that existing structural units should be strengthened to implement project components
effectively and required to coordinate among themselves, with assistance from the PMU.
The unit with the greatest interest in the Project should be designated the PMU. Creating
new functional units, such as JUPCO, is unlikely to be successful. However, meaningful
coordination and management of projects will only happen if there is a mechanism for senior
officials of executing agencies to meet, discuss and agree on changes to project components.
The PMU supported by consultants can provide support for such meetings but cannot take
decisions.
(b) Training. Well defined and focused training programs linked to the implementation of
project components produce results.
(c) Road Construction. The scheduling of land acquisition, resettlement and relocation of
utilities should be made explicit in project schedules, the risks of delays assessed and built in
to schedules, and activities completed before construction starts. The cost of land acquisition
in JABOTABEK is such that building new roads may be less expensive (but potentially more
socially disruptive) than widening existing roads. Interagency arrangements for utility
relocation in Indonesia require strengthening. The Borrower indicated that Bank
involvement facilitated implementation of schemes, by raising their profile and permitting
multi year construction budgets.
(d) Policy Implementation. To produce implementable and sustainable outcomes, support for
integrated infrastructure developing planning and programming has to go beyond TA for
studies to develop network plans and programs, and to provide technical training. The TA
has to consider institutional and financial issues. The TA has also to include support for
either development or strengthening of institutional arrangement for updating and
implementation of plans and programs. Three critical areas for support in this context are the
arrangements for (i) financing the program, (ii) adoption of plans and programs (to protect
them from political and private sector development pressures), and (iii) an overarching



9
authority with the technical, financial, and decision making ability to review and make
decisions on proposals which are not in accordance with the plans and programs.
In both DKI Jakarta and JABOTABEK, strengthening of existing arrangements for urban
transport strategy formulation and implementation is necessary to provide a stronger
framework for implementation of policy and investment decisions, and for the assessment of
private sector investment proposals, particularly within DKI-Jakarta. In addition, further
strengthening of existing agencies responsible for urban transport policy and planning
(specifically BAPPEDA-DKI and DGLT) is necessary to ensure that recommendations of
studies are implemented.
(e) TechnicalAssistance. For TA to produce good quality outputs that are likely to be
implemented requires (i) consultants services to be the responsibility of the end user of the
outputs, (ii) for this end user to have the capacity to manage the consultant, and (iii) for
actions to be taken to correct poor consultant performance and outputs. The Bank has a
responsibility ensure these requirements are met including through support to the agency
managing the TA. It is the view of the Borrower that "in-house" TA to agencies committed
to the TA provides greater transfer of knowledge than TA where consultant services are
provided to produce a stand alone study.
(f) Public Transport and Parking
Improving Government's policies, operations and regulations for public transport requires
more than TA supporting the design of these improvements. Where TA services concern
policy issues, it is essential that there be ownership by and access to decision makers.
Implementing changes in policies, regulations and policies is likely to produce strong
negative reactions from sections of the traveling public and transport company staff,
managers and owners. Social dimensions of implementing public transport and parking
policy changes pose greater challenges than the physical ones. For such changes to have any
chance of being sustainable requires government commitment and Bank support to
Government during the difficult times. Similar lessons apply to policies, operations and
regulations for parking.
(g) LandAcquisition and Resettlement.
There are three key lessons learned from this project.
(i)   Land acquisition and resettlement have to be an integral part of project design,
included in the loan agreement and taken into account in the scheduling of construction
and disbursement, together with risk of delay or escalation in land prices. A resettlement
specialist should be a core member of the task team. To ensure Bank requirements are
met, continuous close monitoring of resettlement throughout the project is likely to be
required, until satisfactorily completed. This is a labour intensive activity, for which
adequate provision has to be made in supervision budgets.



10
(ii)   To ensure that resettlement covenants in the loan agreement can be easily
enforced, these covenants should require actions by a set date or make implementation of
resettlement actions a condition of disbursement.
(iii) While the general principles of a government's policies on resettlement may be in
accord with Bank policy on resettlement specific policy provisions may not be in accord.
In addition, the detailed implementation arrangements may not meet Bank requirements,
or give results acceptable to the Bank.
Since the implementation of this project, more rigorous Bank requirements and procedures for
resettlement on road projects in Indonesia have been developed. These lessons have largely been
incorporated into urban and transport projects appraised since late 1995, and included in loan
agreements and project implementation plans. They make satisfactory resettlement planning and
performance on an individual (road) subprojects a condition of disbursement. TA is provided to
strengthen the capacities of the agencies that are involved in any land acquisition and
resettlement. Other support is provided by staff from Environmental and Social Impact Unit of
Resident Staff Indonesia, who also provide support to Task Teams for continuous monitoring.
The other key lesson is that a simple monitoring mechanism needs to be established to alert the
Bank's regional management when resettlement provisions in loan agreements give the
appearance of not being met.



11
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives       Substantial        Partial        Negligible      Not applicable
Macro Policies                      El              E                El
Sector Policies                     a                 ]              E
Financial Objectives                X               E                  l               5
Institutional Development           5              IX                E                 E
Physical Objectives                [I                ]               l 
Poverty Reduction                   5               a                n
Gender Issues                       :                                                 EZ
Other Social Objectives            [J              E]               [I]               EJ
Environmental Objectives            5               5                x]               El
Public Sector Management            5               5j                                 5 
Private Sector Development          5               5                5                Ix
Other: Training                    [El             El                E 
(Continued)
B. Project Sustainability              Likely                 Unlikely                  Uncertain
(1)                      (v')                       ('/)
53 ~ E                                       5 



12
Highly
C. Bank Performance                    satisfactory         Satisfactory               Deficient
(1')                    (/)                       (/)
Identification                                             IX]
Preparation Assistance             E                       I                          E
Appraisal                          13                                                 a
Supervision                        El                                                 El
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                      satisfactory   Satisfactory     Deficient
(1)            (/)             (V)
Preparation                                  a                              o E
Implementation                                l                             El
Covenant Compliance                          Ex                             El
Operation (if applicable)                    El            IXI 
Highly                                            Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome             satisfactory  Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
El                          El ~mxEl



13
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LoANs/CREDITs
--,.'  i'',':""." :"''"''-'U ...........   ..           ..............,,. 
..~~~~~~~~.. .... .:. ..
Ln. 2816-IND,      To improve planning, programming, and identification of     1987      closed in
Urban Sector Project investment priorities in Level II authorities; to ameliorate          1991
Level II capabilities to mobilize resources and optimize the use
of funds; to upgrade urban services financing mechanisms; to
enhance local government institutions and staff capabilities;
and to strengthen coordination and consultation among the
various agencies and levels of government.
Ln. 2817-IND,       To implement a high priority program of measures aimed at  1987      closed on
Regional Cities     improving traffic and transport infrastructure conditions in the     October
Urban Transport    project cities; to develop city professional and technical             1, 1994
capabilities in planning, design, implementation and
maintenance of transport facilities and services; to develop
central govermment agency skills; and to establish a process of
agency investments in urban transport infrastructure and
services.
Ln. 3219-IND,      To develop and implement a coordinated program of physical  1990      ongoing
Second             investments, technical assistance and policies for urban water
JABOTABEK UDP   supply, wastewater disposal, drainage and water
resource/quality management.
Ln. 3246-IND,      To introduce a more effective and sustainable approach to   1990      ongoing
Third JABOTABEK   providing basic services through extensive community
UDP                participation and incorporation of social and economic
development in low-income urban communities, to help
alleviate poverty in metropolitan Jakarta.
Ln. 3712-IND,      To meet the rapid growth in road traffic resulting from     1994      ongoing
Second Highway     sustained economic growth and to reduce road transport
Sector Project     system costs. Also (a) to improve the service quality of the
road network; (b) to develop effective approaches for
increasing road network capacity; (c) to improve the quality of
execution of road works; (d) to strengthen the capability of
DGH to formulate work programs and allocate funds between
activities; and (e) to improve road sector policies and
strengthen the capability of road sector agencies to formulate
and implement such policies.
Ln. 3726-IND,      To improve urban (a) service levels to the poor; (b)        1994      ongoing
Surabaya Urban     productivity and effectiveness; (c) environmental quality.
Development
Project
Ln. 3749-IND,      (a) To improve the provision of urban infrastructure services  1994   ongoing
Semarang-Surakarta  and the efficiency of urban investments; (b) to promote
UDP                stronger more autonomous and financially more independent
municipal governments; and (c) to contribute towards poverty
alleviation, mainly through better access to essential services
and an improved urban environment.



14
Ln. 4054-IND,       (a) To reduce traffic bottlenecks in the N.Java Corridor       1996       ongoing
Strategic Urban     (b) To address environmental and social issues associated with
Roads Infrastructure  increased usage of national roads; (c) to assist GOI in
Project             decentralizing responsibility for planning, design, construction,
maintenance, management and regulation of urban transport;
(d) to strengthen technical and institutional capabilities of
urban road agencies; (e) to assist GOI in the formulation,
articulation and implementation and urban transport policy.
Ln. 4106-IND,        To improve the economic efficiency and service quality of the  1997       not yet
Railway Efficiency   railway subsector, and specifically (a) to reform the railway            effective
Project              subsector policy by restructuring the railway corporation; (b)
to rationalize railway subsector capital investments; (c) to
improve railway management and operations; and (d) to
increase the physical capacity.



15
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
. . , .... - - . - - ... . . - - - - ...... . *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ...... .
Step--- i: cyc.                         Date Pamned                   A-t-. Date:---:
First Project Brief (Jakarta Urban                                  February 15, 1980
Transport Project)                                                  February_____1980
Second Project Brief                                                 January 9, 1981
Third Project Brief                                                September 17, 1984
Fourth Project Brief                                               SeApril 8, 1985
Preparation (JUDP)                                                    AprlJune 1987
Appraisal                                September 1987               October 1987
Negotiations                              January 1988              February 1-4, 1988
Board                                                                 April 12, 1988
Signing                                                               April 20, 1988
Effectiveness                              April 1988              September 26, 1988
Midterm Review                           None foreseen            Reformulation - 11/91
Completion                             September 30, 1994            March 31, 1997
Closing                                  March 31, 1995              March31, 1997
Dates in this column are from the 1987 FEPS.
TABLE 4: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
Appraisal  16.1   38.0   68.1   100.5   126.9   147.0        150.0       0       0        0
estimated                                          147_0              ________
Actual     11.23   28.44   54.63  76.92   94.6   116.76    129.45    141.64   146.8  148.68
Actual as    70     75      80     76      74       79        86
% of
estimate
Date of Final Disbursement: August 27, 1997



16
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
.....    ..    ..    ....'g0-.'.   ..............   .. .. .. .. .'' ..    .  ......    .  ... ...   ..'l.S .. . .. . .. . .
Civil Works
Primary Arterial Roads
- New road construction                          47.5 km.                49 km
Secondary Arterials
- New road construction                           13.6 kn.               13.3kan
DKI Development Roads                               35 km                 23 km
Major Intersection Improvements                                   __X____
- Flyover/Underpass                                  4                     6
Traffic Management                                              _
- Area and Road Corridor Improvement               1 lkm                 43 km
- Bus Priority Measures                            17 km.                17 km.
- Traffic signal equipment (Intersections)          25             82 (plus 8 pedestrian)
- Road Signs                                                              3,929
Road Maintenance
Primary Roads
Rehabilitation/Betterment                                               17 km.
Periodic Maintenance                                                   121 km.
Secondary Roads
Betterment                                                             13.7 km.
Rehabilitation                                                        189.2 km.
Training
- RTTC - Annual student throughput         Increase from 40 to 100  Increased from 40 to 80
DKI Revenue Improvement
Minimum annual increase in real terms from
4/1/89 to completion ofproject
- Local tax revenues                                6%                   15.8%
- PBB revenues                                     13%                   25.6%
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
Key indicators for project operation were not identified in the SAR, nor subsequently during
implementation were any defined. For future projects of a similar nature, suitable indicators for
the physical works components of road construction and traffic management (bus priority) would
be "before and after" traffic speeds, accident levels and bus operating speeds.



17
TABLE 7: STUDIES/TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT
TRAINING
Road Traffic &  DGLT    TA to expand the full-time course to 4  The objectives were successfully
Transportation            years; establish a short (3-month) course in  achieved. Since RTTC was founded
College                   traffic engineering, transport planning, and  in the 1980's, four hundred and fifty
(RUC)                     public transport regulation and planning;   students graduated from the D-3
establish in-service training courses in  diploma program, and 149 from the
public transport operations and      D4-Diploma program. This year
management for bus company staff; (b)  RTTC will double the student
expand the campus to double the existing   admission from 40 to 80 students.
college throughput on the 3-year course;    The number of applicants for places
and (c) provide training equipment and  has reached five thousand.
facilities
SATLANTAS   Bina Marga  TA to train about 40 existing College   The training was very practical and
trainers; (b) develop new curricula; (c)  highly relevant. It is seen as a crucial
implement new courses                part in the development of police
traffic control and enforcement
capability in Jakarta and other major
cities. The only downside is that the
career path of some trainees has
taken them away from road traffic
matters.
Public Works   Bina Marga  Training for senior, middle and junior  The objective was achieved.
Regional                  management as well as technicians from
Training                  the local government offices. Courses will
Center                    cover traffic and highway planning, road
maintenance and use of computers, mainly
focusing on technicians and junior
management levels
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
DKI-Jakarta      DKI    To assist JUPCO in the areas of accounting  Assistance to JUPCO was
Project         Bappeda   and financial control, project planning,  satisfactory; however the amount of
Coordination              administration and monitoring (including   knowledge transfer is questionable.
Advisors                  land acquisition and resettlement)    Assistance in matters pertaining to
land acquisition and resettlement was
deficient.
Road             DKI-    To improve road maintenance            A Road Maintenance Management
Maintenance     Jakarta   management, prepare a road maintenance   System (RMMS) was developed and
and rehabilitation program and to assist    is in its final testing stage. When
DPU in carrying out these works; to  operational it will assist in the
review policies, regulations and     formulation of survey-based
procedures for adopting privately funded    maintenance programs that are more
infrastructure                       rational and economic. Future
budgeting will be based on this
system. It is also compatible with the
system developed for national and
provincial roads as well as urban
roads.



18
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
JABOTABEK         DG       To assist JABOTABEK regional          Assignment successfully completed
IUIDP          BANGDA   governments in the preparation of capital   in 1989.
Advisors                   expenditure programs for Repelita V and
of individual annual expenditure programs
within the framework of IUIDP
Transport        DGLT    To develop an integrated urban transport   An integrated transport plan
Network                    development plan and related action plans   developed under this TA formed the
Planning                   for each transport mode concerned; review   basis for further planning including
Regulation                existing and future demand based on urban  the Consolidated Network (adopted
(TNPR)                     public transport and devise new route and   on 2/93), a private sector initiative
service plans and schedules          for the Kota-Block M metro line, TA
for and preliminary design of Duri-
Cakung line, but other private sector
initiatives are being developed
outside the plan. Some cross-linking
of bus routes has been effected, and
new operators introduced, but
recommendations for restructuring
existing routes are not completely
implemented, nor has a monitoring
unit been established. The fare
structure has not been changed, but
efforts continue.
Public           DGLT    To assist in the review of regulation of  Jakarta's strategy plan supports, in
Transport                 licensed services and to determine actual   theory, the use of public transport.
Regulation                service requirements                   However in reality, most
infrastructure supports the use of
private vehicles. (Since 1992, 25
flyovers have been built, but not one
is dedicated to busways.) Bus lanes
are provided but other drivers ignore
them, and there is little enforcement.
One idea being entertained is that of
building elevated busways so that if
the number of buses is increased, the
capacity of the main roads is not
diminished.
Parking Policy    DGLT/   Review street car parking and prepare  This TA was not successful. The
DLLAJ   proposals to improve traffic flows; review   team was too task-oriented and
revenue collection and enforcement    perhaps too academic, resulting in
procedures and prepare proposals to  little transfer of knowledge. The
increase city revenue from such changes    study recommendation to establish a
new sub-directorate of parking
planning under DLLAJ DKI has not
implemented Study
recommendations on off-street
charges has been adopted, but for on
street charges are still being
discussed by the local council.



19
Traffic          DGLT    To assist DLLAJ with further development  All arterial roads were covered by
Management                 of its 5-year program in traffic      traffic management studies. In-house
management and bus priorities         advisors for the Jakarta immediate
Action Program (JIAP) were useful
for the transfer of knowledge, and
staff capabilities have increased.
JIAP local area traffic management
schemes in particular were very
useful.
DKI Revenue   DIPENDA-  (a) Prepare and assist in implementing   12/90. The study was completed in
Improvement       DKI      direct and PBB revenue improvement    July 1990. Recommendations were
and Financial              action plans; (b) assist in preparing  to be put into an action plan for
Management                 REPELITA V IUIDP expenditure program  implementation. Consultancy
for DKI Jakarta; (c) review DKI financial   contract came to an end and
management policies and arrangements  DIPENDA did not have specific staff
assigned to carry forward the work
from where the consultants stopped.
National         DGLT    To assist and upgrade the capabilities of    This study was not implemented.
Public                     DGLT (LLAR) staff in the detailed     The funds were reallocated for short
Transport                  formulation, development and          term urban transport planning
implementation of urban public transport   advisory services.
policy
PPD/DAMRI        DGLT    To support the management team of PPD    Limited success has been achieved
Bus                        and DAMRI in implementing action plans   with PPD. The new method route
Management                to improve the management, operation and  was trialed but there were control
and Operations             provision of public transport bus systems   problems due to weak supervisory
Improvement                in Jakarta and regional cities        and middle management staff.
DAMRI is doing well in all towns
except one.
DLLAJ Air        DGLT    To improve air quality monitoring and   Some testing of all gasoline powered
Pollution                  analysis in DKI-Jakarta and help develop    vehicles is underway, with
Monitoring                 national vehicle emission control strategy   approximately 30% passing
and Equipment                                                    emissions tests. Testing of all
vehicles is scheduled to begin, in
September 1998 but enforcement
methods are not defined as yet. The
quality of the testing needs to
iimprove as non compliant vehicles
can pass the test. The President of
Indonesia has decreed that the switch
to unleaded fuel will take place in
1999.



20
FUTURE PROJECT PREPARATION
Mass Transit    DGBM/   To be determined from results of the    The integrated transport plan from
Feasibility      DGLT    TNPR study                             the TNPR study was developed into
Study                                                           the Consolidated Network (adopted
on 2/93). Further feasibility studies
on the initial metro line from Kota to
Blok M were undertaken as a private
sector initiative.
Medium/Large    DGCK    Continuation of project preparation     Technical assistance was provided
Cities                    initiated under the Urban IV project (Ln.   for the preparation of the second
1972-IND)                            JUDP, Semarang-Surakarta UDP,
Surabaya UDP and for advisory
services of he DG of Water
Resources Development, the Bina
Program and DKI Jakarta.
Kemayoran        DGCK    (a) To determine appropriate arrangements  Taken out of program in 1991
Site                      and concepts for developing the former  because GOI's development plan
Development                Kemayoran airport site; and (b) to prepare   was deemed unacceptable.
feasibility studies and bidding documents
for the first phase of infrastructure
development
Jakarta Urban    DGH for   To develop policy framework and 5 year   Acceptance of program by DKI,
Transport        DKI-   investment program for the period 1997-   DGLT and DGBM led to JUTSI
Short Term      Jakarta   2002 for secondary roads, traffic     Program Development and JPRIIP.
Improvements              management and bus priority.
(JUTSI)
JUTSI          DGLT for  To develop specific policy guidance and    Bina Marga, DGLT and DKI intend
Programn         DKI-    implementation plans for investrnents in   to combine results of the JUTSI and
Development      Jakarta   the JUTSI Program                    JPRIIP studies into a single proposal
for the development of the road and
public transport network. Such
proposal may then be submitted to
BAPPENAS for inclusion in the
"Blue Book" of projects under
consideration or preparation for
external finance.
Jakarta         DGBM    To identify and prioritize primary road  "Blue Book" proposal based on the
Primary Road               improvement projects to compliment   results of the JPRIIP and JUTSI
Improvement                secondary road improvement program in   studies to be discussed with GOI as
Identification            JUTSI.                                the basis for a possible Bank Project.
Project
(JPRIIP)



21
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
Primary Artenial roads       22.9         23.8        46.7         26.6        27.7         54.3
and intersections
Secondary Arterials          43.2         48.8          92         43.9        49.5         93.4
Development roads &
Traffic Management
Kemayoran Airport             4.2          4.5         8.7______
Road maintenance              1.9          2.1           4           0            0            0
Equipment                     1.1           5          6.1          1.3         5.7           7
Consulting Services           7.4         13.1        20.5         11.6        20.6         32.2
Training                      1.4          3.6         5.0          1.8         4.8          6.6
Unallocated                   4.6          5.3         9.9           0            0            0
(Physical contingencies)
Land                           31           0           31         81*                        81
Total Financing             117.7        106.2       223.9        166.2       108.3        274.5
Requirement
T Estimate: See Appendix A.
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
.              Loca:   S   =:l Forpgu     Toa. .... .              Fo. . .        To
Central Government    27.0          0.0          27.0         28.9                      28.9
DKI-Jakarta           46.9          0.0          46.9         96.9                      96.9
IBRD                  43.8         106.2        150.0         40.4        108.3         148.7
TOTAL                 117.7        106.2        223.9        166.2         108.3        274.5



TABLE 9 ECONOMIC COSTS and BENEFITS
IRR              NPV
Length           Economic             Traffic (pculh:one way)       (10 year)         (10 year)
SAR   Actual    Cost (Rp. Million)   Forecast   Actual   Forecast          %             Rp. Million
Component                   (km)    (km)      SAR    Actual       1995       1997       2000      BAR   Actual    BAR    Actual
Road Construction
Outer Ring Road West      10.6    11.5    25,906   50,534    2170    2356-2364    3180           45      54    30,662   82,133
Outer Ring Road South     10.0    11,6    22,109   37,286  1850-5760  1789-3865 2610-3650       102      73    68,623  127,327
Buncit-Lingker             6.6     4.2      4,934    7,358  2679-3676 2143-4911  3987-4979       33      75      5,002   15,138
Pinang-Pejompongan/a       5.9    7.1    20,765   22,008  2042-4040 3575-5568 2909-5275          79      65    29,598   78,450
Minggu-Depok              14.4    16.2      8,296   22,080  2700-3800  3499-3648 3000-3900       40     110    79,548   73,974
New Flyovers
Kebayoran Lama                     2,0              24,149                                               40              30,666
Putri Hijau                        4.0              16,498                                               59              21,774
Access Kebon Jeruk                 3.7               4,249                                               94              12,131
Note: 1. Economic costs and benefits at end -1985 prices.
2. Traffic data representative for multiple sections with differing traffic demands.
3. Pcu/h: passenger car units/hour.
4. Traffic Forecasts are from the SAR.



23
TABLE 10: STATUS OF COVENANTS IN LoAN AGREEMENT
i-- :-' ...........     .....   ,... .... .... .   ,-----.....                              ........ . - '-'-':
.. . .. . .... -..                                             ......                            ................
......tn                  I   imt
4.01(a)-(c)     I       Complied    12/31 of   Have records and accounts audited   Of the 13 audit reports
with after   each year   and furnish audit to the Bank no    recorded, 54% were late. Only
delay                later than 9 months after the close   one had a less than
of the FY                       "unqualified" opinion.
Schedule 5      10      Complied    3/31/89    Prepare and adopt an integrated 5-  Inadequate time was provided
para I                  with                 year expenditure program, and   for this task.
___________  _________      subsequent annual programs
Schedule 5    9, 10     Complied    3/31/90    -Undertake a review of projected
para 2                  with                 transport demands; to identify
network, policies and plans.
-Detailed action plans for bus, rail
3/31/91    and other modes to be furnished to
the Bank
Schedule 5     10       Complied               Implement a PPD/DAMRI           Only limited implementation of
para 3                  with                 transport action plan for the   PPD plan.
JABOTABEK region
Schedule 5     10       Complied    6/30/88    Borrower to appoint: consultants
para 4                  with      9/30/88    for:
1/31/89    (a) Project Coordination Office;
(b) Transport network planning;
_________      __________   (c) Air quality monitoring
Schedule 5     10       Complied               Project Coordination office to be
para 5                  with                 established under BAPPEDA DKI
Schedule 5    7, 10       Not                  All land acquisition and        Plan not prepared or agreed.
para 6                Complied               resettlement to be carried out in
with                 accordance with a plan and
implementation schedule
satisfactory to the Bank
Schedule 5      2       Complied    3/31/89    DKI to prepare and implement a    Actual Increase in real terms
para 7                  With                 revenue improvement plan to      15.8% per year over the life of
increase local tax revenues by at        the project
least 6% per year in real terms
Schedule 5      2       Complied               DKI-Jakarta and DGPajak to carry    Actual Increase in real terms
pam 8                   With                 out jointly an action plan to    25.6% per year over the life of
increase PBB revenues by at least       the project
13% per year in real terms
Schedule 5    4,10      Complied               DKI-Jakarta Development grants
para 9                  With                 and development budget
allocations for urban infrastructure
are not to exceed FY88/89 levels in
nominal terms
Schedule 5     10         Not                  Carry out and furnish to the Bank a  The development plan for this
para 10               complied                pre-feasibility study to develop the   component was unacceptable.
with                 former Kemayoran Airport site   The component was dropped
and the funds reallocated.
Covenant Classes:
1. Accounts/Audit; 2. Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries; 3. Flow and utilization of project funds
4 Counterpart funding; 5 Management aspects; 6 Environmental covenants; 7 Involuntary resettlement; 8 Indigenous people
9 Monitoring, review and reporting; 10 Implementation; 11 Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12 Sectoral or cross-sector policy/regulatory/institutional action.



24
TABLE 1 1: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
OMS 2.33   Social Issues Associated with                Unsatisfactory
Involuntary Resettlement in Bank-
________Financed Projects                            _____________
OD 4.30   Involuntary Resettlement                     Unsatisfactory from 1990-1992;
Satisfactory remedial actions taken
_____________________________________from 1993 to end of project.
Appendix A on Experiences with Land Acquisition and Resettlement provides rn-depth coverage on noncompliance
with these Statements.
TABLE 12: BANK R{ESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
.......--''-''..   ''""'"-""''"''''.. .  .    ... ......  '
Through Appraisal                                                      58.7       145.6
Appraisal to Board                        =10.6                                   28.5
Supervision                             X                                302.2     683.4
Completion                                                             11.6       47.6
TOTAL                                                                  383.1      905.1
Staff Inputs in Supervision by FY*
........
.....  I                               ... i8  1 ~ 1~1 .I...... ...5_ 9~                  i      ?t
Planned     0        0             18.6  | 42.0| 29.0| 23.0   1.0   26.0  1 16.8  | 12.4  168.8
L.Atual    9.8   |37.5     51.6  | 43.8          42.7 .   42.6   24.4    23.9| 10.9    15.0   302.2
*The SAR did not provide a supervision plan, nor is there any data on resources planned for lending operations or
early supervision. The data shown on planned staff inputs is based on information from Forms 590. Actual inputs
are from the Cost Accounting System.



25
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
St- -g-  -    M.nth-       No..    Dys       Specialties   Performance            Types ofp bplem
y--r pr sons                                                            .. ra.in..
._______  : _ _- _ _ - -   eld_                    Is :   DO
Through
appraisal
Preappraisal   06/87
Appraisal      10/87       4        18    0, TE, E, UT       -
Board to        6/88       2              TE, R,O            -      -    Investigation of railway issues
Effectiveness
8/88       1                                            None. Land acquisition reported
___ ___ ___ ___ __ _ _  progressing
SPN 1:          5/89       2        3    Division Chief,     -      -    TNPR and integrated Transport System
limited                                   E                              Improvement Study progressing out of
phase
SPN 2: full     6/89       3                 UT, UT, E       I      1    Review of compliance with covenants.
Very tardy start-up of socio-economic
impact study
SPN 3:          7/90       4        4       UT, UT,FA                    Kemayoran airport site, Kebayoran Lama
limited                                                                  E/W Flyover problems
SPN 4: full    10/90       5        14     FA, UT, E, 0,     I      1    Land acquisition, relocation of utilities,
PC                      lack of commitment to policy TA
recommendations
SPN 5: full     2/91       3        17       FA, E, 0       1       1    Land acquisition, procurement
SPN 6: full    11/91       4        12     FA, E, 0, CE     1      2    Construction quality, land acquisition,
relocation of utilities
SPN 7: full    10/92       5        14     FA, UT, E, 0,    1      2    Land acquisition, relocation of utilities
CE
SPN 8: full     4/93       5        6      FA, E, 0, CE,     1     2    Land acquisition, relocation of utilities,
SS                      construction quality, procurement
SPN 9: full     5/94       5        10    FA, UT, 0, CE,    2      2    Land acquisition, relocation of utilities,
SS                      construction quality, procurement
SPN 10: full    11/94      3       21*      UT, 0, CE       S      S
SPN 11: full    3/95       2        4         UT, 0         S      S    Construction quality
SPN 12: full    8/95       2       9*         UT, 0         S      S    Tracer Study
SPN 13: full    7/96       3       20*      UT, 0, CE       S      S    Construction quality
SPN 14: full    10/96      3       15*       UT, 0, SS      S      S
ICR 1:          3/97       4       14*    UT, SS, 0, PA     S      S    Land acquisition/resettlement;
Performance of policy TA;
Loan funds uncommitted at closing
ICR 2:          7/97       2       14*        UT, O         S      S
Specialties:
CE =Civil Engineer              R = Railway Specialist
E = Economist                   SS = Social Scientist
FA = Financial Analyst          TE = Traffic Engineer
0 = Operations Officer          UT= Urban Transport Specialist
PA = Program Assistant
PC = Procurement Assistant
Note: * Days in field is total elapsed time between kick off and wrap up meetings.






APPENDIX A. LAND ACQUISITION AND RESETTLEMENT EXPERIENCES
A. INTRODUCTION
1.    The physical infrastructure components of JUDP, including the road construction, improvement,
and expansion, required extensive land acquisition and caused widespread involuntary displacement of
populations. This appendix examines the experiences and performance of both the Bank and the GOI in
this project and the resulting changes in policies, procedures and lessons learned as a result of this
project from its identification through completion. This report is based on analysis of all the project's
correspondence and reports, supplemented by some interviews and correspondence with key actors in
this project. The space limitations of the appendix restrict the presentation of much detail which is
available with the ICR team.
B. PROJECT SUMMARY
2.    JUDP-I was prepared in the period of 1984-1987 with a primary focus on urban transport and
land development. This focus had the following consequences:
*  Focus on the technical aspects of improving urban transport neglected the examination of the social
costs, and the impact such a project would have on a densely populated urban area.
*  No social scientist nor environmental specialists were represented in any of the project preparation
missions nor in the first four and a half years of project implementation (Sept. 1988 to April 1993).
*  It was well known that land acquisition would be required for the expansion of the urban transport
network, but there was no social assessment of resettlement impacts or provisions for the
rehabilitation of resettled populations in the preparatory phase.
These consequences in turn aggravated the problems of an already complex project leading to delays in
land acquisition, and unacceptable resettlement practices.
3.    The Bank was remiss not to enforce its policies or to insist that agreements and covenants be
met. The Bank was also remiss in not understanding the complexity of regulations on land acquisition,
budgeting, and the process for regulatory reform at the DKI Provincial level. The project office for its
part lacked the commitment and authority to comply with the arrangements reached during project
negotiations, and GOI/DKI did not engage various parties at the community, regional, central, and
cabinet levels that would have been necessary to comply with those agreements.
4.    The outcome of the project was that between 50,000 and 81,000 persons were affected by JUDP,
either through involuntary displacement or partial or total loss of housing and other assets. The true
figures will never be ascertained because there was no baseline information compiled during preparation
or early implementation. The total amount spent on land acquisition and/or compensation will also never
be known because of the incomplete and inefficient record-keeping and the inconsistencies in these data.
5.    The resettlement and land acquisition lessons of JUDP have been internalized to a large extent
by the Bank and by the Borrower as reflected in current operations. JUDP was one of many projects in
the late 1980's which showed the problems of non-compliance with Bank policy. Once the dimension of
this project's resettlement impact began to be known, it resulted in more serious and efficient
enforcement of the Bank's policy in Indonesia as well as to the establishment of more consistent
monitoring mechanisms, and an attempt to achieve a more sensitive treatment of social issues in general.



Appendix A: Land Acquisition and Resettlement Experiences                        Page 2
There is substantial room however, to improve the dialogue and performance of the GOI and its agencies
in this respect. In the end, the overall project's impact and its performance assessment ought not to
separate the negative performance of resettlement from other project components. By so doing there is a
risk that one of the fundamental lessons of JUDP may be lost. This lesson: that the consideration of the
social dimension cannot be disregarded in any instance, and is particularly sensitive in high density urban
areas, is one of increasing relevance in East Asia projects. Unfortunately the lesson was borne by the
thousands of displaced people.
6.    The limitation of the INPRES 9/1973 and their implementation guidelines are seen as basic to
the difficulties experienced, and the Presidential Decree (KEPRES) 55/1993 goes far to address them. In
principle the KEPRES 55/1993 declares that the project affected people will receive compensation based
on mutual agreement between the project affected people and the project officers, but most of the
operational guidelines are biased to the formal bureaucracy. Additional guidelines need to be provided to
ensure that all project affected people will not be worse-off after project implementation. Consultation
and information dissemination need to be strengthened, and there should be internal and external control
mechanisms to ensure that all activities comply with the guidelines. Assistance from Universities or
independent organizations will be useful to help the community go through the difficult time of
relocation.
C. JUDP: PREPARATION AND IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
7.    As previously stated, JUDP's preparation dates back to 1984, when it had an exclusively
transport-oriented focus. At this time there was a Bank policy concerning involuntary displacement and
land acquisition (OMS 2.33). This policy's successor, OD 4.30 effective June 1990, differed little from
the earlier OMS. Both policies call for a number of actions to be undertaken at various phases of the
project from identification through implementation. There were some significant gaps between the
World Bank's policies and procedural requirements for land acquisition, and those GOI regulations and
practices in effect at that time (i.e. before KEPRES 55/93 was issued) when the project was being
prepared and negotiated. One of the significant gaps concerned the definition of squatters and occupants
of land without clear title and their rights to compensation. When the project was being prepared and
negotiated, these issues were not raised with the government.
8.    By 1986 when GOI introduced the concept of integrated urban infrastructure development
planning (IUIDP), BAPPENAS had already committed funds for land acquisition during the financial
year 1986 for those parts of the project which had been taken through to the detailed engineering phase
and planned to apply for retroactive financing. By September 1987 Final Executive Project Summary
(FEPS) documentation indicates that there had already been substantial land acquisition undertaken by
GOI and that a large number of the occupants of the land had been moved already.
9.    Three documents from DKI obtained in the Legal Files show the list of compensation budgeted
for only the first year's construction (Route B Section II), and a note stating that there was little detail to
be obtained since there "was no engineering/topographical survey made". The estimate of 370 hectares
is given in these documents as the total area of land to be acquired for the project as a whole. If these
figures were not based on engineering or topographical surveys, it is clear that they were only estimates
rather than realistic figures. It is important to note that the SAR subsequently gave the impression that
all land acquisition for the project had been anticipated and planned for, which was not the case. The
FEPS makes the point that the institutional capacity existed to undertake land acquisition for a project of
this magnitude. However, the correspondence shows that there were serious reservations about the



Appendix A: Land Acquisition and Resettlement Experiences                           Page 3
Indonesian's resettlement policies and practices as well as their institutional capacity within the Bank. It
was agreed that the appraisal mission would review GOI's resettlement policy and approach, and
"request GOI for a resettlement plan which was consistent with Bank guidelines, and an effective method
for monitoring it. The plan and monitoring system would be a condition of loan negotiations."
10.   Because the issues of resettlement and land acquisition were not dealt with until appraisal, there
was no resettlement impact assessment nor an adequate study of the area and cost of land to be acquired.
There was no baseline study, therefore the exact number of individuals and households which were
resettled will never be known, nor do we have a record of how many people were affected and suffered
partial or complete loss of homes or other assets. The figures given in the project files range from
"several thousand" (EPS Meeting 9/21/87) to "1,000 households and 40-50,000 people" by the time the
SAR was finalized (2/14/88). The inconsistency in the figures is addressed below because it is an
intrinsic part of the problems JUDP-I encountered during implementation.
11.    The appraisal mission's report does not clarify these issues. It verified that land had been
cleared and people moved for the components to be constructed in the first year of implementation;
estimated that the total number of people to be displaced would be 40-50,000, and acknowledged that
there was " no plan for facilitating and minimizing the negative social and economic impacts of an urban
land acquisition program of this magnitude..." It follows that: ".The Bank would wish to reach
agreement with the Government at negotiations on an appropriate land acquisition and resettlement plan
for the project." (Appraisal Mission Aide Memoire, October 16, 1987, page 13).
12.    During Negotiations held in February 1-3, 1988, the Indonesian Delegation presented not a plan
but a list of physical targets, including the land which had already been obtained for the initial physical
works. The GOI's position was that there were already well established measures within the Indonesian
laws to deal with land acquisition and compensation issues and therefore there was no need for a plan.
The Bank's concerns however, resulted in an agreement on three basic points:
(1) That GOI would cause land acquisition and resettlement to be carried out in accordance with a "plan
and implementation schedule satisfactory to the Bank'", but also that "every effort should be made to
re-establish the standard of living ofpersons moved and households affected by land acquisition;
(2) That the project coordinating office would monitor these actions, and:
(3) That DKI would monitor the impact on the affected families and after the first year make
recommendations for improvements in the procedures and implementation of resettlement (Minutes
of Negotiations and SAR, p.42, para. 6.9).
13.   The wording of the covenant is such that it left the Bank room to require a number of actions to
ensure compliance with Bank policy as well as fair treatment of the people to be displaced or
compensated, but there was lack of appropriate support for the implementation. Because land acquisition
was such a key issue in the timely implementation of the physical works it was anticipated that land
acquisition would take place one year in advance of construction needs. It was not understood how
difficult it was to achieve under enforced procedures then current. The solutions proposed as remedial
measures: to assist the displaced population to find PERUMNAS rental housing, join transmigration
schemes, or return to their villages of origin were never taken seriously because they were so unrealistic.
Loan Agreement Schedule 5, paragraph 6.



Appendix A: Land Acquisition and Resettlement Experiences                                                Page 4
14.     The project's Coordination Office (JUPCO) was to be, according to the TOR of Feb. 16, 1988,
2
responsible for monitoring the resettlement process and assessing it's impacts.  While JUPCO was
beginning to organize, in June of 1988 (before project effectiveness in September), the Bank conducted
an evaluation of land acquisition and resettlement of four-Bank-financed projects, among which was
JUDP3. The consultant's findings, even at this early stage (Pasar Pagi resettlement was under way and
nearly successfully completed) confirmed that:
1. The rates of compensation were too low to enable people to buy equivalent land;
2. Resettlement as per Presidential Instruction 9/1973 was not taking place;
3. There was no transparency in the legal framework used to expropriate land, and;
4. There was no body established to hear legal complaints and to set compensation rates.
These findings were similar to previous findings on land acquisition. There was no suggestion that
project personnel had broken any regulations on land acquisition, but rather that regulations themselves
required review, if they were to comply with Bank guidelines.
15.     The consultant recommended that:
I.  The GOI and the Bank jointly review the issues of land acquisition and resettlement;
2.  GOI should inform all sectors of the guidelines for land acquisition and resettlement;
3.  GOI should provide for future projects complete plans specifying the legal framework,
people's rights, and arbitration processes to be used in resettlement and land acquisition;
4.  The RAPs should be more comprehensive, and include especially the poor and landless;
5.  Monitoring agencies should be independent of the executing agencies; and
6.  Participation of the affected people, rather than GOI appointees should be included in the
process.
16.     None of these measures were taken within the project. Instead, the record shows that in the
period between September 1988 and April 1993 not only was there no effort by Bank Missions to protest
or censure DKI for non-compliance with the agreements which had been reached at negotiations, but that
there was constant contradiction in the statements of the supervision missions Back to Office reports and
the Form 590s. While the reports cite land acquisition as a major problem causing delays in the physical
works, all forms 590s state that land acquisition and resettlement are "in compliance". This suggests
serious misreporting by the Bank Missions and lack of diligence on the part of Bank management since it
is obvious that there was no compliance with a "plan and implementation schedule acceptable to the
Bank"; no monitoring on the part of JUPCO, and; no study of the evicted families and suggested
modifications to the resettlement process on the part of DKI. Instead there were documented excuses of
JUPCO will be responsible for the monitoring of the land acquisition and resettlement process and will be assisted by the consultants to carry
out the monitoring and also an evaluation of the process in terms of the World Bank's Guidelines for Resettlement. The consultants should (a)
familiarize themselves fully with the regulations procedures and processes concerned; and (b) select a suitable sample of families (with and
without tenure) affected by the first year's land acquisition program and carry out a base line socio-economic survey of the families. The
subsequent movements of the families concerned should be traced and a follow up survey should be carried out within 3-6 months of the initial
displacement to determine their new socio-economic condition and prospects. Based on the surveys and the actual level of compensation paid
or assistance in kind rendered by DKI Jakarta the economic impact of the resettlement program should be determined. Based on the evaluation
results the consultants should prepare recommendations for improvement of the pertinent regulations and procedures before June 30, 1989 and
assist in drafting the necessary amendments to the regulations and in their subsequent implementation...."
3
David Butcher, June 1988 Land Acquisition and Resettlement under Four World Bank Financed Projects. (Consultancy Report
IENED/ASTEN [Industry and Energy Department, Energy Development Division] Asia Technical Environment Department].



Appendix A: Land Acquisition and Resettlement Experiences                                    Page 5
budgets, time, lack of consultants, etc. which the Bank accepted. There was no attention given to
resettlement, to the rehabilitation of the affected people, nor to improving the land acquisition and
compensation procedures and measures. Within six months of effectiveness JUPCO decided to eliminate
the table on land acquisition from its Quarterly Reports. Simultaneously, the numbers of households
requiring compensation for land acquisition and the price of land were escalating in response to the
explosive growth of Jakarta and to the realism of the land required for construction. The lack of
transparency and apparent arbitrariness of the eviction processes resulted in antagonizing the majority of
affected people and causing those who could afford to do so to contest the issues in court.
17.    The Bank began to assess the resettlement experience in Bank-financed projects in 1992. As a
result of this Bank-wide review or resettlement, JUDP was marked as one project with serious
resettlement impacts, and where the Bank's policy had not been followed. Largely as a result of this new
spotlight on resettlement, as well as because there was a newly formed Environmental and Social
Development Unit in the Jakarta resident mission, there was --for the first time in 1993-- a resettlement
expert included in the supervision mission for the project. In 1993 also, GOI altered its land acquisition
regulations with a Presidential Decree, a higher status than the earlier INPRES of 1973 and largely along
the lines of the Bank's guidelines. Once the resettlement issue was opened, the magnitude of the
problem became evident and finally there were studies which tried to assess the impact of these
experiences. By 1994 when some of these studies were conducted, however, it was hard to locate many
of the thousands of households which had been relocated, and a tracer study was fairly ineffectual due to
its scope and methodological shortcomings.4 There is enough qualitative information from some of the
areas where people resettled to know that the social and psychological impacts of this project were
particularly severe for the poorest segments of the urban population5. A Compensation and
Rehabilitation Study using unallocated project funds began in 1996 to conduct a remedial program.
Although the scale of this program is too small to make an effective impact on the affected population it
is a way of showing GOI that the Bank has some degree of commitment to rehabilitation of resettled
populations.
D. OUTCOME OF THE LAND ACQUISITION AND RESETTLEMENT EXPERIENCE
18.            While the extent and impact of resettlement in terms of number of people and affected
assets cannot be known in the absence of social and economic baseline information, the qualitative
studies document extensively, if not statistically, the extent of human marginalization and
impoverishment, psychological and social dislocation, and loss of assets and income eaming
opportunities.
19.    Compensation was tied to tenure status and documentation of rights to land, but lack of common
understanding between the Bank and DKI over the issues of legal land tenure and settlements led to
different perceptions about who was entitled to compensation. From the Bank's perspective, traditional
titles such as adat milik titles, some of which dated from the Dutch period ( Verponding Eigendom
4
Secondara Data Analysis Land Acquisition Study in JUDP-I. GOI and Lembaga Demografi, Universitas Indonesia (Demographic Institute,
Faculty of Economics, University of Indonesia). Jakarta, 1995. This is part of a three volume study. The other two reports used and
cited here are: Qualitative Analysis of Land Acquisition Study in JUDP-I, and Tracer Study of SocioEconomic Status of Post Resettled
Evicted Families. Land Acquisition Studv i JUDP-I.
Jellinek, Lea. "Involuntary Resettlement in Jakarta." Paper, January, 1995
--------------- A Bottom Up View of Involuntary Resettlement and Impoverishment Risks in Jakarta. Paper, Dec. 1995.



Appendix A: Land Acquisition and Resettlement Experiences                                    Page 6
Letters), should have led to full and legal compensation for that large group of people.6 From DKI's
perspective, these people (as well as those without occupancy titles and renters) were considered as
illegal squatters on state-owned lands. They did not receive compensation, but in some cases they got a
"transport allowance" to move out. The worst impacted segments of the population were the most
marginal and impoverished households. The group which had hak adat milik/girik, that is to say,
supported by receipts showing payment of property taxes received some compensation for land. The
compensation rates established by law, however, were always below market price and too low to permit
evictees to buy land plus construct new houses, therefore only those better-off households with savings
could restore their standard of physical living.
20.    Income levels fell as a result of two different processes. First, a large segment of the evictees
had to move further out to the boundaries of the city. They were either forced to find new employment
in the new areas or to spend extra time and money to commute to the old locations. Second --and more
prevalent phenomenon-- the resettlement destroyed the income earning opportunities of many people
who derived their livelihood from the informal sector. This happened largely because the social fabric
upon which many of these businesses depended was destroyed in the resettlement process.
21.    The social dislocation suffered by the most marginal and impoverished people has been
documented in the JTUDP studies. These also show significant human suffering as a result of losing the
social and affective networks which are the basis of the urban kampung structure. By-products of this
social dislocation included a higher incidence of disease because the relocation sites were often more
crowded, have fewer services and less infrastructure. Malnutrition rose as a result of lowered incomes
and social depression, as did mortality because the old people primarily, felt at a loss in new settings and
could not "live" effectively.
22.    Combining the available information from project reports and the Land Acquisition Study, it is
estimated that the total number of affected persons may be as high as 81,508. The best estimate of the
cost of land acquisition was Rp. 149 Billion. The land area best estimate is a minimum of 265 hectares
reported in 1992. The originally budgeted amount for land acquisition was Rp. 51.6 Billion (US$31
million equivalent). Thus land acquisition costs increased almost threefold from the original estimates.
The delays in land acquisition cost the project a minimum of 13 months' delay. The reasons for the
delays were various, but primarily the fact that the legal procedures for land acquisition were
cumbersome and slow. When this slow process was further encumbered by disputes over the price of
land and compensations offered by DKI, plus court cases of people refusing to move or contesting the
entire process, the DKI institutions responsible for the land acquisition were unable to respond in an
effective and timely manner. The delays should have been anticipated and indicated as a project risk, in
particular when 68% of the project's investment costs depended on the effective and timely land
acquisition. The budgeting mechanisms and calendar for land acquisition of DKI also further
encumbered this process because there were no funds available when the land for the following year's
construction was to be acquired.
23.    The Bank's performance was unsatisfactory and DKI's inability to perform under current
regulation should have been addressed by various parties. None of the agreements reached on
6
Notably in this category were the Betawis whose lands were inherited from their ancestors. The lands had been granted to them by the
Dutch. Conversions of these letters were mandated by Public Law 5/1960. Few of these people knew of the mandatory conversions and
even fewer realized that the conversion granted them the title of renters, not owners which they had always assumed they were. Areas
thus affected included Kedoya, Kelapa Dua and Manggarai.



Appendix A: Land Acquisition and Resettlement Experiences                          Page 7
resettlement and land acquisition were ever enforced by the Bank, and DKI was incapable of changing
the status quo. There is the appearance that until 1992-93 nobody cared about the social aspect of
resettlement but only about the delays caused by the problems of land acquisition. The signal the Bank
sent to DKI and GOI was that, regardless of policy, there was no serious concern about the welfare of the
displaced populations
E. LESSONS LEARNED FROM JUDP
24.   JUDP was prepared and became effective at a time when the Bank's policy on involuntary
resettlement was not being taken seriously. This environment changed dramatically as a result of the
Bank-wide Resettlement Review in 1993 and changes in Indonesia's resettlement regulations also in
1993. JUDP's experiences have contributed not only to taking these policies seriously, but to require
compliance in areas which are fundamental to a project's success.
(i)    Legal Framework. A legal framework on land titling and tenancy, agreed between the Bank
and the Borrower, and well understood by all parties to resettlement activities, has to be the starting point
for the preparation and implementation of Resettlement Action Plans (RAP).
(ii)    Design. Land acquisition and resettlement have to be an integral part of project design,
including the accurate identification of the scope, magnitude, and mitigation measures required for
resettlement, rehabilitation, and land acquisition; as well as an assessment of the institutional capacity
and adequacy. of the legal framework to effectively undertake land acquisition and resettlement.
(iii)   Resettlement and Land Acquisition Plan. Since JUDP, the policy has become mandatory and
clearance of resettlement plans are required prior to negotiation. There are better mechanisms within the
Bank, as well as a clearer understanding with the GOI about the requirements for resettlement. This
continues to be a difficult subject, but there are clearer guidelines and procedures to prevent or mitigate
the adverse impacts of resettlement. Dated legal covenants prevent the delays and fuzziness in carrying
out required actions, as happened in JUDP 1.
(iv)   Institutional Issues. Realism is required in the design of the institutions which will carry out
resettlement as well as land acquisition. The policy provides not only for an examination of the legal
framework but for the establishment of adequate institutions to implement the RAP, and the provision of
assistance to the Borrower in those cases where it is needed to improve existing procedures and
legislation.
(v)    Monitoring. While external monitoring is essential to ensure that a RAP is followed and that
there is transparency in the compensation and rehabilitation process, a good design will assist to ensure
that the project itself has internal monitoring and feedback mechanisms to redress errors or adverse
impacts.






APPENDIX B. ICR MISSIONS' AIDE MEMOIRE
JUDP 1
INDONESIA: JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(IBRD Loan 2932-IND)
Implementation Completion Mission March 11 to 21, 1997
Aide-Me moire
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1    This aide-memoire summarizes the understandings and agreements reached between the
Government of Indonesia and a World Bank implementation completion mission that visited Jakarta,
Indonesia from March 11 to 21, 1997. The mission was led by Mr. Edward Dotson, Urban Transport
Specialist, and comprised Mrs. JoAnne Nickerson, Program Assistant, Infrastructure Operations
Division, Ms. Concepcion Del Castillo, Resettlement Specialist, Asia Technical Department, Human
Resources Division, Mr. William Hardi, Transport Operations Officer, and Mr. Manzoor Rehman,
Implementation Specialist, consultant. The mission wishes to express its sincere appreciation to the
Government of Indonesia and the representatives of the various agencies involved in the project for their
hospitality and constant availability over the course of the mission. The conclusions and
recommendations contained in this aide-memoire are those of the mission and are subject to
confirmation by World Bank management.
2. PROJECT BACKGROUND AND COMPOSITION
2.1    Preparation. During 1986 the Government of Indonesia (GOI) introduced the concept of
integrated urban infrastructure development programming (IUIDP) grouping together urban transport,
water supply and sewerage, drainage and flood control and kampung improvement (KIP). Due to
Jakarta's large size, it was decided that it would not be possible to undertake activities in all the IUIDP
areas under one project; therefore, they were broken down as follows. The first JABOTABEK Urban
Development Project (JUDP 1, Ln. 2932-IND) dealt with urban transport, the Second JUDP (Ln. 3219-
IND) with water supply and sewerage, and the Third JUDP (Ln. 3246-IND) with KIP and drainage and
flood control.
2.2    Project Objectives. The project's institutional objectives are: (a) to support integrated
infrastructure development planning and programming in the Jabotabek region and urban transport
programming in DKI-Jakarta in particular; (b) to increase DKI's technical capabilities in preparing and
implementing road construction, and road rehabilitation and maintenance programs; (c) to improve
traffic management in the region; (d) to improve GOI's policies, operations and regulations for public
transport; and (e) to prepare for future integrated development expenditures in the urban sector.
Through physical improvements the project would (a) reduce traffic congestion in DKI-Jakarta; (b)
improve pedestrian access and road safety; (c) introduce public transportation priority schemes; and (d)
open up additional lands for urban development in environmentally safe fringe areas.



Appendix B: Implementation Completion Mission - Aide Memoire                       Page 2
2.3    Components. The project has three main components: technical assistance, training and
physical works.
2.4    Technical assistance was grouped together as follows:
(a)    Project Implementation Support to assist with (i) project management; (ii) final
engineering design; and (iii) construction supervision; and
(b)   Institutional and Policy Development for advisory services in (i) integrated
infrastructure planning and programming; (ii) municipal revenue improvement; (iii)
urban transport planning and policy development; (iv) air quality monitoring; (v) road
planning and traffic management; (vi) road maintenance; and (vii) future project
preparation.
2.5    Training. In addition to on-the-job training by various advisors under technical assistance,
formal training in traffic engineering was offered as follows:
(a)    Road Traffic and Transport Training College (RTTC) to expand courses at this DGLT
facility at Bekasi;
(b)    SATLANTAS to help establish a training program at the new traffic police training
college at Serpong by training trainers, developing curricula and implementing new
courses; and
(c)    Traffic Engineering Practice to extend the program initiated under the Regional Cities
Urban Transport Project (Ln. 2817-IND).
2.6    Physical Works components, as originally conceived, included:
(d)    Primary Arterial Roads for construction of 10 km of new road links by DGH;
(e)    Secondary Arterial Roads for new construction or major upgrading of about 66 km of
primary and secondary arterial roads;
(f)    Major Intersections improvements to four major intersections through construction of
flyovers;
(g)    Development Roads (about 3 5 km) on the city's eastern and western fringes and the
former Kemayoran Airport site;
(h)    Traffic Management to provide (i) comprehensive improvements to the main road
network which will involve less than full road reconstruction; (ii) bus priority measures;
(iii) traffic signal equipment; (iv) intersection improvements; (v) pedestrian
improvements; (vi) signing and road marking by DKI-Jakarta; and
(i)    Road Maintenance for a four year program of routine and periodic maintenance,
including institutional development.



Appendix B: Implementation Completion Mission - Aide Memoire                         Page 3
3. PROJECT STATUS
3.1.   The project's status, in terms of physical progress, consultant services, financial progress and Loan
disbursements at the end of the mission was as follows.
Physical Progress
3.2    Civil Works Part A (for DGH). All civil works contracts including those foreseen under the
initial loan extension action plan have been completed. Contracts under the second loan extension action
plan are scheduled for completion on March 31, 1997.
3.3    Civil Works Part B (for DPU-DKI). The DPU-DKI contract 'Manggarai Underpass Connection'
(JUPCO Ref. 1.DR.14) was completed in September 1996. Final hand over was June 1997. The contractor
for works on Road Improvement in North Jakarta (JUPCO Ref. l .DM. 11) under the second action plan
mobilized on October 1, 1996. The works were completed on March 6, 1997.
3.4    Equipment. The remaining two contracts for vehicle emission inspection equipment (JUPCO Ref.
l.DE.02) and air quality monitoring equipment (JUPCO Ref. 1.DE.03) were completed in August 1996.
Consultant Services
3.5    Three Technical Assistance (TA) contracts closed during the mission:
*  DPU-DKI Road Maintenance Supervision (Ref l.DB.11) (as an addendum to the Senen Flyover
Supervision Contract). This had been extended to cover supervision of the works in North Jakarta
under the second loan extension action plan. The contract ended on March 15, 1997;
- DGLT TA JUTSI Program Development (Ref l.LD.1-1). The mission attended a detailed presentation
of the study results to DGLT and DKI by the JUTSI Team on March 11, 1997. The contract ended on
March 31, 1997; and
-  DGBM (BINKOT) TA for Jakarta Primary Road Improvement Identification Program (JPRIIP)
(Ref 1.BA. 06). The mission attended a detailed presentation of the study results to DGH and DKI by
the JPRIIP Team on March 10, 1997. The contract ended on March 25, 1997.
3.6    Two TA contracts were ongoing up to the Loan closing date:
*  BAPPEDA DKI Land Acquisition, Compensation and Resettlement Action Program (Ref. LDB.22).
The mission discussed the progress and future of this program with the University of Indonesia
Lembaga Demografi Team. While this is a program with limited impact, it seeks to assist the traceable
households displaced under JUDP- 1. The program is assisting them through income-generating and job
creation activities, home improvements, and budget management training. The importance of this
program lies not in its scale but in that it constitutes a significant milestone in cooperation between
BAPPEDA and the University of Indonesia. It is intended to show the potential for remedial action for
involuntarily displaced populations, and demonstrates the seriousness of the Bank in complying with its
own policy on involuntary resettlement.
* DPU-DKI TA for Road Maintenance Management System (Ref l.DB.24). The mission had a brief
discussion on the progress of the Stage II study with DPU-DKI and their consultants.



Appendix B: Implementation Completion Mission - Aide Memoire                                                                Page 4
Financial Progress
3.7       About Rp. 374.57 billion of project cost has been committed (contracted) from  the total estimated
project cost of Rp. 378.58 billion. Final project costs and the final financing plan will be provided by
JUPCO once the four-month grace period for submitting withdrawal applications is over on July 31, 1997
3.8       Loan Disbursements. At the start of the mission, and based on data to February 28, 1997, loan
disbursements were US$143.75 million (including remaining initial deposit). Table I below shows the
Loan allocations by category over the course of the project. Table 2 shows the status of disbursements
by category as of end February.
Table 1: Disbursements
(US$)
..-:00  .................:0-:S,'    '... ............... ... . .. .
.., ,, .. ..0- t ................... , , .   .{ . ....   . ,   .,. ...2
Civil works for            35,000,000            75           31,300,000           55          34,620,00               55
primary arterial roads     O_________________                                                                  ________
Civil works for            69,000,000            75           69,000,000           75          70,010,00               75
secondary roads                                                                                     0
Civil works for             6,500,000            75                0                0               0                  0
former Kemayoran
A irport  Site   ._________               ____________        .   ..... ..........._........
Maintenance                 4,000,000            100           4,000,000           100              0                 100
(secondary   roads)        _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _        _ _ _ _ _                        _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Equipment                   5,000,000      100 of foreign;    5,000,000          100 of         5,400,000        100 of foreign;
95 of loa                          foreign;                          95 of local
(ex-factory);                      95 of local                       (ex-factory);
65 of local                      (ex-factory);                       65 of local
expenditures                       65 of local                     expenditures for
for other items                    expenditures .                      oth.er items
procured                          for other                      procured locally
locally                           items
procured
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ___________        ~~~~lo cally_   _  _ _  _ _   _ _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _
Consultants' services    20,500,000              100          29,400,000           100         33,360,00              100
........O                                                                                       .......
Training                    5,000,000            100           6,900,000           1 00         6,610,000             100
Unallocated                 5,000,000                          4,400,000                            0
TOTAL             1150,000,00  J150,000,00                                              150,000,0
. . . . . . . .                                                                                         . .     . . ..
... . . . . . . . . . . ..                                 . . .



Appendix B: Implementation Completion Mission - Aide Memoire                            Page 5
Table 2: Category Recap as of end February 1997
-'.   '  ''-  "  > "'''''"'''"''''''"'""'.' .'"..... .......... .. ... .   . .   . ..
1) Civil works for new primary arterial roads     3,498,894.62     ...........31,121,105.38
2) Civil works for second arterial roads           1,927,518.73 ...........  68,082,481.27
3) Maintenance                                            0.00- .......... --  .00
4) Equipment                                         53,186.91        5,346,813.09
5) Consultant Services                            3,251,584.42       30,108,435.58
6) Training                                             558.61        6,609,441.39
Special Account, Revolviiig Fund for all         -2,483,508.93        2,483,508.93
categories
TOTALs                                            6,248,234.36      143,751,785.64
At present US$350,000 in consulting services remains uncommitted and is likely to be canceled.
4. IMPLEMENTATION PERFORMANCE
A.^ Views of the Borrower
4.1    Through interviews and meetings, the mission was able to obtain the preliminary views of a wide
range of government representatives, including from BAPPENAS, DGH, DGLT, DPU-DKI, DLLAJ-
DKI, and BAPPEDA-DKI. In general all representatives of the Borrower were positive about the
development outcomes of the project. They also saw the value of JUPCO as the "single window" to the
Bank, and pointed out that JUPCO was the first use of such an approach in a Bank project. A few
common themes emerged, including the slowness and complexity of Bank procedures, and difficulties
with land acquisition (rather than resettlement).
Directorate General of Highways
4.2    Primary Arterial Roads. DGH felt that the road sub components all had yielded high benefits.
Concerns were expressed over the difficulties with land acquisition (carried out in accordance with GOI
regulations, by DKI), and the resultant delays to the construction program. Delays in utility relocation
due to difficulties with electricity and gas utilities were also cited as concerns.
4.3 SATLANTAS Training Program. This program was considered a success, the only downside
being that the career path of some of the trained personnel had taken them out of direct involvement with
road traffic matters. The program was extended through the Bank's Second Highway Sector



Appendix B: Implementation Completion Mission - Aide Memoire                     Page 6
Loan(HSL2, Ln. 3712-IND), and DGH would like further Bank support, including for equipment and for
a test track.
4.4    Road Maintenance Management. DGH had some reservations about the consultants
recommendations on the organisational structure and functional relationships for maintenance of primary
arterial roads, and are to supply details. The approach developed under this TA is to be used as a pilot
for other cities, pending the introduction of the full Urban Road Management System (URMS), being
developed under HSL2 and the Strategic Urban Roads Infrastructure Project (SURIP, Ln. 4054-IND).
4.5   Jakarta Primary Road Improvement Identification Project (JPRIIP). This sub component was
added at the time of the second loan extension to utilise some of the unallocated proceeds of the Loan.
After review and comment, DGH hopes to combine the results of this study with the results from the
JUTSI Program Extension to produce a single consolidated proposal for development of the road
network in Jakarta, ratified by the Steering Committees of both studies. The proposal would then be
submitted to BAPPENAS for inclusion in the "Blue Book".
DPU-DKI
4.6   Secondary Arterial Roads and Development Roads. The outcome for city development has
been positive, with some seven flyovers and 47 kms of road being constructed. Road construction had
been speeded up and local traffic problems solved. Even so road space occupies only 5.7% of land area,
compared with Tokyo at 14%. The list of schemes is different from the SAR, with changes being
accommodated by reallocation of funds, for example for the Manggerai underpass.
4.7    Land acquisition costs, however, increased almost fivefold from an SAR estimate of Rp. 45.9
billion or approximately US$31 million to a final amount of Rp. 141 billion, compared to a civil works
cost of Rp. 160 billion (excluding design and supervision). Based on this experience, DPU-DKI
engineers consider it preferable to build new roads than to widen existing roads due to the higher cost of
frontage property along existing roads. For any future Bank project, DPU-DKI would wish to acquire all
land at the start of the project, and would try to arrange local financing to do this through Bank-DKI.
4.8    At the start of the project, there was a reluctance to submit procurement documents to the Bank
for approval before they had been approved by GOI. As staff became more comfortable with Bank
procedures, documents were submitted in parallel. Bank processing of procurement documents
improved in the last three years of the project. Bank funded projects have added value for a project
manager since they are accorded special treatment by other agencies in administration and in undertaking
associated works.
4.9    Bank procedures were considered too complex and time consuming. Delegation of
responsibility for ICB procurement to RSI would expedite the approval process, as well as raising the
threshold for ICB to US$5 million or more. Disbursement schedules at the start of the project should be
more realistic and take account of the time necessary to complete final engineering designs and land
acquisition.
4.10   Secondary Road Maintenance This component was expanded during the course of the project
at DKI request to provide for the development of a Road Management Maintenance System (RMMS).
This is currently in the final testing stage and, when fully operational, will assist in the formulation of
survey-based maintenance programs that are more rational and economic. Future budgeting will be
based on this system.



Appendix B: Implementation Completion Mission - Aide Memoire                     Page 7
DLLAJ-DKI
4.11   Traffic Management. All arterial roads have been covered by traffic management studies. In
house advisors as provided for the Jakarta Immediate Action Program (JIAP) were more useful for the
transfer of knowledge than consultant teams designing schemes in their own offices. JIAP local area
traffic management schemes in particular were very useful. Many schemes have been implemented, and
the capabilities of the staff increased.
4.12   Bus Priority. Bus lanes were introduced on a trial basis on a number of roads, which resulted in
faster journey times for buses, but negative reactions from motorists and limited enforcement have
prevented full implementation. Nevertheless, it is recognised that further priority measures are required,
and that the next step should be the introduction of flyovers for buses and fully segregated busways as
proposed in the JUTSI Program Development Study.
4.13   Traffic Signals. Despite procurement delays, the installation of traffic signals has accelerated
the initial introduction of the Jakarta Area Traffic Control System (ATCS).
4.14  Improvements to Bus Services. The recommendations of the Transport Network Planning and
Regulation studies (see para. 4.16) were generally accepted. Route network restructuring was resisted by
owner drivers who feared that their income levels would be reduced, but is gradually being implemented.
There has been cross linking on a number of routes. There are now more buses on the streets, and seven
new private companies have entered the market, but it is recognised that little deregulation has occurred.
DGLT
4.15   Road Traffic and Transport Training College (RTTC). The objectives set out for consolidation
and extension of the RTTC training program and facilities have been successfully achieved. The interest
in the degree courses is such that in the last academic year there were over 1000 applicants for 40 places.
RTTC now has the capacity to increase student intake to 60 and soon 80 persons. However realising this
potential is constrained by current civil service rules on recruitment and placement of staff (which the
mission was unable to pursue). RTTC intake is drawn from secondary school graduates by examination.
Comments were made that some intake should also come from existing DLLAJ staff, as necessary with a
lower but appropriate entry standard.
4.16   Transport Network Planning and Regulation (TNPR) Studies. The integrated transport plan
developed in TNPR has formed the basis for subsequent planning and development work, including the
Consolidated Network of February 1993, and the initiatives from the private sector for the Kota-Blok M
metro line, and the Tangerrang - Bekasi line, as well as for the JUTSI and JPRIIP work financed later by
the Loan.
4.17   As noted in the comments from DLLAJ-DKI, only limited success has been achieved in the
implementation of proposals for bus network restructuring and deregulation. Cross-linking had been
effective, but monitoring had not been, nor had the fare structure been changed, but efforts are
continuing...
4.18   Parking Policy This TA did not function as well as had been hoped. Although the consultant
team had worked in DLLAJ-DKI offices, it was felt that the team was too task orientated, and perhaps
too academic, with the result that there was less transfer of knowledge than would have been expected.
Data collection was continuing. DKI has made no change in the organisational arrangements for
administration of parking or in parking charges, even though both recommendations were supported by
the technical departments which participated in the TA.



Appendix B: Implementation Completion Mission - Aide Memoire                   Page 8
4.19 PPD and DAMRI Bus Management and Operations Improvement. Limited success has been
achieved with PPD. The new method route was trialed on route 55 and is now standard on all PATAS
AC routes, but there are control problems (scheduling, financial and maintenance) due to weak
supervisory and middle management staff. In contrast, DAMRI in all cities is doing well except Medan.
4.20  Air Pollution Monitoring and Control Standards are now better than before, with enforcement
of vehicle emission standards due to start in September 1998. DKI is conducting on-street inspection
trials, which suggest that only 30% of vehicles will achieve the emission standard.
4.21   JUTSL Study recommendations are to be reviewed by the Steering Committee with a view to
preparing a consolidated five year program with JPRIIP for DGLT, DGH and DKI, a "Blue Book" entry,
and implementing a pilot busway scheme.
B. Views of the Mission
4.22   The mission was struck with the sense of ownership of, and support for the project by all
agencies. Discussions were frank and open, and the desire from technical staff to continue with a similar
project in the future was clear. Flexibility was shown during the course of the project in adjusting the
project's scope in response to changing circumstances but within the development objectives, on the
occasion of Project reformulation in November 1991, and at the time of the first Loan extension in
March 1995.
4.23   Construction quality during the project was mixed as is recognised by all parties, and steps have
been taken to improve the quality of contractors and of design and supervision. The limited inspection of
completed works undertaken by the mission showed no significant deterioration in civil works sub-
components.
4.24   Three issues remain of concern after the mission: resettlement performance, policy
recommendations not acted upon, and the role and responsibilities of JUPCO. The mission commenced
a full review of Bank and Borrower performance on resettlement, including reviewing previous Bank
reviews and the current Action Program. This suggests that there was a conceptual gap in the Bank's
thinking (and reflected in the Borrower's approach), that land acquisition involved dimensions of
property and expropriation alone to the disregard of the social dimension. The focus was on land
acquisition and not on the consequences of depriving people of land and assets, nor the social and
economic aspects of physical displacement. Resettlement specialists did not participate in supervision
missions during the most critical period involving resettlement (1988-1993). The final results of this
review will be incorporated in the ICR.
4.25   The lack of progress on implementing certain policy recommendations is understandable. There
is no overarching institution within Jabotabek with responsibility for transport planning. While policy
decisions on buses and parking and transport network planning should be within DKI's responsibilities,
in practice DKI responsibility for implementation of urban transport policy recommendations appeared
limited when implementation also required action by central government agencies. The
recommendations had social and economic consequences for bus drivers, bus passengers and motorists,
consequences that will provoke opposition. Institutional factors in DGLT and DLLAJ-DKI during the
project were not conducive to implementing the policy recommendations. (For example, there was no
urban transport directorate in DGLT from 1991 to 1996). These have now been largely overcome, and
the current size and structure of both the Urban Directorate in DGLT and DLLAJ-DKI provide the basis
for further strengthening and expansion which is needed to match the size of the task.



Appendix B: Implementation Completion Mission - Aide Memoire                        Page 9
4.26   The concern with JUPCO stems from the definition of its role as a single window to the Bank
with responsibilities to coordinate information from various project implementation units, (rather than to
act as an overall project management unit), and its place in the implementation arrangements. JIUPCO
was located in BAPPEDA-DKI (correctly in the view of the mission), but in the organisation structure
for project implementation, DKI Jakarta was shown as only one of five agencies reporting to TKPP, the
other four being from central government. As a result JUPCO has tended to be reactive, particularly at
the time of project reformulation and Loan extension, rather than proactive in preparing the consolidated
data required by the Bank. JUPCO deferred more substantive decision making on project management
to TKPP, whose role and responsibilities were not discussed in the SAR.
4.27   These issues have been of concern to the Bank for some time, and none has been satisfactorily
resolved within the life of the project, but the lessons learned can and are being incorporated into the
design of new projects. Perhaps the one unresolved issue is the lack of an overarching institution within
Jabotabek, with responsibility for transport planning and implementing urban transport policy
recommendations across jurisdictions and agencies.
4.28   Apart from the issues noted above, greater human and financial resources should be put into
traffic management. From the site visits undertaken, the mission considers that increased emphasis is
now required on traffic management measures to make the most effective and efficient use of the past
investment in roads and flyovers. These would include measures such as parking controls, and
* review (and if appropriate redesign) of junction layouts, including channelisation;
* more signal-controlled junctions with provision for right turns;
* removal of U-turns, (or signaled U-turns in conjunction with pedestrian crossings);
*  more crossing facilities for pedestrians; and
*  continuation of the program to provide pedestrian guard rails at heavily used bus stops.
5. PROJECT IMPACT
5.1    Overall, the project has been satisfactory in meeting the development objectives set at the time of
appraisal in 1987, with some variation in degrees of success between objectives. Perhaps the lowest
level of achievement has been in relation to improvements in policies, operations and regulations for
public transport. The physical improvement objectives for public transport priority and pedestrian access
were also not fully realised. Local traffic congestion is still apparent, but traffic moves steadily if
slowly, even at peak periods, despite large increases in vehicle ownership and travel demand.
5.2    The scale and extent of resettlement is estimated at this time to have increased 450% from the
estimates of the SAR. The number of people resettled, those suffering partial loss of assets, and the
economic and social consequences of involuntary displacement are still being assessed and final
conclusions will be incorporated into the ICR. To date, limited evidence suggests that up to 50% of the
resettled population may be worse off than before the project; however, due to incomplete and inconsistent
data prior to the project, the true extent of the resettlement impact may never be known.



Appendix B: Implementation Completion Mission - Aide Memoire                    Page 10
6. OPERATIONAL PLAN AND SUSTAINABILITY
6.1    Operational plans for the different components of the project have been requested from the
executing agencies.
6.2   Sustainablity of the project outcomes depends on continued improvements in the management
and operation of the transport system, expansion of capacity particularly for public transport integrated
with urban development, and demand management. The recommendations from JUTSI and JPRIIP
provide a sound basis from which to develop firm proposals. The current size and structure of both the
Urban Directorate in DGLT and DLLAJ-DKI provide the basis for further strengthening and expansion
which is needed to match the size of the task and to assure sustainability of project outcomes.
7. LESSONS LEARNED
7.1    The lessons learned from the Borrower's perspective are the following:
a) Land acquisition/resettlement should be completed before construction starts. The cost of
land acquisition is such that building new roads may be less expensive than widening
existing roads,
b) Relocation of utilities should be completed before construction starts, and interagency
arrangements for their relocation require strengthening;
c) Bank involvement facilitated implementation of civil works;
d) Social dimensions of implementing public transport and parking policy changes pose greater
challenges than the physical ones; and
e) "In-house TA" provides greater transfer of knowledge (DLLAJ experience with JIAP).
7.2   Lessons concerning land acquisition and resettlement from the Bank's perspective include:
a) Land acquisition and resettlement have to be an integral part of project design and supported
with specific legal covenants. They require continuous monitoring throughout the project,
with resettlement specialists participating in all missions until satisfactorily completed;
b) A framework for resettlement and a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) must be formulated and
approved by the Bank by the time of project appraisal. In compliance with Bank policy it
should include baseline information and census of population and affected assets, criteria
and mechanisms for asset valuation, compensation, and arbitration, mitigation plans for the
displaced populations, and a clear budget and timetable for implementation of the RAP.
Construction can proceed only if land acquisition and compensation have been completed to
the satisfaction of the Bank and in accordance with the plan;
c) Compensation and resettlement options for the displaced populations should be discussed
with the Project Affected People (PAP) and incorporated into the plan;
d) The Bank should assist the Borrower and specific agencies charged with land acquisition and
resettlement to prepare the necessary plans and to implement them. Institutional capacity
building in this area is essential to the success of future similar projects.



Appendix B: Implementation Completion Mission - Aide Memoire                     Page 11
7.3    Other lessons from the Bank's view are:
a) The project office that is the prime point of contact with the Bank should be designated as a
Project Management Unit and given appropriate and clearly defined responsibilities in the
implementation arrangements and the loan agreement;
b) Well defined and focused training programs produce results; and
c) Further strengthening of agencies responsible for urban transport policy and planning is
necessary to ensure that recommendations of studies are implemented.
8. PREPARATION OF IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
8.1    During the previous mission in November 1996, the mission provided all executing agencies
with a briefing on the requirements for preparation of the Borrower's contribution to the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR).
8.2    On arrival, JUPCO provided the mission with a consolidated summary of the views of DGH,
DGLT, DKI-Jakarta (DPU and DLLAJ) in Bahasa Indonesia. No comments had been provided by
DIPENDA, DG BANGDA and DGHS. In addition, this summary lacked information on the IRR of the
road sub-components and final financial data.
8.3    Schedule. The following schedule for the preparation of the ICR was agreed upon:
Steps                                                     Target Date
All outstanding information to Bank                       May 16, 1997
First Draft ICR for Bank internal review                  May 30, 1997
Draft of ICR to GOI for comment                           Early June, 1997
Bank mission to discuss Draft ICR                         June/July
Receive GOI comments and final contribution               August 15, 1997
Final Bank approvals                                      August 25, 1997
Distribution to Bank Board                                 September 2, 1997



Appendix B: Implementation Completion Mission - Aide Memoire                     Page 12
8.4    Outstanding Information. The mission noted that the following information is still outstanding
and requested that it be provided by the date indicated.
A gen y                 ....D.. . ..........                    ...........
DIPENDA, DGHS,    Provide contribution to Borrower's Report to lUPCO       April 15, 1997
DG BANGDA
JUPCO                English version of Draft Borrower's Report to Bank    April 25,1997
ALL                  Provide the Bank with an operational plan for the future  April 25,1997
AGENCIES/JUPCO    operation of the project including responsible agencies,
future maintenance work for construction, monitoring
indicators, and budgetary sources
ALL AGENCIES         Experience with Bank and GOI on procurement processing    April 11,1997
times, broken down by NCB, ICB, consultant services
ALL AGENCIES         Statement of current status of each recommendation in final   April 15,1997
reports of TA studies.
DLLAJ-DKI & DPU-  Provide locations and costs of traffic management works  April 11,1997
DKI
DPU-DKI & BINKOT  Send map showing location of major works carried out under April 11, 1997
the project
BINKOT               Send Bank a summary explaining how BRINKOT's road    April 15,1997
maintenance strategy ties in with DKI-DPU's maintenance
strategy
BINKOT               Description of how the road maintenance management   April 11, 1997
approach will serve as a pilot for other cities (para 4.4)
BINKOT               Carry out traffic surveys and journey times and calculate  May 16, 1997
IRRs for their road works. 1/
DPU-DKI              Carry out traffic surveys and journey times and calculate  May 16, 1997
IRRs for their road works. I/
1/ Meeting on April 30, 1997 to discuss the preliminary traffic survey data and IRR parameters between
BINKOT, DPU-DKI, JUPCO and RSI.
JUDP -lUCR\AIDEMEMI.DOC\September 30, 1997 4:27 PM



Appendix B: Implementation Completion Mission - Aide Memoire               Page 13
JUDP 1
INDONESIA: JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(IBRD Loan 2932-IND)
Follow Up Implementation Completion Mission July 22 to August 4, 1997
Aide Memoire August 5, 1997
3.    This aide m6moire summarizes the understandings and agreements reached between the
Government of Indonesia and a follow up World Bank implementation completion mission that
visited Jakarta from July 22 to August 5, 1997. The mission comprised Mr. Edward Dotson,
Senior Urban Transport Specialist and Mr. William Hardi, Transport Operations Officer, from
RSI Jakarta. The mission wishes to express its thanks to the representatives of the various
agencies involved in the project for their assistance during the course of the mission. The
conclusions and recommendations contained in this aide-memoire are those of the mission and
are subject to confirmation by World Bank management.
2.    The objectives of the mission were to discuss and receive comments from GOI agencies
on the draft Implementation Completion Report (ICR) previously circulated, and to assemble the
remaining outstanding data required to complete the ICR. The mission received some
comments. It was agreed that the last date for forwarding further comments would be the end of
August.
Action: GOI by August 31
3.    The mission asked GOI to clarify whether the material previously forwarded to the Bank
was to be included in the ICR as the GOI contribution, or whether an edited version of this
material was to be prepared by GOI for this purpose. If a new document were to be prepared, it
would need to be furnished to the Bank by the end of August.
Action : GOI by August 31
4.    The four month period for payment of outstanding accounts ended on June 30. The MoF
representatives asked the Bank to write with the amount of the to be canceled. The letter is also
to cover any final changes in allocation of funds between loan categories.
Action : Bank



Appendix B: Implementation Completion Mission - Aide Memoire                      Page 14
5.    It was agreed that the following information, required by the Bank to complete the ICR
would be forwarded to RSI Jakarta by August 15.
Action GOI byAugust15
BINKOT,              Plans for the future operation and maintenance of the roads,
DPU - DKI,           traffic management works and equipment funded by the
DLLAJ-DKI            project including monitoring indicators, and sources and
amounts of annual maintenance budgets
DGLT                 Current status of main recommnendation in final reports of
TNPR, Public Transport Regulation, Parking and PPD Bus
________________Management and Operations studies.
DLLAJ-DKI 8c         Show locations of traffic management works on map of road
DPU-DKI              works completed
BINKOT               Road Maintenance
(i) Explain how BINKOT's road maintenance strategy ties
in with DKI-DPU's maintenance strategy
(ii) Description of how the road maintenance management
_________________approach will serve as a pilot for other cities
BINKOT               For each road link built under the project:
DPU-DKI              (i) "As Built" Construction Cost
(ii) Actual Land Acquisition Cost
(iii) Estimated Annual average maintenance cost
(iv) Current 24 hour traffic flows based on peak and off
peak classified counts
________________(v) Current peak and off peak journey times
BINKOT               Calculation of revised IRR for each BINKOT link built
under the project



APPENDIX C: BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE OF THE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
DGLT COMPONENT ......................................................................    2
DGBM COMPONENT ......................................................................    7
DPU - DKI JAKARTA ............  11
DLLAJ - DKI JAKARTA ......................................................................   13
DIPENDA DKI COMPONENT ......................................................................   15
DG BANGDA COMPONENT ......................................................................  17
DGCK COMPONENT ......................................................................  19
Although retyped, the material in this appendix has otherwise been included here as received except for
minor editing to improve comprehension, to ensure consistent formatting and to assist pagination.



Appendix C: Borrower's Perspective of the Project                                   Page 2
PROJECT EVALUATION REPORT
DGLT COMPONENT
1.    OBJECTIVES AND TARGETS
A. Objectives
1.    Prepare development plan for an integrated urban public transport system which is required to
meet the needs of urban public transport growth in Jabotabek areas, in line with spatial development
policy and environmental capacity of Jabotabek region. The plan has to produce a consistent
development framework in utilizing the human and financial resources.
2.     Translate the integrated urban public transport development policy in Jabotabek areas, in order
to provide service in meeting the demand, and its development to be carried out through an efficient
investment of government fund and society/private resource to finance integrated infrastructure and
means of transport development.
3.    To produce tariff system which will assure and support the use of all transport means and
infrastructure as effectively as possible, considering the interest and capability of the society.
4.    Improve the capability of the urban public transport in a wider sense, in order to make a safe,
secure, smooth, and efficient system, with affordable cost to the society.
B. Targei
Related to the above objectives, the targets need to be achieved were the following;
1. Development and improvement of human resources.
2. Traffic management and control
3. Improvement of public transport services/mass transport.
4. Others.



Appendix C: Borrower's Perspective of the Project                                  Page 3
2.    RESULT ACHIEVED
A. Development and Improvement of Human Resources
No.     Package Project        Result
1.      RTTC Training and      1. Improvement of the quantity and quality of teaching staff for
Fellowship             Diploma III of the RTTC (Balai Diklat LLAJR, Pusdiklat
Perhubungan Darat).
2. The execution of Diploma IV Land Transportation program in
the Balai Diklat LLAJR Bekasi, which has graduated 60 D
IVstudents /year.
3. A number of short courses, such as two week course, two
months course and three months course have been undertaken.
4. The overseas master degree program in traffic engineering and
transportation has provided fellowships to 10 students, and they all
have graduated.
2.      RTTC Campus             Extension and Construction of RTTC Campus
Extension              (Balai Diklat LLAJR) has been done.
3.      RTTC Equipment          Provision of supporting equipment for education
in Balai Diklat has been done.
B. Traffic Management
No.     Package Project        Result
1.      Traffic Management and  1. Action program for bus priority and traffic management from
Parking Policy         the 2nd year up to the 4th .
Implementation Project   2. Program for traffic data collection and monitoring.
(TMPP)                 3. Parking policy (technical, financial and institutional).
4. Design and implementation procedure of traffic management.
2.      Jakarta Urban Transport  1. Technical assistance to Pemda DKI Jakarta for the preparation of
Short Term             5 year investment program.
Improvement (JUTSI)  '2. Action program and evaluation framework to integrate long term
and short term urban transport investment up to the year 2002.
3. Carry out FS and /or FED for a number of selected plans in order
to be implemented in the one to three years ahead.
4. Prepare TOR and prepare and evaluate plans at the stage of FS
and/or FED in order to be implemented before the year 2000.
3.      Jakarta Urban Short    1. Guidelines for developing efficient and effective road network.
Term Improvement       2. Development of traffic management..
(JUTSI) Program        3. Development of subway.
Development -
Addendum of JUTSI.



Appendix C: Borrower's Perspective of the Project                                  Page 4
4.      Jakarta Immediate      1. Short term program for the improvement of local public
Action Program (JIAP).  transport.
2. Technical assistance to Dinas LLAJ DKI Jakarta in traffic
management and bus services.
3. Technical assistance to Dinas PU DKI Jakarta in temporary
flyover utilization plan.
C 1. Improvement of Public Transport Services
No.     Package Project        Result
1.      Perum PPD Bus          1. New Method Route System (RMB), with pilot project, route No.
Management and        55 RMB and four other routes ( 1 route Patas AC, I route Patas, 2
Operation             regular routes).
Implementation Project  2. Improve the quality of services to support the RMB;
* Plan and procedure for fleet maintenance and improvement.
* Control procedure for scheduled operation.
* Improvement of revenue collection.
* Improvement of company's employee performance.
2.      Perum DAMRI Bus        * Planning of fleet operation service.
Management and        * Improvement of monitoring quality for scheduled operation.
Operation             * Technical assistance for improvement of revenue collection.
Implementation Project  * Improvement of employee performance.
* Technical assistance for fleet maintenance improvement
according to its life time.
3.      Perum DAMRI            Provision of special tools and general tools for 10 urban bus
Equipment             service areas of Perum DAMRI (Medan, Bandar Lampung,
Bandung, Semarang, Solo, Surabaya, Ujung Pandang, Jakarta,
Yogjakarta, Denpasar).
4       Bus Management and    * Optimization of city bus route, fare system and collection method
Operation             for Damri Semarang and Surabaya.
Implementation        * Implementation of financial accounting system.
* Implementation of scheduled city bus service system.
C2. Mass Public Transport
5.      Transport Network      * Jabotabek Mass Public Transport System Master Plan (MRT).
Planning and Regulation  * City bus route network, service system and monitoring.
(TNPR) + TNPR         * Feasibility of Manggarai Underpass.
Addendum + Manggarai
Fly over.



Appendix C: Borrower's Perspective of the Project                                 Page 5
6.      Study of Land and      * Analysis concerning land development against the availability of
Public Transport      public transport infrastructure.
Development in        * Formn of private sector participation  in supporting the
Jabotabek             improvement of urban public transport in Jabotabek.
* LRT technology
7.      Jabotabek Urban Mass   * SAUMJ (Jakarta Urban Mass Rapid Transit System) which
Transit Preparation   represent a consolidation of the recommendation of TNPR and
Advisory Services     JMTSS studies.
* Steps in the preparation of the construction implementation of
SAUMJ.
D. Others
No.     Package Project        Result
i       LLAJR Air Pollution    * Macro and micro model on air pollution intensity in DKI Jakarta.
Monitoring and Control   * Air pollution monitoring location network.
* Air pollution control and monitoring procedure.
* Technological aspect of free pollution of the motor vehicles.
2.      Equipment for LLAJR    Procurement of air pollution monitoring and control equipment to
Air Pollution         support monitoring activities of the air pollution in general as well
Monitoring and control  as resulted from vehicle emission.
3.    AFFECTING FACTORS
One of the factors which affected the implementation of the projects was the limited availability
of human resources in the related agencies, especially in providing time for the consultant to
make routine consultation concerning policy issues.
4.    OPERATIONAL PLAN AND SUSTAINABILITY
There are many study out comes or recommendations proposed by consultant which have been and will
be followed up by implementing agencies, such as;
1) The increasing participation of private sector in providing city bus transportation service in
region of Jabotabek.
2) The participation of private sector, domestic as well as international, in construction of
SAUMJA Blok M - Kota.
3) The participation of private sector in the construction of triple deckers.



Appendix C: Borrower's Perspective of the Project                                Page 6
4) The implementation of various forms of traffic management scheme by Pemda; e.g:
a. The consideration to be given to the implementation of parking fare increase, as it was
proposed by TMPP.
b. Reduction of on street parking to become off street parking.
c. Application of traffic restraint in a number of main corridors.
d. Application of special bus lane, which currently considered to be extended to be a
special bus way.
e. Application of one way system.
5.    BANK PERFORMANCE
In principle the performance of the Bank in assisting the preparation, implementation and
supervision of works are good, particularly the supervision mission who participate in evaluating
the performance of the works which have been submitted by consultants. However the process
of providing NOL for either TOR, short list or bidding document sometimes requires a long
time.
6.    AGENCY PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
In general if project management and control could be carried out according to expectation,
almost all of the project packages could be done in time. Also there is no problem in the
provision and withdrawal of funds for technical assistance from the World Bank. Some
constraints faced are related to administrative issues such as the process obtaining NOL, either it
is from the government aspect or from Bank aspect, which sometimes are difficult to be obtained
in short period.



Appendix C: Borrower's Perspective of the Project                                    Page 7
PROJECT EVALUATION REPORT
BINA MARGA COMPONENT
I.     PROJECT LOCATION
1. Outer Ring Road West (BR 01, 02, 03, 04)
2. Outer Ring Road South (BR 05, 06, 07, 08, 09, 10, 24)
3. Warung Buncit (BR 11, 12)
4. Pondok Pinang - Pejompongan (BR 13, 14, 22)
5. Pasar Minggu - Depok (BR 17, 18, 19)
6. Kebayoran Lama Traffic Management and Fly over (BR 21, BT 01, 02)
7. Putri Hijau-Fly over (BR 23, 25)
8. Access Kebon Jeruk (BR 28)
ADDITIONAL PROJECT LOCATION
(Generated from unallocated budget those were mainly for road betterment project and road maintenance
project)
1. Pasar Minggu - Depok (BR 2)
2. Access Marunda (BR 30)
3. Yos Sudarso Sec B (BR 30)
4. DKI Border - Ciledug Sec B (BR 32)
5. Daan Mogot Sec B (BR 33)
6. Ciputat Raya (BR 34)
7. Perintis Kemerdekaan (BR 35)
8. Raya Bogor Sec B (BR 36)
9. Cilincing Raya (BR 37)
10. Martadinata Sec B (BR 38)
11. Maintenance Program
The Location Map Attached.
II.    OBJECTIVE
* To implement high priority program of physical work in the metropolitan city
* To have a new accessibility in order to spread the volume of vehicles
HI.   PROJECT RESULT
All the projects under the JUDP-I program have been completed and they are achieving success. The
success was indicated by the increasing demand at all road links which have been constructed. Another
indication is the generating development along the road links, including shops, offices, apartnents and
condominiums.



Appendix C: Borrower's Perspective of the Project                                Page 8
IV.   AFFECTING FACTORS
There were several factors affecting the success of the projects:
1) The dominant factor was land acquisition, it resulted in changes in the implementation of the project,
especially the addition of the Kebayoran Lama Flyover.
2) Coordination with other relevant agencies in removing/relocating public utilities (such as telephone
pole, underground telephone line, high voltage underground cable, water pipe line). Some utilities
require a longer time.
V.    FUTURE PROJECT OPERATION
In order to maximize the future project benefits, a number of flyovers and underpass will be constructed.
Most of the intersections have already been studied and designed, and some of them have urgently
required to be constructed. With fund provided by GOI, Pondok Cina Flyover in the south part of Pasar
Minggu - Depok has been constructed in the fiscal year of 1992/1993 and 1993/1994, together with some
other flyovers outside JUDP-I road links.
In fiscal year 1997/1998, government will start to construct Tanjung Barat flyover which passing through
Pasar Minggu - Depok rail way in the Outer Ring Road south link, and the funding will be provided by
OECF. Other flyovers will be proposed to be constructed, either financed by GOI or by Loan.
All of the road links which have been constructed under the JUDP-I program will be maintained with the
GOI fund by implementing the maintenance program. This program has been set up using the contract
system. But under the new system, all maintenance will apply the Direct Labor Organization System.
VI.   PROCUREMENT PERFORMANCE
The following steps of procurement procedure requires the No Objection Letter (NOL) from the World
Bank, The steps are:
* Tender document
* Contractor short list
* Draft contract
* Contract
The current procurement procedure for the civil works some time took a longer time. However in the last
three years, the process has been speeded up. The procurement of civil works through SOE disbursement
system is relatively faster, because it does not require NOL from the World Bank.
The procurement procedure for the consultancy service is not similar with the procurement for the civil
works. The procurement procedure for consultancy service is a standard procedure which requires
international competitive bidding. The supervision work took a longer time than working with SOE
method. It does mean that consultancy supervision service has always delay to mobilize its the personnel
due to the procedure.
VII. BINA MARGA PERFORMANCE
The most important things to be considered in evaluation the Bina Marga performance is related to three
factors i.e. Project Manager, contractor and consultant.



Appendix C: Borrower's Perspective of the Project                                 Page 9
To improve the capability of Bina Marga's Project Manager and his technical staffs, Bina Marga has
established training program through Diklat, i.e. Kursus Pejabat Inti Proyek (Project Core Management
Course) two or three time a year.
To improve the capability of the contractor's superintendent, within the last four years, Bina Marga has
set up a program of screening & certification of contractor's Project Engineers.
This has been established together with Gapensi (Indonesian contractor's Association). For the purpose
of improving the capability of consulting engineers, within the last six years Bina Marga has established
a program of screening and certification of consultant engineer. This program has been established
together with Inkindo (Indonesian Consultant Association).
VIH. MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
A. The Result of Technical Assistance
Comment to the result of technical assistance of the maintenance program for the national road in
Jakarta and the surrounding is reported in the attached table.
D. Maintenance Program Strategy
Considering the management system and its equipment preparation, the maintenance program has been
established and applied by Binkot with staging system. The current organization consist of one Project
Manager and three sub Project Managers (completed with their staffs).
Until fiscal year of 1995/1996 the maintenance program has been undertaken by applying contract
system by sub Project Manager and coordinated by Project Manager. In the fiscal year of 1996/1997 it
was slightly different. Besides a coordinator, the Project Managers team has the Direct Labor
Organization and several small equipment to carry out maintenance of supporting road work such as side
ditches, side walk, guard rail etc.
In the fiscal year of 1997/1998 the function of Direct Labor Organization increased by carrying out
patching hole in the sections outside the sections handled by sub Project Manager and also outside the
sections handled by the betterment program.
The Direct Labor Organization which will carry out patching hole will apply:
a) the cold mix system
b) the hot mix system, joining together with DPU-DKI or Contractors Asphalt Mixing Plant.
For the future maintenance program, Binkot proposed to set up Routine Maintenance Unit. Binkot is also
still building the computerized program through Urban Road Management System (URMS).
The system was applied in the National Road of Jakarta and surround as a pilot project and in the future
also will be applied in other metropolitan cities and big Cities such as Medan, Bandung and Surabaya.



Appendix C: Borrower's Perspective of the Project                                                       Page 16
IMPROVEMENT FOR ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION IN JAKARTA
AND SURROUNDING AREA                              -- --
I No.    Suggestion/Recommendation by TA Consultant   I No.|               Implementation/Comment
Establishment  of  Urban   Road   Maintenance
Management Group (URMMG)
1.1   The key Persons:                                 1.1  The key persons right now are:
* Project Manager (Pimpro)                             * Project Manager (Pimpro) act also as DLO
* Maintenance System Engineer (MSE)                    * Technical Assistance
* Contract Engineer (CE)                               * Head of Administration
* Head of Direct Labor Organization (DLO)              * Sub Project Managers (Pimbagpro)
* Head Administration (A)
* Three Assistants
* Sub Project Managers
1.2   Establishment of the DLO:                         1.2   * A set of equipment for maintenance has already
* Need to carry out emergency maintenance                 been proposed
* Need abase                                           * Budget need + US Dollar 8,000,000.00/year,
* Need equipment                                         Available only + US Dollar 4,000,000.00/year
* Need budgets
1.3   Establishment of the DLO in Stages:              1.3  For the time being, maintenance work is still undertaken
* To be undertaken by the Private Sector or by joint   by the private sector
agreement with DPU DKI                             _
2.    Procurement for Road Inspections:                2.   Has been done sub project manager. In the next fiscal
* Routinely inspected by three deputy project manager  years of 1997/98 will be done by RBO-IX continuing
with a data base system.
3.    Establishment of a Database                      3.   A road maintenance system, URMS still in development
Urban Road Management System (URMS):                   process by BINKOT
* Under completion the development of URMS             Jakarta road data base will be established by RBO-IX in
* No comment by the consultant to understand the      fiscal year 1997/98
capability of URMS
4.   Maintenance Classification                        4.   In the fiscal years of 96/97 only routine maintenance
Type of Maintenance:                                   has been done by DLO by Project Manager.
* Routine Maintenance (by DLO)                         In the next fiscal years of 97/98 emergency works will
* Recurrent Maintenance (by DLO or Contract)           be done also by DLO
* Period Maintenance (by Contract)
*  Emergency Work (by DLO) involves unplanned
work
5.   Bridge Maintenance:                               5.   Will be applied later on
* Proposed Bridge Inventory and Inspection System
by using maintenance manual and procedures
6.    System of Contract; Review and Procedures        6.   The Contract has been standardized by Bina Marga
Committee
7.   Emergency Maintenance:                            7.   The institutional strengthening is under process.
* Need institutional strengthening                     Carrying our emergency maintenance will be applied by
*  Carrying out emergency maintenance by DLO           DLO system undertaken by the sector
system
8.   Training:                                         S.   The training will be applied by Bina Marga training
* Commence Training                                    center later on
* Training for the maintenance system engineer
undertaken overseas



Appendix C: Borrower's Perspective of the Project                               Page 11
DINAS-PU DKI JAKARTA
JUDP-I PROJECT EVALUATION
1.   Project Objectives
a. Construction of new roads, major intersection by provision of grade separation in order to
support the development of the eastern and western regions.
b. To support integrated infrastructure development planning and programming in Jabotabek,
particularly DKI Jakarta Urban Transport Programming.
c. Improve the technical capability of DKI Jakarta in carrying out road construction and
improvement, and the maintenance program.
d. Improve Jabotabek regions traffic management.
e.  Prepare future integrated development program in urban sector.
f. Improve government policy on public transport operation and regulation.
2.    Project Resul
2.1   Physical works
Basically there are 5 types of physical results.
i ) Construction of new road, with total length of 34,203 meters
2) Road improvement/betterment, with total length of 13,700 meters
3) Construction of 12 Flyover/underpass, with total length of 2,880 meters
4) Road rehabilitation = 189,18 km.
5) Traffic management.
The completion of the physical works, resulted an increase of total length of roads of 12,7%.
2.2.   Link System Development
Through the JUDP-I an integrated road network has been developed, under the name of
links i.e.
* East-west and North link i.e. Route D-Putri Hijau - Metro Pondok Indah.
* North South link, i.e. Penjernihan - Galunggung - Tambak.
* North South link, i.e. Gunung Sahari - Otto Iskandar Dinata.
2.3.   Benefits
The construction and improvement of those roads and major intersections have reduced
traffic congestion in Jakarta. Those have been indicated by the reduction of the VCR
(Volume Capacity Ratio) in the surrounding projects.
Example:
Road             VCR                VCR
Without Project     With Project
Cideng                 1.41              0.66
Perwira               0.03               0.08
Diponegro             0.96               0.47
Imam Bonjol            1.44              0.66



Appendix C: Borrower's Perspective of the Project                                 Page 12
2.4.   Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance
Under the JUDP loan, a Road Maintenance Management system has been developed.
The result produced;
a. Road priority which need to be rehabilitated. Under a systematic survey to all road
network in DKI Jakarta region, manual survey, roughness survey and falling weight
deflectometer, it was agreed the roads need to be rehabilitated is about 250 kms
(1997/1998).
b. Improve Personnel Skills. Under JUDP-I Loan, various courses and training have
been undertaken, such as operating laser profilometer instrument, Falling deflectometer,
Radar penetrometer and Geographic Information System (GIS) courses for operating
package program of arc info. Those course are very useful for the continuation of the
RMMS project.
3.    Benefit to the Society
Community along the project could do business, and the average journey time became shorter.
4.    Affecting Factors
Positive: community participation in providing land for the projects (to make the land
compensation process easier)
Negative: natural disturbance, socio environmental disturbance.
5. A
Management: Project activities were undertaken based on fund and time provided for
completing the respective project / sub projects.
Monitoring:   Project monitoring has been done along the progress of the project and a certain
steps have been undertaken in order to achieve the decided target.
Performance of the project implementation
Contractors:  The performance is generally good, but there are some contractors whose
performance are less serious in carrying out the project.
Consultant:   There is consultant who does not mobilize personnel according to the expertise's
needed, such that it does influence the service of the consultant.
6.    Bank Performance
The Performance of the Bank in the process of preparation, implementation and supervision is quite
good, especially in providing solution whenever there is problem in implementation.



Appendix C: Borrower's Perspective of the Project                                 Page 13
JUDP I - PROJECT EVALUATION FRAMEWORK
DINAS LLAJ - DKI JAKARTA.
1.    Scope of Project
JUDP- I Project under the responsibility of Dinas LLAJ DKI Jakarta covered:
1.1 FED Traffic Management (Consultancy)
1.2 Road Sign (Equipment)
1.3 Road Marking (Equipment)
1.4 Traffic Signals (Equipment)
2.    Project Objective
2.1 Traffic Management
Prepare bidding document and drawings for the work of road sign, road marking, traffic
signal and pedestrian.
2.2 Road Sign
Improve traffic safety and traffic flows
2.3 Road Marking
Improve traffic safety and traffic flow
2.4 Traffic Signal
Improve traffic safety and traffic flows at intersections.
3.    Project Preparation
Procurement process of contractors/supplier for individual project were as follows:
3.1 FED Traffic management
Local Competitive Bidding
3.2 Road Sign
Local Competitive Bidding
3.3 Road Marking
Local Competitive Bidding
3.4 Traffic Signals
International Competitive Bidding
4.    Project Implementation
4.1 FED Traffic Management
* The work could be completed in time.
* Provision and disbursement of fund for implementing the project amounted to Rp
739,838,825 (100%)
4.2 Road Sign
* Duration 12/01/1993 to 15/06/1994.
* The work could be completed in time
* Provision of fund and its disbursement for the implementation of project were Rp
998,092,625 (100%).
4.3 Road Marking
* Duration 26/05/1993 to 15/06/1994.
-* The work could be completed in time



Appendix C: Borrower's Perspective of the Project                                  Page 14
* Provision of fund and its disbursement the implementation of project were Rp
3,232,676,950 (100%).
4.4 Traffic Signal
* Duration 30/06/1993 to 31/03/1995.
* The supply of the equipment required could be completed in time
* Provision of find and its disbursement for the implementation of project were Rp
5,303,750,385 (100%).
5.    Achievement of Targets
5.1 FED Traffic Management
The project objective and its targets required in the form of bidding documents and drawings
for the work of road sign, road marking and traffic signal could be achieved.
5.2 Road Sign
Project targets i.e. the installment of 3,929 unit of road sign could be achieved.
5.3 Road Marking
Project target i.e. painting of road marking in the form of road lane 62,306 sq. m and Zebra
Cross of 11,710 sq. m could be achieved.
5.4 Traffic Signal
Project target in the form of installment of traffic signs could be achieved.
* at intersection: 82 locations
* at pedestrian crossing: 8 locations
6.    Conclusions
6.1 All of the traffic infrastructure (road sign, road marking and traffic signals) which have been
installed to be maintained properly using routine budget of the government of DKI Jakarta, such
that the function of traffic infrastructure could be maintained.
6.2 The traffic signals, previously to be installed in order to control isolated junctions. At present
some of the traffic signals has been increased its capacity, to be interconnected each other in an
Area Traffic Control System (ATCS). All of the traffic signals planned to be controlled in an
ATCS.
7.    Evaluation of Impact
7.1 Positive Impact
The JUDP-I Traffic Signal Project has positive impact to the development of ATCS, where
the project has speed up the realization of ATCS in Jakarta. The ATCS system to be able to
optimize the operation of traffic signal, so that it improve traffic flows and it efficiency.
8.    Experience Learned
Bidding procedure/bidding award required quite long time, because besides having to follow the
DKI Jakarta bidding procedure, it also required the agreement (NOL) from the World Bank. It is
proposed that only the bidding document should require NOL, while the bidding evaluation
(covers bidding award) should not require NOL from the World Bank.



Appendix C: Borrower's Perspective of the Project                               Page 15
DKI JAKARTA REVENUE IMPROVEMENT
I.    The Objective:
The main objective of the technical assistance for the DKI Jakarta Revenue Improvement was to
support the local Government of DKI Jakarta in order to:
a) Strengthen the accounting procedure and financial management
b) design a Revenue Improvement action plan for local taxes/ retribution and the PBB property
tax.
The long term objective of the study was to reduce the dependency of DKI Jakarta on Central
Government grant in financing its local development. The consultant recommendations consisted
of improvement of 5 key areas: accounting and financial management, tariff policy, participation
of the private sector, strengthening of organization and implementation of information
technology.
II.   The Follow up of Recommendations.
1. Organization
a. The improvement of the organization structure and procedure of the Dipenda DKI Jakarta was
regulated in the Perda No, 9/1995. The Perda determined the provision of more authority to the
Suku Dinas Pendapatan Daerah; rearranged the institutional aspect of Dipenda and the
involvement of the lower level of government units in submitting the SPPT PBB to the society.
b. Intensifying the improvement of the quality of human resource through education and training
and cooperation with private sector.
2. Improve tax tariff/local retribution
a. Prepare NJOP (value of property tax object) of PBB property tax routinely
b. Prepare tariff scale for motor vehicle routinely
c. Improvement of tariff of exchange tax for motor vehicle from 5% to become 1% year.
d. Delegation of authority from the Central government to DKI Jakarta in collecting PBB, and its
relevant aspects.
3. Information technology
Application of information technology step by step
a. MIS, PBB Property tax.
b. MIS Advertisement tax
c. MIS Restaurant & Entertainment tax
4. Accounting and development management.
Accounting and development management being developed and coordinated by Bureau of
Finance of DKI Jakarta in cooperation with consultant.
5. Extension /Exploration Local Budget sources
A number of Perda have been issued, among them:
1. Perda No 10/1996 concerning road light tax (non - PLN)
2. Preparation of Perda on motor vehicle fuels.
3. Perda No. 11/1996 local govermment retribution in the field of development.



Appendix C: Borrower's Perspective of the Project                                Page 16
6. Intensification
a. Improvement of Perda Development Tax I through Perda No. 5/1996 (P.Pb I)
b. Improvement of Perda No. 7/1996 concerning Entertainment Tax (P. Hiburan).
c. Improvement of Perda on Foreigners Tax, through Perda No. 9/1996 (PBA).
m     Revenue Improvement Result
During the implementation period of JUDP-I for eight and half years, the local government
revenue originated from local tax/retribution and PBB property tax has increased from Rp. 334,6
billion in the budget year of 1980/1989 to become Rp. 2006.6 billion in the budget year of the
1996/97; its indicated increased of 25,6% for year.
Compared to the estimated growth stated in the Loan Agreement, which requires the increase of
local tax/retribution of minimum of 6% and revenue originated from PBB property tax of 13%
real per years; the actual growth of local tax of 25,6% per year, were overcoming the estimated
target in the Loan Agreement.
Data of the growth of local government revenue for the last five years from 1992/1993 to
1996/1997 indicated that Dipenda Revenue Improvement Action Plan insured the projected
revenues average growth of 25-30% per year for DKI Jakarta.



Appendix C: Borrower's Perspective of the Project                               Page 17
EVALUATION REPORT
IUIDP Technical Assistance In Jabotabek Region
DIT. JEN BANGDA COMPONENT
1.    The Objective of the Component
a. The objective of the Planning, programming and budgeting system study of the Dit. Jen.
Bangda were:
l). Improvement of the urban management in Jabotabek region.
2). Develop and support the tasks and functions of the BKSP as a body in co-ordinating
development within the Jabotabek region.
3). Assist and support the changing status of the administrative city (Kota Administration) into a
mayoralty (Kotamadya). In 1997 the Bekasi city is promoted to be mayoralty (Kotamadya).
4). To identify the phasing of the long term planning in the management of the Capital City of
the Republic of Indonesia.
b. The activities and the results produced were a concept which was expected to be implemented
in the future i.e. The planning, programming and budgeting system.
2.    The Result Achieved
a. For the Regional government, the result of the project could indirectly improve the capability
of the Regional government, especially the Jabotabek in preparing Urban Development Program
in Jabotabek Region.
b. In order to synchronise the development planning of Jabotabek region and to overcome the
weakness of P5D mechanism which has to be adapted to the need and current demand, Dit Gen
Bangda has designed a concept of development planning for the Metropolitan Region to be
named Memorandum Program Pembangunan Koordinatif (MPPK) - Coordinative Development
Program Memorandum.
This concept at the first phase to be tried out in Jabotabek Region in the Fiscal year of
1997/1998. For this purpose, before it is implemented, it was disseminated as the following:
* January 10, 1997 at Bappeda DKI Jakarta
* January 20, 1997 at Bappeda level 1, Jawa Barat
* January 31, 1997 at BKSP, Jabotabek
c. In order to develop organizational structure, particularly in Dit. Jen. Bangda, this technical
assistance has urged the creation of a new sub Directorate, in the Directorate of Bina Kota,
namely the Sub Directorate of Bina Kerjasama Pembangunan Antar Kota (Sub Dit. KSPAK) Sub
Dit. Inter city Development Co-operation; under the following Job description.
* The Socio Cultural Cooperation section
with the main task: prepare regulation, guidance, technical guide for inter city cooperation,
national as well as international.
- Economic Cooperation section
with the main task of preparing materials for regulation, guidance and technical guide of inter
city cooperation at regional, national and international level in the field of economic.
* Monitoring section
with the main tasks to carry out monitoring, analysis and evaluation of the intercity development
cooperation, domestic as well as international.



Appendix C: Borrower's Perspective of the Project                                Page 18
Beside, this sub Directorate has succeeded in preparing direction, guidance for the regions
through seminars, domestic as well as international in order to improve intercity cooperation.
3.    Affecting Factors
1) The central Government policy which did not allow the establishment of a new working unit.
2) The relatively low perception of the regional government employees against the important of
development planning coordination by implementing MPPK concept.
4.    Operational Plan and it's Continuation
The operational plan of this project among others:
I) MPPK concept will be implemented in the other metropolitan regions such as Bandung Raya,
Gerbang Kertasusila, others.
2) This MPPK concept will be disseminated to the other provinces in Indonesia.
S.    Agency Performance Evaluation
a. Dit Jen. Bangda is highly participative in supporting the consultant in order to promptly
complete SP4 study.
b. In order to speed up and increase the development of the Metropolitan regions, the provision
of the Bank loan was considered very positive, and it is expected that the World Bank will be
more concerned in increasing its assistance to the development of Indonesia, especially in urban
development.



Appendix C: Borrower's Perspective of the Project                                 Page 19
DIRECTORATE GENERAL CIPTA KARYA
STUDY PAcKAGE-_JUDP-I (LoAN 2932-IND)
No.          Package Project                               Result
1.     Metro/Large Cities Study      This activity has been applied to prepare Semarang-
(Semarang-Surakarta           Surakarta Urban Development Project (SSUDP) which
Preparation-Stage 1)          consisted of clean water pump, urban road, drainage,
housing and solid waste management, building
administration and technical assistance program.
2.     Metro/Large cities Study      This activity has been applied to prepare Surabaya
Surabaya Preparation-Stage   Urban Development Project (SSUDP) which consisted
2)                            of clean water, urban road, drainage, housing and solid
waste management, building arrangement and technical
assistance program.
3.     IUDP Advisory to DKI          This activity has been applied to assist DKI Jakarta
Jakarta                       government in carrying out JUDP-II and JUDP-III.
4.     IUDP Advisory Service to      This activity  has been  applied  to  assist local
Surabaya                     Government of Surabaya in carrying out Surabaya
Urban Development (SUDP).
5.     Municipality Finance          This program has been applied to assist the Directorate
Advisory for Dit Bina         of Bina Program in preparing budgeting for program and
Program Cipta Karya           project in the Cipta Karya sector.
6.     Project Preparation Service   This program has been applied to prepare the JUDP-II
for JUDP-II and JUDP-I1      and JUDP-III which was consisting of clean water,
urban road, drainage, solid waste management and
housing program.
7.     JUDP-II PAM Jaya System       This activity has been applied to speed up FED of the
Improvement Project           JUDP-II PAM Jaya and it has been financed by IBRD
Loan 32219-IND.
8.     JUDP-II PAM Jaya Water        This activity has been applied to assist the PAM Jaya
Resource Advisory (SP-J)     management in carrying out JUDP-II PAM Jaya and it
has been financed by IBRD Loan 3219-IND.
9.     Central Management            This activity has been applied to assist the PAM Jaya in
Advisory Team                 providing advices to CMAT.
10.     Surabaya UDP PPF and         This activity has been directed to speed up the FED of
Priority FED                 the Surabaya UDP and it has been financed by the IBRD
Loan 3219-IND.



Note:
The map on the facing page shows the situation in 1988. Since then, the roads proposed
in the project have been constructed. The "FUTURE PROJECTS" have either been built,
are under construction, or all still proposed.



IBRD 2049
THAILAND                                                                         PROVINCE S0    AIIAU-   -- S                                    ...                                                   :.
BRUNQ t MAL  YStA    ;                          --E  NTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
JABOTABPK URBAN DEVELOMENT PROJECT' U
MA-_PYSA              MALAYSL -
\-NAPORE                                                                                                  A; IORT                                                                           J VA SEA
A               ~~~~KALIMI~NTAN71          > 
/     ' /      LAWESl/           X                        W IRIANJ JY /
JAKARTA                                                                                                            P
o JAWA                                                                                             -   L
TIMOR 
)-'30 -                              06 45                            I  0IN 0                               I 0TIl 5
JABOTABEK AREA                                              FOR U
A~~'~JGERANG  ZONE~~~ ,~   (                             BTANASIAN
D.K[4KAITA    i
ZONZON  11  IGLND 
-BPYSIAL ONSRAITS  ONE R        GOODN~Y  DRANAG,FRSH  ROUDWAER,OO               6'30         PROPASED PROJEET:
PRIMARY ARTERIALS
SECONDARY ARTERIALS
JNTERSECTIONS
RTRAF PIC MANAGEMENT SCHEMEIFl,0 yeo
GUTUTRE P OJECTS:                                          --       7)                  ir,6f
PRIMARY ARTER ANS
SECONDARY ARTERIALS 
EXIS1TING,
-    PEMARY ARITE:::                                                           f,i
SECONDIARY ARTERIALS l4
6-45 -          ~~LOCAL MAIN ROADS'I
ROADS                                           ZONE ILOLN  I INO, COASTAL                              6'5P  A4BSRUE
FLOODING,SALINE GROUNDWATEE,POOR SOIL UNSUITABLEPRAYBSOUE
RVERS                                                   FOR UIRBAN DEVELOPMENT                                             ..~JABOTAREK RA LWAYS
-   SISTRCT OR CITE ROIJNDARIES         ~~ZONE 1I LOVW LY NO PLAINS                                                     RIVERS                           3                                                                                   -','j               I                 
131SIRIT OR CTY BOUDARIESFLCGDING,FARMING, FRESH WATEE MARGINAL- -
*  0.1(1. JAKARTA BOENDATE                     IR~~~~~UBAN DEVELOPMENT                                               DSKI. JAKARTA BOUNDARY                                         DEPOK                                                                          KILOMETERS
ZONE II H CHE ANDS
-  PEYSISCAL CONSTRAINTS TONE                              000D DRAINAGE,FRESHI GROEJNDWATER,POOR AGE CULTURE
JABOTABFK BOUNDARY                        S~~~~UIT EALE FOB URBAN DEVELOPMENT
JAROTABEK BOENDART                 ~~~ZONE IV STEEP SLOPING
000D DRAINIAGE, LIMITED GROUNDWATER.,                                                                                                                                                                            AA    114
GOOD AGRICULTURE
ZONE V  MOUNTAINS                                                                                                                                                                                        ,,Ar-4P11
W30                 1 06'45                  ~~~~~~~~~NATURAL FOREST AREA,LMPITED AGRICULTVRE  107'',15



