Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14950-LV
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
MUNICIPAL SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NOVEMBER 20, 1995
Municipal and social Services Division
Country Department IV
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of July 12, 1995)
Currency Unit   =  Latvian Lats (Ls.)
Lats   =  100 santimes
Lats I   =  US$ 2
US$1   =  .50 Lats
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I metric ton                                               1,000 kilograms = 2,205 pounds (Ibs)
I kilometer (km)                                           1,000 meters (m) = 3,281 feet (ft)
I meter (m)                                                3.281 feet (ft)
I centimeter (cm)                                          10 millimeters (mm)
I millimeter (nim)                                         0.1 centimeter (cm)
I cubic meter (m3)                                         35.3 cubic feet (cu ft)
LATVIAN - FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOD  - Biological Oxygen Demand
CAS  - Country Assistance Strategy
DMEU  - Daugavpils Municipal Enterprise Udensvads
EBRD  - European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ERR  - Economic Rate of Return
EU  - European Union
EU PHARE  - European Union Assistance Program for Eastern Europe
HELCOM   - Baltic Marine Environment Protection Commission (Helsinki Commission)
IBRD  - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR  - Implementation Completion Report
ICB  - International Competitive Bidding
IMF  - International Monetary Fund
IS - International Shopping
MDF  - Municipal Development Fund
MOERD  - Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development
MOF  - Ministry of Finance
NS  - National Shopping
NBF  - Not Bank Financed
NEFCO  - Nordic Environment Finance Corporation
PCU  - Project Coordination Unit
PIP  - Public Investment Program
PMU  - Project Management Unit
PPF  - Project Preparation Facility
PTU  - Public Transportation Unit
RBMST  - Riga Board of Municipal Services and Transportation
SA  - Special Account
SOE  - Statement of Expenditure
THM   - Trihalomethane
TTP  - Riga Tram and Trolleybus Park
US EPA  - United States Environmental Protection Agency
VAT  - Value Added Tax
WHO  - World Health Organization



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
MUNICIPAL SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY   . ........................................  -i-
I. INTRODUCTION   ..................... ........................ - 1 -
A. Country and Sector Background  ......................................  1 -
B. Local Government in Latvia .........................................- 2 -
C. Organization of Municipal Services .             ...................................  3 -
D. Private Sector Involvement in Municipal Services ...........................- 4-
11. THE PROJECT .............................- 5 -
A. Objectives .............................................. -5-
B. Origin and Rationale  .............................................- 5-
C. Rationale for Bank Involvement              ............................ .- 7 -
D. Lessons Learned from  Past Operations    ............................ .- 7 -
E. Project Description  .............................................- 8 -
F. Cost Estimates  ..............................................- 11-
G. Project Financing Arrangements           ....................................  - 12 -
H. Procurement  .............................................  -14 -
I. Disbursement ..... ...........................................  - 17 -
J. Accounts and Audit ............... . 18 -
K. Environmental Aspects ..........................................   - 19 -
L. Participatory Approach ...........................................  20 -
111. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ARRANGEMENTS   ............                                   .............. - 21 -
A. Organization and Management .            .................................... - 21 -
B. Project Reporting  ...........................................   - 22 -
C. Project Supervision  ...........................................   - 22 -
IV. FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL ASPECTS                         ..............           ................  . 23 -
A. General Principles   ...........................................  . 23 -
B. Past Financial Performance  . ......................................  - 23 -
C. Tariff Levels, Subsidies and Transfers ..........                 ...................... - 25 -
D. Ticketing, Billing and Collection  .............. .. ................... - 27 -
E. Future Financial Performance   .         .................................... - 28 -
F. Affordability ............................................  30 -
G. Organizational Issues ...........................................  . 31 -



V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS    ..............                    .............. - 33 -
A. Project Benefits ............................  - 33 -
B. Project Risks ............................  - 34 -
VI. AGREEMENTS ............................  - 35 -
ANNEXES
A    Riga Public Transport Policy Statement
B    Municipal Development Fund Criteria
C    Project Implementation Plan
D    Environmental Review of Daugavpils Water and Wastewater Components
E    Environmental Review of Riga Urban Transport
F    Economic Analysis
G    Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP        IBRD No. 27295
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission between June 26 and July 12,
1995. Members of the appraisal mission included Messrs/Mmes: Kristin Gilbertson (Task
Manager), Alan Armstrong-Wright (Urban Transport Specialist), Kari Homanen
(Environmental Specialist), Martin Gambrill (Civil Engineer), Hortensia Hill (Procurement
Specialist), Betsy McGean (Social Ecologist), and Gulam Dhalla (Financial Analyst). The
following representatives of the donor agencies and co-financiers also participated in the
mission: Lars Eklund and Marianne Tegman (BITS), Michael Jensen (Danish Environmental
Protection Agency) and Leo Langgaard (EU PHARE). Technical assistance for project
preparation was provided by the Government of Japan, the Governmnent of Denmark, EU
PHARE and the Government of the Netherlands. Peer reviewers are Messrs. Vincent
Gouarne (EMTIE), Andrew Hamer (EA2EU) and Felix Jakob (ECIIN). The Division Chief
is Mr. Thomas A. Blinkhorn (EC4MS). The Department Director is Mr. Basil Kavalsky
(EC4DR).



REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
MUNICIPAL SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Republic of Latvia
Implementing Agencies:  The City of Riga
The Daugavpils Municipal Enterprise Udensvads
Municipal Development Fund of the Public Investment Program
Poverty Category:      Not applicable.
IBRD Loan Amount:      US $ 27.3 million equivalent
Terns:                 Seventeen years, including four years of grace, at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate and commitment fees.
Commitment Fee:        0.75 % on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less
any waiver.
On-Lending Terms:      To Riga City and to the Daugavpils Municipal Enterprise Udensvads with
municipal guarantee in US$ at the IBRD interest rate plus a mark-up for
cross-currency risk and loan administration (up to 30% of the Bank
interest rate), to be repaid over seventeen years including four years of
grace.
To beneficiaries of the Municipal Development Fund in US$ at the IBRD
interest rate plus a mark-up for cross-currency risk and loan
administration to be repaid over a period of up to seventeen years
including up to four years of grace.
Project Objectives:    The project aims to support the extensive decentralization and
intergovernmental fiscal reforms already instituted by the government by
providing access to investment financing and technical assistance needed
for rehabilitation and improved management of municipal services. The
project's specific objectives are to: (i) improve efficiency and quality of
public transport services in Riga, improve the financial condition and
promote further corporatization of the three Riga public transport
companies; (ii) improve the quality of drinking water in Daugavpils,
reduce discharge of untreated and partially treated wastewaters to the
Daugava River and Baltic Sea, improve the financial management and
promote further corporatization of the Daugavpils water utility; and (iii)
pursue similar objectives in other communities through financing of the
Municipal Development Fund (MDF).



- ii -
Project Description:      The project would finance: (i) rehabilitation of the Riga urban transport
system through provision of priority spares, replacement and repair of
dilapidated vehicles; introduction of improved financial and operational
management systems; strengthening of regulatory capability and further
corporatization of transport enterprises; (ii) construction of a new
groundwater supply system in Daugavpils, metering, addition of biological
treatment capacity to the existing sewage works, rehabilitation of pumping
stations, implementation of improved billing and financial systems,
improved financial and operational performance and further
corporatization of the utility; (iii) small scale investment projects in other
communities throughout Latvia by a Municipal Development Fund (MDF)
to be established in the Public Investment Program; and (iv) technical
assistance to support project implementation and agreed policy and
organizational reforms.
Project Benefits:         The project supports development of municipal infrastructure, identified as
a priority in the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy and the Government's
recent Public Investment Program. The project benefits include: (i)
increased reliability, comfort and efficiency of public transport systems in
Riga, improved financial viability of public transport companies, a
reduced rate of increase in automobile traffic and reduction in the likely
rate of increase in air pollution; (ii) improved quality and safety of
drinking water supply in Daugavpils, decreased operating costs,
introduction of demand management and a reduction in the pollution of
the Daugava River, Riga Bay, and Baltic Sea; (iii) similar benefits in other
communities obtaining financing for similar projects through the MDF;
and (iv) establishment of mechanisms that can be used in the medium term
for financing future municipal services projects and which can form the
basis for future efforts to channel funds to the sector.
Project Risks:            Major risks are that: (i) participating municipalities would not adhere to
agreed policy conditionality and/or financial and performance covenants
including provision of counterpart financing; (ii) inability of local
governments to manage project implementation leading to construction and
procurement delays; (iii) inability of local governments to prepare
satisfactory investment proposals for financing under the MDF; and (iv)
inadequate supervision of MDF projects.
These risks will be mitigated by: (i) prior agreement with municipalities
on terms and conditions required for sub-loan effectiveness and, in
particular, related to financial covenants, organizational arrangements and
local counterpart financing; (ii) a requirement that sub-loan agreements
between the participating municipalities and the Ministry of Finance on
behalf of the Government of Latvia would enable the Ministry of Finance
to deduct interest and principal repayments from taxes and other revenues
collected on behalf of local governments by the state tax administration;
(iii) provision of technical assistance for critical areas of project
implementation; (iv) adequate staffing of the PMUs for the three primary



- iii -
sub-projects; (v) addition of consultant staff to the PIP unit to assist with
administration of the MDF and to support municipalities in preparation
and supervision of projects; and (vi) establishment of a central project
coordination unit to monitor project implementation.
Environmental Aspects:   An environmental review for all identified investment components has
been prepared consistent with the provisions of the World Bank's
Operational Directive 4.01 on "Environmental Assessment" and in
accordance with the laws and procedures of the Government of Latvia.
Appropriate environmental review will also be required of projects to be
financed under the MDF component of the project.
The project has a B rating since most of the potential impacts are expected
to be beneficial. Support of urban transport in Riga will reduce fuel
consumption and lessen air pollution through replacement and
rehabilitation of older vehicles and by increasing attractiveness of public
transport as compared to private automobiles. Development of new
groundwater supplies in Daugavpils will increase the safety, quality and
reliability of drinking water supplies. Addition of biological treatment
facilities at the existing sewage treatment works in Daugavpils and
conservation of water will reduce pollution of the Daugava River, Riga
Bay and Baltic Sea. Each of these activities will be monitored and
evaluated for environmental impact throughout the life of the project.
Costs and Financing:    Total project cost is estimated at US$45.4 million of which: (i) US$27.3
million equivalent would be financed by the Bank; (ii) US$2.0 million
would be financed by NEFCO; (iii) US$9.0 million by grants from EU
PHARE and the Governments of Sweden, Denmark and Finland; and (iv)
US$7. 1 million in local counterpart financing.
Rate of Return:         The economic rate of return (ERR) for the Riga urban transport
component is estimated at 22%. This represents US$18.7 million or 41%
of total project costs. The benefits for the Daugavpils water and
wastewater component are not quantifiable, although assumed to be
significant given the positive impact on health and enviromnent; least cost
analysis has been used in determining the appropriate investment program.
Sub-projects to be financed under the MDF will be required to
demonstrate an economic rate of return of 12%.
Participation:          Preparation of the project has been carried out in close cooperation with
the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, the
City of Riga, the Riga public transport companies, the City of Daugavpils,
the Daugavpils Municipal Enterprise Udensvads, the Public Investment
Program unit, Ministry of Finance and the Union of Local Governments.
Map:                    IBRD Map No. 27295
Project ID:             LV-PA-34584






LATVIA
MUNICIPAL SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
A. Country and Sector Background
1.1           Latvia is a country of 2.6 million people with an area of 25,000 square miles (64,600
square kilometers). It is situated on the eastern coast of the Baltic Sea and is bounded by Estonia to
the north, Lithuania to the south, Russia and Belarus to the east and has a 500-kilometer coastline on
the Baltic Sea.
1.2          Since the restoration of Latvian independence in 1991, the country has undertaken a
program of political and economic reforms aimed at achieving a transformation to a market economy.
A formal macroeconomic stabilization program was launched in July 1992, supported by an IMF
standby arrangement. A transitional currency, the Latvian ruble, was introduced in 1992 and was
replaced by the permanent currency, the Lats, in May 1993. The Government has been successful in
containing monetary expansion and fiscal deficits, though the Government has recently been faced
with an unanticipated revenue shortfall for 1995. Initial inflation has been brought under control,
falling from over 900 percent in 1992 to 36 percent in 1994. It is projected to decline to
approximately 25 percent for 1995. The sharp decline in GDP which occurred during the initial
adjustment period has been arrested and initial indicators show positive growth in 1995.
1.3          Structural adjustment in key areas has progressed significantly: (i) most prices have
been liberalized; (ii) an open trade regime has been introduced and privatization of small businesses,
agricultural land and banking institutions is well advanced and housing privatization has recently
commenced; and (iii) the Government is reforming the social safety net through better means-testing
to target benefits to low-income groups. Banking and industrial sector reforms, however, have been
slower than initially anticipated. A banking crisis has emerged over the spring of 1995 and will pose
additional demands on Government resources to fund planned partial compensation of depositors.
National elections took place in early October 1995. Since no party woIn a commanding lead, another
coalition government will be created. While the implications for the continuation of the economic
reform process are not yet clear, there are good indications that major political parties are committed
to the reform.
1.4          The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) was discussed by the Board in September
1994. The World Bank's overall objective in Latvia has been shifting from supporting economic
stabilization and early structural policy measures to deepening structural reforms and promoting
private and public sector investments. In doing so, the Bank will also support decentralization efforts
made by the government, in particular, in delegating authority to municipalities in administrative and
financial decision making. The focus of the Bank's strategy is to: (i) enhance private sector
development; (ii) improve public infrastructure services and energy conservation; (iii) strengthen the
social safety net and improve social services; and (iv) address pressing environment concerns.
Investments in municipal infrastructure and environment have been identified as a priority in the
Public Investment Program (1995-1997) of the Government; they are also in line with the CAS
objectives and will be supported by the proposed project.



- 2 -
1.5    Although basic coverage by municipal services is relatively high, substantial investment is
required for rehabilitation and improvement of existing facilities, many of which are in extremely
poor condition given the lack of maintenance and investment during the adjustment period following
re-independence and given the already poor state of much plant and equipment. Urban transport
systems are operating at crush capacity given low vehicle availability, aging fleets and lack of spares
and new replacement vehicles. Municipal dump sites are nearing capacity and continued operations
pose a threat to groundwater supplies in many areas. Water quality is poor, distribution systems
inefficient and wastewater treatment limited. District heating systems are inefficient which leads to
higher costs and increased burden on local inhabitants. Roads are in poor condition and continue to
deteriorate.
1.6           In the present fiscal environment, neither state nor local governments have sufficient
resources to undertake needed investments out of current revenues, and public investment of all kinds
has been severely constrained during the adjustment period. At the same time, the borrowing
capacity of local governments and associated municipal enterprises has increased substantially due to
reform of intergovernmental fiscal relations combined with substantial increases in user charges and
continued movement towards cost recovery.
B. Local Government in Latvia
1.7            Since re-independence, Latvia has embarked on an ambitious program of
decentralization, reversing the decades old tendency towards centralization of authority during the
Soviet period and restoring the more traditional government structures which prevailed during the
inter-war years. Local governments have become increasingly important and now account for almost
one half of total public sector spending. They have complete responsibility for the delivery of critical
municipal services including water supply, sewage treatment, solid waste management, urban
transport, district heating and maintenance of urban roads. Local governments are also responsible
for housing and housing maintenance and share responsibility with the central government for health,
education and social services.
1.8            There are two levels of local government in Latvia. The first level consists of the
rural municipalities or pagasts (493) and the town municipalities (69). The second level consists of
the rajon (district or county) governments (26) and the seven republican cities which have rajon status
but also perform the functions of municipalities.' First-level local governments are responsible for
municipal services, housing, primary health care facilities and some social assistance. Second-level
local governments are responsible for public transport, industrial waste management, clinics, tertiary
care facilities, old peoples homes and homeless shelters. Responsibility for primary and secondary
education is shared by the two levels of local government, and teacher salaries are paid by the central
governments. Republican cities perform the functions of both levels of government. These
responsibilities and the structure of local government are laid out in the Law on Local Government
(June 1994).
1.9            Local governments are democratically elected. Two rounds of elections have been
held since re-independence, the last being in June 1994. Local government officials are subject to the
same civil service requirements as the central government and a massive education and skills
'The seven republican cities are Riga, Daugavpils, Jelgava, Jurmala, Liepaja, Rezekne and Ventspils.
.1- -                  W   t [ }a UL  v  WtJll A  ULz§11 l11BA 1i 1§11



development program  has been launched to enable local leaders to meet their substantially increased
responsibilities. The program has been led by the Ministry of State Reforms with assistance from the
Union of Local Government Training Center and the Danish Local Government Association with
financial support from the EU PHARE program.
1.10          In contrast to many other countries in transition, the system of revenue assignment to
local governments is both transparent and objective thanks to a series of reforms in intergovernmental
fiscal relations adopted over the past two years. Latvia has successfully moved away from a system
of negotiated transfers to a pure tax assignment model. Local goveinments have been assigned 100%
of the revenues from the personal income, land and property taxes and also receive a portion of the
natural resources and forest taxes. Unlike many other countries, the land and property taxes are
relatively unimportant sources of revenue. The income tax is the major source of local government
revenue. In all cases, the tax rates and the tax base are determined by the central government with
little opportunity for local discretion. Given the large income disparity among different regions in
Latvia and between rural and urban areas, there is partial equalization of revenues to ensure adequate
funding for minimal service provision in basic services such as health and education.
1.11          Local government budgets are formed independently according to laws and regulations
established by the central government. Accounting and reporting requirements are clearly specified in
the Law on Local Budget and the Law on Budget. These laws also provide for central government
oversight of local government borrowing and guarantees to ensure prudent financial management until
local governments gain experience in this area.
C. Organization of Municipal Services
1.12          Municipal services (water supply, wastewater collection and treatment, solid waste
management, public transport and district heating) are delivered primarily by autonomous municipal
enterprises. These enterprises are wholly owned by the municipality but are separate and independent
budgetary institutions with independent legal status as provided under the Law on Municipal
Enterprises (1989). The legal status of municipal enterprises is similar in many respects to that of
joint stock companies. Municipal enterprises can hire and fire at will, have the right to establish their
own budgets independently, can borrow and enter into contracts. Though there is no actual board of
directors, the municipality as the owner of the enterprise appoints and reviews the performance of the
president. The municipality retains the right to determine user charges; however, it is required to
compensate the enterprise for losses incurred by failure of the municipality to raise user charges to
cost recovery levels.
1.13          During the Soviet period, user charges for municipal services were subsidized to an
extreme degree. These subsidy programs are no longer affordable and most municipalities have
already substantially increased user charges for municipal services. In Daugavpils, water and
sewerage charges increased 10 times between January 1992 and June 1994. In Riga, water and
sewerage charges increased 20 times during the same period. Similar changes have taken place in
district heating, urban transport and solid waste collection. In many cases, user charges have been
increased to a level where they cover basic operating costs; however, in virtually all cases charges do
not cover costs of maintenance, depreciation or investment. With the exception of public transport,
most municipal enterprises do not receive any subsidies at all. Continued real increases are still
required to achieve full cost recovery. And, once that has been reached, there still remains a need to
ensure periodic increases to compensate for still significant inflation.



- 4 -
1.14           Funding for maintenance and investment are further constrained by massive
accumulation of arrears for many services. Since all billings are counted as revenues and since no
allowance is made for bad or doubtful accounts, income for most enterprises is overstated and there is
substantial pressure on cash flow. In the water sector, the average days receivable can be as high as
200 to 300 as compared to a target of 30 days or less. There is some evidence of arrears from
household consumers, but the most significant problem with arrears is with industrial consumers. In
the case of Riga water, 96% of arrears are due to industry. In the case of Daugavpils water, 61 % of
arrears are due to a single company. Municipal authorities have hesitated to enforce collection and
are reluctant to disconnect non-paying or late-paying customers due to the potential political
ramifications and due to concerns that such disconnection would hasten closure of what in many cases
are already bankrupt enterprises.
1.15           The central government provides a small number of individual grants out of the state
budget to finance selected investment projects, mainly for wastewater treatment projects and school
construction. These funds are rather limited given the constrained resources of government at all
levels and are insufficient to fund even a small share of the necessary investments at the local level
(such grants amounted to only Ls 1.4 million in 1994). Local financial institutions are willing to lend
to local governments when such loans are secured by commercially attractive property; however, the
terms are too short and rates are too high to enable local governments to tap into these funds for
infrastructure investment.
D. Private Sector Involvement in Municipal Services
1.16           There is already some private sector involvement in the provision of municipal
services in Latvia. Solid waste collection services have been privatized in both Riga and Liepaja and
are now being provided by independent contractors. In Riga, private bus operators provide
approximately 5% of public transport services. No water or district heating enterprises have been
privatized or contracted out. In such cases, private sector investment is limited given the hestitation
of local governments to allow enterprises to charge cost recovery tariffs and guarantee an appropriate
return on assets.



- 5 -
II. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
2.1           The project aims to support the extensive decentralization and intergovernmental fiscal
reforms already instituted by the government by providing access to investment financing and
technical assistance needed for rehabilitation and improved management of municipal services. The
project's specific objectives are to:
(a)    improve efficiency and quality of public transport services in Riga, improve the
financial condition and promote further corporatization of the three Riga public
transport companies;
(b)    improve the quality of drinking water in Daugavpils, reduce discharge of untreated
and partially treated wastewaters to the Daugava River and Baltic Sea, improve the
financial management and promote further corporatization of the Daugavpils water
utility; and
(c)    pursue similar objectives in other communities through financing of the Municipal
Development Fund.
B. Origin and Rationale
2.2          Investment in municipal infrastructure has been identified as a priority in the Public
Investment Program of the Latvian Government and in the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy. The
present project was identified in early 1994 after discussions with both central and local govermnent
officials regarding issues and priorities in the municipal sector. Three priority subprojects were
identified after discussions with state and local government officials based on their relative priority to
the local communities, relative priority as compared with other projects within the sector, and
perceived willingness of local communities to cooperate on a series of policy and operational reforms
to improve municipal enterprise performance. These are: (i) rehabilitation of Riga urban transport;
(ii) upgrading of the Daugavpils water and wastewater treatment systems; and (iii) establishment of a
pilot Municipal Development Fund (MDF). All three subprojects are included in the Public
Investment Program developed by the Government of Latvia which has been reviewed previously by
the Bank. Several priority subsectors were considered (including solid waste management
improvement in Riga but it was decided to consider this under a possible future project) and the three
were selected because of: (i) the willingness of the communities to undertake significant institutional
and pricing reforms in the subsectors; (ii) the critical importance of the two subsectors (urban
transport and water/wastewater) to, respectively, the capital (which contains more than a third of the
country's population) and the second largest city; and (iii) the potential for improved municipal
management in smaller communities through the pilot MDF.
2.3           Riga Urban Transport. Throughout Latvia, the quality of urban transport services has
seriously deteriorated given a lack of investment in maintenance and investment in the period since re-
independence. However, the situation is particularly critical in Riga which has a population of
approximately 860,000 and is the only major city in Latvia. Public transport, upon which 80 to 90%
of the Riga population are highly dependent, provides infrequent, crowded and unreliable service.
Many vehicles are idle due to the cost and difficulty of maintaining the aging fleets. Without



- 6 -
sufficient cash flow to begin retirement and replacement of aged vehicles, public transport services in
Riga will be severely compromised, vehicle operating costs will increase and reliability decrease as
vehicle breakdowns become increasingly frequent. This could hasten the trend toward greater use of
private cars to the detriment of city traffic conditions and the environment.
2.4           The majority of public transport services are provided by the three public transport
enterprises owned by the Riga City Council: bus services are provided by Imanta and Talava and
tram and trolleybus services by the Tram and Trolleybus Park (TTP). Since re-independence,
private operators have been free to apply to the municipality for licenses to run public transport
services in Riga. However, the number of private buses and minibuses in operation has never been
high, and in recent years has declined to less than 50 small "taxi buses." The lack of interest is
almost certainly due to poor returns arising from competition with the municipal enterprises which are
required to keep fares below full cost recovery levels and due to the high cost of credit. In the
medium-term the municipal enterprises should be privatized after liberalization of fares allows for
them to become financially viable and after strengthening the regulatory capacity of the existing Riga
Board of Municipal Services and Transportation (RBMST) to ensure a minimum level of competition,
safety and coordination of routes.
2.5           Daugavpils Water and Wastewater. Daugavpils is Latvia's second largest city with a
population of 120,000 people, the majority of wliich belong to Latvia's ethnic Russian minority. The
city grew rapidly after the second world war due to rapid industrialization. Presently, Daugavpils
derives most of its water supply from the Daugava River which is severely polluted by insufficiently
treated and untreated sewage water discharges upstream in Belarus and Russia. An incident involving
accidental dumping of cyanide into the water several years ago has made development of groundwater
resources a top priority. Drinking water does not meet Latvian or EU standards for iron, manganese,
aluminum or trihalomethanes (THMs), which are a by-product of the chlorination of raw water with a
high concentration of organics. While the iron and other metals are mainly an aesthetic concern, the
THMs are carcinogenic compounds. Although the relationship between cancer and THMs in drinking
water is difficult to prove, the general tendency is to move away from using contaminated or
otherwise high organic content surface waters for drinking water supply and, instead use groundwater
or treat water with activated carbon filters and ozonation.
2.6           The wastewater treatment works are limited to mechanical treatment and do not have
a biological treatment phase. Daugavpils has been identified, together with Riga and Liepaja, as one
of the three "hotspots" in Latvia for the Baltic Sea Joint Comprehensive Environmental Action
Program prepared under the coordination of the Baltic Marine Environment Protection Commission
(HELCOM) based in Helsinki. This program was adopted by the Ministers of Environment of the
Baltic Sea region, including Latvia, in April 1992. The proposed rehabilitation of the Daugavpils
wastewater treatment works would reduce the discharge of untreated and partially treated sewage and
would have a positive environmental impact on nearby beaches and recreational areas, the River
Daugava, the Riga Bay and the Baltic Sea. Daugavpils is the only remaining "hotspot" in Latvia as
improvements in wastewater treatment are being made with the support of the Bank under the Liepaja
Environment Project and improvements in wastewater treatment for the City of Riga are being
contemplated with the support of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD).
2.7           There are no immediate plans for privatization given the poor financial performance
of the Daugavpils Municipal Enterprise Udensvads (DMEU); this is due mainly to failure of the
municipality to allow imposition of user charges sufficient for full cost recovery. Substantial



improvement in financial performance, depoliticization of user charge determination and an increase
in the regulatory capacity of the municipality should result from the project and should elicit an
increase in private sector interest and involvement over the medium term.
2.8           Establishment of a Pilot Municipal Development Fund. Although Riga and the larger
cities are able to access loan financing for rehabilitation of municipal infrastructure from international
financing agencies such as the World Bank, most municipalities are not of sufficient size to justify
direct involvement. Investment needs in these communities remain unfunded or receive support
directly from the state budget. Such funding from the state budget is extremely limited and there is
no local lending at rates and terms appropriate for financing infrastructure investment. Establishment
of a Municipal Development Fund will enable the Government to channel loan funds from
international financing agencies to communities unable to borrow directly and will reduce dependence
on grants from the state budget for investments with primarily local benefits.
2.9           Preparation of feasibility studies for the major project components was initiated with
the assistance of a Japanese Policy and Human Resources Development Grant, the EU PHARE, and
the Ministry of Economic Affairs of the Netherlands. At the same time, the Bank initiated a program
of formal and informal sector work in local government finance to assess the viability of the
municipal finance framework in Latvia and its impact on local government borrowing capacity and
development of municipal services. This has formed the focal point for an ongoing policy dialogue
with the government on these issues and has been supported by a longer-term program of assistance
by US Treasury representatives in Latvia and the Danish Association of Local Governments whose
activities in local government training and civil service reform are being sponsored under the EU
PHARE program.
C. Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.10         Involvement of the Bank will foster introduction of requisite policy reforms,
institutional development, financial and operational improvements needed to ensure sustainability of
project investments and creditworthiness of beneficiaries. Since investment financing of the
magnitude required is not available from other donors (except EBRD in the case of Riga water, see
para 2.6), Bank participation will provide critically needed investment financing and help mobilize
limited resources from other donors and financiers.
D. Lessons Learned from Past Operations
2.11          The Municipal Development Sector Review (R-94171 dated August 22, 1994) notes
that a critical factor in the long-term development of urban services is the existence of satisfactory
intergovernmental fiscal relations. This issue has received substantial attention in the preparation of
the project. A municipal finance study was prepared and released to the government for discussion as
a technical note. This study found that reform of intergovernmental fiscal relations in Latvia has
moved quite rapidly and that the municipal finance framework is more than adequate to support the
project and long term development of the sector. (See also "Latvia: Local Government Expenditures
and Resource Transfers.") Other municipal projects have also demonstrated the importance of cost
recovery to sustainability, the need for financial covenants to ensure enterprise viability and the need
for operational reforms to increase efficiency (including billing and collections, maintenance and
operations practices and demand management).



- 8 -
2.12          Loans made to Latvia to date include a Rehabilitation Loan, the Agriculture
Development Project, the Enterprise and Financial Sector Restructuring Project, the Liepaja
Environment Project and the Jelgava District Heating Project. These projects have demonstrated the
value of targeted technical assistance to facilitate procurement, construction supervision and
implementation of institutional strengthening programs as well as policy reforms. These projects have
also shown the need to size investments in accordance with affordability considerations.
E. Project Description
Riga Urban Transport
2.13          New Buses. Many of the buses held by Imanta and Talava are too old for economic
use. The purchase of 36 new articulated buses (18 each) and the disposal of 95 of the oldest buses (49
Talava, 46 Imanta) would reduce the age profile of their fleets, would permit maintenance staff
reductions and would effect substantial maintenance cost savings. Enhanced reliability of the fleets
would improve ticket revenue and would decrease passenger waiting times. Replacement of older
vehicles would result in decreased emissions and greater fuel economy.
2.14          New Trolleybuses. Many of the trolleybuses held by the Tram and Trolleybus Park
(TTP) are too old and too small for economic use. The purchase of 30 new large and more energy
efficient articulated trolleybuses will permit the disposal of some 56 of the oldest and small
trolleybuses with no loss of passenger carrying capacity. Also since the fleet is larger than required
to meet the needs of peak operation, it will be possible to remove an additional 37 uneconomic
trolleybuses from service. The overall benefits will be a reduction in drivers and maintenance staff
(to be accomplished through attrition), and substantial savings in maintenance costs and energy
consumption. Since the new trolleybuses will be able to use the existing overhead power transmission
system, the marginal costs are equivalent to those of new buses.
2.15          Tram Electrical Equipment. The majority of TTP tramns use outmoded traction control
systems which are unreliable and do not make the most effective use of energy. The purchase of 60
thyristor chopper traction control systems, suitable for the newer trams in the fleet, will produce
energy savings, reduce down-time, reduce maintenance of accelerator units, and increase reliability
leading to increased ticket revenue.
2.16          Capital Repair Programs. A review of the Imanta and Talava bus fleets undertaken
by consultants found many buses to be in poor condition but not sufficiently bad to justify expensive
replacement in light of current financial performance. Instead, it is proposed that 80 buses at each
enterprise should be rehabilitated making use of existing maintenance staff and repair facilities, and
the purchase of the necessary spares and materials as part of the project. The program is expected to
extend the life of these buses by 5 years and postpone the need for new buses. In the meantime
rehabilitation will reduce maintenance cost and improve reliability leading to extra revenue. TTP
already undertakes a limited program of capital repairs. The provision of spares and materials will
enable this program to make badly needed improvements to bodywork structures.
2.17          Spare Parts. All three enterprises suffer from a serious shortage of spares. As a
result many vehicles are out of service for long periods. Some spares are made in their own
workshops; however, most have to be imported. The enterprises, with the help of consultants, have
drawn up schedules of vital spares. The purchase of these spares by the project for general



- 9 -
maintenance and capital repairs will improve reliability and reduce the wasteful down-time of vehicles
leading to reduced costs and increase passenger revenues.
2.18          Relocation of Imanta Workshop. The Imanta maintenance facilities are located on
three separate sites. This leads to inefficient control of staff and is wasteful of resources as vehicles
have to be shunted from site to site at additional cost. The project provides for the closure of one of
the sites and the building of a new workshop at the main depot.
2.19          Workshop Plant and Equipment. Some of the plant and equipment used by the
enterprises is fully depreciated and needs replacement. Schedules and specifications have been drawn
up with the help of consultants. The new plant and equipment will increase operational efficiency,
reduce manpower requirements, and increase reliability leading to increased revenue.
2.20          Training and Technical Assistance. The project will provide the Riga City Council
and the three public transport enterprises with training and technical assistance to: (i) facilitate
implementation of the project including procurement; (ii) oversee a pilot program to evaluate
proposed implementation of a new ticketing system; (iii) oversee implementation of agreed action
plans; and (iv) support capacity building of the Public Transport Unit (PTU) and its implementation
of policy reforms agreed to and enacted by the Riga City Council in the attached Public Transport
Policy Statement (Annex A). The City of Riga has agreed to implement all measures outlined in
the Public Transport Policy Statement including payment of compensation due to the public
transport companies in connection with concessionary fares that may be required from time to
time by the City of Riga. [para 6. 1(a)]
Dau2avpils Water and Wastewater Treatment
2.21          Development of Ziemelu Wellfield. The Ziemelu wellfield has been investigated over
many years and numerous test boreholes have shown it to be a potential high quality water source.
The pipeline between Daugavpils and the site was started prior to Latvia's re-independence but
construction was stopped due to a lack of funds. The present project would allow for completion of
the pipeline, development of the wellfield to a capacity of 13,000 cubic meters per day, and
construction of facilities for iron removal. This would, in combination with rehabilitation of the
existing groundwater wellfield at Vingri with a capacity of 12,000 cubic meters per day, allow the
city to substantially reduce its dependence on surface water. The resulting diversification of raw
water sources would enable the utility to provide a minimal level of service during any future water
emergencies. In addition, it provides a base for future development of groundwater resources at
Ziemelu which will enable a complete transition away from surface water in the medium term.
2.22          In order to facilitate future groundwater resource development, fixed infrastructure at
the site is being developed in such a way as to allow a staged transition to full capacity. Parallel
development of the wellfield and iron removal facilities is necessary to ensure community support for
tariff increases necessary to restore the financial viability of the utility. In addition to increased water
safety and water quality, development of groundwater resources would result in lower operating costs
due to savings on water treatment chemicals.
2.23          Rehabilitation of the Existing Wastewater Treatment Plant.  The existing wastewater
treatment plant provides for primary treatment only. Rehabilitation of the existing mechanical



- 10 -
treatment works and addition of a biological phase would allow for significant reduction in levels of
biological oxygen demand (BOD) and suspended solids to compliance with EU standards.2
2.24          Rehabilitation of Pumping Stations. All of the flow to the sewage treatment works is
pumped, and over 90% of the sewage delivered at the treatment works is pumped by the Kandavas
pumping station. The two pumps at Kandavas were installed in 1963, and one of the pumps cannot
run for longer than two weeks at a time. Although there is relatively little problem with overflow at
present, there are concerns about the reliability of the pumps at Kandavas and at the satellite pumping
stations.
2.25          Metering. Although industrial customers are metered, most household and
institutional customers are not. Water consumption is calculated based on normatives which
significantly underestimate actual consumption (220 liters per person per day billed as compared to
280 liters per person per day consumed). This is true even though leakage in Daugavpils is a
relatively minor problem given the relative newness of most of the distribution network and limited
length of the distribution system relative to population. Under the project, funding has been included
for installation of meters in each of 200 apartment (block) buildings to allow for billing of actual
consumption. The project would also include financing for installation of bulk meters in the network
to monitor system performance and assist in leakage detection.
2.26          Monitoring. The project includes financing for laboratory equipment needed to
support monitoring of water and wastewater. The project also includes financing for installation of a
set of monitoring wells in the vicinity of the proposed Ziemelu wellfield to monitor water quality and
to monitor impact of pumping on direction of known contaminant plumes.
2.27          Institutional Strengthening and Twinning. The project includes funding for a twinning
arrangement which would include consultancy and advisory services aimed at assisting the enterprise
in shifting financial and operations management practices towards a more market-oriented and
commercial basis appropriate to an independent utility. The Finnish government has agreed to fund
this on a grant basis, and an agreement has been reached with the water utility of Tampere, Finland.
2.28          Technical Assistance for Project Management. Previous projects in Latvia have
shown the need for targeted technical assistance to assist the beneficiary in project management and
implementation including procurement, disbursement and construction supervision as well as
assistance in implementation of financial and operational changes required under the project.
Technical assistance is included to support the DMEU in these areas. Technical assistance is also
included to support development of detailed design for project implementation.
Municipal Development Fund
2.29          A Municipal Development Fund would be established on a pilot basis to finance
similar municipal infrastructure investments on a smaller scale in a number of communities
2Given space constraints on the existing site, the volume of retention tanks is limited. Discharge
standards have been estimated using these parameters and can meet HELCOM standards with the retention time
possible under these conditions. Movement to an entirely new site with no such space constraints is not
financially possible nor economically justified.



- 11 -
throughout Latvia. If successful, the MDF would provide a mechanism for channeling funds to local
governments at all levels for small and medium sized projects and would obviate the need for separate
preparation and appraisal by lending institutions of each individual project.
2.30          The MDF was established by decree of the Cabinet of Ministers on November 10,
1995. [para 6.2(a)] The MDF will be administered by the Public Investment Programll (PIP) unit in
the Ministry of Economy under the supervision of an inter-minlisterial Board of Directors. The Boardl
includes representatives of the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Environinenral
Protection and Regional Development and the Union of Local Gove arments. Representatives from
other sectoral Ministries will be invited to participate in the evaluation of projects in those sectors.
2.31          Project proposals would be developed and submitted by the municipality and
would be evaluated on the basis of criteria and procedures agreed with the Bank. (See attached
Annex B). [para 6. 1(b)]. Only investment projects will be financed. Areas eligible for financing
include water supply, wastewater collection and treatment, solid waste collection and disposal,
transport, district heating, construction of schools and medical facilities. Projects will be selected on
a demand driven basis and are not pre-identified. To be accepted, project proposals must be in the
sectors outlined above, must meet rate of return targets and financial covenants, show adequate
arrangements for project management and implementation and must present technical studies
demonstrating project feasibility and selection of least cost alternative.
Institutional Development Component
2.32          The Project will provide for technical assistance to the Borrower as required for
implementation of the MDF and for the Project Coordination Unit. This component also includes
financing for purchase of related equipment needed for the establishment of these units.
F. Cost Estimates
2.33          The total cost of the project is estimated to be US$45.4 million (Ls. 22.7 million
equivalent) including price and physical contingencies; US$33.9 million or 75% are foreign costs and
US$11.5 million or 25% are local. Price contingencies are based on local inflation rates of 15% in
1996, 10% in 1997 and 6% thereafter. International inflation is estimated at 2.6%. Physical
contingencies were estimated at 10% for project components involving construction and civil works.
No contingencies have been calculated on the MDF component as the sum allocated is a flat amount.
Total contingencies represent US$4.9 million or 11% of total project costs. (Contingencies represent
US$4.1 million or 18% of the costs of the Daugavpils component). Project cost estimates do not
include taxes. Amounts to be expended on VAT are not included in the project cost estimates, nor on
the following table. It is expected that VAT will be levied on local costs and will amount to an
additional US$1.7 million.



- 12 -
Table 2.1
Estimated Project Costs
Ls- million                     US $ million
Local    Foreign   Total       Local      Foreign      Total
A.      Riga Urban Transport
Equipment purchase              0.3      8.5      8.7        $0.5       $16.9      $17.4
Technical assistance             0.0     0.2      0.2        $0.0       $ 0.5      $ 0.5
Total                            0.3     8.7      8.9        $0.5       $17.4      $17.9
B.      Daugavpils Water and Wastewater
Water supply and distribution    1.5     2.5      4.0        $3.1       $4.9       $ 8.0
Wastewater treatment             1.5     2.3      3.8        $3.1       $4.6       $ 7.6
Technical assistance             0.3      1.0     1.3        $0.6       $1.9       $ 2.6
Total                            3.3     5.8      9.1        $6.7       $11.4      $18.1
C.      Murlicipal Development Fund
Other investments                0.8     1.3      2.1        $1.7       $2.6       $4.3
D.      Institutional Development Component $0.1    $0.1    $0.1      $0.1       $0.1       $0.2
E.      Contingencies
Price Contingencies              0.9     0.6      1.5        $1.8       $1.3       $3.1
Physical Contingencies           0.3     0.6      0.9        $0.7       $1.1       $1.8
Total                            1.2     1.2      2.4        $2.5       $2.4       $4.9
Grand Total                      5.7     17.0    22.7        $11.5      $33.9      $45.4
Note: Some nunbers may not add up exactly due to rounding.
G. Project Financing Arrangements
2.34             The proposed Bank loan of US$27.3 million would finance approximately 60%  of
total project costs. The loan would finance US$23.0 million of foreign costs (68% of total foreign
costs net of taxes) and US$4.3 million of local costs (37% of total local costs net of taxes). The
Bank loan would be repaid over a seventeen year period including four years of grace at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate and standard commitment fees. Cofinancing in the amount of US$11.0
million has been confirmed for the Daugavpils component. A summary of the proposed financing
arrangements can be found in Table 2.2.
2.35             It was agreed that the Ministry of Finance would on-lend funds for the Daugavpils
water and wastewater component to the DMEU with a municipal guarantee of repayment. The
Ministry of Finance will on-lend funds for the Riga urban transport project to the City of Riga
directly for use by the three transport companies. The City of Riga will lend the proceeds to the
companies. Proceeds of the MDF would be on-lent at roughly the same terms and conditions as these
funds are provided to the Governmient of Latvia. It has been agreed that the interest rate mark-up
would be a minimum of 10% of the Bank interest rate and a maximum of 30% of the Bank interest
rate. Execution of subsidiary loan agreements with Riga and DMEU and the City of Daugavpils



- 13 -
would be required as conditions of effectiveness. [paras 6.3 (a) and (b)] The Ministry of Finance
would on-lend funds directly to beneficiaries of the MDF. Terms and conditions for sub-loans as
well as more details on individual financing packages for the various sub-projects are described
below.
Table 2.2
Summary Financing Plan
US $ million
Local     Foreign     Total     Percentage
IBRD                                       $4.3       $23.0       $27.3      60%
NEFCO                                      $0.5       $1.5        $2.0        4%
Govemment of Finland                       $0.0       $1.2        $1.2        3%
EU PHARE                                   $0.9       $1.7        $2.6        6%
Government of Sweden                       $0.0       $3.0        $3.0        7%
Government of Denmark                      $0.0       $2.2        $2.2        5%
Government of Latvia                       $2.0       $0.0        $2.0       4%
City of Riga                               $0.6       $1.3        $1.9        4%
City of Daugavpils                         $1.8       $0.0        $1.8        4%
Daugavpils Municipal Enterprise Udensvads  $0.5       $0.0        $0.5        1 %
Other Participating Municipalities         $0.9       $0.0        $0.9        2%
Total                                  $11.5       $33.9      $45.4      100%
2.36           Riga Urban Transport. The foreign component of the Riga Urban Transport sub-
project costs is relatively high at 97% given the emphasis on purchase of imported equipment and
extremely limited civil works. The municipality would be required to contribute 10% of total project
costs or US$1.9 million towards the project costs of which US$1.3 million would be foreign exchange
costs.
2.37           Daugavpils Water and Wastewater. The Bank loan would finance US$6.9 million or
approximately 31 % of total sub-project cost. NEFCO would provide a loan of US$2 million
equivalent (9% of total sub-project costs) for fifteen years at an interest rate of 0.5% over NEFCO's
cost of borrowing.
2.38           Donors involved in the Baltic Sea program have made commitments for grant
financing of US$9.0 million or 40% of the Daugavpils water and wastewater component of the
proposed project. The Swedish International Development Agency (US$3.0 million) and the Danish
Environmental Protection Agency (US$2.2 million) have committed joint financing of foreign
expenditures associated with the rehabilitation of the wastewater treatment plant and rehabilitation of
the pumping stations and gravity sewers subject to the approval of their respective governments. EU
PHARE has committed US$2.6 million which can be used for financing of the wastewater component
of the project. The Finnish government has committed to financing the twinning arrangement
(US$1.2 million). A condition for disbursement of the Daugavpils component would be that all
conditions be met for NEFCO co-financing and for grant financing by the Governments of
Sweden, Denmark, Finland and EU PHARE. [para 6.4(a)]
2.39           The Government of Latvia has committed US$2.0 million through the Public
Investment Program towards rehabilitation of the Daugavpils wastewater collection and treatment



- 14 -
systems. This financing would be on a grant basis and would be used to finance local costs. This
represents approximately 10% of total sub-project costs.
2.40         The municipality would contribute US$1.8 million and the water and wastewater
company US$0.5 million towards project costs met. Daugavpils' contribution to the financing
package has been set so that: (i) donor requirements regarding financing of the wastewater
component are satisfied; (ii) a minimum of 10% of total component costs are covered by the
municipality; (iii) total local counterpart financing (state and local) for the component is a minimum
of 20%; and (iv) total debt does not exceed estimated capacity for repayment.
2.41         Municipal Development Fund. Financing for the MDF is relatively modest as it is
intended to be a pilot, but should be sufficient for several moderate size projects. Total Bank
financing is US$3.5 million. Total local financing is estimated based on a maximum MDF
contribution of 20% towards sub-project costs. The selection of the first three projects and any
projects over US$500,000 will be subject to the agreement of the Bank.
2.42         Institutional Development Component. The project includes technical assistance for
consultant services and for equipment needed to assist the MDF and Project Coordination Unit
(PCU). US$100,000 of the loan proceeds has been allocated to the PCU and US$100,000 has been
allocated to the MDF. Repayment of these funds would be covered out of the interest rate mark-up
proposed by the Ministry of Finance.
H. Procurement
2.43         Procurement for Bank financed components would be governed by World Bank
Procurement Guidelines of January 1995 and would make use of the Bank's standard bidding
documents. Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 2.3 and details of the procurement
plan are located in Annex C. The general procurement notice will be issued on November 30, 1995.
A procurement workshop was conducted during the appraisal and a project launch workshop will be
conducted in February 1996. A Country Procurement Review Paper has been prepared.
2.44         Responsibility for Procurement. Procurement will be coordinated by the PCU in the
Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development (MOERD) which will be assisted by
procurement consultants, located in the Ministry of Finance, experienced in Bank procurement
procedures.
2.45         Procurement Procedures. For World Bank financed components the following
procedures are proposed.
(a)   International Competitive Bidding (ICB) will apply to all contracts for goods,
equipment and civil works greater than US$300,000. For the three major project
components it is expected that there will be 9 ICB contracts of which 7 are for goods,
1 for civil works and 1 supply and install. Total value of ICB contracts is expected to
be US$22.6 million for the two pre-identified sub-projects. Prequalification of
bidders will be required for the one supply and install contract and for the thyristor
chopper traction control systems.



- 15 -
(b)    National Competitive Bidding (NCB) will apply to civil works contracts greater than
US$50,000 and less than US$300,000. Bank sample bidding documents will be used.
Contracts involving NCB are expected to amount to US$3.4 million.
(c)    International Shopping (IS) will apply to contracts for equipment valued at less than
US$300,000 except as provided for below under local shopping. Contracts for IS will
be awarded on the basis of quotations to be obtained from a minimum of 3 suppliers
from at least 2 countries. This is expected to apply to contracts totalling US$2.0
million in the aggregate.
(d)    National Shopping (NS) will be used for items or groups of items costing less than
US$50,000 up to an aggregate of US$120,000. Award of contracts will be based on
at least 3 quotations obtained from three different eligible suppliers.
(e)    Consultant Services required under the project are expected to require US$1.8 million.
Consultant services would be procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines on the Use
of Consultants. Consultants would be shortlisted and selected on a competitive basis
with the exception of US$160,000 in short-term individual consultant services for the
MDF and PCU.
(f)    Direct Contracting will apply to purchase of some spare parts for the Riga urban
transport component of the project which have been identified as unique to trams,
trolleybuses and buses now in use and where substitution is not possible or where
compatibility of equipment cannot be demonstrated. Contracts involving direct
contracting are expected to amount to US$1.2 million.
2.46          In accordance with Bank procurement procedures, a preference for domestic
manufactured goods will be allowed equal to the applicable tariff for the nonexempt importer or 15%
of the CIF price of the imported goods offered by the competing bidders, whichever is lower. This
applies only to ICB contracts for goods.
2.47          Investments financed on a parallel basis by the Danish Government, the Swedish
Government, the Finnish Government, EU PHARE and NEFCO would be subject to the individual
procurement practices of those countries and organizations. In the case of the donors, most financing
is tied. Local counterpart financing from state and local governments would be subject to the
procurement requirements of the World Bank except where it is being applied towards a sub-
component of the project subject being financed by a donor or co-financier with distinct procurement
requirements which would govern that particular contract.
2.48          Prior Bank review will be required for all civil works and goods contracts over
US$300,000. Prior Bank review will be required for the first three NCB contracts for civil works.
Prior Bank review will be required for all consultant contracts greater than US$100,000 for firms and
above $50,000 in the case of individual consultants. However, regardless of value, all consultant
terms of reference will be subject to prior Bank review. Any contract awarded after direct
negotiations with suppliers would also be subject to Bank prior review. Prior review is expected to
cover US$44.8 million or 98% of the amount financed by the Bank and associated local counterpart
financing.



- 16 -
Table 2.3 Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$million equivalent)
Procurement Method
ICB     NCB       Other    NBF         Total Cost
1. Works
1.1  Construction of new maintenance facility            $0.9    $0.(       $0.0      $0.0       $0.9
(Riga Urban Transport)                               ($0.5)                                 ($0.5)
1.2 Municipal Development Fund                           $0.0    $4.3       $0.0       $0.0      S4.3
($3.4)                       ($3.4)
2.  Goods
2.1  Buses, trolleybuses (Riga Urban Transport)           $12.1    $0.0      $0.0      $0.0      $12.1
($1 1.0)                               ($1 1.0)
2.2 Thyristors (Riga Urban Transport)                     $2.4    $0.0       $0.0      $0.0      $2.4
($2.2)                                 ($2.2)
2.3 Spare parts, maintenance equipment, ticketing equipment  $0.3    $0.0    $2.6ah    $0.0      $2.9
(Riga Urban Transport)                               ($0.3)             ($2.4)              ($2.7)
2.4 Metering, Vingri Upgrading                            $0.(    $0.0      $0.4'      $0.0      $0.4
(Daugavpils waters and wastewater)                                      ($0.3)              ($0.3)
3.  Supply and InstaD
3.2 Groundwater well development and pipeline             $6.9    $0.0       $0.3'     $2.2      $9.4
(Daugavpils Water and Wastewater)                    ($5.3)             ($0.2)              ($5.5)
3.3  Rehabilitation of wastewater treatment plant and pumping  $0.0    $0.0  $0.0      $9.4      $9.4
stations (Daugavpils Water and Wastewater)
4.  Consultancies
4.1  Riga Urban Transport PTU                             $0.0    $0.0       $0.3      $0.0      $0.3
($0.3)             ($0.3)
4.2 Daugavpils PMU                                        $0.0    $0.0       $0.7c     $0.0      $0.7
($0.6)             ($0.6)
4.3  Daugavpils Design and Twinning                       $0.0    $0.0       $0.6'     $1.8      $2.4
($0.5)             ($0.5)
4.4 Municipal Development Fund                            $0.0    $0.0       $0.1C     $0.0      $0.1
($0.1)             ($0.1)
4.5  Project Coordination Unit                            $0.0    $0.0       $0.1'     $0.0      $0.1
($0.1)              ($0.1)
Total                                                     $22.6   $4.3       $5.1      $13.4     $45.4
($19.3)  ($3.4)    ($4.5)             ($27.3)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed by the Bank loan. NBF: Not Bank-Financed.
a.  By intemational (total US$2.0 million) and national (total US$120,000) shopping .
b.  By direct contracting (total US$1.2 million for purchase of proprietary spares).
c.  Services will be procured in accordance with World Bank, Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency (Washington, D. C., August 1981).



- 17 -
2.49          Procurement Monitoring and Reporting. Procurement data would be collected and
recorded by the PCU for: (a) prompt reporting of contract award information by the Borrower; (b)
comprehensive semi-annual reports to the Bank by the Borrower; and (c) revised timing of
procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract award, and completion time for
individual contracts. A computerized procurement management system would be installed by the
PCU.
I. Disbursement
2.50          It is expected that the loan will disburse starting in calendar year 1996 and finish in
year 2000. No standard disbursement profiles exist for municipal projects in Latvia or in the region.
The disbursement schedule for the Bank loan has been calculated separately for each component and
together in Table 2.4. Disbursement against specific categories is noted in Table 2.5. The Riga
urban transport component of the project is expected to disburse relatively quickly given the nature of
the project. Construction works for the Daugavpils component are not expected to commence until
the spring of 1997 and are estimated to require only two full construction seasons to complete given
the relatively modest nature of the works. The government has requested a Project Preparation
Facility (PPF) in the amount of US$510,000 to allow for initiation of detailed designs related to the
Daugavpils component and to allow for establishment of the PMUs.
2.51          Disbursement will be the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. However, the
PMUs will be responsible for preparing and maintaining all documentation. Disbursement training
will be organized for staff in the PMUs and the Ministry of Finance.
2.52          To facilitate project implementation, the Borrower would establish a Special Account
in a major commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to cover the Bank's
share of expenditures. The authorized allocation would be US$500,000, representing about four
months of average expenditures made through the Special Account. During the early stage of the
project, the initial allocation to the Special Account would be limited to US$250,000. However,
when the aggregate disbursements under the Loan have reached the level of US$2,000,000, the initial
allocation may be increased up to US$500,000 by submitting the relevant application for withdrawal.
Applications for replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted monthly or when one third
of the amount has been withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier. Documentation requirements for
replenishment would follow the standard Bank procedure as described in the Disbursement Handbook,
Chapter 6. Monthly bank statements of the Special Account, which have been reconciled by the
Borrower, would accompany all replenishment requests.
Table 2.4
Disbursement Estimates by Calendar Year
US$ million
1996         1997         1998         1999         2000
Total            8.0          11.4         6.0          1.5          0.4
Cumulative       8.0          19.4         25.4        26.9          27.3



- 18 -
2.53             Statements of expenditure would be used on goods and civil works contracts valued at
less than US$300,000. Statements of expenditure would be used on consultant contracts less than
US$50,000 for individuals and at less than US$100,000 for firms. Each PMU would be responsible
for retaining all supporting documentation and must be able to present this on request for inspection
by the Bank, the Ministry of Finance and external auditors. Full documentation would be required
for expenditures on contracts for goods and works above US$300,000 and for services above
US$100,000 (firms) and US$50,000 (individuals). The minimum size of the application for Direct
Payment and issuance of the Special Commitment would amount to 20%  of the authorized allocation
to the Special Account.
Table 2.5
Disbursement Categories
Category                       Amount               Percentage of Expenditure to be Financed
Allocated
(US$ M)
1.      Works for Riga Urban Transport             0.5         80%
2.      Goods                                                  100% of foreign expenditures;
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost); and
a)      for Riga Urban Transport          15.8        80% of local expenditures for other items procured locally
b)      for Daugavpils Water and
Wastewater                        5.7
c)      for Institutional Development      .I
Component
3.      Municipal Development Fund Investment      3.4         80%
Projects
4.      Consultancies                                          100%
a)      for Riga Urban Transport           .2
b)      for Daugavpils Water and
'Wastewater                       I . I
c)      for Institutional Development      .1
Component
5.      Refunding of Project Preparation             .5
Advance
TOTAL                                     27.3
J. Accounts and Audit
2.54             For each of the sub-projects, separate project accounts would be required to be
maintained according to accepted international accounting standards. The purpose of separate project
accounts is to ensure that the flow of funds flows associated with the project can be identified and
tracked. These project accounts would be subject to annual audit along with the special accounts, as
described above. Audit would be undertaken by qualified independent auditors acceptable to the Bank



- 19 -
and in accordance with international accounting and auditing procedures. The MDF would also be
audited on an annual basis by qualified independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Annual audits
for the two major sub-projects and for the MDF would be presented to the Bank no later than 6
months following the completion of the fiscal year. Audits of MDF sub-projects should be submitted
to the MDF no later than 4 months following the completion of the fiscal year.
K. Environmental Aspects
2.55         Preparation of the project has included environmental studies and reviews as required
under the Bank Operational Directive 4.01, "Environmental Assessment," and as required by Latvian
Law.
2.56         Daugavpils Water and Wastewater. This component involves improved water supply
for Latvia's second largest city and rehabilitation of the existing wastewater treatment plant in
Daugavpils. Both will have a beneficial environmental effect by: (i) providing safer supplies of
drinking water thus enhancing public health; and (ii) by reducing discharges of untreated and partially
treated wastewater to the Daugavpils River which will contribute to improved conditions in the Riga
Bay and Baltic Sea. An environmental review has been prepared in accordance with the requirements
for a "B" project which assesses the impact of discharge from the wastewater treatment plant and
which has been used to support the design of the component. The study also reviews previous
investigations of water quality at the proposed wellfield development and evaluates potential risk
factors. The findings of these reports are summarized and incorporated into the report in the
Environmental Review (Annex D). By January 31, 1996, DMEU will present a plan acceptable to
the Bank for addressing all issues highlighted in the Environmental Review: (i) establishment of
a groundwater monitoring program for the Ziemelu wellfield; (ii) improvement in sludge
management; (iii) establishment of a monitoring program for effluent from the wastewater
treatment plant and downstream river water quality; and (iv) remediation of the former Krizi
landfill to protect against any threat to the future quality of groundwater. A general condition
of the Daugavpils Project Agreement is that DMEU take all measures necessary to comply with
the agreed monitoring plan. [para 6. 1(c)]
2.57         Riga Urban Transport. This component has been prepared, as have other urban
transport projects in the Region, consistent with a "B" rating. An environmental study has been
completed with Dutch assistance (Annex E). This component is expected to have a positive impact on
the environment by reducing air pollution and energy consumption. Buses purchased under the
project will be required to meet higher emissions standards than the very old buses being withdrawn
from service, thus reducing the level of air pollution. The City of Riga already undertakes an
extensive program of emissions monitoring for buses and requires use of fuel meeting European
standards. Continuation of this program will be required as a general condition under the Riga
Project Agreement. [para 6. l(d)]. The sub-project, through introduction of improved maintenance
practices, will increase energy efficiency of the buses and reduce harmful emissions. Improvements
to trolleybuses and to tram traction systems will reduce energy consumption. Finally, the project is
designed to make public transport more attractive, thus reducing the rapid trend towards the use of
private cars and taxis. This would result in significant energy savings and reduced air pollution.
2.58         Municipal Development Fund Sub-projects would be required to meet both the
requirement of the Latvian Law on "State Environmental Impact Assessments" and Bank Operational
Directive 4.01.



- 20 -
L. Participatory Approach
2.59         The preparation of the project has been carried out in close cooperation with the
Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, the City of Riga, the Riga public
transport companies, the City of Daugavpils, the Daugavpils Municipal Enterprise Udensvads, the
Public Investment Program unit and the Ministry of Finance. Preparation of the Daugavpils Water
and Wastewater sub-project was carried out under the supervision of a steering group including
representatives of the Latvian authorities, the Swedish International Development Agency, the Danish
Environmental Protection Agency, the Finnish Ministry of Environment, EU PHARE, NEFCO and
the World Bank. Preparation of the Municipal Development Fund sub-project has been supervised by
a steering group including representatives of the Latvian Union of Local Governments.



- 21 -
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
A. Organization and Management
3.1          Project Implementation Responsibilities. Primary responsibility for project
implementation would be decentralized to local authorities. This is consistent with one of the main
project objectives - namely to help strengthen management capacity at the local government level for
key municipal services. An individual Project Management Unit or PMU has been established for
each of the subprojects. These units are responsible for preparation of designs, specifications,
construction supervision, institutional strengthening, implementation of policy reforms required under
the project, project reporting and project accounts. A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) has been
established under the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development to oversee
implementation and to coordinate procurement and reporting. Technical assistance needed for project
implementation is included in the project cost estimates.
(a)    Riga Urban Transport. Project management responsibilities would be assigned to the
Public Transport Unit (PTU) which has been created through addition of staff with
requisite financial, economic, procurement and legal skills to the RBMST. The City
of Riga shall maintain the PTU with functions and responsibilities acceptable to
the Bank and with staff in adequate numbers, with qualifications, experience and
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. [para 6.1(e)]. The PTU would be
assisted by international consultants financed under the project.
(b)    Daugavpils Water and Wastewater. A PMU has been established in the Daugavpils
Municipal Enterprise Udensvads (DMEU). During execution of the project, DMEU
shall maintain the PMU with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank
and with staff, in adequate numbers, with qualifications, experience and terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank. [para 6.1(f)]. The PMU would be assisted by
international consultants financed under the project and would also benefit from a
twinning arrangement being set up with grant financing from the Finnish Government.
(c)    Municipal Development Fund. The MDF has been established by decree of the
Cabinet of Ministers. The Public Investment Program (PIP) unit of the Ministry of
Economy would administer the MDF under the supervision of a Board of Directors
consisting of representatives of the Ministries of Economy, Finance, Environment and
Regional Development, and the Union of Local Governments. Additional staff with
experience in civil engineering and project finance would be required to enable the
PIP unit to discharge these responsibilities and these costs would be covered through
an administrative mark-up on the on-lending rate. Actual implementation of
investment projects financed by the MDF would be the responsibility of the respective
local governments and their associated municipal enterprises or departments which
would appoint a project coordinator.
(d)    Project Coordination Unit (PCU). A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) has been
established under the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development
to monitor project implementation, coordinate procurement and to track progress of
disbursement and compliance with project conditionality. The unit consisting of at
least two experienced staff with civil engineering and financial backgrounds would



- 22 -
also be responsible for maintaining relations with the World Bank and donors and
assisting in project monitoring and supervision. During the execution of the
Project, the Borrower shall maintain the PCU with functions and responsibilities
acceptable to the Bank and with staff in adequate numbers with qualifications,
experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. [para 6. 1(g)].
3.2          Implementation Schedule. The proposed project would be implemented over a five
year period with an additional six months for the payment of financial obligations committed prior to
the project completion date and full withdrawal of Loan proceeds. The project is expected to be
completed by December 31, 2000, and the Loan closed on June 30, 2001. The PCU would submit
an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) to the Bank within six months of the closing date.
B. Project Reporting
3.3          A Project Implementation Plan has been developed including key project milestones
and timetables (Annex C). These would be monitored by the PCU with the assistance of staff in the
Daugavpils PMU, Riga PTU and in the MDF. The PCU would be responsible for submitting semi-
annual reports on project performance to the World Bank in collaboration with PMU, PTU and MDF
staff. The PCU would also be responsible for submitting similar semi-annual reports on project
performance to other donors and co-financiers. A mid-term review by the Bank would take place
no later than September 30, 1998. [para 6. 1(h)].
C. Project Supervision
3.4          In addition to review of procurement actions, audits and semi-annual reports on
project progress, the Bank will conduct regular supervision missions. It is also likely that donors and
co-financiers will participate in these supervision missions. A supervision plan has been elaborated in
the Project Implementation Plan. Given that two cities are involved in the project and both are
inexperienced with project management and procurement, at least 22 staff weeks per year will be
required for project supervision during the first two years of implementation.



- 23 -
IV. FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL ASPECTS
A. General Principles
4.1            Central issues in the development of municipal services in Latvia are movement
towards cost recovery and reinforcement of the legal autonomy and budgetary independence of
municipal enterprises through formalization of contractual relationships and strengthening of
institutional structures. Introduction of measures to improve the financial status has been required
under the project. The present status of these efforts and future actions necessary are described in
more detail below for the Riga Urban Transport and Daugavpils Water and Wastewater components.
B. Past Financial Performance
4.2            User charges for municipal services are determined by the municipality for both
municipal enterprises and for municipal departments. Although local governments in Latvia have
already made substantial progress towards cost recovery, user charges in most cases still fall below
full cost recovery levels including depreciation and maintenance. At current levels, user charges do
not allow service providers to function on a commercially viable basis and to maintain appropriate
debt service coverage ratios. Special characteristics involving the identified components are detailed
below.
4.3            Riga Urban Transport. The 1994 operating performance of the three Riga municipal
transport companies is summarized in Table 4.1 below.
Table 4.1
Riga Urban Transport
1994 Operating Performance
TTP   Imanta          Talava         Total
Operating revenue                    Ls. Million     5.1    1.6             1.6              8.3
Operating expenses, excl depreciation    Ls. Million  (6.5)  (2.4)         (2.2)           (11.1)
Municipal subsidy                    Ls. Million     1.4    0.9             0.7              3.0
Operating income before depreciation  Ls. Million      -     0.1            0.1              0.2
Depreciation                         Ls. Million     (0.5)  (0.3)          (0.2)            (1.0)
Operating income after depreciation  Ls. Million     (0.5)  (0.2)          (0.1)            (0.8)
Average operating income after
depreciation per passenger           Santimes       (0.2)  (0.3)           (0.3)           (0.3)
Return on assets /a                   %              (15)   (36)            (22)            (19)
Equity /a                             Ls. Million    3.1   0.8             0.8               4.7
/a Fixed assets were revalued eight to ten fold on 1/1/93. Return on assets is calculated as: operating income,
including subsidy and after corporate tax, over average of opening and closing net fixed assets in service.



- 24 -
4.4           In Riga, public transport is subsidized though not to the same degree as in other
transition economies. The ratio of ticket revenue to total expenditures amounts to 56% (Imanta);
67% (Talava); and 72% (Tram and Trolleybus Park). The deficit for each of the three Riga
municipal transport companies is covered in part by transfers or subsidies from the municipal budget
amounting to a total of Ls. 3.0 million for 1994 for the three companies. Ticket revenue plus
transfers are sufficient to cover basic cash outflows; however, they do not cover depreciation and
amortization. This amounted to Ls. 1.0 million for 1994 or approximately 9% of total expenditures
for all three municipal public transport companies. This represents depreciation on historic book
value only, not actual replacement costs. As a result, the public transport companies have not been
able to purchase new replacement vehicles or to maintain sufficient spares inventories as required for
normal maintenance and periodic refurbishment of equipment.
4.5           The under funding of the transport companies has persisted since re-independence and
the state of the fleet has continued to deteriorate. The situation is particularly critical with respect to
the two bus companies where the average age of buses is 7.7 years (Talava) and 9.5 years (Imanta) as
compared to an expected useful life of 10 years for an Ikarus bus. The average age of trolleybuses is
approximately 10 years, slightly less than the useful life of the Skoda vehicles. (To enable efficient
operation, the average age of the fleet should be equal to half of the useful life of the vehicle - 5
years in this case). The situation is less severe with respect to trams as these have useful lives of 20
years, so lack of new investment over the last five years has had a much less serious impact. Without
sufficient cash flow to begin retirement and replacement of aged vehicles, public transport services in
Riga will be severely compromised. Vehicle operating costs will increase and reliability decrease as
vehicle breakdowns become increasingly frequent.
4.6           There are a number of factors contributing to the poor financial condition of the
enterprises. First, tariff levels established by the municipality are not sufficient to cover depreciation
even though they do achieve basic operating cost recovery. Second, operators are not directly
compensated for carrying passengers at concessionary or reduced fares. Such passengers account for
30% to 40% of all trips and it is estimated that the cost to the municipal public transport enterprises
amounts to Ls. 1.6 million annually, assuming a 0.5 price elasticity of demand. Third, fare evasion
is estimated at 10% and is estimated to cost operators Ls. 0.8 million. Fourth, operating costs are
high due to the age of the vehicle fleet, frequent breakdowns, lack of spare parts, and high employee
turnover due to perversely defined incentive programs.
4.7           Daugavpils Water and Wastewater. Table 4.2 below provides a summary of the
operating performance of DMEU for the last two years.
4.8           The financial condition of DMEU is poor. User charges are sufficient to cover the
basic cash outflows without any transfers from the municipal budget. However, they do not cover the
full costs of operation and some wastewater treatment processes have been discontinued due to lack of
funds for purchase of chemicals and repair of equipment. Even after economizing on operations,
uncovered costs represent 16% of total expenditures. The significant accumulation of arrears by
industrial customers has further strained the cash flow of the enterprise and the absence of any
allowance for bad debt expense distorts the validity of reported accounting income (losses). Estimated
annual losses of Ls. 100,000 and increases in accounts receivable are covered by accumulation of tax
arrears and depreciation.



- 25 -
Table 4.2
Daugavpils Municipal Enterprise Udensvads
1993 and 1994 Operating Performance
1993          1994   % Change
Billed water sales                   Million m3    11.7           10.4        -11
Sewerage volume                      Million m3    14.5           13.0        -10
Average tariff/m3 sold /a            Santimes        6.6          10.0        +51
Average operating expenses/m3 sold /    Santimes     6.9          10.7        +55
Average operating income/m3 sold /a    Santimes     (0.3)         (0.7)       -133
Operating revenue                    Ls. Million     0.8          1.0         +25
Operating expenses                   Ls. Million    (0.8)         (1.1)       +37
Operating income                     Ls. Million      -           (0. 1)
Return on assets /b                  %                (2)         (6)
Equity /b                            Ls. Million     1.3          1.6         +23
Receivables/annual billing           Days           110           131         + 19
/a Combined water and wastewater.
/b Fixed assets were revalued ten fold on 1/1/93.
4.8           In its present financial condition, DMEU is unable to provide for appropriate
maintenance of the system and cannot accumulate the funds necessary for replacement of urgently
needed equipment. Nor is it in a position to cover debt service, improved maintenance and increased
chemical costs needed to properly treat wastewater without increases in user charges and improvement
in collections.
4.9           Due to the general negative economic environment, the city has witnessed a decline in
local industrial output through closures and operations at low capacity, and a net outward migration of
the population. This has led to shrinkages in water demand. Over the last two years, billed water
sales went down by 12% (10%  in 1994) for domestic consumers; 32% (13% in 1994) for non-
domestic consumers; and 19 % (I I% in 1994) for all consumer categories. Combined average tariff
per m3 of water sold increased by 51 % in 1994, slightly below the 55 % increase in operating costs.
A faster decline in non-domestic consumption is accentuated in terms of overall revenue as the
domestic consumer is subsidized through cross subsidies. Non-domestic water consumption, as a
percentage of total consumption, has declined from 31% in 1992 to 26% in 1994. Thus fixed costs
have to be recovered from a declining sales base.
C. Tariff Levels, Subsidies and Transfers
4.10          Riga Urban Transport. Ticketing for the three municipal public transport companies
is unified and a single fare is established by the City Council. Although there was previously a zone
system in effect, this was eliminated in July 1994 by the newly elected city administration. At
present, a single fare of 8 santimes is charged for all distances. This fare was introduced in March



- 26 -
1995 and represents a one-third increase over the previous fare or roughly equivalent to the rate of
inflation. Further increases are being discussed in case of a rise in electricity charges.
4.11           The price of a monthly pass valid for 7 days per week is Ls. 3.50 for an adult. This
amounts to only 35 % of the estimated price of an equivalent number of single tickets (Ls. 10 per
month). The estimated discount is 65 %. Such monthly ticket sales amount to 43 % of total revenues
and cover more than 70% of total passenger rides. An approach to the rationalization of
concessionary fares was agreed with the municipality during the appraisal and will be implemented
upon completion of the transport model now under preparation.
4.12           Monthly ticket prices are further discounted for a number of classes of passengers.
Schoolchildren pay only 22% of the cost of an adult pass. Pensioners pay only 39% of the cost of an
adult pass and pensioners over seventy years of age pay only 19%. Former political prisoners and
children under seven travel for free. Concessionary fares for schoolchildren, small children and
former political prisoners are required under state law. Concessionary fares for pensioners are not a
state requirement and have been adopted independently by the municipality. As noted above, the
public transport enterprises are not compensated for carrying passengers at reduced fares. The total
cost of the concessionary fares program is estimated to be Ls. 1.6 million. The municipality
compensates the municipal public transport enterprises for uncovered losses excluding depreciation.
This subsidy amounted to Ls. 3 million for 1994 or Ls. 1.4 million in net subsidy over and above the
level required to cover concessionary fares. This represents a subsidy level of approximately 15%
which is considered to be justifiable considering the positive externalities associated with public
transport including reduced congestion and decreased expenditure on roads and road maintenance.
This compares favorably with other countries in the Region such as Russia where a reduction in
subsidies to 50% of cost recovery fares is targeted.
Table 4.3 Riga Urban Transport - Price of Monthly Tickets3
Category                                         Lats
Adult (7 day)                                    3.5
Adult (5 day)                                    2.60
Schoolchildren                                   0.75
Student                                          1.35
Pensioner                                        1.35
Pensioners over 70 years old                     0.67
As compared to single ticket expenditure:
Adult (125 trips/month)                          10.0
Pensioners/students (50 trips/month)             4.0
3For a single mode of transport (bus, trolleybus or tram) but would not allow for transfers between bus
and tram (etc).



- 27 -
4.13          Daugavpils Water and Wastewater. In accordance with agreements reached with the
City of Daugavpils and DMEU, tariffs for household and institutional customers were increased on
October 1, 1995, by approximately 80% to 12.5 santimes per m3 for water and wastewater services.
Industrial customers continue to pay 9 santimes for water and 6.6 santimes for wastewater for a
combined charge of 15.6 santimes per m3. This was the first increase since June 1, 1994, and will be
sufficient to cover current operating costs including payment of taxes and provision for maintenance.
This should improve the financial status of DMEU considerably and allow for resumption of various
treatment processes which were discontinued due to lack of funds.
D. Ticketing, Billing and Collection
4.14          Riga Urban Transport. Bus and tram tickets are sold mostly through third parties
such as news agents' kiosks and post offices, and by bus and tram drivers. Monthly concessionary
tickets are sold at TTP head office, and in addition, at post offices for pensioners. Sales commissions
of up to 5% are paid to third parties, whereas drivers get 10% commission, paid with their salaries.
Tickets are distributed by TTP and all cash collected, except for sales by drivers, is handled by TTP.
Ticket revenue is allocated amongst the three companies on the basis of seat/kilometers operated by
each company, irrespective of actual passengers carried. Based on seat/kilometers reported by each
company every month, TTP distributes the revenue and transfers the cash due, net of commissions, to
Imanta and Talava. TTP makes a monthly advance payment by the tenth day, and final settlement by
the twenty fifth day of the following month. Talava's Inter-city bus ticket sales are controlled by it
directly.
4.15          The present system of ticket revenue distribution is inequitable and leads to inefficient
practices. Revenue is determined by numbers of seats and distances travelled, with no regard to
numbers of passengers carried. The transport companies operate as many seat/kilometers as they can
without direct reference to customer demand.
4.16          As agreed with the city council, service contracts between the city council and the
transport companies, as required under this project and referred to below, will provide for new
revenue collection and distribution procedures. The city council, through its Public Transport Unit
(PTU), will be responsible for ticket revenue collection, including the issue of tickets and passes.
Any revenue collected by the transport companies will be handed over to PTU on the day of
collection. Ticket revenue will be distributed on the basis of number of passengers and distance
carried (passenger/kilometers). Transport operators will be permitted under the contract to operate an
incentive scheme to reward management and staff for good performance. The terms of the scheme
and the payments will be subject to the approval of the city council.
4.17          Daugavpils Water and Wastewater. Two different computerized billing systems
operate for metered and non metered consumers. About 94% of domestic consumers (38,000 in total)
are not metered, whereas the majority of non domestic consumers (800 in total) are metered. Non
metered consumers are billed on the basis of notional consumption according to set standard
consumption rates per person or business. Non metered consumers are not issued with monthly bills
as these are fixed. The consumer is notified of any changes which may occur, such as increase in
tariff, change in numbers in the household. All communication, such as notification of revised bills,
reminders of overdue accounts, paying-in-books, are hand delivered by the enterprise staff. Metered
consumers are billed monthly on the basis of readings taken by meter readers of the enterprise.



- 28 -
Metered bills are either hand delivered by meter readers or posted. Domestic consumers pay their
bills mostly through banks or post offices by means of standard pre-printed paying-in-books.
4.18          Metering of apartment blocks has been identified as a key priority for basic water
demand management and conservation. Although installation of block meters started in the middle of
1993, progress has been extremely slow due to lack of available resources. Funding has been
allocated under the project for the installation of meters in each apartment block building.
4.19          The present billing system needs to be upgraded so as to provide accurate, reliable
and timely management information and accounting data. The twinning arrangement under the
project with the water utility of Tampere, Finland, is expected to provide assistance in this regard.
4.20          Poor collection performance has been a major source of financial hardship for the
enterprise. The situation has progressively become worse and uncollected bills now represent over
four months' annual billing. The major difficulty is with industrial consumers who account for 62%
of uncollected bills (237 days of billing), followed by municipal enterprises (121 days), and domestic
consumers (61 days). Bad debts at present are estimated at Ls. 300,000. The future levels of bad
debts will be gradually brought down against set targets: 15% for 1996, 10% for 1997 to 1999,
7.5% for 2000, and 5% thereafter. It was also agreed with DMEU that consumer receivables, net
of bad debts, will not exceed 60 days' annual billing from end 1996 onwards and that the
municipality will allow DMEU to undertake disconnection of customers and other actions as
necessary to achieve this ratio. [para 6.1(i)].
E. Future Financial Performance
4.21          In all cases, there is need for substantial improvement in financial performance of the
municipal enterprises involved in the project. In particular, there is a need for improvement on direct
and indirect cost recovery as necessary to improve key financial ratios, to maintain appropriate debt
service coverage and to provide for adequate maintenance and future investment.  Each of the
enterprises will be required to maintain user charges and transfers sufficient to maintain: debt
service coverage of 1.3 times, positive net income and appropriate return on assets. Detailed
financial projections have been prepared for existing enterprises and special issues and conditions are
summarized below. (See also Annex C).
4.22          Riga Urban Transport. Financial projections prepared during the development of
detailed business plans for Imanta, Talava and the Tram and Trolleybus Park suggest that financial
performance can improve to desired levels provided that: (i) the municipality maintain the current
level of subsidy indefinitely; (ii) the municipality compensate municipal public transport operators for
carrying passengers at concessionary fares; (iii) a mechanism for increasing real fares and transfers to
cost recovery levels; and (iv) improved revenue controls and inspection are instituted that would
reduce fare evasion 50% by increasing the number of inspectors and increasing the amount of fines.
In addition, revenue will be increased and operating costs reduced through the project itself as it will
allow for the acquisition of new vehicles, retirement of the more dilapidated vehicles, provision for
adequate maintenance of vehicle fleet, and technical support and training.
4.23          The City of Riga will be required to maintain user charges and transfers
sufficient to enable the three public transport companies to achieve: debt-service coverage of
1.3 times, positive net income and a return on net assets of 10% from 1997 onwards. [para



- 29 -
6.1(j)]. The Riga City Council has agreed to an annual 5 % real increase in fares over the project
period over and above inflation and increases in input costs and taxes. The Riga City Council has
also agreed to compensate the transport companies for losses due to carrying passengers at
concessionary fares. The precise mechanism for determining such compensation will have to be
developed; however, preliminary estimates suggest that this will require approximately Ls. 1.6 million
per year out of the municipal budget or approximately 2.6% of total city revenues for 1995.
Increased costs of inspection are expected to be defrayed by increased fines.
4.24          If these conditions are adopted it is expected that cash flow generated will not only be
sufficient to cover the costs of debt service but would also allow for an adequate ongoing program of
fleet renewal within three to four years. The companies will thus be in a position to bring down and
maintain the average age of the fleet to the generally accepted norms within the medium term. In the
long term, a balance will need to be achieved between the levels of investments and payment of
dividends to shareholders. The financial projections have assumed no dividend payments.
4.25          Daugavpils Water and Wastewater. Recent tariff increases will enable DMEU to
meet current operating expenses. However, further tariff increases would need to be implemented
over the next five years to raise combined tariffs for all customers to 23.4 santimes per m3 of water
sold (estimated in 1995 prices), excluding 18% VAT, to cover increased operating costs as required
to adequately maintain equipment, achieve financial viability and meet the proposed financial targets
set under the project. The schedule for these increases is summarized in Table 4.4. In addition to
the required 1.3 times debt service coverage, the utility would be expected to achieve a positive
net income and a minimum annual return on net assets of 1.5% from 1997 onwards. [para 6.1
(k)].
Table 4.4
Daugavpils Water and Wastewater
Projected Tariff Levels
(in 1995 Santime Equivalents, excluding 18% VAT)
1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001
Actual
Water /a:
Household/Institutional     4.0    8.5    9.5  10.0  10.3   10.3   11.7
Industry                    9.0    9.0   9.5  10.0  10.3   10.3   11.7
Wastewater /b:
Household/Institutional     3.0    4.0    5.0    5.5    9.0   9.1   9.5
Industry                    6.6    6.6    6.6    6.6    9.0   9.1   9.5
Combined Average /a         10.5   14.5   16.3   17.0  21.3   21.4   23.4
/a Water and combined average tariffs are stated in terms of m3 of water sold.
/b Wastewater tariffs are stated in terms of m3 of wastewater.
4.26          The above tariffs are quoted in 1995 santime equivalents and do not allow for the
effects of inflation and exchange rate movements in the future. Actual tariffs charged would have to



- 30 -
be higher. Based on domestic inflation projections, the nominal tariffs indicated are given in Table
4.5.
Table 4.5
Daugavpils Water and Wastewater
Projected Tariff Levels
(in nominal Santimes, excluding 18% VAT)
1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001
Actual
Combined Average per
m3of water sold      10.5   16.0   19.0  21.0   27.9   29.7  34.4
4.27         These tariff increases have been calculated assuming substantial donor contributions
towards the construction of the wastewater collection and treatment facilities, and including cost
savings due to phase out of surface water treatment. The tariff increases also allow for: (a) write-off
of existing bad debts and repayment in equal installments of existing backlog of unpaid taxes due to
the municipality over the next five years; (b) future levels of bad debts as noted above; (c) consumer
receivables, after bad debts not exceeding 60 days' annual billing from end 1996 onwards; (d) staff
reduction (through attrition) of 5% in 1996 and 5% in 1997; (e) annual payroll increases of 3% in
real terms to allow for recruitment of new staff, and for motivation and retention of staff; and (f)
adjustments of norms for household water consumption to actual measured levels by completion of
block and bulk metering program by 1998.
4.28          With these tariff increases, DMEU would be able to substantially improve key
financial performance ratios including appropriate debt service coverage, positive cash flow and
improved maintenance practices. From 2000 onwards, the utility will also be in a position to finance,
from internally generated funds, an ongoing capital investment program of rehabilitation of the main
water network over a long term period.
F. Affordability
4.29          An assessment of the affordability of the user charge increases discussed above for
each of the investment programs has been made and suggests that the resulting charges are, in all
cases, reasonable and affordable and will not require any modification to existing social support
programs. As user charge increases will be necessary for all services including those not involved in
the present project, affordability has been evaluated by comparison of share of household expenditure
on affected services as compared to international averages.
4.30          Riga Urban Transport. Monthly ticket prices of Ls. 3.5 for adults represent only 4%
of the current monthly wage. (The national average wage is Ls. 85 per month. Though Riga wages
are known to be higher, no recent information is available on wage data for the city so the national
average is used as a conservative estimate.) Concessionary monthly fares for pensioners of Ls. 1.35
amount to only 4.5% of the average pensioner's income. Annual fare increases of 5% in real terms
will result in a 48% cumulative increase by the end of 8 years. At that point, monthly fares would



- 31 -
still amount to only about 6% of monthly wages. Furthermore, it can be expected that real wages
would also have increased. This compares to a norm of 10% in most other middle income countries.4
4.31          Daugavpils Water and Wastewater. User charges in Daugavpils have until recently
been quite low in comparison with those in other cities. Riga has a combined charge of 17 santimes
per m3 of water for households and 25 santimes per m3 for industry. In Liepaja, the combined
household charge is 11 santimes and 28 santimes for industry. The recent increase in household user
charges from 7 to 12.5 santimes is appropriate and brings tariff levels in Daugavpils to a level
comparable with other Latvian cities. Further increases to 23.4 santimes over a five year period
would be necessary to support increased costs associated with improved wastewater treatment and
increased depreciation charges due to the new investments. (All tariff levels are quoted in 1995
constant terms).
4.32          The recently adopted tariff amounts to 95 santimes per person per month based on
average billed consumption of 250 liters per day. With an average household size of 2.4, this
amounts to Ls. 2.28 per family per month or approximately 1.9% of household income (estimated for
Daugavpils as 117 lats per month on average). This compares to a norm of 3 to 5 percent used to
evaluate the affordability of other water sector projects. Even after full phase-in of all tariff increases
necessary to finance the project and increase in the billed quantities to actual consumption levels, total
expenditure on water and wastewater would amount to Ls. 4.78 per household per month or roughly
4.1 % of household income. This is estimated conservatively and does not include any assumption of
an increase in per capita income over the period. (This does not include VAT, as charges for
municipal services are exempted as of November 1995).
G. Organizational Issues
4.33          Municipal enterprises already enjoy a substantial degree of autonomy and are run as
separate budgetary entities by independent enterprise directors appointed by the respective city
council. Increased autonomy would be achieved under the project by strengthening of contractual
arrangements between the municipality and the municipal enterprises, encouragement of movement
towards full incorporation as a joint stock company in combination with suitable contractual and
regulatory arrangements deemed necessary to protect the public interest, and by improvement of the
basis for determination of tariff levels. Introduction of these measures should ensure that municipal
enterprises involved in the project have sufficient resources to maintain new equipment and facilities
and appropriate incentives to increase operational efficiency.
4.34          It should be noted, however, that most municipal enterprises are afflicted with
substantial operational inefficiencies. Overstaffing is a problem at all levels and departments and is
exacerbated by management practices. Financial accounting systems are inefficient, antiquated and do
not provide appropriate management information. Maintenance and operations protocols are poor.
Despite substantial management autonomy, little has been done to address these problems and
technical assistance will be required to allow for exposure to new management techniques and
approaches.
4Armstrong-Wright, Alan and Thiriez, Sebastion, Bus Services: Reducing Costs, Raising Standards,
(Washington, DC: World Bank Technical Paper Number 68, Urban Transport Series, 1987), p. 68.



- 32 -
4.35          Specific measures proposed to address these problems are detailed below.
4.36          Riga Urban Transport. Draft contracts between the municipality and the three public
transport enterprises have been prepared. These establish the terms and conditions for service
delivery and the rights and responsibilities of the enterprises relative to the municipality and vice
versa. The contracts will provide guidelines for determination of fares and will establish a
mechanism to provide for compensation for concessionary fares. The city has presented a proposal
for the rationalization of fares during the appraisal and this will be implemented by the PTU.
Adoption of satisfactory contractual arrangements will be required as a condition of
effectiveness. [para 6.3(c)] Movement towards incorporation of the three companies is being
discussed; however, it has so far been rejected by the municipality given that most of the benefits of
joint stock company status already apply to municipal enterprises.
4.37          Detailed business plans have been developed with the assistance of consultants
financed under the Japanese Grant and have been agreed with the three public transport enterprises.
Key points of the business plans are as follows:
(a) The staff to vehicle ratio should be reduced by at least 10% over the next several years. This
can be easily implemented through attrition.
(b) Improved revenue, costing and inventory control systems should be implemented as necessary
to improve efficiency and effectiveness of administrative staff. Adoption of a revenue,
costing and inventory control system acceptable to the Bank will be required by June 1,
1996. [para 6.1(1)]
(c) Funding for piloting of ticketing systems is included under the project and will be evaluated as
a measure to decrease fare evasion as well as to collect information necessary for
rationalization of routing structure.
4.38          Daugavpils Water and Wastewater. It has been agreed with the municipality during
appraisal that the contract and enterprise statutes for DMEU would be revised to formalize the
relationship between the utility and the municipality. Conclusion of a contract between the City of
Daugavpils and DMEU will be required as a condition of effectiveness. [para 6.3(d)] A key issue
to be addressed in the contract is the establishment of a formal mechanism for determination of user
charges. It is also being proposed that the enterprise be incorporated as a joint stock company
wholly owned by the municipality. Further analysis of this issue will be one of the elements of the
twinning arrangement. Daugavpils will be required to present a reorganization plan for DMEU
by January 1, 1997, and undertake its implementation by December 31, 1997. [para 6. l(m)].
4.39          The situation regarding overstaffing at the enterprise has been discussed, and the
municipality has agreed in principle to separation of the internal plumbing maintenance unit from
DMEU which will reduce headcount by approximately 10 percent. Further reductions of 10% over
the next two years are assumed in the financial projections and can be achieved easily through
attrition. Other organizational weaknesses in finance and operations will be addressed through the
twinning arrangement with the water utility of Tampere, Finland.



- 33 -
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
5.1           The project supports the development of municipal infrastructure identified as a
priority by the Government of Latvia in its Public Investment Program and by the World Bank in its
CAS. The project will provide for a number of critically needed investments for priority sub-projects
identified by the state and local governments with the assistance of the World Bank and donors during
project preparation. The project will also support the implementation of a number of necessary
financial, operational and regulatory reforms needed to ensure the sustainability of the proposed
investment program and to allow for the future development of the municipal sector. Implementation
of agreed policy measures and further conditions under discussion will lead to increased commercial
viability of the enterprises participating in the project and will form the basis for potential increased
private sector involvement in municipal services in the future. Improvement of the financial condition
of municipal services enterprises and increased movement towards cost recovery will also limit
demands on local government resources. The project supports the government's efforts towards
decentralization by providing local governments with a source of investment funding for priority
projects.
5.2           Specific benefits of sub-projects are noted below. A discussion of assumptions and
calculations is contained in Annex F.
5.3           Riga Urban Transport. The purchase of new articulated buses and trolleybuses, and
the disposal of the oldest buses and trolleybuses, will improve the overall performance of the public
transport fleets and will prevent the continued deterioration that would occur without the project.
This, together with the supply of spares and improvements to trains, will permit maintenance staff
reductions and would effect substantial maintenance cost savings. Improved financial and
management information systems would allow for reduction of administrative staff. This will enable
staff reduction of 10% to be achieved through attrition within two years.
5.4           The estimated economic rate of return is 22 percent. The net present value of the
project is US$8.8 million with an assumed discount rate of 10 percent. Benefits due to reduction in
passenger waiting time have been estimated conservatively given the partial nature of the
rehabilitation effort and represent a small portion (5%) of total benefits. The majority of benefits are
due to prevention of fleet deterioration which would otherwise result in increased vehicle operation
costs. These calculations and the underlying assumptions are explained in Annex 5. The sensitivity
of the ERR was measured against project costs and assumed benefits. It is possible to maintain an
ERR of 12% with an assumed increase in project costs of 38% and an assumed decrease in benefits of
28%.
5.5           Daugavpils Water and Wastewater. Construction of a new groundwater wellfield will
enable diversification of water supplies and development of the basis for complete movement away
from surface water. Daugavpils is downstream from major chemical factories and there have been
several accidents involving accidental discharge of toxic chemicals into the river. (Several years ago
cyanide was discharged into the water and required cutting off all surface water intakes).
Diversification of water supplies will minimize the social cost of such temporary pollution incidents.
Eventual complete transition from surface water will substantially reduce the public health risks from
undetected spills. It is not possible to fully quantify the benefits of the proposed investment,



- 34 -
although it can be reasonably assumed that they would be significant given the positive impact on
public health and environment. A least cost analysis was conducted using the alternative of upgrading
the surface water treatment works to include carbon filters and ozonation. Estimated costs of full
wellfield development were equivalent to construction of the new groundwater intake, though
operating costs for water treatment would be 25% higher due to chemicals costs. Although this
alternative would result in a reduction of THMs and improved water quality, it would still leave water
supplies vulnerable to sudden or undetected contamination.
5.6           The measures to be instituted in rehabilitation of the wastewater treatment works
would significantly reduce the current discharge of BOD and Nitrogen. The proposed project
supports the commitments of the Government of Latvia, as party to the Helsinki agreements, to fulfill
the recommendations of the Baltic Sea Joint Comprehensive Environmental Action Program by
reducing pollution of the Baltic Sea from a priority "hot spot". As with the water supply component,
the benefits of improved wastewater treatment are difficult to quantify. A least cost analysis was
conducted and included evaluation of simple biological treatment, biofiltration and full biological
treatment at a new site. Simple biological treatment was selected as the most cost effective solution.
5.7           Municipal Development Fund. Sub-projects to be financed under the MDF will be
identified only during project implementation. A criteria for selection of sub-projects for financing
under the MDF is that they achieve a minimum economic rate of return of 12%.
B. Project Risks
5.8           The major risks are that: (i) participating municipalities would not adhere to agreed
policy conditionality and/or financial and performance covenants including provision of counterpart
financing; (ii) inability of local governments to manage project implementation leading to construction
and procurement delays; (iii) inability of local governments to prepare satisfactory investment
proposals for financing under the MDF; and (iv) inadequate supervision of MDF projects.
5.9           These risks will be mitigated by: (i) prior agreement with municipalities on terms and
conditions required for sub-loan effectiveness and, in particular, related to financial covenants,
organizational arrangements and local counterpart financing; (ii) requirement that sub-loan agreements
between the participating municipalities and the Ministry of Finance on behalf of the Government of
Latvia enable the Ministry of Finance to deduct interest and principal repayments from taxes and
other revenues collected on behalf of local governments by the state tax administration; (iii) provision
of technical assistance for critical areas of project implementation; (iv) adequate staffing of the PMUs
for the three primary sub-projects; (v) addition of consultant staff to the PIP unit to assist with
administration of the MDF and to support municipalities in preparation and supervision of projects;
and (vi) establishment of a central Project Coordination Unit (PCU) to monitor compliance with loan
and sub-loan covenants and with project implementation timetable.



- 35 -
VI. AGREEMENTS
6.1    The following agreements were reached during Negotiations:
(a) The City of Riga will implement all measures outlined in the Public Transport Policy
Statement of July 11, 1995, including payment of compensation due to the public transport
companies in connection with concessionary fares that may be required by the City of Riga.
(para 2.20)
(b) Projects to be financed under the MDF will be selected in accordance with criteria agreed
with the Bank. (para 2.31)
(c) DMEU will take all measures necessary to comply with the environmental requirements of an
environmental monitoring plan to be agreed with the Bank. (para 2.56)
(d) The City of Riga will cause the RBMST to monitor public transport emissions in accordance
with a monitoring plan agreed with the Bank. (para 2.57)
(e) The City of Riga will maintain the PTU with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the
Bank and with staff in adequate numbers, with qualifications, experience and terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank. (para 3.1(a))
(f)  DMEU will maintain the PMU with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank and
with staff in adequate numbers, with qualifications, experience and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank. (para 3.1(b))
(g) The Government of Latvia will maintain the PCU with functions and responsibilities
acceptable to the Bank and with staff in adequate numbers with qualifications, experience and
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. (para 3.1(d))
(h) A mid-term review by the Bank will take place no later than September 30, 1998. (para 3.3)
(i) DMEU will take such actions as are necessary to ensure that consumer receivables, net of bad
debts, will not exceed 60 days' annual billing from the end of 1996 onwards and the City of
Daugavpils will allow DMEU to undertake disconnection of customers and other actions as
necessary to achieve this ratio. (para 4.20)
(j) The City of Riga will be required to maintain user charges and transfers sufficient to enable
the three public transport companies to achieve: debt service coverage of 1.3 times, positive
net income and a return on net assets of 10% from 1997 onwards. (para 4.23)
(k) The City of Daugavpils and DMEU will take such actions as are necessary to enable DMEU
to achieve: debt service coverage of 1.3 times, positive net income and a return on net assets
of 1.5 % from 1997 onwards. (para 4.25)
(I) The three Riga transport companies will adopt a revenue, costing and inventory control
system acceptable to the Bank by June 1, 1996. (para 4.37(b))



- 36 -
(m) The City of Daugavpils will be required to present a reorganization plan for DMEU by
January 1, 1997 and undertake its implementation by December 31, 1997. (para 4.38)
6.2    The following action has been taken by the Borrower as a condition of Board presentation:
The Municipal Development Fund was established by Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers on
November 10, 1995. (para 2.30)
6.3    The following actions will be required as a condition of effectiveness:
(a) Execution of the subsidiary loan agreement between the City of Riga and the Ministry of
Finance. (para 2.35)
(b) Execution of the subsidiary loan agreement between the DMEU and the Ministry of Finance
with the guarantee of the City of Daugavpils. (para 2.35)
(c) Adoption of satisfactory contractual arrangements between the City of Riga and the three
public transport companies. (para 4.36)
(d) Conclusion of a contract, satisfactory to the Bank, between the City of Daugavpils and
DMEU for the provision of water and wastewater services. (para 4.38)
6.4    The following will be required as a condition of disbursement for the Daugavpils Water and
Wastewater component of the Project:
All conditions for NEFCO co-financing and for grant financing by the Governments of
Sweden, Denmark, Finland and EU PHARE will be met. (para 2.38)
Recommendation
6.5    Subject to the above, the Project is suitable for a Bank Loan of US$27.3 million equivalent at
the standard variable interest rate with a maturity of 17 years including 4 years of grace.



ANTNEX A
Page 1 of
RiGAS DOMNE                                                 PJGACT\'COUNCI
Latvia: Municipal -Services Development Project
Riga Urban Transport
Policy Statement of the Riga City Council
on Public Transport in Riga
General
The policy of Riga City Council is to reform public transport and create market
conditions in order to improve service levels, efficiency and financial viability. it
intends to move tariffs closer to cost recovery levels, to stabilise subsidies and to
eliminate uncovered costs.. Competition will be introduced and the private sector
encouraged to participate in the provision of public transport.
The existing public transport enterprises will be required to implement agreed
business plans and to enter into contracts with the Municipality for the supply of
services.
An appropriate regulatory authority (Riga City Public Transport Unit) willbe set up
in the Transport and Communications Board to oversee public transport operators
and the ticketing system.
Tariffs
Public transport tariffs will be increased by 5% in real terms (i.e. over and above
inflation) each year until an acceptable level of financial viability is reached. Also,
the tariff structure will be rationalised in order to relate tai.ffs more closely to
distance travelled and costs, and to improve weekly and monthly passes.
Concessionary travel
The City Council intends to implement proposals to compensate operators for
providing concessionary travel. The amount of compensation will be related to the
differernce between the futl fare and the concessionary amount paid. Since the
concessions are to meet social needs the compensation will be funded from the
Social Budget.
Revenue Control Inspectors
In order to reduce the very substantial amount of tariff evasion on public transport,
the City Council intends to set up within the Municipallty a Public Transport
Revenue Control Service that will function according to the principle of self-
financing, basing on the contract between the Control Service and public transport
companies. The number of revenue control inspectors will be gradually increased.
Riga City Council will promote the increase of the fine for tariff evasion in order to
retain an appropriate deterrent. (The present fine is 0.50 Ls).



* ANNEX A
Page 2 of 3
Riga City Public Transport Unit
The Riga City Council will establish an ef'ective Public Transport Unit (PTU) within
the Transport and Comnunications Board. The functions of the PTU are to:
(a) develop, oversee, monitor, and coordinate public transport services;
(b) draw up contracts with public transport operators regarding levels of
service, routes, tariffs, subsidies and concessionary travel compensation;
(c) oversee the tariffs and ticketing system, including the gathering and
distribution of revenue, and the revenue inspection teams;
(d) develop and administer a public transport vehicle and operator licensing
system;
(e) oversee the implementation of the public transport component of the
project funded by the World Bank.
The PTU will be provided with adequate staff, taking into account the proposals of
the World Bank experts, in order to undertake these functions effectively.
Municipal Public Transport Enterprises
The Riga City Council intends that the municipal public transport enterprises will
follow sound commercial practices. This will involve each enterprise having a
board of director, separate accounts and detailed costing and revenue accounting
system. The management of each enterprise will be answerable to its board of
director, and will act within the framework of the agreed business plan. The
management and staff will receive appropriate incentives for good performance.
The enterprises will enter into contracts with the Municipality for the supply of
services which will be overseen by the PTU, as above. Each board of directors will
include a representative of the Municipality.
To increase efficiency, it is intended that the contract system will encourage the
Municipal public transport enterprises to compete amongst themselves for routes.
Also the enterprises will not be protected from any healthy competition from the
private sector should this arise.
The aim is that the Municipal public transport enterprises will gradually improve
their economic activities that could stirnulate the at-raction of the local and foreign
investments.
Implementation of Actiom Plans
In order to reap the full benefits of the World Bank loan, the Riga City Council will
ensure that the bodies concerned (i.e. the Municipality, IMAANTA, TALAVA, and
TTP) effectively implement all the Action Plans set out in the agreed Business
Plans For Public Transport Enterprises.
Participation of the Private Sector
The policy of the Riga City Council is to promote efficient competition and to
encourage the participation of the private sector in the provision of public
transport services. The City will perrnit private operators to operate public
transport services provided that the vehicles meet safety and environmental
standards and the operator can demonstrate evidence of professional competence.
Also, PTU may issue contracts to private operators for the provision of required
services, and to permit them to take part, as appropriate, in the ticketing system
and concessionary travel compensation scheme.



ANNEX A
Page 3 of 3
To encourage private investment in public transport, and to improve the
opportunities of the private sector to obtain funding, private operators will be
provided with an appropriate regulatory and legal environment.
Non-rnotorised transport
In view of the very considerable economic and environmental benefits of non-
motorised transport, the Riga City Council intends to promote greater use of non-
rnotorised modes (cycling and walking). The opportunities will be exarnined and a
programme developed for the provision of facilities for cyclists and pedestrians
together with appropriate publicity.
O.Batarevskis
Deputy Chairman
Riga City Council






ANNEX B
Page 1 of 10
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA, MINISTRY OF ECONOMY
GUIDELINES FOR SUBMISSION OF PROJECTS
TO THE MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT FUND
THE PUBLIC INVESTMENT PROGRAM DEPARTMENT
DRAFT - JULY 4, 1995
Abbreviations and Acronyms:
CBA -Cost benefit analysis
CEA -Cost Effectiveness Analysis
BCR -Benefit Cost Ratio
GoL -Government of Latvia
IRR -Internal Rate of Return
MDF-Municipal Development Fund
NPV -Net Present Value
PIP -Public Investment Program
PIPD -Public Investment Program Department
MoF -Ministry of Finance
MoE -Ministry of Economy
1. Introduction
1.1    The Municipal Development Fund (MDF) is administered by the Public Investment Program
Department (PIPD) of the Ministry of Economy (MoE). These guidelines are issued by the
Department in order to regulate submission of projects for financing from the MDF. They state
requirements and procedures of submission of projects with which applicants must comply.
2. Objective of the MDF
2.1    The main objective of the MDF is to mobilize resources from private lenders, central
government, donor agencies, and local governments themselves and make them available for
municipalities for investment in urban infrastructure. Thus the MDF is an additional source of funds
for the municipalities to finance projects being under their responsibility described in the law "On the
municipalities." Other objectives include strengthening the operational capacity and efficiency of local
governments by assisting them in the design, appraisal, and execution of investment programs;
rationalizing programs moving away from the ad hoc investment practices; and injecting rational
criteria into the geographical and sectoral distribution of funds.
2.2    The MDF is particularly well suited to the needs of smaller cities, which may lack
administrative skills and access to capital markets.
2.3    The Fund commences its activity with an initial capital of 3.5 million USD loan from the
World Bank. Financing from the state budget and other sources is foreseen also at the later stage. The
loan is made to the Government of Latvia (GoL) and will be on-lent to participating municipalities to
implement the proposed sub-projects. The funds can in turn be lent by the municipalities to the
concerned municipal enterprises. In some circumstances it is possible to lend directly to the
municipal enterprise upon obtaining a suitable guarantee from the municipality. In both cases, the



ANNEX B
Page 2 of 10
municipality is responsible for repayment of the sub-loan in case of default by the municipal
enterprise.
3. Supervisory bodies of the MDF
3.1    The Fund is governed by the Board of the MDF approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. The
Board consists of one representative from Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of
Environmental Protection and Regional Development and the Union of Local Governments. The
Board approves financing of projects from the MDF. During the Board approval session a
representative from the corresponding sector ministry shall be present (with voting right).
4. Projects eligible under financing from the MDF
4.1    Only investment projects in the area of municipal services meeting assessed needs and
reflecting both of the local communities' and national priorities. Those project by sector are:
(a)    Energy:
(i)    rehabilitation and construction of heating supply systems and boiler houses;
(ii)   rehabilitation and construction of gas supply networks; energy saving by
introduction of metering of consumption of heating, gas and water;
(iii)   reduction of energy losses by insulation of municipally owned apartment
houses and other public buildings.
(b)    Transportation:
(i)    rehabilitation and construction of streets, roads, bridges;
(ii)   introduction of traffic solutions aiming at improvement of transport conditions;
(iii)   rehabilitation and construction of infrastructure used by transportation
enterprises.
(c)    Environment:
(i)    water supply and waste water treatment facilities;
(ii)   solid waste disposal and processing;
(iii)   rehabilitation and construction of dams and common use melioration objects.
(d)    Education - rehabilitation and construction of schools;
(e)    Health care:
(i)    rehabilitation and construction of health care facilities;
(ii)    purchase of medical equipment.
(f')    Social care - rehabilitation and construction of different type facilities for retired,
handicapped and orphans;
(g)    Rehabilitation and construction of premises for municipal police and other public
buildings for social, cultural or administrative needs of the local community.



ANNEX B
Page 3 of 10
5. Servicing fee
5.1    To cover operational expenses of the MDF a service fee shall be added to the interest rate of
the loan. This fee shall cover costs and salaries of specialists hired by the MDF for project appraisal
(civil construction engineer, a project economist). Procurement and disbursement will be the
responsibility of the MoF, and the work of the members of the Board corresponding to their input.
6. Project appraisal criteria
6.1   Submitted projects should be subjected to cost benefit analysis or should have a business plan.
Alternatives should be adequately assessed and the least cost solution (investment plus recurrent
costs). Projects should meet existing technical, construction and environmental standards and
regulations;
6.2   The economic rate of return should be demonstrated to be over 12%;
6.3   For revenue generating sectors the financial feasibility of proposed investments should be
made and a plan for cost recovery (including proper maintenance) provided. Financial projections
should be made including income statements, balance sheets and cash flows of the project owner. A
minimum debt service coverage of 1.3 should be maintained by the enterprise or department
implementing the project. Minimum cost recovery targets should be set by the sector. If tariff
increases for municipal services are necessary to meet these targets, then this should be formally
agreed with the Council of the municipality and the agreement submitted prior to approval of
sub-project;
6.4   Borrowers should demonstrate their existing financial, technical and administrative capability
to operate and maintain the proposed services. Borrowers should demonstrate also adequate project
management capacity to design and supervise project implementation and control project costs.
Where necessary, borrowers should be required to take necessary steps to improve their capability in
these areas, or to restructure the public utilities enterprises to meet the requirements;
6.5   Environmental impact analysis (EIA) of proposed investments should be made and necessary
mitigation measures built into project according to the Latvian law on environment protection and
rules of the World Bank;
6.6   During the first cycle the participation of the MDF in financing should not exceed the amount
of 500,000 Ls and the share of the MDF can not exceed 80% of the total project costs. At least 10%
of the cost of the project has to be covered by the borrowing municipality;
6.7   The MDF can participate in financing only of those projects which exceed 20-30% of the total
budget of the borrowing municipality and which could not reasonably be financed by the municipality
on its own within 34 years. Debt servicing payments may not exceed 15% of the yearly budget of
the borrowing municipality in cost recovering sectors or 7-10% if the credit is repaid by the
municipal budget;
6.8   MDF credits for sectors covered by special budgets such as Road Fund, Environment
Protection Fund etc., can be issued only if at least 20% of corresponding municipal special budget is
allocated for this project.



ANNEX B
Page 4 of 10
Box 1. The Project Concept Paper
The Project Concept Paper (PCP) should be used to seek out the views of the Government and
other stakeholders at an early stage of the project cycle. The paper should specific the objectives of the
proposed project, the problem it intends to address, the alternative ways of addressing the problems, the
potential benefits/costs and the intended beneficiaries and potential losers. It shall be submitted at the
standard Form (see Annex A)
7. Terms of loans
7.1    The loans for the MDF will be given for up to 17 years depending on the nature of the
investment and corresponding to the benefit stream of the investment. Repayment has to be started
after completing the construction but not later than after 1/4 of the whole loan period.
7.2    Funds disbursement from proceeds of the World Bank loan must satisfy World Bark
procurement procedures. For projects below 25,000 Ls local shopping shall be applied. For civil
construction works between 25,000 and 150,000 Ls, national shopping will apply. For goods
contracts between 25.000 and 150,000 Ls international shopping will apply. International competitive
bidding (ICB) will be used for all contracts over 150,000 Ls. All ICB contracts will require prior
review by the Bank.
7.3    The World Bank would review the first 3 projects on no objection basis and any individual
project larger than 250.000 Ls.
7.4    Funds on-lent from proceeds of the World Bank could, with the approval of the MoF, be
recycled.
8. Project submission procedure
8.1    To receive financing from the MDF municipal projects must be included into
the PIP. Thus the submission cycle is similar to the process of submission of the other PIP projects.
To be included into the PIP all projects must be submitted to the PIPD.
8.2    The project submission cycle begins with the Project Concept Paper (PCP) which shall be
submitted to the PIPD (See Box 1). The PCPs can be submitted throughout the whole year, however
they shall be reviewed four times a year during the first week of the quarter. The idea behind the
PCP is that the applicants should not waste resources on feasibility studies of projects which have no
chance of being included into the PIP. The crucial part of the PCP is the financial information (see
Box 2) about the applicant/enterprise which allows the PIPD to assess his financial viability, technical
and administrative capability to operate and maintain the proposed services. The PCP shall be
approved by the highest elected body of the municipality (Council). An opinion of an appropriate
sector ministry should be supplemented.



ANNEX B
Page 5 of 10
8.3    The paper should be made jointly by applicant, potential source of financing, and discussed
with other stakeholders including potential beneficiaries/affected parties. The final version should be
submitted to the PIPD consideration. In reviewing the PCP, the PIPD examines:
-the consistency of the proposed project with the MDF requirements;
-whether the proposed intervention is consistent with the sectoral and national priorities;
-whether the borrowers can demonstrate financial, technical and administrative capability to
operate and maintain the proposed services.
8.4    On the basis of the recommendations of the PIPD, the MDF Board sends a formal letter to
the sector municipality indicating: (i) formal approval to appraise the project; (ii) a delay of appraisal
pending further discussions of the proposals; or (iii) a rejection of the project. In case of formal
approval to appraise the project, the letter will also specify required issues to be addressed during
appraisal.
8.5    After having received a formal approval from the MDF the applicant can proceed with the
project appraisal. After having completed the appraisal the application shall be submitted to the PIPD.
The project application dossier shall contain:
- the project profile (see Annex B also filled in English);
- the feasibility study;
- opinion of the appropriate sector ministry.
8.6    The PIPD shall screen the project verify/make an financial and economical analysis of the
project and recommend only sound projects to the Board for approval.
8.7    Procurement procedures are to be made by the borrower in cooperation with the MOF.
Payment is made by the MoF.
9. Procedures for projects submission to the PIPD
The process of submission of a project to the PIPD relies on a sequence of the following procedures:
9.1.    Preparation of the Project Concept Paper by the applicant and discussion of the paper with
various stakeholders;
9.2.    Submission of the PCP (on the standard form) to the PIPD for consideration. MDF Board
upon the PIPD recommendation decides what steps should be next, in particular, to appraise or not
appraise. The Board notifies the line ministry giving clearance for appraisal and/or indicates
any other actions that needs to be taken;
9.3.    Project Appraisal. The appraisal report should respond to issues raised by the project
screening criteria in Box 2 and specific issues raised in the Board decision to appraise the project;
9.4.    Preparation of the project feasibility study by the applicant;
9.5.   Submission of the project profile form and PAM to the PIPD for inclusion into the PIP and
financing from the MDF.



ANNEX B
Page 6 of 10
Box 2. Criteria for Screening Projects for Inclusion in the PIP
Crnteria                                                                                                                               Remarks
Is the project consistent with government policy objectives and strategies, and
with public expenditure priorities for the sector and sub-sector? What are the key
policies and strategies in the sector? Which are the main areas in which
s:upporting public investmtnest and expeiditure is sseeded? What art tht telative
priorities between these aras? Hlow well do existing programs and projects meet
this needs? Could the objectives be more effectively addrtssed theough alternative
policy measures? CasM  the ptoject be undertaken by a private investor? What is
the track record of sinilar projects? Does the project fit wish sectoral and
sub-sectoral resource ceitngs? If not, can resources be diverted from other lower
priority uses, or can the project be redesigned to fit within the ceiling?
What is the project's net worth? What are the likely impacts of the project? Do
Eosonic Viability                                                                          they justify the use of the resources involved? How does be project compare with
alternative investments? Cars the benefits of the project be expressed itt tenms of
an IRR, NPV or benefit'cost ratio? Is the IPR  above the required level?
Projcat Designi                                                                            Is the project adequately specified? Are further feasibiliy and design sludies
:needed before the project can be considered for ioclusin  in the PIP?. IS the
proposed way of irtilementing the prorect the nost feasible of the alternatives
available?  Are the design specifIcations sppropriate, or could spler solutions
be adopted? Are the implementation experiences of similar project been taken
into sccount? Htow well :ha the project been costed? How detailed and up-to-date
arc the cost estinates? Is there an appropriste balance between capital, technical
assistance and operational costs? Are complementary measures or investrnesl
:neeed  to ensure the success of the project? If so, will they take place or shLsld
they be incorporated itt the project?
Pinancig                                                                                    1 Has a source of financing beenl identified? 1f so, are tire tennsH and conlitiins:
appropriate? What are likely government fmawing  requirements? How can ithese
he minimized? What are the recurrent cost inplications of the pre$ect? Have
recurrent costs been estimated? How is it intended to maee them? Are thEy
sustainable within the sectoral and sub-sectoral resouce ceilings? 
Assessmnt: of an applicant                                                                  What is die fiancial perfonmance of the applicant? Does tbe applicant operate
with profit? What is the dynamics of incomes and expentses  What is the financial
......                                                                              position of the applicant? What is the amount of resources, i.e, assen and the
liabilities? What is the company rnasageter4s of its cash flow?I-How effectively ts
has tse ctmpany masged its cash flows? What ate the prbable future cash        :
inflows and outflows, incsidng its ability to meet future obligatilri*s  Wsat Is :th
managerial capacity of the applicaW? Can:the applicat dem strate its
:nanagerisl capabiity to operate and maintain the proposed services? Does ii:have
an adequate project managenmnt capsesty to design and supervine  projetc
implementation and control project eosts? Doei it have a tract record in



ANNEX B
Page 7 of 10
Annex A. Project Concept Paper Form
1. Municipality:
Contact person:
2. Ministry/Sector:
Contact person:
3. Project title:
4. Project owner:
Name:
Street:                                    Location:                         Post
Code:
Contact person:
Telephone:                                   Telefax:
5.     Objectives (what are the goals of the projects)
6.     Background and justification (what is the situation in the projects field, including answer to
the question: what would happen if the project is not implemented, what are the problems the projects
intends to address, thealternative ways of addressing the problems, what are the potential
benefits/costs and the intended beneficiaries and potential losers).
7.     Project description (what are the stages of the project, project components in terms of
equipment, civil works, working capital, local vs. imported input)
8.     Estimated project costs (costs shall be calculated in constant 1996 Ls.The price should
specify: the purchase price (fob/for and cif), custom duties and other taxes and levies, cost of
installation at site and cost of technical assistance).
9.     Expected source of financing (budget, MDF, other credits, grant, own resources).
10.    Planned period of project implementation
11.    Estimated recurrent costs in Ls/year (with indication who will bear the costs)
12.    Technical assistance requirements (N/Y of what type: management,
restructuring, know-how)
13.   Information about the applicant. (Please attach to the Form financial statements (Income
statement and Balance sheet) of the applicant for the last 2 years and Statement of Cash Flow (without
the project) and Cash Flow projections (with the project) for the period covered by the proposed
project (See Box 3).
14.   Information about the municipality. (Please attach to the Form financial statements (Income
statement of the municipality for the last 2 years and budget for the current year).



ANNEX B
Page 8 of 10
Box 3. Overview of External Financial Statements
The: Income. Statement reports the profit performance of a business entity. The term  profit is used widely though:is frequently
: substituted by  the technical term  net income. The model for the income statement is: REVENUES - EXPENSES  =  NET
:;:INC:OMED:0  !   ::-  X         :   
Angirncomestatement reports the revenues an expenses for a specified period. Revenues cause inflows of resources: into a
business, and expensesJcause outflows of resources. Income statements report revenues, expenses, and net income for a specified
: 1perid of time, e.g., fortAhe year ended December 31, 1995.
TJheBalance Sheet treports thefinancial position of a business atva particular point of time. Financial position is the amount. of
resources: ithat is,j assets and the liabilities, i.e., debts of a business. Therefore, the balance sheet is frequently called the. statement
gnoffinanial position. lhe:accounting model for the balance sheet is: ASSETS = LIABIITIES + OWNERS' EQU)ITY. Assets
represent resources owned yb the entity, liabilities are the debts (obligations):of the entity, owners' equity represents: interests of
the owners,
Statement of Cash Pow  (SCE  is designed 'to help investors, creditors and other decision makers in two ways:-
Toasses the -past perfiomnce of the entity toIgenerate, plan, and control the actual cash inflows and outflows;
To:assess the entity's probable futuretcash  inflows,.:outflows, and net cash flows, including its ability to meet future obligations.
T h;.  .. is..asseasme..t.helps . the.investor, or creditor, project ia retumr  on resources committed
:.:The SC)' reports  inf ion concerning:cash inflows and outflows of an entity classified: as cash flows firom  (1) operatin
:activities;,(i) investing:activities, and (iii) financing activities. Cash flow from  operating activitiestreports both the cashjinflowsi.
rand  ash 'outflows that are dirctly  relaed to income: from  normal operations: reported on ithe incorne statement. Under this
0-classificationv, the usual: csh flows jare :l;0       0        :0;     :ii        ff          ;;; ;    ;00 ;;00t};$  0:    50 ;f              f
Inw  -   h received from . . .: . . .                        Outflow - cash paid for.:
Customers                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~Purchas  of ~goods and services
:i30 DInterest on receivables3                             Interest...:..aWO     on liabilities
R     d  from       .uppliers                             Incomne: taxes
.. .. ..                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~Salaries and wages
The difference between the above inflows ad outflows is called the net Cashinflow (outflow) from operating activities. Cash
fDow from i stigacivities reports cash inflows and outflows that are related to thei acquisition of- productive thcllities used by
the *com Wpany and: other.g non-cash assets. Cash flow  from  financing activities reports both]cash inflows and outflows: that are related ........
to hiw  c    wa s o       d to finance theentnerprise (including its operations).                                               ........
-ESiESSt:0iV:Eti::E;::0000  i:::'St:i:tiSSSESt:iEk:;  :  ::   :    :E   T::::E::  ::X:::E   0  :t:;   :  ti  0  f;E;; iS!0;l  lit.. ..     .. . ...
::    .....E   ..::R:   .E   .  .....:E     ..:RE ..  . ::  : : : : :                                         ::::                  :   :
.    .         .... . ..'tl:00 :.   .     ....     .....0000E S!:X  f   tl: t   00 f E di ;   :: ;;;; 0 ; ; ;;t:      00 't : :    i000T          ;
.       . .      . .RRE :  .. .   ..                                                                                     ..  .: :  ..: : : 77 :::::     !EE::     E: :::R:   :   
....   ..  ..::     ..   .. :   :    :   ::::f:::::::::: : :     : :   :  : :   :::                              :   :   ::   :   : : f::i   E     ::
.....T:t . :0:0:;l0 .. ;0000E::0 .....:i:0   Ed ;:::E :            :l   :  7:              :   t          :      ;   ::iE     ; ti     E   ::: ::E



ANNEX B
Page 9 of 10
Annex B.      Project Profile Form
Municipality:
Contact person:
Project title:
Contact person:
Project costs:
Ls x.x million
Project period:
(planned or effective start) -(planned finish)
Required financing:
Projected expenditure 1996-98:
Ls x.x million
1. Project owner:
Name:
Street:                            Location:                            Post code:
Project manager:
Telephone:                           Telefax:
2. Objectives (what are the goals of the projects)
3. Background and justification (what is the situation in the projects field, including answer to the
question: what would happen if the project is not implemented)
4. Project description (what are the stages of the project, their sequence and schedule of
implementation, what are the project components in terms of equipment, civil works, working capital,
local vs. imported input)
5. Estimated project costs in Ls. (The project costs shall be calculated inconstant 1996 prices. The
price should specify: the purchase price (fob/fot and cif), custom duties and levies, cost of installation
at site, cost of technical assistance. What is the necessary working capital and recurrent costs).
6. Expected performance (what are the estimates of NPV, IRR of the project)
7. Expected source of financing (please state the contribution of budget, special budgets, MDF, other
credits, grant, own resources in absolute values and in %. Calculate the expected cost of servicing
loan(s). If special budgets are applied for financing of the project please state what is the size of the
municipal special budget during the period of the project implementation)
8. What is the annual budget of the borrowing municipality (please state municipality budget
(incomes) for the period covering the project).
9. Impact of the project on environment (the conclusion of the ecological expertise according to the
Law on state ecological expertise (October 9, 1990, paragraph 7)



ANNEX B
Page 10 of 10
10. Potential risks (on the demand, supply, fiscal side, etc.)
11. Technical assistance requirements (N/Y of what type: management, restructuring, know-how)
Project Costs and Financing
(Millions of Lats)
of which
Year           Total for Year  PIP             Grant           Own
1996
1997
1998
1999         T_T                   _I_I_1
after 1999    T              T               I               T             1
Total



Annex C
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN






PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
Table of Contents
I.    IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS                                                    1
A.    Project Implementation Responsibilities                                 1
B.    Role of the World Bank during Supervision                               1
C.    Terms of Reference for the Management and Coordination Units            4
II.    IMPLEMENTATION PLAN                                                           16
A.    Implementation Schedules                                                16
B.    Procurement Schedules                                                   16
III.    DETAILED PROJECT COSTS                                                       33
A.    Riga Urban Transport                                                    34
B.    Daugavpils Water Supply and Wastewater                                  38
IV.   FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS                                                          41
A.    Riga Urban Transport                                                    42
B.    Daugavpils Water Supply and Wastewater                                  51
C.    Assumptions                                                             55
V.    MONITORING, EVALUATION AND REPORTING                                           62
A.    Monitoring Indicators                                                   62
B.    Progress Reporting                                                      70






ANNEX C
Page 1 of 71
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
I. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
A. Project Implementation Responsibilities
1.    Table A3. 1 summarizes the respective responsibilities of the different implementing and
coordinating agencies involved in the proposed Project and its three component parts.
B. Role of the World Bank During Supervision
2.     The proposed Project would be supervised by Bank personnel from both headquarters and the
Regional Mission for the Baltic Countries. In addition technical specialists from The Swedish Ministry
of Environment, the Finnish Ministry of Environment and the Danish Ministry of Environment,
together with personnel from NEFCO and EU PHARE, would participate in supervision missions.
The proposed supervision plan is summarized in Table A3.2.
3.    Recognizing that the proposed Project would be only the third Bank Project in Latvia
involving large scale construction of civil works and installation of sophisticated mechanical and
electrical equipment, and the first with a component in the cities of Riga and Daugavpils, it is
anticipated that it would require significant supervision. The supervision would concentrate on the
first two years when considerable input would be required for the engineering design and the
procurement aspects of the Riga Urban Transport and the Daugavpils Water and Wastewater
components. In addition, supervision by technical specialists would be required for the respective
project components, as described in the following sections. Savings would be realized by utilizing
staff from the Bank resident mission for project supervision. During the first year of implementation,
a project launch workshop would be organized to provide basic training for the staff of the
implementing agencies in procurement, disbursement, accounting and auditing.
4.    It is anticipated that about 22 staff-weeks of effort for the first two years and about 10 staff-
weeks thereafter would be required for supervision. Following the start-up mission and the project
launch workshop, supervision requirements in the first two years would include two supervision
missions per year to coincide with the production of the semi-annual progress reports by the
respective implementing agencies. In later years, one supervision mission would be conducted each
year, timed to coincide with one of that year's progress reports. The final supervision mission would
be to prepare the Project completion report.
5.    A mid-term review would be conducted to evaluate project progress in general (in terms of
procurement, disbursements, status of construction works and other implementational aspects) and to
assess the status of agreed policy and institutional reforms.



Table A3. 1: Project Implementation Responsibilities
Project Component and Activity                 Department/Entity Responsible                         Implementing Agency                   Coordination Unit
Overall Coordination                           Projects Department                                   /                                     Project Coordination Unit
Ministry of Environment and Regional Development
Riga Urban Transport                           Riga City Council                                     Talava                                Riga
Transport and Communications Board                   Imanta                                 Public Transport Unit
TTP
Daugavpils Water and Wastewater                Projects Department                                   Udensvads                             Daugavpils
Ministry of Enviromnent and Regional Development                                            Project Management Unit
Municipal Development Fund                     Public Investment Program Unit                        Board of Directors - MDF              Public Investment Program
Ministry of Finance                                  Public Investment Program Unit
Ministry of Finance
OQ
-.D
t-h A
-4. n



Table A3.2: Supervision Plan
Bank      Total
Date             Description                            Purpose of Supervision Mission                          Staff on Mission         Staff Designation      Staff      Bank
Weeks      Staff
Weeks
February    Pre-effectiveness mission    Review: staffing of PCU, MDF, PTU and PMU; status of procure-         K. Gilbertson             Task manager               2          6
1996                                    ment arrangements; local counterpart funding; tariff and fare increases;    K. Homanen           Civil engineer             I
Udensvads performance agreement; subsidiary loan agreements; MDF      A. Armstrong-Wright       Transport specialist        I
project pipeline; MDF statute; donor conditions for cross-effectiveness.   H. Hill               Procurement officer        I
Verify accounts.                                                      N. Chistyakov              Disbursement officer       I
S. Nordstrom              NEFCO
Project Launch Workshop : Training of implementing agencies in        A. Perzchale               Donor representatives
procurement, disbursement, accounting and auditing.                   M. Jensen                  (EU PHARE, Danish
L. Eklund, M. Tegman   EPA, SIDA, Finnish
0. Purhonen               MoE)
June         Supervision mission        Handover of supervision responsibilities to new local staff. Monitor   K. Gilbertson             Task manager               2          5
1996                                    status of procurement arrangements. RUT: Review and check timing       K. Homanen                Civil engineer             I
of: TA/policy agreement; demand study and route configuration;        A. Armstrong-Wright        Transport specialist       I
concessionary fares policy; fare rationalization; fare evasion/inspectors.   H. Hill             Procurement officer        I
DWW: Review: financial status; debt collection; twinning arrangement;                            Donor representatives
progress to joint-stock company. MDF project pipeline. Donor
conditions. Verify accounts, tariff and fare increases.
Review semi-annual progress reports.
October     Supervision mission         Review overall project progress, including any relevant issues listed  K. Gilbertson             Task manager                1         2
1996                                    above.                                                                 Res. replacement          Civil engineer
Review semi-annual progress reports.                                                             Donor representatives
April       Supervision mission         Review overall project progress, including any relevant issues listed  K. Gilbertson             Task manager                1         2
1997                                    above.                                                                 Res. replacement          Civil engineer
Review semi-annual progress reports.                                                             Donor representatives
October     Mid term review             Review: procurement arrangements; monitoring indicators and targets;    K. Gilbertson            Task manager               2          4
1997                                    disbursement projections; local counterpart funding; performance of    Res replacement           Civil engineer             1
PCU, MDF, PTU and PMU; donor conditions: arrangements for             H. Hill                    Procurement officer        1
design and supervision of works; MDF project pipeline.                                           Donor representatives
Revision of Loan Agreement as necessary.
Review mid-term progress reports.
April       Supervision mission         Review overall project progress, including any relevant issues listed   Res. replacement         Civil engineer              I         I Q
1998                                    above.                                                                                           Donor representatives                                 (D
Review semi-annual progress reports.                                                                                                                   (
I  Iz
1999/       Project wrap-up mission     Review overall project progress, including any relevant issues listed  K. Gilbertson             Task manager               1          2               Mi X_
2000                                    above.                                                                 Res replacement           Civil engineer              I                         _1
Preparation of Project Completion Report.                                                        Donor representatives               |                    C
Other specific wrap-up issues.
Key: RUT, Riga urban transport component; DWW, Daugavpils water supply and wastewater component; MDF, municipal development fund; PCU, project coordination unit;
PTU, public transport unit: PMU. project management unit.



ANNEX C
Page 4 of 71
C. Terms of Reference for the Management and Coordination Units
6.    Terms of reference for the Udensvads project management unit, the Riga public transport
unit, the Municipal Development Fund project management unit, and the overall project coordination
unit are presented on the following pages.



ANNEX C
Page 5 of 71
LATVIA MUNICIPAL SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Daugavpils Water Supplv and Wastewater Component
Terms of Reference for the Udensvads Project Management Unit
1.    A project management unit (PMU) is to be formed to coordinate the execution of those
elements of the Municipal Services Development Project related to the Daugavpils water supply and
wastewater component. The PMU will be located at the Daugavpils water and wastewater enterprise
(Udensvads) and will coordinate the aforementioned work throughout the duration of the project.
2.    The duties of the PMU shall include:
2.1    Coordinate, on behalf of Udensvads, the relations between the water enterprise,
Daugavpils Council, the World Bank, NEFCO, the bi-lateral donors, and the
consultants and contractors appointed under the component.
2.2    Monitor the use of the World Bank and the NEFCO loans and the bi-lateral grants.
2.3    On behalf of Udensvads, carry out the following tasks: prepare terms of reference and
letters of invitations for the various consultancies to be carried out under the project;
prepare short-lists of consultants to be invited to submit proposals; prepare technical
specifications and associated bidding documents for the various bidding packages to be
carried out under the project; issue documentation to consultants and contractors,
respond to queries raised, and issue addenda as necessary; evaluate consultants
statements of capability and contractors prequalification documents; evaluate
consultants proposals and contractors bids and prepare evaluation reports; help
Udensvads management with the negotiation and signing of the resulting contracts.
2.4    Coordinate the implementation of recommendations made in World Bank project
supervision reports.
2.5    Prepare semi-annual reports as outlined in Section V of the Project Implementation
Plan and submit to the Project Coordination Unit and to the World Bank.
2.6    Monitor project implementation and expenditure, and prepare and submit
disbursement requests, copies of which should be submitted to the World Bank, the
Project Coordination Unit, and the Ministry of Finance.
2.7    Monitor the training and technology and skill transfer programs to be provided under
the project's technical assistance and twinning arrangements.
2.8    Monitor all aspects of the Daugavpils water supply and wastewater component of the
project and prepare written warnings about possible problems and delays as well as
proposing technical, financial and institutional measures necessary to improve project
implementation.



ANNEX C
Page 6 of 71
2.9    Coordinate the execution of the different contracts to ensure overall work programs
are maintained.
2.10   Monitor the progress of the studies/consultancies commissioned to determine: (i) the
need for any mitigation measures deemed necessary to protect the quality of the
groundwater at the Ziemelu wellfield; and (ii) appropriate alternative methods for the
treatment and reutilization/disposal of the sludge to be generated at the upgraded
wastewater treatment works.
2.11   Hold weekly meetings with Udensvads management to discuss project progress, the
previous week's work program, the coming week's work program, problems
encountered, solutions proposed, performance of consultants and contractors, and any
other important issues.
2.12   Hold regular meetings with Daugavpils City Council to discuss project progress, the
project work program, problems encountered, solutions proposed, performance of
consultants and contractors, and any other important issues.



ANNEX C
Page 7 of 71
LATVIA MUNICIPAL SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Riga Urban Transport Component
Terms of Reference for the Riga Municipality Public Transport Unit
1.    Riga Municipality will have a key role in creating the appropriate institutional framework for
the transition to a market-led public transport sector in Riga. It will be important for the development
of the city's public transport service that local elected deputies are seen to be fully accountable for the
coordination and monitoring of service quality standards. The PTU will thus have to demonstrate
strong leadership and give clear direction to the operating enterprises in order to create confidence in
the local community.
2.     The overall strategic objectives of the PTU are as follows:
2.1    To design and secure the provision of a high quality, comprehensive, public transport
network, with appropriate time tabling which maximizes passenger benefits and
therefore maximizes patronage.
2.2    To ensure that resources and subsidies are effectively deployed across the network in
line with current and expected demand.
2.3    To ensure that subsidies provide good value for money, to be monitored by measuring
on-vehicle patronage.
2.4    To oversee the fares and ticketing systems to ensure that fraud is minimized.
2.5    To encourage the three public companies to produce constructive proposals to improve
the network and reduce the required subsidy levels.
2.6    To encourage operators to produce appropriate and sufficient publicity and
information to ensure that the use of services is maximized.
2.7    To administer and develop the vehicle and operator licensing system so that it can be
readily expanded to allow the introduction of more private operators.
2.7    To reduce the barriers to the entry of new operators so that healthy competition can
be encouraged.
3.    The detailed objectives of the PTU are stated below:
3.1    To monitor the operator's performance against agreed target measures (including
quality and safety standards) as defined in the schedules to the contracts between the
municipality and the enterprises.
3.2    To control the issue of operating licenses and their related inspection.



ANNEX C
Page 8 of 71
3.3    To ensure that market changes are determined by survey and analyzed, and that the
survey outputs are distributed to all operators to ensure maximum service provision.
3.4    To promote the development of traffic management schemes in the interest of
improving on-street operating conditions for all public modes of transport.
3.5    To design the route network.
3.6    To develop fares and subsidy policies.
3.7    To monitor contracts with the public transport enterprises.
3.8    To take responsibility for administering the ticketing system and the revenue control
inspectors.
4.     Riga City Council, in turn, should carry out the following basic tasks:
4.1    To oversee and monitor the development and implementation of the initial public
transport survey and resultant demand model which is to be carried out by the Danish
consultants RH&H in the second half of 1995.
4.2    To ensure that the model is updated and refined periodically as passenger demand
changes over time.
4.3   In conjunction with the main public transport operators, to design a public transport
network which specifies routes, service frequencies and a quality standard.
4.4    To consider the optimum balance between fare levels and the required subsidy.
4.5    To design and update the Riga concession fare policy, to monitor its use and to ensure
fair financial compensation among all operators.
4.6    To produce all public transport tickets and to distribute them to agents throughout
the city; to collect all off-vehicle revenue and to re-distribute revenues among
operators in proportion to passenger kilometres carried.
4.7    To take direct responsibility for the Riga-wide revenue control inspectors and charge
an appropriate penalty fare to act as a deterrent to fares evasion. Any such monies
raised will be retained by the public transport unit to offset the costs of the
inspectors.
4.8    To monitor the improving performance of the three Municipal Enterprises - TTP,
Imanta and Talava. These companies will remain in the ownership of Riga City
Council for a period of at least three years to allow the full benefits of the initiatives
proposed in the Business Plan to take effect before any possible privatisation.
4.9    To move towards the establishment of legal contracts between Riga City Council and



ANNEX C
Page 9 of 71
the three operating companies regarding levels of service, fares service quality and
subsidy for a period of one or more years. These contracts will initially cover all the
routes operated by each company, but will be capable of development over time to
introduce elements of competitive lendering among the three companies and any other
public transport operators.
4.10   To promote the public transport network by the provision of appropriate passenger
information at key points throughout the city.
4.11   To oversee the disbursement and monitor the effects of any funds or assets which may
be provided by the World Bank or any other development agency.
5.    In addition to the above-described, long term, broad responsibilities of the PTU, the unit will
also have the medium term responsibility of coordinating the execution of those elements of the
Municipal Services Development Project related to the Riga urban transport component. The PTU
will coordinate the aforementioned work throughout the duration of the project. The duties of the
PTU in this context will include:
5.1    Coordinate, on behalf of Riga City Council (RCC), the relations between RCC, the
World Bank, and any consultants and contractors appointed under the component.
5.2    Monitor the use of the World Bank loan.
5.3    On behalf of RCC, carry out the following tasks: prepare terms of reference and
letters of invitations for any consultancies to be carried out under the project; prepare
short-lists of consultants to be invited to submit proposals; prepare technical
specifications and associated bidding documents for the various bidding packages to be
carried out under the project; issue documentation to consultants and contractors,
respond to queries raised, and issue addenda as necessary; evaluate consultants
statements of capability and contractors prequalification documents; evaluate
consultants proposals and contractors bids and prepare evaluation reports; help RCC
with the negotiation and signing of the resulting contracts.
5.4    Coordinate the implementation of recommendations made in World Bank project
supervision reports.
5.5   Prepare semi-annual reports as outlined in Section V of the Project Implementation
Plan and submit to the Project Coordination Unit and to the World Bank.
5.6    Monitor project implementation and expenditure, and prepare and submit
disbursement requests, copies of which should be submitted to the World Bank, the
Project Coordination Unit, and the Ministry of Finance.
5.7    Monitor the training and technology and skill transfer programs to be provided under
the project's technical assistance.



ANNEX C
Page 10 of 71
5.8    Monitor all aspects of the Riga urban transport component of the project and prepare
written warnings about possible problems and delays as well as proposing technical,
financial and institutional measures necessary to improve project implementation.
5.9    Coordinate the execution of the different contracts to ensure overall work programs
are maintained.
5.10   Monitor and report on the execution of the Action Plans incorporated within the
Business Plans which have been elaborated and agreed upon for each of the operators.
5.11   Hold regular meetings with RCC to discuss project progress, the previous week's
work program, the coming week's work program, problems encountered, solutions
proposed, performance of consultants and contractors, and any other important issues.



ANNEX C
Page 11 of 71
LATVIA MUNICIPAL SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Municipal Development Fund Component
Terms of Reference for the Municipal Development Fund Administration
1.    The Municipal Development Fund (MDF) will be administered by the Public Investment
Program (PIP) in the Ministry of Economy under supervision of a Board of Directors. Additional
staff with expertise in financial and economic analysis and with civil engineering experience will be
required to supplement the present capacity of the PIP. The costs of these staff will be paid out of
the project and will be covered through an administrative mark-up on loan funds to be charged by the
Ministry of Finance.
2.    The main responsibilities of the PIP with regard to the MDF will be to:
2.1    Provide guidance and assistance to municipalities preparing proposals for submission
to the MDF;
2.2    Review proposals prepared by the municipalities for financing under the MDF in
accordance with agreed criteria and procedures;
2.3    Liaise with sector Ministries to review technical aspects of sub-project proposals;
2.4   Present proposals to the MDF Board of Directors for final decision;
2.5    Coordinate with the World Bank to obtain necessary approvals for first three MDF
sub-projects and for any sub-project over US$500,000;
2.6    Monitor progress of sub-projects funded under the MDF including status of financial
covenants;
2.7    Assist the Ministry of Finance with management of procurement and disbursement of
MDF sub-projects as necessary;
2.8   Prepare semi-annual reports, as described in the Project Implementation Plan, of MDF
performance for submission to the Board of Directors of the MDF, the Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) in the Ministry of Environment and Regional Development
and the World Bank;
2.9    Liaise with the PCU and World Bank and provide information on issues and problems
in sub-project implementation;
2.10   Ensure audit of MDF sub-projects as required.
2.11   Prepare an analysis of MDF performance for submission to the Bank during the
project's mid-term review. This analysis to include an estimation of financing needs of



ANNEX C
Page 12 of 71
the municipal sector, external financing requirements and recommendations as to
whether the program should be expanded to become a focal point for the channeling
of funds to the sector.
3.     For the individual sub-projects, the responsibilities of the PIP as a project management unit
will include the following:
3.1    Carry out the following tasks: prepare terms of reference and letters of invitations for
any consultancies to be carried out under the sub-projects; prepare short-lists of
consultants to be invited to submit proposals; prepare technical specifications and
associated bidding documents for the various bidding packages to be carried out under
the sub-projects; issue documentation to consultants and contractors, respond to
queries raised, and issue addenda as necessary; evaluate consultants statements of
capability and contractors prequalification documents; evaluate consultants proposals
and contractors bids and prepare evaluation reports; oversee negotiations and the
signing of the resulting contracts.
3.2    Coordinate the implementation of recommendations made in World Bank project
supervision reports.
3.3    Prepare semi-annual reports as outlined in Section V of the Project Implementation
Plan and submit to the Project Coordination Unit and to the World Bank.
3.4    Monitor project implementation and expenditure, and prepare and submit
disbursement requests, copies of which should be submitted to the World Bank and
the Ministry of Finance.
3.5    Monitor any training and technology and skill transfer programs to be provided under
the sub-project's technical assistance.
3.6    Monitor all aspects of the MDF component of the project and prepare written
warnings about possible problems and delays as well as proposing technical, financial
and institutional measures necessary to improve sub-project implementation.
3.7    Coordinate the execution of the different contracts to ensure overall work programs
are maintained.
3.8    Hold regular meetings with the Board of Directors to discuss sub-project progress,
sub-project work programs, problems encountered, solutions proposed, performance
of consultants and contractors, and any other important issues.



ANNEX C
Page 13 of 71
Terms of Reference
for
Project Coordination Unit
Municipal Services Development Project
Abbreviations:
MDF - Municipal Development Fund
MSDF - Municipal Services Development Project
MOERD - Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development
PIP - Public Investment Program
PCU - Project Coordination Unit
PMU - Project Management Unit
TOR - Terms of Reference
Termiinology
Project - the Municipal Services Development Project
Project components - component of the Municipal Services Development Project -
Riga Urban Transport, Daugavpils Water and Wastewater, Municipal Development Fund
General
These Terms of Reference set out the tasks and services to be provided by the Project Coordination
Unit of the Municipal Services Development Project.
The PCU will provide the overall coordination of the Project. It will be located within the Ministry
of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. The PCU will monitor Project
implementation, coordinate procurement and track progress of disbursement and compliance with
Project conditionality; maintain relations with the World Bank, co-financiers, and donors and assist
them in the Project monitoring and supervision; provide general support to the PMUs for
procurement, disbursement, accounting, audit and reporting.
Management of each component of the MSDP would be the responsibility of the PMUs of each
component and the PIP for the sub-projects of the MDF component. So, the primary responsibility
for the Project implementation will be decentralized to local authorities, who should establish PMUs
for each of the sub-projects and the PIP unit. These units will be responsible for preparation of
designs, specifications, procurement, disbursement, construction supervision, institutional
strengthening, implementation of policy reforms required under the Project components, and reporting
and projects accounts. The PMUs and the PIP unit will be assisted by consultants with experience in
establishment of proper procedures including preparation of specifications and specific bid documents
based on the Bank's standard bidding documents.



ANNEX C
Page 14 of 71
Responsibilities of the PCU
Supervision of the Project components:
cooperate with the PMUs, municipalities and municipal enterprises in coordination and
supervision of civil works construction and equipment purchases under the Project and in
managing any consultant teams provided under the project;
monitor the Project progress, its implementation as compared to project implementation plans
including project milestones and timetables of each component and schedules:
review performance of participating entities with regard to financial and operational
covenants;
track the progress of procurement, disbursements, project accounting and auditing and
compliance of these with the Project conditionality
Communication with the World Bank, co-financiers, donors, and Ministries:
brief the Ministries, the World Bank, and the donor agencies officials on project performance
on a regular basis and alert them to existence of problems in implementation of the Project or
compliance with all covenants.
If the Steering Group is established, communicate with it, prepare its meetings;
liaise with local governments to resolve such problems soliciting assistance from the Ministry
and the World Bank as necessary;
maintain the communication between the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional
Development, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Transport, the PIP unit, the World Bank and
co-financiers as necessary
in cooperation with the PMUs and the PIP unit prepare semi-annual reports on Project status
including summary of project accounts for submission to the World Bank, central
government, co-financiers and donors.
Assistance to PMUs
provide general support to the PMUs for procurement, disbursement, accounting, audit and
reporting.
The PCU will assist the Projects Department in any other work, requested by the Department in
relation to the Project.



ANNEX C
Page 15 of 71
Staffing Requirements
The Project Coordination Unit will consist of experienced staff with civil engineering, financial and
environment, transport, and legal backgrounds.
The PCU will consist of:
two senior staff - the Unit Director and the Specialist. The Unit Director will be responsible
for the management of the work of the Unit. He or she must be familiar with issues like
supervision of civil works construction, review of project accounts, organization of
procurement and disbursement. He or she must posses excellent interpersonal skills. The
Director will be supported by the Specialist, who must be familiar with the same issues so
that the senior staff able to work in the following fields: engineering, finance, environment,
transport, legal issues.
one junior staff - the Unit Assistant. He or she should provide secretarial services to the
Unit, and keep the accounts of the Unit.
Each member of the PCU must be able to speak, read and write Latvian. Senior staff should possess
knowledge of English. Everybody must possess computer skills, be able to use Microsoft World and
Excel.



ANNEX C
Page 16 of 71
II. IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
A. Implementation Schedules
7.    The implementation schedules presented on the following pages summarize the critical
activities of the most important sub-components of the proposed Project during their preparation and
implementation.
B. Procurement Schedules
8.    A summary of the procurement packages for the proposed Project are presented in
Tables A3.3 to A3.6. The procurement packages are for goods, civil works, supply and install
contracts (which incorporate supply of goods, installation of goods and execution of civil works) and
consultancies. The tables include estimates of cost (which include physical and price contingencies)
and time of execution, represented by start and end months. The tables also show the Bank
procurement method that will apply to each package.



Latvia Municipal Services Development Project
All Components
1996              1997               1998               1999               2
ID   Task Name                                Duration    Start    Finish  Qtr 4 Qtr 1 lQtr 2 Qtr 3 Qtr 4 Qtr 1 lQtr 2lQtr 3 Qtr 4 Qtr 1 lQtr 2 Qtr 3 Qtr 4 Qtr 1 lQtr 2 Qtr 3 Qtr 4 Qtr 1 Qtr 2
1   PMU/PTU/MDF: TA consultancy (SL)             1131d   1211/95   3131/00
2        Preparation of ToR and Lol                 20d   12/1/95  12/28/95
3        Preparation of short list                 1Od  12/29/95   1/11/96
4        Bank no-objection to Lol package            5d   1/12/96   1/18/96  .
5        Lol issued to consultants                   Od   1/18/96   1/18/96
6       Consultants prepare proposals               30d   1/19/96   2/29/96
7        Proposals received                          Od   2/29/96   2/29/96
8        Proposals evaluated                        12d    3/1/96   3/18/96
9        Bank no-objection of evaluation           1Od   3/19/96    4/1/96
10       Consultants invited to negotiate            Od    4/1/96    4/1/96
11       Negotiations                               1Od    4/2/96   4/15/96
12       Bank prior review of proposed contract     1Wd   4/16/96   4/29/96
13       Contract signing                            2d   4/30/96    5/1/96
14       Consultants mobilize                       22d    5/2/96   5/31/96
15       Consultants arrive (start date)             Od   5/31/96   5/31/96
16       Assignment period                        1000d    6/3/96   3/31/00
17
18   PMU: twinning arrangement (NBF)               825d    11/196   2/26199
19       Preparation of arrangement - negotiations  45d    1/1/96    3/1/96
20       Contract award                              Od    3/1/96    3/1/96
21       Consultants mobilize                       30d    3/4/96   4/12/96
22       Consultants arrive (start date)             Od   4/12/96   4/12/96
23       Assignment period                         750d   4/15/96   2/26/99  I
rD
o z
m_ S
Project:~                  Task                                   Summar                                R   olled Up Progrss
Projed: 1895Progress                                                      Rolled Up Task
Milestone        *Rolled Up MilestoneO
Implementation Schedule I



Latvia Municipal Services Development Project
Daugavpils Water Component
1   1996                1997                1998                1999
ID  Task Name                                  Duration    Start    Finish  Qtr 4 Qtr 1 |Qtr 2 |Qtr 3 |Qtr 4 Qtr 1 |Qtr 2 Qtr 3 |Qtr 4 Qtr 1 |Qtr 2 Qtr 3 |Qtr 4 Qtr 1 |Qtr 2 |Qtr 3 |Qtr 4
1  Ziemelu well development (ICB)                  937d    1/11/96    8/3/99
2      Selection of consultants                    130d    1/1/96   6/28/96
3      Preparation of prequal. docs and notices     30d    1/1/96    2/9/96  ,
4      Bank no-objection to prequal docs and notices  10d   2/12/96   2Q23/96
5      Preparation of detailed design               70d    7/1/96   10/4/96
6      SPN published                                 Od   2/24/96   2/24/96
7      Prequal docs available                        Od   4/19/96   4/19/96
8      Preparation of specs. and bid docs           30d   10/7/96  11/15/96
9      Bank no-objection to package                 10d  11/18/96  11/29/96
10      Preparation of prequal docs by bidders       20d   4/19/96   5/16/96
11      Evaluation of prequal responses              1 Od   5/17/96   5/30/96
12      Bank no-objection to prequal evaluation      10d   5/31/96   6/13/96
13      Bid docs available                            Od  11/29/96  11/29/96
14      Preparation of proposals by bidders          60d   12/2/96   2/21/97
15      Public bid opening                            Od   2/21/97   2/21/97
16      Bid evaluation                               30d   2/24/97    4/4/97
17      Proposed award to Bank                       5d    4/7/97   4/11/97
18      Bank no-objection to award                   5d   4/14/97   4/18/97
19      Contract signing                             2d   4/21/97   4/22/97
20      Mobilization of contractor                   45d   4/23/97   6/24/97  I
21      Contractor on site / delivery of goods begins  Od   6/24/97   6/24/97
22      Construction period                         550d   6/25/97    8/3/99
z
Project:                ~~~~Task                               Summary                _Rolled Up Progress 
Date: 11I/8/95                     Progress                             Rolled Up Task
Milestone        *Rolled Up Milestone O
Implementation Schedule 2



Latvia Municipal Services Development Project
Daugavpils Water Component
1    1996                    1997                   11995
ID   Task Name                                    Duration      Start        Finish    Qtr 4 Qtr 1 Qtr 2 Qtr 3 Qtr 4 Qtr 1 Qtr 2 Qtr 3 Qtr 4 Qtr 1 Qtr 2 Qtr 3 Qtr 4
1   Water pipelines (NBF)                             760d        1/11/96     11/27/98
2       Selection of consultants                      130d         1/1/96      6/28/96
3       Detailed design and bid package preparation   110d        7/1/96      11/29/96
4        Preparation of bid proposals - contract award  1 30d     12/2/96      5/30/97
5       Contractor on site / delivery of goods begins   Od       5/30/97       5/30/97
0 en
Task                                  Summary                               Rollhd Up Progress                                        >4
Date: Irt./9                        Pnagress                              Rolled Up Task 
Mi6stone C tRoled Up6Mi/2stone
Implementabtion Schedule 2a



Latvia Municipal Services Development Project
Daugavpils Water Component
95               1996               1997                1998               1999
ID   Task Name                                    Duration   Start     Finish   Qtr 3 Qtr 4 Qtr I |Qtr 2 Qtr 3 Qtr 41Qtr I |Qtr 2 Qtr 3 Qtr 4 Qtr 1 Qtr 2 Qtr 31Qtr 4 Qtr 1 |Qtr 2 Qtr 3 Qtr 4
I   Wastewater treatment plant upgrading (NBF)       970d   12/1/95    8/19/99
2        Selection of consultants                     130d   12/1/95    5/30/96
3        Detailed design and bid package preparation  I11Od   5/31/96   10/31/96
4        Preparation of bid proposals - contract award  130d   1111/96   5/1/97
5        Contractor on site / delivery of goods         Od    5/1/97     5/1/97
6        Construction period                          600d    5/2/97    8/19/99       -. W.
8    Kandavas pumping station (NBF)                  555d   12/1/95    1/15/98
9        Selection of consultants                      45d   12/1/95     2/1/96
10       Detailed design and bid package preparation  100d    2/2/96    6/20/96
11       Preparation of bid proposals - contract award  11 0d   6/21/96   11/21/96
12       Contractor on site / delivery of goods         Od  11/21/96   11/21/96
13       Construction period                          300d  11/22/96    1/15/98
14
15   Satellite pumping stations (NBF)                1075d   12/1/95    1/13/00
16       Selection of consultants                      45d   12/1/95      2/1/96
17       Detailed design and bid package preparation  I OOd    2/2/96    6/20/96
18       Preparation of bid proposals - contract award  1 10d   6/21/96   11/21/96
19       Contractor on site / delivery of goods         Od  11/21/96   11/21/96
20       Construction period                          820d  11/22/96    1/13/00       :                                          .-                        , =
21__
22   Rehabilitation of gravity sewers (NBF)          1053d   12/1/95   12/14/99
23       Selection of consultants                      45d   12/1/95      2/1/96
24       Detailed design and bid package preparation  100d    2/2/96    6/20/96
25       Preparation of bid proposals - contract award  1 10d   6/21/96   11/21/96     .
26       Contractor on site / delivery of goods         Od  10/22/96   10/22/96
27       Construction period                          820d  10/23/96   12/14/99                          ry--=  -;.7__ .               _        o -
>
Task                             .    Summary                           v    Rolled Up Progress                                       oZ
Project:__                                                _ _ _ _ _ _ ___                        _ _ _ _  _ _ _
Date: 11/8/95                       Progress                               Rolled Up Task     wiC.t0"Ni                                                                       r
Milestone                             Rolled Up Milestone <C>
Implementation Schedule 3



Latvia Municipal Services Development Project
Daugavpils Water Component
1996                             1997
ID   Task Name                                   Duration      Start         Finish      Qtr 4    Qtr 1    Qtr 2    Qtr 3    Qtr 4    Qtr 1    Qtr 2    Qtr 3    Qtr 4    Qtr 1
I    Water meters, tranche I (IS)                    337d         3/1/96       6/16/97    .
2        Preparation of specs/requests for quotations  30d        3/1/96       4/11/96
3        Preparation of quotations                    20d        4/12/96        5/9/96
4        Quotations evaluated                          15d       5/10/96       5/30/96                     U
5        Order placed                                 1od        5/31/96       6/13/96
6        Float                                        30d        6/14/96       7/25/96
7        Delivery                                     30d        7/26/96        9/5/96
8        Installation                                232d        7/26/96       6/16/97
9    Water meters, tranche 11 (IS)                   260d         111/97      12130197
10       Preparation of quotations                     20d         1/1/97       1/28/97                                          -
11       Quotations evaluated                          15d        1/29/97       2/18/97
12       Order placed                                  1Od        2/19/97        3/4/97    .
13       Float                                         30d         3/5/97       4/15/97                                                ____
14       Delivery                                      30d        4/16/97       5/27/97
15       Installation                                 185d        4/16/97      12/30/97
16   Vingri pumping station - parts supply (IS)       195d         6/3/96       2/28/97
17       Preparation of detailed design                30d         6/3/96       7/12/96
18       Preparation of specs/requests for quotations  30d        7/15/96       8/23/96                          EM
19       Preparation of quotations                     20d        8/26/96       9/20/96
20       Quotations evaluated                          15d        9/23/96      10/11/96
21       Order placed                                  lOd       10/14/96      10/25/96
22       Delivery                                      65d       10/28/96       1/24/97
23       Installation                                  90d       10/28/96       2/28/97
24   Water quality monitoring program (S&l)           175d         6/3/96       1/31/97
25       Preparation of specs/requests for quotations  30d         6/3/96       7/12/96
26       Preparation of quotations                     30d        7/15/96       8/23/96
27       Quotations evaluated                          15d        8/26/96       9/13/96
28       Order placed                                  10d        9/16/96       9/27/96    .
29       Float                                         30d        9/30/96       11/8/96
30       Delivery                                      30d       11/11/96      12/20/96
31       Installation                                  60d       11/11/96       1/31/97                                      l      l
Task                                  Summary                      -MNM    Roiled Up Progress-  Z
Project:                            Task                                                     _______Smy. Repos_
Date: 11/8/95                       Progress                               Rolled Up Task                                                                               (D x
Milestone                             Rolled Up Milestone C}                                 _
Implementation Schedule 4



Latvia Municipal Services Development Project
Riga Urban Transport Component
1996                                1997
ID   Task Name                            Duration      Start         Finish      Qtr 4    Qtr 1    Qtr 2    Qtr 3     Qtr 4    Qtr 1    Qtr 2    Qtr 3    Qtr 4     Qtr 1
1   Articulated buses, tranche I (ICB)        305d         2/1/96        4/2/97
2        Preparation of specs. and bid docs    30d         2/1/96       3/13/96
3        Bank no-objection to package          1Od        3/14/96       3/27/96
4        Advertisments appear                   Od        3127/96       3/27/96
5        Bid docs available                     Od        3/27/96       3/27/96
6        Preparation of bid proposals          60d        3/28/96       6/19/96
7        Public bid opening                     Od        6/19/96       6/19/96
8        Bid evaluation                        45d        6/20/96       8/21/96
9        Proposed award to Bank                 5d        8/22/96       8/28/96
10       Bank no-objection to award              5d       8/29/96        9/4/96
11       Contract signing                        2d        9/5/96        9/6/96
12       Manufacture                           120d        9/9/96       2/21/97
13       Delivery period                       148d        9/9/96        4/2/97
14
15   Articulated buses, tranche 11 (ICB)      265d        12/2/96       12/5/97
16       Bank no-objection to package           Od        12/2/96       12/2/96
17       Advertisments appear                    Od        12/2/96      12/2/96
18       Bid docs available                      Od       12/2/96       12/2/96
19       Preparation of bid proposals          60d         12/2/96      2/21/97
20       Public bid opening                      Od       2/21/97       2/21/97
21       Bid evaluation                         45d       2/24/97       4/25/97
22       Proposed award to Bank                  5d       4/28/97         5/2/97
23       Bank no-objection to award              5d        5/5/97        5/9/97
24       Contract signing                        2d       5/12/97       5/13/97
25       Manufacture                           120d        5/14/97      10/28/97                                                              i   ,- 7
26       Delivery period                       148d        5/14/97       12/5/97
Project:                            Task                                   Summary                                Rolled Up Progress                P 
Date: 11/8/95                       Progress                               Rolled Up Task                                     _D
Milestone                             Rolled Up Milestone O                                                                         N
Implementation Schedule 5



Latvia Municipal Services Development Project
Riga Urban Transport Component
1996                                       1997
ID  Task Name                       Duration   Start    Finish      Qtr 4      Qtr 1      Qtr 2      Qtr 3      Qtr 4      Qtr 1      Qtr 2      Qtr 3      Qtr 4
I  Trolleybuses, tranche I (ICB)       305d    211/96     4/2/97     .                                  _
2      Preparation of specs. & bid docs  30d    2/1/96    3/13/96
3      Bank no-objection to package      10d   3/14/96    3/27/96
a      4       Advertisments appear               Od   3/27/96    3/27/96
5      Bid docs available                 Od   3/27196    3/27/96
6      Preparation of bid proposals      60d   3/28/96    6/19/96
7      Public bid opening                 Od   6/19/96    6/19/96
8      Bid evaluation                    45d   6/20/96    8/21/96
9      Proposed award to Bank             5d   8/22/96    8/28/96
10      Bank no-objection to award        5d   8/29/96     9/4/96
11      Contract signing                  2d    9/5/96     9/6/96
12      Manufacture                     120d    9/9/96    2/21/97                                         _    _
13      Delivery period                 148d    9/9/96     4/2/97
14
15  Trolleybuses, tranche 11 (ICB)      266d   12/2/96    12/5/97
16      Bank no-objection to package      Od   12/2/96    12/2/96
17      Advertisments appear              Od   12/2/96    12/2/96
18      Bid docs available                Od   12/2/96    12/2/96
19      Preparation of bid proposals     60d   12/2/96    2/21/97
20      Public bid opening                Od   2/21/97    2/21/97
21      Bid evaluation                   45d   2/24/97    4/25/97
22      Proposed award to Bank            5d   4/28/97     512/97
23      Bank no-objection to award        5d    5/5/97     5/9/97
24      Contract signing                  2d   5/12/97    5/13/97
25      Manufacture                     120d   5/14/97   10/28/97
26      Delivery period                 148d   5/14/97    12/5/97
Task                                 Summary                               Rolled Up Progress                                    4
Project:                                                                                                                                                          OQZ
Date: 11/8/95                      Progress                              Rolled Up Task       _       _                                                              X
Milestone                            Rolled Up Milestone O
Implementation Schedule 6



Latvia Municipal Services Development Project
Daugavpils Water Component
1996             {             1997                           1
ID  Task Name                                  Duration    Start    Finish    Qtr 4   Qtr 1 | Qtr 2   Qtr3   Qtr4 [ Qtr 1   Qtr 2   Qtr3    tr 4   Qtr I   Qtr 2
1  Thyristors, tranche I (ICB)                     410d    1/1/96   7/25/97
2      Preparation of prequal. docs and notices     30d    3/1/96   4/11/96   j
3      Bank no-objection to prequal docs and notices  10d   4/12/96   4/25/96
4      SPN published                                 Od   4/25/96   4/25/96
5      Preparation of specs. and bid docs           69d    1/1/96    4/4/96
6      Bank no-objection to package                 1 Od    4/5/96   4/18/96
7      Prequal docs available                        Od   4/19/96   4/19/96
8      Preparation of prequal docs by bidders       20d   4/19/96   5/16/96
9      Evaluation of prequal responses              10d   5/17/96   5/30/96
10      Bank no-objection to prequal evaluation     10d   5/31/96   6/13/96
11      Bid docs available                           Od   6/13/96   6/13/96
12      Preparation of proposals by bidders         30d   6/14/96   7/25/96
13      Public bid opening                           Od   7/25/96   7/25/96
14      Bid evaluation                               15d   7/26/96   8/15/96
15      Proposed award to Bank                       5d   8/16/96   8/22/96                                       :
16      Bank no-objection to award                   5d   8/23/96   8/29/96
17      Contract signing                             2d   8/30/96    9/2/96   I
18      Manufacture                                 60d    9/3/96  11/25/96
19      Delivery period                             90d    9/3/96    1/6/97
20     Installation                                23|4d    9/3/96   7/25/97
0                      | ~~~~~~~~~~~Task                        Summary-                             Rolled Up Progress                                   p 
Date: 11/8/95                      Progress                        m   Rolled Up Task    *-; i X
Milestone        *Rolled Up Milestone 4O                                                                                          n
Implementation Schedule 7                                                                   i-
-J



Latvia Municipal Services Development Project
Daugavpils Water Component
96                   1997                    1998                   1999
ID  Task Name                                    Duration    Start    Finish   Qtr 3 Qtr 4 Qtr 1 Qtr 2 Qtr 3 Qtr 4 Qtr 1 Qtr 2 Qtr    4 Qtr 1 Qtr 2 Qtr 3 Qtr 4 Qtr 1
I  Thynistors, tranche 11 (ICB)                     403d    1/1/97   7/17/98
2       Bank no-objection to prequal docs and notices  5d    1/1/97    1/7/97
3      GPN and SPN published                           Od    1/7/97    1/7197
4      Bank no-objection to bid package                5d    1/1/97    117/97
5      Prequal docs available                          Od   3/12/97   3/12/97
6      Preparation of prequal docs by bidders         20d   3/12/97    4/8/97
7       Evaluation of prequal responses               10d    4/9/97   4/22/97
8      Bank no-objection to prequal evaluation        10d   4/23/97    5/6/97
9      Bid docs available                              Od    5/6/97    5/6/97
10      Preparation of proposals by bidders           30d    5/7/97   6/17/97
11      Public bid opening                             Od   6/17/97   6/17/97
12      Bid evaluation                                1 5d   6/18/97    7/8/97
13      Proposed award to Bank                         Sd    7/9/97   7/15/97 
14      Bank no-objection to award                     5d   7116/97   7t22t97
15      Contract signing                               2d   7/23/97   7/24/97
16      Manufacture                                   60d   7/25/97  10/16/97
17      Delivery period                               90d   7/25/97  11/27/97
18      Installation                                 256d   7/25/97   7/17/98
Task                                  Summary                __Rolled Up Progress                                                  0 D
Projec: 1895Progress                                                      Rolled Up Task                                        |                                           X
Milestone                             Rolled Up Milestone G 
Implementation Schedule 7a



Latvia Municipal Services Development Project
Daugavpils Water Component
D6                           1997                            1998
ID  Task Name                                    Duration    Start    Finish    Qtr 3    Qtr 4   Qtr 1   Qtr 2   Qtr 3   Qtr 4   Qtr 1   Qtr 2   Qtr 3| Qtr 4   Qtr 1
1  Thyrlstors, tranche iII (ICB)                     261d    111198  12/31198
2      Bank no-objection to prequal docs and notices   5d    1/1/98    1/7/98
3      GPN and SPN published                          40d    1/8/98    3/4/98                                                  -
4       Bank no-objection to bid package               5d    1/1/98    1/7/98
5       Prequal docs available                         Od    3/4/98    3/4/98
6       Preparation of prequal docs by bidders        20d    3/4/98   3/31/98
7       Evaluation of prequal responses               iOd    4/11/98   4/14/98
8      Bank no-objection to prequal evaluation        1 Od   4/15/98   4/28/98
9       Bid docs available                             Od   4/28/98   4/28/98
10      Preparation of proposals by bidders           3Wd   4/29/98    6/9/98                                                            _
11      Public bid opening                             Od    6/9/98    6/9/98
12      Bid evaluation                                15d   6/10/98   6/30/98
13      Proposed award to Bank                         5d    7/1/98    77/98 
14      Bank no-objection to award                     5d    7/8/98   7/14/98                                                                 i
15      Contract signing                               2d   7/15/98   7/16/98
16      Manufacture                                   60d   7/17/98   10/8/98
17      Delivery period                               90d   7/17/98  11/19/98                                                                       -
18      Installation                                 120d   7/17/98  12/31/98                                                                         -
(D~
>
oz
.ITask                                Summary tiRolled Up Progress7
Project:PrgesRleUpTk
Date: 11/8/95PrgesRleUpTk 1
Milestone        *Rolled Up Milestone O
Implementation Schedule 7b



ID   Task Name                            Duration     Start      Finish    Qtr 4  Qtr 1  Qtr 2  Qtr 3  Qtr 4  Qtr 1  Qtr 2  Qtr 3   Otr 4  Qtr 1  Qtr 2  Qtr 3  Qtr 4  Qtr 1
I    Spare parts, tranche I (IS)              254d       3/11/96    4/2/97
2        Prep. of specsirequests for quotes    30d       311196    4/1 1/96
3        Preparation of quotations             20d      4/12/96     5/9/96
4        Quotations evaluated                  1 5d     5/10/96    5/30/96
5        Order placed                          lOd      5/31/96    6/13/96
6        Delivery period                     I180d      6/14/96    2/20/97
7        Vehicle rehabilitation               253d      4/15/96     4/2/97 
8
9    Spare parts, tranche 11 (IS)             327d      11/11/97    4/2/98 1
10       Prep. of specs/requests for quotes    20d       1/1/97    1/28/97
11       Preparation of quotations             20d      1/29/97    2/25/97U
12       Quotations evaluated                   1 Sd    2/26/97    3/18/97
13       Order placed                          lOd      3/19/97     4/1/97
14       Delivery period                       180d      4/2/97    12/9/97
15       Vehicle rehabilitation               262d       4/2/97     4/2/98
16
17   Spare parts, tranche Ill (IS)            260d       11/11/98   12/30/98 
18       Prep. of specs/requests for quotes    20d       1/11/98    1/28/98
19       Preparation of quotations             20d      1/29/98    2/25/98
20       Quotations evaluated                   1 Sd    2/26/98    3/18/98
21       Order placed                           1 Od    3/19/98     4/1/98
22       Delivery period                       180d      4/2/98    12/9/98
23       Vehicle rehabilitation                1 9Sd     4/2/98   12/30/98
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _               z~~~~~~~~~~~(
Project:                   ~~~~~~~~Task                            Summary           ..-Rolled Up Progress
Date: 11/8/95                        Progress                               Rolled Up Task
Milestone                              Rolled Up Milestone K
Implementation Schedule 8



Latvia Municipal Services Development Project
Riga Urban Transport Component
1996                      1997                       1998
ID   Task Name                          Duration      Start        Finish     Qtr4  Qtr 1  Qtr2 |Qtr3 |Qtr4  Qtr 1 | Qtr2  Qtr 3  Qtr4  Qtr 1  Qtr2  Qtr3  Qtr4
I   Spare parts, tranche I (DC)             303d         3/1/96       4/29/97
2        Prep. of specs / purchase orders    30d         3/1/96       4/11/96
3       Order placement                      10d        4/12/96       4/25/96
4        Delivery period                     120d       4/26/96      10110/96
5       Vehicle rehabilitation              263d        4/26/96       4/29/97
6
7   Spare parts, tranche 11 (DC)            302d         1/1/97       2/26/98
8        Prep. of specs / purchase orders    30d         1/1/97       2/11/97
9        Order placement                      1Od       2/12/97       2/25/97
10       Delivery period                     1 20d      2/26/97       8/12/97                                           -
11       Vehicle rehabilitation              262d       2/26/97       2/26/98
12
13   Spare parts, tranche III (DC)           260d        1/1/98      12/30/98
14       Prep. of specs / purchase orders     30d         1/1/98      2/11/98
15       Order placement                      10d       2/12/98       2/25/98
16       Delivery period                     120d       2/26/98       8/12/98                                                                     m
17       Vehicle rehabilitation              220d       2/26/98      12/30/98
(D
Project:                            Task                                  Summary                _ _            Rolled Up Progress                                      2o
Date: 11/8/95                       Progress                              Rolled Up Task                                                                                    >|
Milestone                             Rolled Up Milestone O
Implementation Schedule 9



Latvia Municipal Services Development Project
Riga Urban Transport Component
1996                      1997                      1998
ID   Task Name                              Duration      Start        Finish    Qtr 4  Qtr 1  Qtr 2  Qtr 3  Qtr 4  Qtr 1  Qtr 2  Qtr 3  Qtr 4  Qtr 1  Qtr 2  Qtr 3
1   Bus plant: anti-corrosion systems (ICB)     215d         3/11/96    12126/96
2       Preparation of specs. and bid docs       30d         3/1/96      4/11/96
3       Bank no-objection to package             10d       4/12/96       4/25/96
4       Advertisments appear                      Od        4/25/96      4/25/96
5       Bid docs available                        Od       4/25/96       4/25/96
6       Preparation of bid proposals             30d       4/26/96        6/6/96
7       Public bid opening                        Od         6/6/96       6/6/96
8       Bid evaluation                           45d        6/7/96        8/8/96
9       Proposed award to Bank                    5d         8/9/96      8/15/96
10       Bank no-objection to award                5d       8/16/96      8/22/96
11       Order placed                             1 Od      8/23/96       9/5/96
12       Delivery                                80d         9/6/96     12/26/96
13
14   Bus plant: other packages (IS)             205d         3/1/96     12112196
15       Prep. of specs/requests for quotations  30d         3/1/96      4/11/96
16       Preparation of quotations                30d       4/12/96      5/23/96
17       Quotations evaluated                     15d       5/24/96      6/13/96
18       Order placed                             1Od       6/14/96      6/27/96
19       Delivery period                         120d       6/28/96     12/12/96
20
21   Ticket machine equipment (IS)              205d         3/1/96     12/12/96
22       Prep. of specs/requests for quotations   30d        3/1/96      4/11/96
23       Preparation of quotations                30d       4/12/96      5/23/96
24       Quotations evaluated                     1 5d      5/24/96      6/13/96
25       Order placed                             10d       6/14/96      6/27/96
00
26       Delivery period                         1 20d      6/28/96      12/12/96   . 
Task                                       Summary                        Rolled Up Progress l 10
Proje:ct./9                        Progress                             Rolled Up Task_ 
Milestone        *Rolled Up MilestoneO
Implementation Schedule 10



Latvia Municipal Services Development Project
Riga Urban Transport Component
1996                      1997                      1998
ID   TaskName                                 Duration      Start        Finish    Qtr4  Qtr 1 | Qtr 2  Qtr 3  Qtr4  Qtr I  Qtr2 | Qtr 3  Qtr 4  Qtr 1  Qtr2  Qtr3  Qtr4
1   Imanta maintenance workshop (ICS)             387d        2/1196       7125197   .
2       Preparation of detailed design             45d        2/1/96        4/3/96
3       Preparation of specs. and bid docs         30d        4/4/96       5/15/96
4        Bank no-objection to package              lod       5/16/96       5/29196                3
5       Advertisments appear                        Od       5/29/96       5/29/96   .
6        Bid docs available                         Od       5/29/96       5/29/96
7       Preparation of bid proposals               60d       5/30/96       8121/96   I
8       Public bid opening                          Od       8/21/96       8/21/96
9       Bid evaluation                             45d       8/22/96      10/23/96
10       Proposed award to Bank                     5d       10/24/96     10/30/96   .
11       Bank no-objection to award                 Sd       10/31/96       11/6/96                           I
12       Contract signing                           2d        11/7/96      11/8/96
13       Mobilization of contractor                25d       11/11/96     12/13/96
14       Contractor on site (construction start date)  Od    12/13/96     12/13/96
15       Construction period                      160d   T2ask/96          7/25/97
oI
rD
Milestone                   Rolled Up Mml emnttionSceue  11
Implementation~~~~ Sceul 



ANNEX C
Page 31 of 71
Table A3.3 Procurement Packages - Goods
Ref                       Description                        Proc.           Estimated      Start      End      Proc.
Method           Cost (US$)*   Month    Month       Type
1      Daugavpils Water Supply and Wastewater Component
1.1    Bulk and block metering: supply of meters, tranche I.  IS                 56 300     1/96      7/96        G
1.2    Bulk and block metering: supply of meters, tranche II.  IS                57 700     1/97      5/97        G
1.3    Vingri PS upgrading: supply of pump parts.             IS                227 900    6/96       1/97        G
1.4    Water quality control equipment                        IS                290 000    6/96       12/96       G
2      Riga Urban Transport Component
2.1    Supply of articulated buses, two lots:                ICB               6 735 000    11/95     12/97       G
18 ND buses, 1996; 18 N° buses, 1997.
2.2    Supply of articulated trolleybuses, two lots:         ICB               5 433 200    11/95     12/97       G
20 N0 trolleybuses, 1996; 10 N° trolleybuses, 1997.
2.3    20 N° thyristors: supply of tranche 1.                ICB                865 300     1/96      12/96       G
2.4    20 N° thyristors: supply of tranche II.               ICB                758 000    1/97       11/97       G
2.5    20 N° thyristors: supply of tranche III.              ICB                777 700    1/98       11/98       G
2.6    TTP trolley spare parts: tranche I.                    DC                 94 000    1(96       8/96        G
2.7   'fTP tram spare parts: tranche 1.                       DC                 111 200    1/96      8/96        G
2 .8   Imanta and Talava spare parts, tranche 1.              DC                 178 700    1/96       8/96       G
2.9    Imanta and Talava spare parts, tranche 1.              IS                 163 300    1/96      12/96       G
2.10   TUP trolley spare parts, tranche II.                   DC                  96 500    1/97       8/97       G
2.11   TUP tram spare parts, tranche 11.                      DC                 114 100    1/97       8/97       G
2.12    Imanta and Talava spare parts, tranche II.            DC                 183 400     1/97      8/97       G
2.13    Imanta and Talava spare parts. tranche II.            IS                 167 600     1/97     12/97       G
2.14    UTP trolley spare parts, tranche IIl.                 DC                  99 000     1/98      8/98       G
2.15     TP tram spare parts, tranche III.                    DC                 117 100    1/98       8/98       G
2.16    Imanta and Talava spare parts, tranche Ill.           DC                 188 100    1/98       8/98       G
2.17    Imanta and Talava spare parts, tranche III.           IS                 171 900    1/98      12/98       G
2.18    Bus plant and machinery: 3 N0 Anti-corrosion systems.  ICB               307 800    3/96      12/96       G
2.19    Bus plant and machinery: 2 N° fuel pump calibrators.  IS                  69 800    3/96      12/96       G
2.20    Bus plant and machinery: 2 N° parts cleaners.         IS                 119 100    3/96      12/96       G
2.21    Bus plant and machinery: I N° vehicle lift.           IS                 102 600    3/96      12/96       G
2.22    Bus plant and machinery: 2 N° brake drum grinders.    IS                  32 900    3/96      12/96       G
2.23    Bus plant and machinery: 2 N0 tire repair unit.       IS                   8 200    3/96      12/96       G
2.24    Bus plant and machinery: I N° bus wash machine.        IS                164 200    3/96      12/96       G
2.25    Bus plant and machinery: 2 N0 brake analysers.         IS                205 200    3/96      12/96       G
2.26    Ticket machine pilot program: equipment.               IS                153 900    3/96      12/96       G
*Including price and physical contingencies.



ANNEX C
Page 32 of 71
Table A3.4 Procurement Packages - Civil Works
Ref                       Description                        Proc.            Estimated      Start     End       Proc.
Method           Cost (US$)*   Month    Month        Type
I      Riga Urban Transport Component
1.1    Imanta maintenance workshop.                          ICB                 950 400    2/96       7/97       W
Table A3.5 Procurement Packages - Supply and Installation
Ref                       Description                        Proc.            Estinated     Start      End       Proc.
Method           Cost (US$)*   Month    Month        Type
I      Daugavpils Water Supply and Wastewater Component
1.1    Ziemelu well development and iron removal plant.      ICB               6 913 600     1/96      8/99      S&I
1.2    Water pipelines: northem line; well collector; southem  NBF             2 167 900     1/96     11/98      S&l
main.
1.3    Wastewater treatment plant upgrading.                 NBF               7 040 800    12/95      8/99      S&I
1.4    Kandavas pumping station: new pumps.                  NBF                 638 700    12/95      1/98      S&I
1.5    Satellite pumping stations: new pumps.                NBF                 836 100    12/95      1/00      S&1
1.6    Rehabilitation of gravity sewers.                     NBF                 897 900    12195     12/99      S&I
Table A3.6 Procurement Packages - Technical Assistance / Consultancies
Ref                       Description                        Proc.            Estimated     Start      End       Proc.
Method           Cost (US$)*   Month    Month        Type
I      Daagavpils Water Supply and Wastewater Component
1.1    Design and supervision: Ziemelu well development.      SL                 542 000    11/95     5/99        C
1.2    Design and supervision: water pipelines and Vingri PS.  SL                175 000    11/95      9/98       C
1.3    Design and supervision: wastewater treatment plant.   NBF                 506 000    11/95      7/99       C
1.4    Design and sup: pump stations and gravity sewers.     NBF                 148 000    11/95     12/99       C
1.5    PMU: TA and training for project implementation.       SL                 390 500    12/95      3/00       C
1.6    PMU: local administration/staff.                      NBF                 208 000     1/96      2/99       C
1.7    Twinning arrangement: TA/training.                    NBF               1163 800    11/95      12/98       C
2      Riga Urban Transporn Component
2.1    PTU: TA and training for project implementation.       SL                 331 600    9/95      12/99        C
3      Technical Assistance to Borrower for PCU and MDF
3.1    TA and training for project implementation.         Individual            160 000    9/95      12/99        C
Consultant
Services
*Including price and physical contingencies



ANNEX C
Page 33 of 71
III. DETAILED PROJECT COSTS



Detailed Project Costs
Riga Urban Transport Component
Detailed Project Costs: Riga Urban Trans port Component    _
Summary Costs                                I
Component                  11996      1997       1998               Total                                                                                                _
Foreign                             ____                ___
buses                      3,240,000  3,240,000       0            6,480,000                                                   _        __
trolleybuses               3,500,000  1,750,000 _     0            5,250,000
spare parts                 533,333   533,333   533,333            1.600,000                                               _        ___  
plant and machinery         984,000          0    _     0           984,000
thyristors                  720,000   720,000   720,000            2,160,000
maintenance workshop        400,000         0         0_    °       400,000
ticketing pilot              150,000         0        0              150,000W                 _                                 _
technical assistance         200,000   120,000        0              320,000                                     _   _                            __    _
PTU equipment                25.0WW         0         0              25.000
total foreign base cost    9,752,333  6,363.333  1,253,333        T17,369.00 0    =
Local                                                                               _                                            .__
thyristor assembly           36.667    36,667    36,667              110.000 _                                _                                                       _
maintenance workshop        400,000         0         0             400,000 _     =__=                                                            _
PTU equipment                 5,000         0         0               5,000                                          _
total local base cost        441,667    36,667    36,66'             515,000                                                _ _                    .      
Total base cost           10,194.000  6,400,000  1,290,000        17,884,000 ___=  =
Contingencies
foreign price contingency   255,942   335,195   100,324              691,461       _                                     _ _______             _ 
local price contingency      66,250      9,717    12,500             88,466           __                                 ___
physical contingency         81,500         0         0              81,500                 _  _____                      _  _  _                                  _
Total contingency       _   403,692   344,912   112,823              861,427                            =_        _   _  ____                             =
TOTAL: base + contingency  10,597,692  6,744,912  1.402,824       18,745,428 _        =       -   =   =                   _                               _
lb
OCQ
mhB
C4



D.bL6.d PO*.t Coele
R.g. LJb  TW.Wn    CoepoWe
DetaiedPr iMCoaS:   306a5.1 Trus   C  oM e,,t
DOWSed Cofts
Ref.           Dc                                        Calender Yea. 1393         Caleder Year 1337         Calender Yer13aeder Ye.r 1636                              Total             Total              TotlS
I.  F  L  F  T  I.    F        T        L       F        1        L        F        T       I.~     ~~       ~~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ F  T  100  Less VAT
F.-onanflo.n - 2 60% ow
2 1        Wd0 000    3 240                                             3 240             3 240    3 240                     0000O                      0000k   0.000    6 430    6 430    6430000O                          LmO nflab-o      15% 1966
lesle   it                              0.D00    0 000    0.000_  0.000    0 000    000000   00DO     0000O   0000    0000    000        0.0000     00m0000    0000               0                                            10%A 1067
Photo  tel                          0.000~~~~~~~~~~ooo  0 064  0064    0.000    0171    0 171    0.000    0 000    000  0000mo  0000    0 000    0.000    0 256    0 256  2046~10                                           6% 166
VAT                                             0.000             000      0.000000                  0.00              0 000    0000o            0.0D0    0.000    0.000    0 000          0                                            6% 1M99
£66-tOW                    0.000    3324     3324     0.000   ~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~~~~34411   11m.00 D00  0000O   0.000    0 000    0.000    0.000    6.736    6 735    6,7346910       3330VT                         3
o22  Ardeulged yeyues                                 0.000aoo    3-5000  3.500           1 700    1 750                     0.000                     a0000   0.000    5 250    5.250    5.250,000
lelod  es                            0.000    0 000    0 000    0.000    0 000    0000O    0 000    0000o   0000    0.000    0 000    0 000    0.000    0 000    0 000-         0
Pr.10cc      lege0000    0061                                     0 091    0 000    0.032    0 062    0.000  I0 000    0 000  I0 000    0 000    0.000    0.000    01832    0132  13 18313
VAT                                             0000000                     0000             0.000    0.000 I          0.000  I0.000             000    0.000    0000    0 0000
6th-totalOO 0.00                                          5311    3.591    0 000    13042    1.842    0.000    0000    0000.OD  0.000    0 000    0000O   0.000   50433  5_433    04213                    33 103
S.23  T   stor   I                              0.000    0720     0 700          I 0.000    0.000             00        0 000                    0.000    0.0      070      .20        200
I l"ealo    6oct63e                           0 000    0.000    0000o    0 000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0000    0.000    0000O    0 000    0.000    0.000    0 000    0 000         0
p oeo3        lo0 000    0013s    0.019    0 000    0.00                                     0.000    0.000   _0000    0000    0000    0.000    0.000    0.000   09013    001          172
VAT                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~0.000  0.000    0.000        0.000    0 000            0.000    0.000            0.000    0.000    0000D    0 000          0
6tdh-tod                                        0 000    0 739    0.739    0 000    0 000    0.000    0.000    000000   0T-O0    000 0o o000    0.000    0.000    0 736    0 739      733,720             733,720
G  3.   T~   3a,   ~e                                  0000O   0.000     0 000            0 720    0.720             000      0000                      0.000    0.000    0 720    0 720    700
ptaal t       leO                            0.000    0.000    0.000    0000    0000    0.000    t.00      0000    0000D   000000   00 .000            0.000O   000       000
RICO c        lmes              _               0.000    0000o    0.000    0.000    0 033    0.038    0.006    0000O    0 000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    03     033        376927
VAT                                             0.000I             mo       do 0.000 0.000               I0.000    0.000 0a00   000O00                    0.000    0.000    0 000          0
Guh-total                                       0.000i 0 000    0.000    0.000    0 703    0753    0.000    0.000    0 000    0.000    0 000    0 000    0 000    0 753    0 759      757 527             707 37
O. 2.5  ThvlIast   -hM                                  0000O    0 000    0000O             0 000    0 000            0 720    0 720                      0.000    0.000    0 720    0 720    720,000
babelc  omeneles                              0.000    0 000    0 000-  0.000    0000O   0.000    0.000    0000O    0 000    0.000    0 000    0 000    0.000    o 0000    0000          0
Price 0,nen,                                    0.000    0 000    0.000    0.000    0000O   0.000    0.000    0.053    0058e   0000    0 000    0.000    0.000    0053e    0 003       57.633 
VAT                                             0.000o-   -    I0.000    0.000               0.000    0.000            0 000    0.000             0000O   0.000    0 000    0000o          0
Sub-total                                       0.000    0 000    0 000    0.000    0 000    0.000    0.DO0    0 773    0 778    0.000    0.000    0000O    0.000    0 776    0773_   777,633             i77 6333
FA 11Thvrstoross;.bo                                    0 037    0 000   -0037-  0.037    0.000    0 037    0.037              0.037                      0 000    0.11    00       0110      110,000
Ph" e.6     fld0000O   0.000    0 000    0 000    0 000_  0000    0.000  I0 000    0000O  0.000    000000   00                                          0.000    000     0000-0
Pr.le confni  -o.                               0 006    0 000       0 006    0.010    0 000    0 010    0.012     0 000    0 012    0 000    0 000    0.000    0.028    0 000    0028  27,716
VAT                                             0.009I            0006o    0.003             0.008    0.009            0 009    0.000            0.000    0.02S    0 000I 0 025        24,765
S664*M                                          0.0501 0.000    0 050    0.050    0000O   0.055    0.003    0 000    0 003    0.000    0 000    0000O    0 163    0.000    0 163      162,505             17713
O  2.6  TinS    .~~c Vane                        0.000    0062    5 092              0 000    0 000            0 000    0055                       0000    0.000    0 067    5092  ,    1SI 60
kale   be.              0.000    0.000    0000     0.000    0000~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~ 000 0.000    0 000    0000    0.000    0 000    00  .0     00     00 
PrIce 0666   ode.                   0.00     0002     0002     0.000    000 0000    0.000 000              0.0000     00    0000     a0000    0.000      o 000  000        2302
VAT. cw     nl.0.000    002                                       0 000    0.000             000     00000                       .0000                    000      000     00 
SeotetOtal    _______                  0.000    0064     0064     0.00      00     000      0000o    0 000    0000O   0.000    0 000    0.000    0.000    0 0641  0094       5208                  2
VA.7 Tre  are,00nhel                                          000 0013  .13000                    00              0000 0 0  0 000                    0000 0000   00    010      010OO     1600
P bteal Qod   eo                                 .0 000  094      0.000    0.0      0000    0000    0.000    0 000    0000    0.000    0.000    000000   00    000          0000 0S
P12  1 Tr  conda 0010c                              0.000    0 003    00        .0      0 000    000     0.000    000000  00        0.0000     0     000    0.000oo    0003s   0.003       21684
--  PVAT. cng.   - -----0.000                                         0000    0O.000I0 0         0000O   0.000    a0       0 000-  0.000    00        0.000    0.000    0 000    0 000         0
-                   SUb-total~~~~rk  ..neis0.000    01113    01113    0.000    0000F0   -0000    0.000    0 000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0 000    0.000    01113   0111                              I 215                 1121
VA38    T       806   C0.000    014                                   0 000         0    .000    0.000            0000o    0 00 0000                 0.000    0.000    01740   017        174167
Pub tead36aee                                   0.000    0000I    0 000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.0 OD    _0000   0.000    0.000    0000O   0.000    0 000    000 0111,1
Price coohi    leo                  0.000~~~~~~~roo  0000  0 000  0.000    0 000    0.000    0.000    0 000    0000O   0.000    0.000    0.000    2.000    0 000    0.000   02
VAT              ___0000                                  00        00     0.000             0 000    0.000            0.000    0.050            0.000    0.000    000      0.0 
S-twa6a                                         0.000    0 170    0 179    0.000    000000   00       .000    0000O   0.000    0.000    0 000    0000O   0.000    0 179    0 179      1786095             1793395
G  3.0  Bisc waresc 66h60561S                           0.000    0 109    01_591            0000    0.000                      0000O                      0 000    0.000    0 159    0 159-    159,167
-                  ~~~~~~~~~Phtel.. co  en                          0.000    0.000    0000D    0.000    0.000    0 000    0.000O   0.000    0.000    0.000  I0 000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0000O         0
-       PinlO, 0    100163 ____                         ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~ ~~~~0.000    0 004    0.004  .00 0.000    0 000    0.000    0 000    0000O   0.000    0 000    0.000    0.000    0.004    0004  4 100
VAT                                             Om.500Qo 0000    0.000 0500D 0.000 500                                          005                   0.000 .00    0 000    0000           0
SUbttl      _____                                .0 0     1630'a        063_  0.000    0000    0.000O   0.000    0 000    0 000    0.000    0000O   0.000    0.000    0 163    0 163  1635005              1433305
O  2.10 Trol    p. see Sanch. 1                         0.000    0.000    0.000             0 092    0 002            000      0000000.000                                 0 092    0.092      91 600
kale. .     0nd 160W                          0.000    0 000    0.007    000  000  0       000000     00    0.000    .000    000       0000 Go 0.000    0 000    0 005    0.000          0
-                  ~~~~~~~~~PtieeeoMngne001s                        0000    0 000    0000o    0 000    0005_  0.005    00          000      0.000    0.000    0 000    0.000    0 000    0 000   00         43:25:S
VAT                                             0000              0 000    0 000             0.000    000                000    0.000             0.000    0 000  I0 000    0 000          0                                                                (____  D
Sob-total                           0.000~~~~~~~~~~o-   - 0000   0000o    0.000    0 090    0.096    000 00  00      00    0 000    0 000    0000O    0 096    0.096      96,4205j. 3  23
G  3.11 Tbomu.            I                             000    0_000      000               0 103   0.106              0.000    60.000                    0.000    0 000    0 103    0 108    103.400                                                               >.12
Phyoteal coe   coesm                            0.000    000      0.0        00     00000      0 OO 0  00     000      0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0 000    0 000  I0.000          0 
-                  ~~~~~~~     ~~P.10c  0016$Ie                      000  0000    0      00     0000    0 000     .0      00        0 00.000    0 000    0 000    0.000    0.000    00D05    0.000          5,710         C-                                                     o
VAT                                             000               000 .00                    0.000  I0 000             0000O   0000o              0.000    0000    0 000    0 000          0        --'I
ISubotl                                           00     0 000     0 000I 0.000    011114   14        00       00        .DO0    0000    0 000    0.000    0 000    0 114    0.114    1141 110        = :110110



DOt.ladd Pr.oje Costs
R,g. U,6v 1raePorl Coorpon-e
R.f.           4.010                                      aonO   er19 CalendarYYelg1997I Cmiedere, -dCaedo  e, 66Total____                                                                 TOWtTW   0
I         F        L   I   F         T          ? *             T   I L          F                                             i FF                     B                 OuA
el212 Bu     e  006 i                                 000 0.000          00               .0.17 .1741i111    0.00           0.000000                            000      .7    0174        174 167
-  Phkaloal .. dnencie.000                                   0.000    0.000    0.000o   000     000       .00      00      0 000    0.000    0.000    0 Z0I0.000      0.0       .0
P110. coe,60o.o,oieo  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   0.000 ~ 0 6000    0.D00    0.DO0    0.009    00H.00            .o      0.oOo    0.000    0.000    .o     0000 I  .00o    0.009            I7
VAT                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~               ~~~~~~~~~~0.000  -0.000 o.ooo   o.ooo    o.ooo  o.ooo    o.oooooo              o.ooo    o.oo     0.000          0
8it406]  ~ ~ ~  . _________      0.000    0.000~~~oo  0000  0.000   -0183    0 163    0.000  I0.000    0 000    0.000-  0.000   -0.000    0 000    0.193    0.163      183,341  ___        134
G  2.13 BUS Sow-, 0.lCht H (S                        IIO0F h0                            1 0 1 9    0100                       0 000                     0 000    0 000    0.159    0.1069    150 107
Physi.m mcanensole       ~         J. ~ ~ j000                   00.000     .0      000      0.000    0.000-  0.0000  __.000    0.00000 00    0.000    0 000    0.000    0.000  __         0
Price co.9n cocies  ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~  0.000 0.o      .o       .000    0009    0.009    0.0      .00      0 0 0.000        0.0       00      0.000   0.8      000         634
VAT   ________                  I.~~~~~~~~99..t~o    0.00     0.000             0.000    0.00.0                     .0               .0      0 000    0.000    0.000          0
69*4.661                           ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~0.000    0.000  000 0.000    060 0.166    0.000    0.000    0 .10001   000  0.0000    00   _0.000    0.66     0.68      1877001              167,551
-W... 7  are.     he 6                                   0.000    000.00                      .00.0.000  0.00            0.00                               .000092         0.092      91 600
P   cal ooi~~~~,  ci..  -~~~  J9~~9.j  0.0~00    0.000    0.000    0.000    0000O   0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000   0.600      0.0     0000
Price .,    ncies                               OmO C D.00        0.000D   O.000    0000    0 00 0.000I       0.007- 0.007   0.00        .00     0.0      0.000    0.007    0.007      7.332
VAT                                             0.0               0.000    0.000I            0.000I 0.000              0.000    0.000          I0.000    0.000    0.000    0.0000          0                                   -
61*0.06                             ~~~~~ ~~~~~ ~~~0000   000  0.000    00      00    0.0                                                                                                      --O06---(-g     --0- 0(o      .0  .0  .99 009 9,3  83
0.099  0--~10-              00I.000    0.000   -0.9           0.09
G - 2.1  T~   Un6 hE                                   000     00        000       0000              00       __     0100010=.000.~  0.00.00000                          0.16    010        1086400
?bcal c.nongends..                    -       0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000 -0.000    0 0000    0060    0.000o   0.000    0000O-o   0.000    0.000    0M.000    0.000    0.000       0
P118.0  ernIe.                      0~~~~~~~~~~.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0 00    000000  000 0.0000   --  0 000    .000    0.000    0.000    .09      0.008       89.77
VAT                                             .000 000    0.000                            000 000          0.000             0000D-(OO  ___      -o 0.000 0.000     0.000 000 
69*4obd                                         000       .00     000       .00      000000      0    000    .11       0.117    0.000    0.000    0.000    000D6    0 117     0.117  1707107
G  2.16  vet   U                          0~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~.000    0.000    0.000  0.000    0000O        0.174    0.174                     0.000    0.000    0.174    0.174    174,167
150.1861  flolel                0000~~~~omoo  0000  0.000  I000000 00OD     000000   00        .00    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000O        0
Pr16.09.66 eni~es                               0.000-  0000      060      0000 D   0000    000      0000.W   0.014    0.014    0.000    0.000    0.00    0000    0.014    0.014       139411
VAT                                             0.000             00100    0000              000000   00               0.00     0.000            0000O   00000    0.000    0.000           0
S1b0t66d                                        000  0000    0      000000    0       000000    000           016      01900000    0000 00000000 0O 0.160.61                          1819169 109
G  2.17 R   m s trh M19)                                0.000    0000O    0000o             0000    0.000-            0.109    0.159                     0.000    0000    0.159    0.109      159.167
oalno  las                      0~~~~~~~~~~~.000    0600  0.000    0.000    0.000    0000O   0.000    0000O   0.000    0000o   000  000    00 0.000     0e .000            0
P118.8    8110195                   0000~~~~~~~~.OO  0000  0000  0000D   0000o   0.000    0000O   0.013    00D13    0.000    0000O   0.000    0.000    0.013    0.013      12.741
VAT                                             0.000             0.000    00000             0.00I 006                 0000    000000                     0.000    0.0     0000
31*4.661                                        000       00       060000    000             00000     00    0172    0173    000000   00         000000   00    0.172    0.17         710710  0
01509  ole.            0000    0000      0000      0000   ~~~~~ ~~~~~~0.000    0000O   0.000    00002   00007  0 000    0000O   0000    0.000    0.072    0.000  17.07M
2 P.9wv!-  Egsl..                                 0000    000.       00300  0         0000    00000    0  00     00000  060-0-0   0000    000    000        0.000    0.3009    0.3009     790000
VAT ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~.00                 000 0.0   000     Dow0000 000.00            Oo .00000         000      000'0   00       0,000    0.000    0.0000   0.000          0
9i*49al                    000    039        0306      0000     000      000    000    000    000          0000     0000      000     000    0306    0309        37900                 0769
C   .1   u,P   rx.                                 0000    0986O    0068               00066 0    0000           0000 DD  0.000                     0000 ro  0.000    0.009    0.009      69000
'AT'          15                             000       00      000      00 000 0.000 0.000                 0000 00000    0.000 0.000           0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000         0
Prlc*atsle   ne                                 0.000   _03082    03002    9000 000          0000 -d o  0.000    0.000  I40000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.002    0.3008  307.9 88
VAT91BwPM  udPm   aflaw                             000       0000               00              00008-.--0    Oo  0000 0    000000   00             000      0.000    0.000    0.000      6800
61*h4alal                                           0000Wck  w -   0.070    0070    90960   0000    0000o  -0000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0000D   0.070    0.079q   699                  66
G   .3  P        onci                              0000q_   0116     01162             0000F-DO  0000     O       0 000    0000O                     0.000    0000O   0.116    0.116     117600
:Al*         las                             000      0     000    0      .000 090     000 0000    00000    0                 .000  0.000    0.000 000 000 00    .00     0.000          0
GUb9.d         I                                0000    00703    00703    0000    0000    0000    0.00        0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0000    0000    0.0703   0.070        206.786    M
A2T20000                                                      1       0000.1   0000              000 do   0000       0     0000O   000               00000006DG    0.110    0.000         1.00
81*Ocal0.000    01190    0116                                              0060    0990D   0000    0000       000    0000.DQ    0.000    0000O   0.000    0.000    0.119    0.11      11016191
C   ..1   V                                      0000D    .03       .3 100  0100O. 00000.00                              .W 0000  0000            0000D   0000O   0.1003    0.1003     10000
C   lea                       0000    0000      0600     009~~0.00  0.000  0000 00000I   0000        0060O   0.000    0000     000      0000    0.060    0.000           0
Mc.   ~~~~~~~sci.e ~~~~~0.000    00039    000                  000       0000    0.000    0.000    0000O   0.000    0000O   0.000    0.000    0.000    0.003    0.003     11800616.
2 VATui                                           0000 t WtQAD       000  000                  0000 00000                 0009 000                  0000    0.000    0.000    0.000     0o.o
31*0698 On"k                                    0000Q   010        10000            0000MDO G.D  0000    6000   -0000    0.000    0000O   0.000    0.000    0.000   0-.10   010       10260129
O  2.22  :                                0000~~~~~~~~~~~~D.D  00032    00D32  0000 DD  0.0 0.0         0000DD   0.000                     0000    000    0.03        0.3         30
15c  nOte,  0000    0000    0000     0000    0000    0000    0000    0000    0000    0000    0000    0000    0000    0.006    0.000 0Ow  ND  W3    0003  zo
VAT                                             0.000             0000     0.000             0000    0.000             0.000    0.000             0000O    0 000    0.000    0.00 0Da
86*6,81                                         0000    01033    0.033    0000    0.000    0.000    0.000  I0.000    0000       000    0000 AD   0000   0.000    0.1033   0.33         022363
G  2.232BIll    :                                                0r01_16.0000    0006-0006   000    0.000              0000O   0.000                      0000O   0.000    0.036    0.006      82000
fwaal con    desk                             0.000    0000     0.000    0.000    0.000    0000    0.000    0000o   0.000  I0.000    0000o   0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000            0
)Pri. c    amencles                             0000O   0.000      0000     0.000    0.000    0.000    0000O   6000    0.000    0.000    0000    0000    0000    0.000    0.000           020
IVAT                                            0000.000    0.000                            0000    0.000              000      .0000 000    0.000                         0.0000          0-0 
-    S.b*68i                                        0.000    0.006    0.009    0000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000     00 0.000         0000    0 0 000    0.0 09Om3  0.009   62083              81,326H    T
O  2.24 S  PLM Or re99h un 0s                           000      010      010000                     00000                     0000                       0.000    0.000    0.100    O.190    ¶80000U.
Ic"5                                 0000O   0.000    0000      0.000    0000o   0.000    0.000    0000o   00000    0000    0.000    0.000    0000    0.000    0.000  I         0
price,  eO                          0~~~~~~~~~~ ~~.00  0004D    000. 000D.O  0.000    0000    0000O   0.000    0.000    0000    0.000    0.000    000  0.004    0.004       2108
VAT                                             0.000             0.000    0.000             0zo 00   .000             0.000    0.000             0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000          0
*o.*4,815                          ~~~~~ ~~~~~ ~~0.000    0184O    018  0000 0000    0.000    0000O    0.000    0000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0000o   0.104    0.184  1810                1 8



D00.4. Protd Cofta
R.g. UrOa Tranpot Coep--.t
Ret.            DeocrhM                                     Cajender Y..r 1006          Calender Year 1007          CaedrYerlo                 CeJender Yewr 10                  TJTtlTaL.* VAT
I L        F        L.       F   I T             L        F        T        L        F         T        LI       P                                              801.  A
SOt .1       800 brake an   er0                            0 000    0.200   0.2-00               0.000    0000 000    0.000                                      000      000      020      0 200      2000
W IM lc    nte                                  0000     000        .0000  00.0000               00      .000    0 000    0.0       0 000    0.000    000       00      000       0000O           0
Price cn*Wn,..                                    0.000    0 000     0.000     0.000    0.000    0 000    1.000    0000O   0.000        0000    0.000    000     000D00             0 005       50
VAT                                               0000O    -         0.000     00000      0        0      00.000             .000o   0000w              000      000        00      0 0000                 __
8th-total                                        -0 00-0  -0 200     0.206     0 000    0.000    000      0.000    0.000    0.000    0 000    0.000    0.000-   000        020         0      2520                   0  0
C  2,25   Ttcetmeach,te.tote Utlmont                       0.000    0 150-   0.1               0.000      000       0000.00    0.00                                                 10 0      tO        500
teal 00000 enclco                 0 000~~~O.DO  0 000  0.000   0 00  000 0    0000oo      0 000    0000O    0.000    0.000    0.000-  0.000      0000    0.000    00000
PrICeCetlOn enrIco    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ --o0000    0004i-   0.00-4        0.00     0.000 000-0       0 000    0000    0.000    000  0000           0 000    000 0O l c.004    0 004        3.900
VAT                                               0rD00              0.000     000               0000-     0 000             0.000    0 000            0000o    000         .00      000
Subtotal     0000     0 104    0.104     0000     0.000    0000    0.000    0000    0.000    0.000    0000    0.000    0000    0.104    01St            10300000    1002000- 00  153,9
CW  1.1 hoantamokrtonan   workoho          ~~~~0.4000    04004    0.0004          0.000    0 000                      0.00                         .00      A00     0A0        00       8000003
tea n  enic  __   10       000       04       0.00     0.00      .00      000       .00 000  0OO     000       .0000      00    0.000-o-ooO   00 40    0.040     0i 00  000
PrccerrknrIco                                 0.00     04010     0.07   00          0000    000       00000       0      00.000    .0      000      0.000    000       000      00GO0      704000
VAT  ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~ %                0.040  00          0.090    0.000     00       0000    0000       00      0 000    0.000         0.000  .D    0.040   0.000       a 0000    800000
le$totlD 000                                        0400      0.070    000       00I.0              00      00        00      000       00       0.000    0590o    04010     100     1040040
Crco  Woay_______                 %       0       0.00       00      00        0 000  I0000O    0 000      0000    0.000    0.000   0.000      000      00000  00          0.000    0 000      7 00
PATele         1t0                                0.000    000       000       0.00     0.00     000 000   000 00-   000              0.0000    0.000            0.000    0.000    0000             0
PelCeoom   one                                    0.000    00004_   a0.00      0.00000   00 .0000    00             000000     00    00000000a0000               0000    0.4000     0000            05 4-
VAT   ~~~~~~~~~~%                 0       0.000    000       0.000     0 000    O     0000N   0.000             0.0    00      0000.00    0    0.000    0.000    0.q000    0000D0
8th-tota                                          0.000O   0 000     0.000     0.000    0.000    0.000    0 000    0 000    a.000    0.000   0 000    0.000    0.000    0.000    000 0DO0
C  21   P   TAand0thr                      ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~0.000    020   0 .00 0.000  0120 DD  02  0000    0    .000    0 .000 0,000    0 DO 000D    0.000    000  0 .20 30     020000o66 
VTea         nc                          %       .0      00         00 0000000 --0   -O-O0000O    000000   00             000000   00        0000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0 000             0
spblCe         leo                                0.000    0 000     0.000     0.000    0 000    000. 000           0000 OOD  0.000    0000O    0 000    0.000    0.000    0.012001            102
VAT                                0.00~      ~      ~~~~~     ~~~~~            ~~~~~~0 .  000  00  000000    0000     0000       00    0.000    000        0.00     000
8,_Thttl .T  =       .-0.000    000                                     0.29     00        010  0-61-20    50-000    0000      000      0000-oO   000      000      00       0.320    03320      31520.33 00
0  028 Pitt:  sot                           0~~~~~~~~~~~~.00  020 0 000000                 0.000                      0.000                       0000    000    0.00    0.03O2000
aloe  octee               ~~~     ~~~~5%  0. 00 00    002       00       000       .00      00      000000   000000000    0.000. NO0.00                     0.1      0002        100
Pricec      ode"-Is                               0.001    0.001     0.001     0000    0000DS     0000    000       0.0000 6DO  00-0  0.000    0000    0.000    00         0.001 2      0001-   14002
VAT                                                 DD0001           000.  000 oO                0000    0.000               0.000    0.000             0.000    000.       .0       .0          100
8th-total                                          loo 0.00    1 02  0 034     0 ooo    00          0 0 000 0.000-   0 000                0.000 000          0.000 007      .027     0.034     30002200
Prke condrWmIes  0.001    0 001    omooi    ODW  0 ODD    0.000    0.000    O.ODO  0.000    0.000    0 001    0.001    0 001   1,400~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L.



Detailed Project Costs
Daugavplis Water Supply and Wasteater Component
Detalled Projet Costs Daugavplls Water SUPAzY and WlearCom ponent 
Summary  r                                                     _                                   _                 _
Component                                 1996      1997       8      1370 90            T2t,751,1
Foregn_
well development and Iran removal              0 2,163,000  8S8,912  224,670           3,288,582
waftr pipelines                                0   702,400  280,980   70,240           1,053,800_                                                      
water quality monitoring program          150,000        O _         O                   150,000__
wastewatr treatment plant upgrading            01.,787,700  825,700  137,700           2,751, 100
Kandavas pumping station                  183,160   311,650       0        0             494,810
satellite pumping stations                 78680   391,590   78,660   78,660             627,570
rehabilitation of gravKy sewers           100,000   390,000   50,000   50,o0o            590,000
bulk and block metering                    50,000    50,000       0        0             100,000
Vingri pump replacement                   100,000   100,000       0        0             200,000
design: well development and iron removal  202,425    67,475   50,606      0             320,506
design: water pipelines and vingn          65,216    23,072   15,8041   5,268            109,360
dealgr.: wastewatertreatmnentpant         165,885    55,295   41,472       0             262,652
design: pumping stations and gravity sewer  36,182   109,324   12,866   12,866           171,238
PMU: TA and training                      160,000   118 000   34,000   43,000            355,000
PMU twinning TA and training              135,000   140,000  140,000       0             415,000         _               _                _
PMU twinning leakage detection            165,000   165,000   _   0        0             330,000               _                                      _                    =
PMU twinning information technology        90,000    90,000       0        0             180,000          _
PMU: equiment                              54.000        0        0   _   0               54,000
total forel n base cost                 1,735,528 6,664,506 2,428,980  622,404        11,451,418
Local
well develoPment and iron removal              0  1,460,000  601,401  150,330          2,211,731          _       _         _        _
water pipelines                                0   468,267  187,307   48,827             702,401 _        _       _         _        _
water quality montoring program           130,000        0        0        0             130,000
wastewatertreatmentplantuprading                0  1,787,700  825,700  137,700         2,751,100
Kandavas pumping station                   18,335    36,850       0        0              55,185
satellie pumping stations                  19,665    18,661   19,665   19,665             77,656
rehablitation of gravKy sewers               ,       50,000   50,000   50,000            150,000
design: well development and iron removal  67,475    22,492   16,869       0              06 836 _,
design: water pipelines and vingrd         21,072     7,024    5,268       0              33,364
design: wastewatertreatment plant          81,705    27,235   20,426       0             129,366 _         _       _       _  _
design: pumprn sta'dons and gravKv sewer    1,900     5,276    3,483    3,483             14,142
PMU: local salaries and administration     44,000    44,000   34,000   34,000            156,000
PMU twinnin  TA and training                               _           0                      0
PMU twinning leakage detection                           O        0        0                  0
PMU twlnning information technology            0         0        0        0                  0
PMU: equipment                               5,000                0 _      0               5,00
total local base cost                     389,152  3,927,505 1,764,119  442,005        8,522,781
Total base cost                         2,124,680110,592,011 4,193,100 1,064,409      117,974,20 _   _    _
Contingencies
forelgn price contingency                  45,124   351,060  207,837   70,617            674,437 _        _        _        ______
local pricecontingency                     70,939  1,040,789  601,388  192,219         1,905,335 _   _    ______
physical contingency                      151,818  1,031,351| 417,160  107,079         1,707,408          _        _        _        _        _                       _                                    09
Totalcontingency                          267,    2,423,199 1,226,185  369,915         4,287,180          _        _        _____W
TOTAL: base + con ngencies               2,392,561 13,015,210 5,419,284 1,434,324     22,261,379   0_ ____O|
I   I                   I        I        I        I                 I        I                 I                          ehlE~~~~~~~~~~~0  



0ot 4.d P,.Pd Co.7.
D.V.11pk Wd  &oP*I  .d V4.1..d  Cony-.1
67h404d                                             0100nr   0229    0.22? 103%    0036moo OOD    0.0792.113342   0.021    0000    0.500    0.070    0.220    0030    0.172    03297    0.A4    6400313     L033M7106%io
ui ii  W   c                                        IO       0 000    0.000    0.000    0449    0.72ij    1.l72    01170   0.0901    m 504   0.047s   0.070    0.117    0.702    10042   1.706  170001                                              M19
P  Cc  s!22~0                                10%     000      0.000    0 000    0.307    00704   0.017    O.0I      0.072    0.077   -0.000    0.007    0.012    0.070    0.2100   0.17    1704600lo
VAT.         ol,000  0000                                                  0.000    0.3_4  0.3        0191    0.094    002       00956   0.0204    .0      0.021    0.209    0.007    0.270    274,7098   o
VAT                                        0000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~om    D  0.000    2.5S210 A9  0.110 - 0239         004011 02M    70 001       0.0415    3.144    0.000   07A79   17645940791.1                          VT         i%
C1.2 0 e   ooos,           __                 %       l0%     0021    02003    00640   0.027    0.021    0.026    0.000   0.016   0.021    0.002-   0.000    0.007        000      002010           l0
lpyldo      00799w                                     0.002    00204   04 0.0     01 0.002 0.07   0.00      0  0.002    0.00    2    00007  .G  O0.02    0.001    0.004I    0 011    0.014  14.048
90.    -      1                                    -     00olLD5           oci dos    003 00  00  02 0.001 -601  000     .0         1 0.002    0.002    0.001    0.024 0.00  00  00  00   0.0300.1  121949
VAT        ________000                                             0        00 OOl  0.002             0.002    0.0O1            0.001    00002             0.000    0.020_  0.000    0.007      93142
s7*466                                                   01031    0071    0102    0.031    0024Q   0.034    0.009      aw 0.09   0029    0.0103    0.020   -0.030    0000    0.120    0.170    174933             1533740
WN1. W9        .                                             0000    0.000    0.000    1789     1766    30171    0.917    0.291   1.601    0.036    0.126    02170    2.71       270      0.02  0 5  ,76 M00220
Ph  do       nob.l0%                                    .00     00000    0000    01079    0 079    0.308    0.063    0.063    01047    0.014    0.0074    0.012    02075    0.270    0.170   07S6020
p16090  69  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D0000    0 000    0000D   0.24    0.044    0.08i    0.2014    0 006    0.34                   0.020    0.010    0.027    0.903    0.870   0.268    095394
VAT                                                      0.000             0000    0439               04316    0.20490 0249    0.013                       0.039   04917    0.000    0.670   61 7014
B34.tW                                                   0000o   0.000    0.000    0.9794   2.11001   54040    704    0.974    2.370    0.847   0.166    04149   i.215    3.221    772   77 238,16 9102083614
C  1.3     oot.0                                     0M6     0062   _00135    0 0241    0.027    0.000    0.020    0020    0.047O    0 .02    0.007    0.014,   0021    0.126    0.276 .01413   1412601
Phya  do      nc so                                      00062   0.007    0.020    0.003    0006    0D009    0.002    0.002    0.0041 0.007    0.007    0.002    0.014    0.09        004      14126
piloo         7.                                         0.012    0004       0017    0.0072   0.003    0.070    0.007    0.002    007  003 D       .001    0004    0.029aw   0.1      0.4      412i40
VAT                                                     _019               007      0.007              00     0.005             0.00.00 .  002             0.002    032       .00.0    .032    3223
996-40479                                 0127    0.767    0.207    0.044    0044    0106    0.030    0049    0.094    0.012     0077    0.029     0.21       0.3120    0275   1274998             4902617
6774                     n                                    09       12      .0      0.037    0.712    02049     .O9-0.           0 020   000                         0000030.0                 099
9,60.0  7..     0.003    0006    0006    0.070    0.076    0.026    0.000    0000    0.000    0000    0.000    0.000    0.013    0027    0024          336Webde,04 ipem  0920.33
VAT   ~~~~~~~aoW0 0_4                                                0004D   0 .000  788006                2 0000        01.000    O.  00 30    0.075    00731   0.750    0.07           1377820
696-4.06                                     0027~~~~~~~~~~~0% G.D  02060   0.233    0.179    03579    0419e   0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000 00 0.04_O020    0.095    0.046    0.602    4019522303
C  IA     odnsOs   e%                                0%      000     0016    0 01      0.2      001      003      0.0      000      0000 4.00         0.000    0.003    0.003    0.040    0.002    022340
doAT         079                                      000      0002     000      0. 0.    0.0390043         000       . 0.    0.0002  0. 0.039   _0.000 300      200      0000D   0.000      0224o
W71.M        c.  ______                                  0.00     0.000 00  0       0.0002  0.002 .0   002 24  0000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.031    0.02     000    2744191174.1
DVjj cT  f                                      0         00      0         000--  S6-d -   00002 Oms  0.000      0.00          3 .4  .000    0.000  .1    0.000    0.013    0.000    0.0013   61206
Ph6.047                                                  0001    0.027    0.022    0.003    0.034    0.034    0.000    0.004    0.000    0.000    60.000    0.000   -0.014    0.007    0.067   426067909
97 1.0    956  S04ono                           ~~~~~ ~~~~~ ~~~~00120   0-0794   0.00  0.019 0.9  0470-   0.2   .7      00       02       0079    0.09      0.079    0.4i2    0.704    4I0224
doS.    000790Mw     _____0%                           00      0.0      010      002      0.0039    0.04    0.OW    -0000    0.070    0.0023    .0       .1       .0       .6       .7       02
VAT.       eob                                           000      0.002    0.00     0.007    202     00267   0,007      .0       01       .0 00     09    0077    0.032    0027D   0.040       00239
VATgW                                                    0.004     .17   0.307    0.005     0 6      0.000    0.006    000      0.000    0,000 _OO         0.020    0.019    0.000    0.1      16490,26
94*40679                              0.023    0033    ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~01020  00307   0401  03491    0.33 006  02    003D.05            70    60.129    0.79      206     9000                 3  0
C1 7.4 9daoinoso p%                                     10      000s000           0.00ig0.001    0029        040       01      0.9      .0 09    .0009            000      0.0003            06        64
PhVd oosthg- 110% .                                      000      0.0018 _ 0201    0.000     0.031    0.004    0000   -60.001   -60007   a 0000    30DO1    0.00    0 000      0.00   0.0       4
Poo.w 0070  6790.020    0200    00003   00009   0002    0.002    0.000    0.007    0.001    0.000    0201O    0.007    0001    0.004    0.0052                                                  49026              02,
C  V4DsinAT  aS                                      O     -0000       gi     0.000    0.000     .5      0.000    0.000             0.000OO  0.000             0.000 0.O   0.00  0.0     0.001       97,20                                                               L
9h.6cal -__ng-_e_                                        0.001    0 002    0.002   50-003   0.0403    0D047    0.002    0006_   0011O   0.002    0.013    0 .011    0.000     0073    0.070    7070720324
67 1.6 ft   00   y  on                          0.000~~~~~~~~~~~ODO  0.100    07001    0000    0.3002    0.400    0.000    0.060 00  0 0000OOD  000  0100  I0.100    0.000    O.740    27400                                                                  -
VAT     s9slo        _____                    7%      000      000      0.010    0.005     .3       .4      0.000    005       A07    000      0.0       .070    0.070    0.006    0074i    7400
717c. 047  n7600                                                  003     0.003    0.073    0.027    0024    0.017    0004O   0.021    0.027    0.000    0.024I0.007    0.033    0.094         939157
6965 40779.-d f n                                           0.0200  0.72    .0.11     0 067    04002   0530    0.020    0.079    0.144    0.090    0.060    07509    0200_   0.692    0.7057    9,2966071
C  14 0  0091 Owkmm        _______         0        10       0.000    00706   0010    00032   0039B   0.0m42    0003    00  O        .000    0.03      D000    0.006    0.009    0.009    0.0071    660003
doA Il  . 7.                                           00      000      0.007    0.000     .0      0.004      0.00   0.01    0.0.00 . 0006   0.0        0.007    00019    0.006    0.007     66009
Polo. oon10, soleS                              0.000- 10  ooo  0.000    0.000    0007i   0.032    0.040    0.007    0.000    0.007    0.207    0.007    0.002_  0,003    0.003    0 000  85623
VAT  ___________                          ~~~~~~            ~~~~~ ~~0.000    0OO 0 000    000OG  00012    0007    00  0.001    0001    Oi   -0007     0 002    0.000    0.002     7478
4940b 1000                                                         07      0.077    0004    0.046~   0.047    0004    0.004    0.070    0.004    0.006    0071i    0.073    0.073    0.0791    8092i7              7397
Corw  +9 de791430



D0.d.. PNqed Coole
D_g6,O 0V. pply .nd Wt00Ot., C0nwoboln
Ref.              DessCOpn00 eldYer.,N                                             I W  Cdu     Yew . 1907    1   Cablw4  e., 1r46         Calent. Ye., 1296               ToW              TOtW           TO
L       P        L       F        T   I L          P       T        L       P I  T           L        FP       T       L   IP I  T              usl            LOOSVAT
0  1.1 9%   Wfk,                                                      0000    0D50                      0000                     0000                      0000    0.000    0.050    0.000    50000
isWAelorA6ge-os                                10%     0000O   000S    000O5    0.000    0.DD0    0000O   0.000    0000-  0000    00W       0.000    0000O   0000    000S    0.006      50000
PM1. 0-rwl                                            0.000    0.001    0.001    0.000    0 000    0000O   0.000    0000    0.000    0.000    0000D   0000    0000O   0.001    0001i    1500
VAT                                                   0.000            0000D   0.0000            0000    0.000             0000    0.000            0.000    0000    0.000    0.000        0
*Ub4WW                                  ~~~~~~~~000  00 000    0   000    0000    0 0 000   0000 0.000       0000    0.000 0.000    0.000      000FOD oo    000a    005  564300046
r. 1.2 6Uk=   lonmm  w                                                        0.000            0.00    0000o                      0.000                    0000D   0000    0.000    0000O   50000
lPhn"m0ndencl..                   ~~10%    0000O   0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0000O   0.000    0000O   0.000    0.000    0.000    0.006  0000O
P410w                                   ~~~~~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~ ~~0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.001  .0  0.000    0.000    0000    0.00  000  0.000    0.000    0.003    0.005  2634
VAT                                                   0000             0.000 I0.000              0.000    0000             0.000    0.000           0.000    0.000    0000    0000O        0 
64*-0000                                 0000~~~~~~~~~~~~~O.D  0.000    0000D   0.Wo    0006  0004 0000    0.000    0.000    0000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0001    0.001  0.6314       07 34
0  1.2                                            0100    0100~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dio  0.100    0.100                      0.000            0    .000 000  00    0200   200,000
0                           ~~~~ ~~~~~ ~~~~10%  0000    0.010    0.010    0.000    0,010    0010    0  0000O   0000o   0000    0.000    0000O   0.000    0.020    0.020    20000O
P4104                                    0000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O.D  0.003    0.002    mo,  0.000    000  0  0000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0000o   0000    0006O   0.006  ?646
VAT                                                   0000D            0.000    0.000            0.D00    0.000            0000    0JD00            0000    0.00    0000D   0000           0
s.*4060                                               0000    0112    0.113    0.000    0110s   0.110    0.000    0000    0.000    0.00     0000    0000O   0.000    0206    0.M    22164               22
C  1.1  n ooo                             0%      2%      0000    0.002    0.002    0.000    0.002    0.002    000  000    0.000      0000.   0.000    0000    00900    0.004    000D4     400
Phyokd -rAn2midee                        o.wo000  0.000    0.000    0.000    0000    0.000    0000    000000   00 o   0000    000      0000    0.000 I0.000    0000        400
Pdl.                                                  0000    0.000    0000D   0.000    0000D   0.000    0000D   0000    0000    0.00       0000    0.000    0000O   0000D   0000G       157
VAT                                                   0000_            0.000    0.000            0000    60000             0.000    0000            0.000    0.000    0000    0.000        0
SOW64                                                 00010   0002    O0002    00000   0.002    0002    0000    0000O   0000    0.00        00      0.000    00D00    0000    0.00      40067             4X7
-                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cmet . .des  23242
C  1.0                                       ~~~~~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~0000    0.164    0.10    0.000    0.116    0116    0000OD  0.034    0024    000 002 0002    000 3025    00351   2060000
Ph4 c&   0me                          6%      0.000    0.006    0006I   0000    0006O   0000    0000    0.002    0.002    0.000         0    .002 000  000    0.016    0.016    17.700
P410.0 hnck                                           0.000    0.004    00064   0.000    0004    0.004    0.000    0.003    0.003    00     000     00065   0000     001      0014     17,747
IVAT                                                I000        000         0.000OJO           I 0.000    0.000            0.000    0.000            0.000    0.000    0.000    0000       0
5*0800   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I0.000    0.112    0.172    0.000    0.130    0.130    0000    0.024    0.036    0000    0.060    0.060    0.000    0.26                 0.390   360,467            366 497.
C  IG6                                                       0044o aw"Wdwb  O  0.000    006.4   0.064    0.000    0.044    0.034    0.000    0014    0.034     0.000    0.034    0.104    0.000    0.104    154000O
Phsia  5nm,*%                                       000D2    0000D   0002    00002    0000    0.002    0.002    0000    000D2    0.002-  0000-   0.002    006    0000    0.006       ?.6O0
Pr orabo.    l                                        000o7    0.000    0.007    0.012    00900    0.012    0.012    0000D   0012    0.014    0.000    0.014    0044    0.000    0044    44177
VAT                                                   0.010            0.010    0.010            0.010    0.006            0006    0006             0006    00237   0.000    0037      37414
60400000                                 0042~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A    0000    0.002    0046    0000    0.0  Fs066 000.00 00  066    0.000    0.009    0.246    0.000    0240   240412            0076977
C-I?                                                        0000O   01AM     0120    0000    09140    0.140-   0.000    0140    0140    0.000    0000    0.000    0.000    0416    0410   415000O
0tr"crm-t                          5%      0%      0000o   0007    0007    0000U   0.007    0.007    0.00     0.007    0.007    0.000    0.000    0000o   0.000    0021    0021    20,750
pmlec,                                                0.000    0.004    0.004    0.000    0.007    0.007    0.00  0.011    0011    0.000    0.000    000000   00      02      00O22    22.061
VAT                                                 I0.000             0.000 I0.000              0000O   0.000             0000    0000             0.000    0000O   0.000    0.000        0
s5b0"                                               I 0.000    0.140   0.145    0000    0.104    0104    0000    0.100    004    0.000    0.000    0.00      0000O   0404    0 450   4016041            44
C   .es                                                      0000w*  OO  0.165    0.146    0.000    0.166    0145    0.000    0.140    0.16  0.000    0.000    0000    0.000    046"    0446    460000O
0hs     *-nenk                    0%       0%      0000    0006o   0006     O   0.00 008 0006 0004    0       0000 006  O00    0000000 0.000 0.000               002O000           24,750
Pd" brym ft                                           0000    0004d   0004    0.000    0.006    0006    0000    0.012    0013    0.000    000000   00w   004          02      0.026    26166M
VAT                                                   0000_            0.000    0000             0000D   0.000            0000    0000D             0.000    0.000    0.000    000a
OL64"                                    D.~~~~~~~~0000    0176    0.176    0000    0.192    0.192    0.000    0164    0.196    0000    0.000    0000O   0.000    0.544    064  40936      345A
C   t 1.                                                     0000 DO  _0060    0.040    0000    0060    0.060    0000    0000D   0000    0000D   0000    0.000    0.000    0.190    0.100    1900000
0                     ~~~      ~~~    ~~~~5%  5%  0000D   0.005   .0006    0.000    0.006    0.006    0000D   0.w000    0 .000 0000 000  0000    000    0.02 0000    .0006 00
P410.0                                   0000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OO  000D2    0002    0.000    0.000    0.006    0000    O.OD  0.000    0000    0000    0.000    0.000    0.007    0.007  7061i
VAT                                                   0.000            0000    0000              0000    00000      0       00D   0000              0000    0000    000  000               0
64*-OW                                  ~~~~~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~0.000    0.007    0.007    0.000    0.060   -00096   0.000    0000    0000    0.000    0000D   0000    0.000    09 014 1906,D1101
C  1.3  WOOS                                  0006~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OmO  00054    0.066     0.000                     0000                     0.000    006A     00      0.069    59-00-0
.hy9n                                       5%     0000    0.003    000D3    0000    GIO 0000    0.000    0     .000 0000    0  0000    0 .000 0000    0  0000 000 003     00960
P410.0 tenle                                          0.001    0.001    0.002    0.000    0000O   0000    0000    0.000    0000    0.000    0.000    0000    0.001    0.001    000D2    2104
VAT                                                   0.001            0.001    0.000            0000O   0,000            0.000    0.000            0.000    0001    0.000    0001      1,060
31*.4oW                                 ~~~~~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~0.007    0056    0.066    0.000    0000    0.000    0000D   0.000    0.000    0000    0.000    0000    0.007    0008a   0066  60,164  9.014
am 1.7                                                       0.1300   0.1000   0.200   0000 00000000   0          00 0000   0000 000000             00     000     0130    0.150    0.260   2600000
0hs    codkp e                             O%     0000 000    0000          000 0. 00         .0000     00    0000    0000    00000       00    0000    0000O   0.000    0000          0
P410.  6                              00166  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.0039   0.0234   0000    0.000    0000    0000O   000  000 00    00     00       02       04      02-30
VAT                                     00260            00269   0.000             0.000    0000 0~~~o000            0.00000                   0.027    0.000    02       61
64*4440                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.1744   01539   03202    0000    0000    000 00 000    000 T 0  000   000 00  000      0174     14      02      301                0 
xC



ANNEX C
Page 41 of 71
IV. FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS



TALAUA                                                                                                            ANNEX  C
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS - LUE STATe                                                                       Page  42  of  71
FOR THE YEARS ENDING DEC ER 31                                                                                          LtsIOOO
CONSTANT 1995 PRICES                            1994    1955    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003
*                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Actual
OPERrTNO REVENUE
Revenue froe ticket sales                      1,425   1,463   1,700   1,882   1,993   2,071   2,142   2,202   2,249   2,306
*               Revenue from other sources                       188      130     190      250     380      380     380     380     380      380
Total operating revenue                       1,614   1,593   1,890   2,132   2,373   2,451   2,522   2,582   2,629   2,686
OPERATING COSTS
Staff Costs (incl social tax):
Drivers                                          556     620      620      620     620     620      620     620     620     620
Maintenance & Repair Staff                       234     260      222      164     149     136      130     114     110     106
Administration & manaers                         162      L90     174      1S3     [s5     IS0      150     140     140      140
Others                                           162     170      170      170     170     170      170     170     170     170
Total staff costs                             1,113   1,240   1,186   1,112   1,097   1,076   1,070   1,044   1,040   1,026
Vehicle operating costs:
Diesel & oil                                     480     670      658     646      634     622      610     538     586     574
Tyres                                             42     130      130     130      130     130     130      130     130     130
Spares and materials                              75     210      239     267      206     121      !21     123     125     123
Depreciation                                     135     150      144      172     190     222     271      320     369     397
Total vehicle operating costs                   733   1,160   1,171   1,215   1,160   1,095   1,132   1,171   1,210   1,230
Other operating cos'5s:
Fuei& Oil                                         43      45       45      45       45      45      45       45      45      45
Power ° Heating                                   55      60       60      6)       60      60      60       60      60      60
Materials                                        116     120      120     120      120     120      120     120     120     120
Other costs                                      270     260      310     323      312     324     335     346      354     364
Overhead Depreciation                             49      50       53      S3       53      53      53       53      53      53
Total other operating costs                     533     535      588     601      590     602     613     624      632     642
Total operating costs                         2,380   2,935   2,944   2,927   2,847   2,774   2,8IS   2,839   2,882   2,908
OPERATING INCOlE                                (766) (1,342) (1,054)   (796)   (474)   (322)   (293)   (257)   (254)   (222)
SUBSIDY                                          644   1,105      855     805      805     B0S    805      805      80a     805
OPERATING INCOtE AFTER SU8SIDY                  (122)   (237)   (19s)       9      331     483     512     548      S51     583
INTEREST                                           0       0       78     138      144     144     14      14       14      144
INCOME BEFORE TAX                              (122)   (237)   (277)   (129)    187        339     368     404      407     439
CORPORATE TAX                                      0       0        0       0        0       0       0       0        0     138
INCOME AFTER TAX                                (122)   (237)   (277)   (129)    187       339     368     404      407     301
The f'inancial projections assume the iapleentation of the prrpesed business plan.



ANNEX C
TAAVA                                                                                                 Page  43  of  71
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS - BAUNCE SHEET
FOR THE YEARS ENDIN6 DECENBER 31                                                                                      Lts'WOO
CONSTAHT 1995 PRICES                           1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000   2001    2002    2003
Actual
FIXED ASSETS
Assets in service                            2,509   2,556   3,257   .,105   4,65Z   5,282   5,912   6,542   7,172   7,892
Depreciation                                 1,975   2,175   2,082   2,107   2;350   2,625   2,949   3,322   3,744   4,194
Net assets in service                          534     381   1,115   1,938   2,302   2,657   2,963   3,220   3,428  3,698
Capital work in progress                         0       0        0       0        0       0       0       0       0       0
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash & bank                                    168      65       42     106       82      6i    118    105       137     138
Inventory                                      170     169      177     184      185     187    197    195       201     210
Other debtors & prepaynents                     29      28       Z8      28       28      28      28      28      28      28
Total                                        366     262     248      318     295      280     343    328      367     376
CURRENT LIAlILITIES
Salaries and deductiors payable                 97     103       99      93       91      90      89      87      87      86
Accounts payable                                46      20 .   22        24       27      30      31     32       32      33
Corporate tax                                    0       0        0       0        0       0       0       0       0     139
Accued interest                                  0       0       20      35       36      36      36      36      36      36
Current portion of long tbrm loans               0       0        0       0        0       0     16!    161      161     161
Total                                        143     123     140      151      155     155    317    315       316     454
NET CURRENT ASSETS/LABILITIES)                  223     129      107     167      140     1°4      26      12      Si     (78)
TOTAL FUNDS EMIPLOYED                 757      520   1,282   2,165   2,442   2,781   2,989   3,232   3,419   3,620
EQUITY                                          757     520      347     319      516     854   1,223   1,626   2,034   2,335
LONG TERM LOANS                                   0       0      935   1,846   1,927   1,927   1,766   1,606   1,445   1,285
TOTAL FJNDS EMPLOYED                  757      520   1,282   2,165   2,442   2,781   2,989   3,232   3,479   3,620
The financial projections assume the implesentation of the proposed business plan.



ANNEX C
ThLMQA                                                                                                    Page  44  of  71
FINNCIAL PROJECTIONS - CASH FLOM STATEJIEIT
FOR THE YEARS ENDIWo DECFlBER 31
CONSTANT 195 PRICES                             1394    1995    L996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003
GENEPATION FROMI OPERATIONS
Operating income after subsidy                  (122)   (237)   (199)        9     391      483     512      548     551     583
Oepreciation                                     185     200      197      225     243      27S     324      373     422     450
Corporate tax                                      0       0        0        0       0        0       0        0       0    (108)
(Increa3e)/decrease in working capital
other than cash & cash equivalents              (41)    (19)    (10)    (11)         1      (1)     (3)       1      (6)    130
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from operations          22     (56)    (12)    223       57$      757     827      921     367   1,025
RETURN ON INUESTHENTS AND
SEnvICINS OF FINANCE
Interest to operations                            0       0      (78)   (138)   (144)   (144)   (144)   (144)   (140    (140
Les3 lnterest accrued                             0       0       20       I5       2        0       0        0       0       0
Net cash inflowl(outflow) from returns
on investRents and servicing of finance            0       0      (55)   (123)   (142)   (144)   (144)   ([44)   (144)   (144)
INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES
IBRO project                                       O       0  (1,0t 9) (1,012)    (90)        0       0        0       0       0
Own funded investments                          (152)    (47)       0    (180)   (540)   (630)   (630)   (630)   (630)   (720)
Less: Expenditure charged against incoma           0       0       48      144      83        0       0        0       0       0
Net cash outflow from investment activities   (153)    (47)   (991) (1,04)   (547)   (630)   (630)   (630)   (630)   (720)
FINANCING
Loan capital raised                                0       0      935     910       8!        0       0        0       O       0
Loan capital repaid                                0       0        O        0       0        0       0    (161)   (161)   (161)
Crants/thunicipal contributions for invests    272         0      104     101        9        0       0       0        0       0
Net cash inflow from financing                    722       0   1,039   1,012        90        0       0    (161)   (16i)  (161)
CASH I CASH EQUIVALEhT9
Increase/(decrease) during year                   91    (103)    (22)      64      (24)    (17)      53     (13)      33       1
At begining of year                               77     168       65      42      106       82      65     118      105     137
At end of year                                   168      65       42      106      82       65     118      105     13?     138
The financial projections assume the implementation of the proposed business plan.



ANNEX C
Page 45 of 71
IllANTAi
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS - INCOME STATEMENT
FOR THE YEARS ENOIN6 DECEMBER 31                                                                                    Lts'000
CONSTANT 1995 PRICES                         1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003
Actual
OPERATHG REUENUE
Revenue from ticket sales                   1,495   1,783   2,028   2,209   2,337   2,410   2,477   2,533   2,S79   2,617
Revenue from other sources                     56       50     125     200      400     400     400     400     400     400
Total operating revenue                    1,551   1,833   2,153   2,409   2,737   2,810   2,87   2,933   2,978   3,017
OPERATING COSTS
Staff Costs (inci social tax):
Drivers                                       560     840      840     840      840     840     80       40     84      80
Maintenance & Repair Staff                    217     273      244     177      154     135     122     101      90      80
Administration & managers                     325     459      443     427     427      419     419     409     403    40
Total staff costs                          1,102   1,572   1,527   1,444   1,421   1,394   1,381   1,350   1,329   1,329
Vehicle operating costs:
Diesel                                        606     682      670     634      618     602     586     570     554     539
Oil                                            98     118      118     1l1     118      118     118     la     118     118
Tyren                                         108     140      14d     140      10      140     140     140     140     140
Spares and saterials                          206     264      307     339     272      200     203     208     215     224
Depreciation                                  250     252      1s9     230     267      298     361    424      487     SZ
Total vehicle operating costs              1,268   1,456   1,434   1,462   1,415   1,358   1,408   1,460   1,514   1,541
Other operating costs:
Fuel & Oil                                     15      20      "l0      20       20      20      20      20      20      20
Power & Heating                                so      70       70      70      70       70      70      70      70      70
Other coats                                   241     306      360     367     357      367     376     384     391     397
Overhead Depreciation                          30      36       49      49      49       49      49      49      49      49
Total other operating coasts                 336     432     499      506     496     506      515     523     530     538
Total operating costs                      2,705   3,480   3,460   3,412   3,332   3,258   3,305   3,333   3,383   3,405
OPERATING INCOME                           (1,154) (1.627) (1,307) (1,003)   (596S   (448)  (428)  (401)   (405)  (389)
SUBSIDY                                       919   1,206   1,l06   1,106   1,106   1,106   1,105   1,106 1    ,106   1,106
OPERATING IWO11E AFTER SUBSIDY               (235)   (421)   (201)    103      510      658     678     705     701     717
INTEREST                                        0       0      64      157     199     202      202     193     177     160
INCOME BEFORE TAX                            (235)   (421)   (265)    (54)    312      458      476    512      525     557
CORPORATE TAX                                   0       0        0       0       0        0       0       0      78     218
INCOME AFTER TAX                             (235)   (421)   (265)    (54)    312      456      476     512     447     339
The financial projections assume the itpleuntation of business plans.
v     LIuvl   I



ANNEX C
Page 46 of 71
tHANTA
FIHANCIAL PROJECTIONS - SALANCE SHEET
FOR THE YEARS ENOlNG OECEMBER 31                                                                                     Lts'000
CONSTANT 1995 PRICES                         1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003
Actual
FIXED ASSETS
Assets in serica                           2,143   2,143   3,475   3,967   4,593   5,503   6,313   7,123   7,933   8,653
Oepreciation                               1,556   1,844   1,935   1,479   1,795   2,142   2,552   3,025   3,561   4,131
Net assets in service                        587     299   1,540   2,489   2,899   3,362   3,782   4,099   4,373   4,523
Capital work in progress                       0        0       0       0 °              0       0       0       0       0
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash I bank                                  148      38       80      97      88       77     160     124     16S     209
Inventory                                    133     133      14      155     159      163     157     167     175     179
Other debtors & prepayments                   13       13      13      13       13      13      13      13      13       L3
Total                                      294     184     237      265     259     253      330     303     352     401
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Salaries and deductions payable              107      131     127     120      118     116     115    112      112    11
Accounts payable                              16       17      1s      22      25       27      29      29      30      31
Corporate tax                                  0       0        0       0       0        0       0       0      78     140
Accued interest                                0       0       16      39      so       50      50      48      44      40
Current portion of long term loans             0        0       0       0       0        0     198     198     Is8     198
Total                                      1zs     148      162     181     193     194      392     388     462     519
NET CURRENT ASSETS/CLIABILITIES)              169      36       75      83      66       59     (62)    (85)   (110)   (118)
TOTAL FUNDS EHPLOYED                756      335   1,615   2,572   2,965   3,421   3,700   4,014   4,263   4,404
EQUITY                                        7S6     335      225     271     591   1,048   1,524   2,036   2,483   2,822
LONG TERM LOANS                                 0       0   1,390   2,300   2,373   2,373   2,176   1,978   1,780   1,582
TOTAL FUNDS EMPLOYED                756      335   1,615   2,572   2,965   3,421   3,700   4,014   4,263   4,404
The financial projections assume the ieplementation of business plans.



ANNEX C
Page 47 of 71
IHANTA
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS - CASH1 FLOW STATEMlENT
FOR THE YEARS ENDING DECEMBER 31
CONSTANT 1995 PRICES                           1934    1995    1996    1997    ls98    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003
Actual
*ENERATION FROM OPERATIONS
Operating income after subsidy                (225)   (421)   (201)   .103       510      658     678     705      TOl      717
Depreciation                                   280     288      24?      279     316      34?     410     413      536      570
Corporate tax                                    0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0     (78)   (218)
(Incre!se)/decrease in working capital
other than cash I cash equivalents             (7)     23      (13)    (15)      (2)      (5)      6     (11)      70      57
Net cash inflow/(outflow) fros operations        38    (110)      34      367     B24   1,001   1,094   1,167   1,229   1,126
RETURN ON INUESTMENTS ANO
SERVICING OF FINANCE
Interest to operations                         0        0      (64)   (157)   (199)   (202)   (202)   (193)   (177)   (160)
LessULnterest accrued                           0       0       16      23       10        1       0      (2)      (4)     (4)
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from returns
on investments and servicing of finance          0       0      (48)   (134)   (188)   (201)   (202)   (1s5)   (le)   (164)
INUESTMENT ACTIVITIES
IBRO project                                     0       0  (1,544) (1,012)    (81)        0        0       0        0       0
Own funded investbent3                        (147)      0        0    (360)   (720)   (810)   (810)   (810)   (810)   (720)
Lesas  Expenditure charged against income        0       0       57      14       75        0     -0        0        0       0
Net cash outflow from investment activiti   (147)         0  (1,488) (1,228)   (726)   (810)   (810)   (810)   (810)   (720)
FINANCING
Loan capital raised                              0       0   1,390      910       73        0       0       0        0       0
Loan capital repaid                              0       0        0       0        0        0       0    (198)   (198)   (198)
Grant3/hunicipal contributions for inves    107          0      154      101       8        0       0       0        0       0
Net cash inflow from financing                  107       0   1,544   1,012        e1        0       0    (198)   (198)   (198)
CASH & CASH EQUIVJLENTS
Increase/(decrema>) during year                (2)   (110)       42      17       (9)    (10)      82     (36)      41      44
At begining of year                           150      148       38      80       97      98       77     160      124     165
At end of year                                 148      38       80      97       88      t7      160     124      165     209
The financial projections aasume the implementation of business plans.



ANNEX C
Page 48 of 71
TRAIM I TROLEYBUS PARK (TTP)
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS - INCOE STATEMENT
FOR THE YEARS ENDING DECEMB  31                                                                                   Lts'OOO
CONSTANT 1995 PRICES                        1994    1995    1396    1997    1998    1999   2000   2001    2002   2003
Actual
OPERATHQ REVENUE
Revenue frao ticket sales                  4,822   6,070   6,752   7,027   7,319   7,610   7,896   8,166   8,408   8,604
Revenue froa othar sources                   256     100     434      767   1,100   1,100   1,100   1,100   1,100   1,100
Total operating reene                     5,078   6,170   7,186   7,794   8,419   8,710   8,996   9,266   9,508   9,704
OPERATIN6 COSTS
Staff costa
Drivers                                    1,102   1,495   1,475   1,44S   1,434   1,434   1,434   1,414   1,434   1,434
Maintenance & repair staff                 1,079   1,462   1,465   1,374   1,357   1,357   1,3SJ   1,350   1,353   1,364
Administration & managers                     51      69      69       63      69      69      69      6S      69      69
Inspectors                                    27      37      37        0       0       0       0       0       0       0
Others                                       560     761     721      681     681     681    681    661       681    681
Social tax                                 1,144   1,552   1,544   1,466   1,464   L,480   1,497   1,514   1,531   1,549
Total staff costs                         3,963   5,376   5,312   5,035   S,006   5,021   5,034   5,0OQ   5,068   5,097
Other costs:
Depreciation                                 484     472     547      677     801     873    952   1,017   1,091   1,143
Electric energy                              720     750     739    7T17      693    693    633    693    693    693
Heating & hot water                          206     210     210     210      210     210    210    210       210    210
5as and water                                 30      35      35      35       35      35      35      35     35       35
oil I fuel                                    91     100     tO0      100     100     100    100    100       100    100
Tyres                                        107     110     110      110     110     110     110    110      110    110
Materials & spares                           930   1,187   1,249   1,195   1,101   1,014   1,026   1,039   1,054   1,074
All other                                    573     570     633     658      571     587    602    617    631    641
Total other costs                         3,041   3,434   3,623   3,702   3,621   3,622   3,728   3,821   3,924   4,007
Total operating costs                     7,004   8,810   8,934   8,736   8,S27   9,643   8,762   9,869   9,992   9,104
OPERATING INCOME                          (1,926) (2,640) (1,748)   (943)   (208)    67    234    397         516    600
SUBSIrY                                    1,462   1,884   1,584   1,584   1,484   1,484   1,294   1,284   1,284   1,284
OPERATING ICOK  AFTER SUBSIDY              (464)   (756)   (164)    641   1,276   1,551   1,518   1,681   1,800   1,884
INTEREST                                      0        0      95     241     330    352    352    33?    308    278
INCOME BEFORE TAX                          (464)  (756)   (259)    400       946   1,200   1,166   1,344   1,493   1,606
CORPORATE TAX                                  a       0       a       0       0       0       77    456     570    609
INCM  AFTER TAX                            (464)  (756)  (259)    400        946   1,200   1,090     888    922    997
The financial projections assne the tpimeuntation of the proposed business plan.



ANNEX C
Page 49 of 71
TRAM I TROLLEYBUS PARK (TTP)
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS - BALANCE SHEET
FOR THE YEARS ENDINH  DECEMBER 31                                                                                     Lts'QOO
CONSTANT 1995 PRICES                          1994    1955    1996    1997    1998    1993    2000   z20L    2002    2003
Actual
FIXED ASSETS
Asseta in service                          10,319  10,205  12,497  14,437  16,765  18,840  20,9!S  22,790  24,315  26,015
Depreciation                                7,473   7,717   8,042   7,S43   8,744   9,617  10,569  11,586  12,677  13,820
Net assets in service                       2,846   2,468   4,454   6,494   8,020   9,223  10,346  L1,204  L,638  12,195
Capital wiork in progress                      81      81       8l      81       81      8l      81      a1       a1      81
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash i bank                                   121      52       39     258      252     259     302     291      178     200
Unsold tickets at kiosks                      736     926   1,031   1,073   1,117   1,162   1,205   1,246   1,263   1,313
inventory                                    441      384     398      422     437      447     460     468     466      470
Other debtors & prepayments                   215     215     215      215    25       215     215     215     215      2!5
Total                                    1.513   1,577   1,682   1,967   2,021   2,082   2,182   2,220   2,142   2,159
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Salaries and deductions payable               318     440     443      420     417      418    420      421     422      425
Accounts payable                              110     138     150      15B      169     174     178     182     185      187
Revenue due to I3anta & Talava                129     129      135     142      149     157     165     173      182     19t
Corporate tax                                   0       0        0       0        0       0      77    379       114      39
Unsoid tickets at kiosks                      736     926   1,031   1,073   1,117   1,162   1,205   1,246   1,293   1,313
Accued interest                                 0       0       24      60       83      8       688     84      77       70
Current portion of long tera Ioanrs             0       0       0        0        0       0     345     345     345      345
Total                                    1,293   1,641   1,783   1,853   1,935   1,999   2,477   Z,829   2,608   2,569
MET CURRENT ASSETS/CLIABILITIES)               220     (64)   (100)    115        86      83    (2S5)   (610)   (466)   (370)
TOTAL FUNIOS EMPLOYED              3,117   2,50s5   4,435   6,689   8,188   9,387. 10,132  10,676  11,253  11,306
EQUITY                                      3,147   2,505   2,465   3,051   4,052   S,ZS1   6,34!  7?.29   8,152   9,!49
LONH  TERM LOANS                                 0       0   1,970   3,638   4,136   4,136   3,791   3,446   3,102   2,757
TOTAL FUNOS EMPLOYED               3,147   2,505   4,435   6,689   8,188   9,387  10,132  10,676  11,253  11,906
The financial projections assume the implementation of the proposed business plan.



ANNEX C
TRAM, & TROLLEfBUS PARK (TTP)                                                                            Page  50  of  71
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS - CASH FLOW STATEMENT
.FOR THE YEARS ENOING OECEMlBER 31
CONSTANT 1995 PRICES                           1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003
GENLERATION FROM OPERATIONS
Operating income after subsidy                (464)   (756)   (164)    641   1,276   1,551   1,518   1,681   1,800   1,884
Qepreciation                                   484      472      547     677      801      873      952   1,017   1,091   1,143
Ccrp2rate tax                                    0        0        0        0        0       0      (77)   (456)   (570)   (609)
(Increase)/decrease in working capital
other than cash & cash equivalenta            (37)    215        (0)    (32)       0        4      77      307    (249)    (665
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from operations    (17)    (69)    383   1,286   2,077   2,428   2,470   2,549   2,072   2,352
RETURN ON INUESTOENTS AND
SER'lICtiG OF FINANCE
Interest to operations                          0        0     (95)   (241)   (320)   (352)   (352)   (337)   (308)   (278)
L!ss:lnterest accrued                           0        0       24      37       22        5        0      (4)      (7)     (7)
Net cash inflow/(autfflow) from  returns
on inveztsents and servicing of finance          0        0      (71)   (204)   (302)   (346)   (352)   (341)   (315)   (286)
INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES
IRD project                                     0        0  (2,189) (1,854)   (553)         0       0        0        0       0
Own funded investments                        (142)   (114)   (400) (1,080) (1,875) (2,075) (2,075) (1,875) (1,525) (1,700)
Less: Expenditure charged against income         0        0       75     225      100        0        0       0        0       0
Net cash outflow from investment activiti   (142)   (114) (2,514) (2,716) (Z,328) (2,075) (2,075) (1,875) (1,525) (1,700)
FIN:,ANCING
L5an capital raised                              0        0   1,970   1,668       493        0       0        0        0       0
Loan capital repaid                              0        0        0        0       0        0        0    (345)   (345)   (245)
Grants/Municipal contributions for inves    182         114     213      185       55        0       0        0       0        0
Net cash inflow from financing                  192      114   2,189   1,854       553        0        0    (345)   (345)   (345)
CASH & CASH EQUIV4L0NTS
increane/(decrease) during year                 23      (69)    (13)    219        (6)       6      44      (11)   (113)      22
At begining of year                             98      1ZI       52      39      258      252     259      32      291      178
At end of year                                  121      52       39     258      252      253     302      291      178     200
The financial projections assume the implementation of the proposed business plan.



ANNEX C
DAUGAVPILS WATER AND WASTE WATER ENTERPRISE (UDENSvRDS)                                              Page  51  of  71
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS - INCOME STATEMENT (COMBINED WATER AND WASTE WATER)
FOR THE YEARS ENDING DECEMBER 31                                                                                                        L's'O000
CONSTANT 1995 PRICES                                  1933    1994    1995    199        1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003
Actual  Actual
BILLED WATER SALES                      .3 sillion   11.7    10.4    10.6    10.4    10.3    11.9    11.6    11.5    11.3    11.2    11.1
SEWERAGE VOLUMES                        .3 million   14.5    13.0    13.0    13.2    13.1    14.4    14.1    14.0    13.9    13.8    13.7
COMBITNED AVERAGE TARIFF /a             sants/a3       6.6    10.0    10.5    14.5    16.3    17.0    21.3    21.4    23.4    23.5    23.8
OPERATIN REVENUE
Revenue from water sales                               387      485     501      898     980   1,18    1,197   1,186   1,323   1,311   1,335
Revenue from sewerage charges                          323      468     534      618     703      636   1,273   1,272   1,319   1,312   1,306
Revenue from aaintenance charges                        62       86      79        0        0       0       0        0       0       0        0
Total operating revenue                               772   1,039   1,113   1,516   1,683   2,024   2,470   2,458   2,641   2,623   2,641
OPERATING COSTS
Personnel (incL social tax)                            260      376     394      385     377      368     400      412     420     429      437
Chemica!s                                               42      122     123      138     145      116     251      251     251     252      253
Pow-er                                                 109      108     166      231     229      233     309      301     302     300      298
Environmental fees                                     1E3      127     123      120     1!8      129     145      143     141     141      140
Heat                                                    39       44      47       50      52       55      5 sa  58          s      60       61
Maateria!5                                             27        31      32       32      32       32      32      32       32      32       32
Maintenace                                               O        0       0       47      175     224     228      2!7     214     214      214
AdMinistration                                          32       36      41       4.3     4?       45      47      48       49      50       51
Bad debt3                                                0        0     104      527     168      202     247      184     132     131      132
Other                                                   14       77      71       57      60       64      68       72      76      81       86
Depreciation                                            82       87      88      104     119      230     544      560     568     578      530
Rechargeable maintenance                                39      106     117        0       0        0       0        0       0       0        0
Total operating costs                                 806   1,114   1,306   1,734   1,519   1,718   2,327   2,284   2,246   2,267   2,294
OPER.AT-ING INCOMtE                                    (34)    (76)   (193)   (218)    163        306     142     174      396     356      348
NON OPERATING INCOME                                    17      84       31       31      31       31      31      31       31      31       31
INTER.EST                                                0       0        0       (a)   (105)   (286)   (365)   (375)   (371)   (278)   (245)
INCOME BEFORE TAX                                      (17)      9    (162)   (195)       89      51    (192)   (169)       56     109     134
CORPORATE TAX                                            0        0       0        0       0        0       0       0        0       0    (129)
INCOME AFTER TAX                                       (17)      9    (162)   (195)       89      51    (192)   (169)       56    L19        5
/a Combined average tariff per *3 of water sold.



ANNEX C
DAUGAUPILS MATER AND HASTE WATER ENTERPRISE (UDENSUADS)                                               Page  52  of  71
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS - INCOME STATEMENT
FOR THE YEARS ENOINS DECEMBER 31                                                                                                        5t'O
CONSTANT 1955 PRICES                                  1953    1994    1995    1936    1997    1999    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003
Actual Actual
WATER
B ILLED MATER SALES                     *3 million   11.7    10.4    10.6    10.4    10.3    11.3    11.6    11.5   11.3    11.2    11.1
AVERAGE WATER TARIFF                    sants/m3       3.3      4.7      4.7     8.6    9g,      10.0    10.3    10.3    11.7    11.7    12.1
OPERATNG REiJENUE
Revenue from water sales                               387      485     501      698      980   1.198   1,197   1,186   1,323   1,311   1,335
OPERATING cosTs
Personnel (iicl social tax)                            130      224     234      229      224     231     238      245     250      2'5     260
Chemicals                                               41      120     121      135      142  1 13        989      90      89       90      9!
Power                                                   64       71     113      162      160     157      162     !61     158      I57 S    55
Environmental fees                                      38       35      40       38       36      36      54       53      53       53      53
Heat                                                    38       37      39       41       43      45       47      47      4?       47      47
Materials                                               I9       22      22       22       22      22       22      22      22       22      22
Maintenaca                                               0        0       0       23       8?     109      110     114     111  l Ll         111
Administraticn                                          16       19      21       21       22      22       23      24      24       25      25
Bad debta                                                0        0      so      312       95     119      120      8s      66       66      67
Other                                                   10       23      22       25       27      28      20       32      24       36      38
Depreciation                                            41       47      37       36       28     145     252      260     264      269     275
Total operating coats                                3a1       537     707   1,045       899   1,029   1,147   1,126   1,119   1,130   1,145
OPERATING INCOME (WATER)                               (11)   (112)   (206)   (147)        80     160      50       5Q     20       130     !930
lASTE WATER
BILLED SEWERAGE VOLUES                  m3 million   L4.5    12.0    !2.0    13.2    L".1    14.4    L4.1    14.0    12.9    13.8    13.7
AVERAGE SEWERAGE TARIFF                 sants/m3       2.2      3.6     4.1      4.7     5.4      5.9     9.0      9.1     9.5      9.5     9.5
OPERAT4G RVENUE
Revenue from sewerage charges                          323      468     534      618     703      826   1,Z73   1,272   1,319   1,31Z   1,306
OPERATING COSTS
Personnel (incl scial tax)                             130      152     159      156      153     157     162      167     170     173      17?
Chemicels                                                1        2       2        3        3       3     162      162     162      162     162
Power                                                   45       3?      47       69      69       75     147      !46     144      144     143
Environmental fees                                     125       92      83       82      82       93      91       90      88      88       8?
Heat                                                     0        7       8        9      9        10      11       11      12       13      13
Materials                                                8        9      10       10       10      10      10       10      to       10      10
Maintanace                                               0        0       0      24       88    lS      1!8      103     103     103      103
Administration                                          16       18      21       21      22       23      23       24      24      25       25
Bad debt3                                                0        0      54      215      70       84     127       95      66      66       65
Other                                                    4       40      43       32       34      36      38       40      42       45      48
Depreciation                                            41       54      55       68      81       85     292      300     304     309      315
Total operating costs                                 370     411      483     689      620      690   1,181   1,148   1,126   1.137   1,149
OPERATIN  INCOME (WASTE MATER)                         (47)      57      S2      (71)     83      145      92      124     192      176     158



ANNEX C
DAUGAUPILS WATER AND MASTE WATER ENTERPRISE (UDENSIUAS)                                                   Page  53  of  71
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS - BALANCE SHEET
FOR THE YEARS ENOING DECEMBER 31                                                                                                        Lts'000
CONSTANT 1995 PRICES                                  1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003
Actual  Actual
FIXED ASSETS
Assets in service                                   2,523   2,812   2,921   3,215   3,592   9,024  14,218  14,613  14,918  15,068  15,368
Depreciation                                        1,298   1,385   1,473   1,577   1,696   1,926   2,470   3,030   3,598   4,175   4,765
Net assets in service                               1,225   1,427   1,348   1,638   1,896   7,098  11,748  11,588  11,220  10,593  10,603
Capital work in progress                                0        0       0   1,939   7,977   4,977         0        0       0        0       0
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash I bank                                            15       31      32       60      68       63     218      114      94      114     129
Consumer receivables                                  232      373     437      250     294      353     431      441     487     483      467
Inventor7                                              26       58      70      8e       90      135     213      213     222     226      22i
Other debtors & prepayments                            64       22      22       22      22       22      22       22      22       22      22
Total                                               337     484      561      412     474     573    8685      797      925     846      266
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Accounts payeble                                       19       17      26       46      57       59      78       77      77       77     71
Taxes payable                                         203     272      406      343     262      182     102      21       21      21      150
Accued interest                                         o        0       0        2      26       71     S9        94      93      69       61
Other creditors and accrual3                           23       22      30       23      23       24      24       25      26      26       27
Current portion of long tera loans                      0        0       0        0       0        0       0      384     354     3c4      264
Total                                               245     311      472     415      368     336      296     611      611     588     710
NET CURRENT ASSETS (LIABILITIES)                       92      173      89       (2)    106      237     569      185     215     257      158
TOTAL FUNDS EMPLOYED                       1,317   1,600   1,437   3,574   9,978  12,312  12,337  11,774  11,435  11,150  10,760
EQUITY                                               1,317   1,600   1,437   2,784   6,412   7,824   7,306   7,637   7,633   7,802   7,606
LONG TERM LOANS                                          0        0       0      790   3,566   4,487   4,531   4,137   3,743   3,348   2,954
TOTAL FUNOS EMPLOYED                       1,317   1,600   1,437   3,574   9,978  12,312  12,337  11,7?4  11,435  11,150  10,760



ANNEX C
DMAUFAPILS MIER AND WASTE WATER ENTERPRISE (UDENSUADS).                                                           Page  54  of  71
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS - CASH FLOW STATEllENT
FOR THE YEARS ENDIN6 DECEMBER 31                                                                                                                  LtsO00
CONSTANT 1995 PRICES                                      1993     1994    1995       1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003
Actual  Actual
GENERATION FROM OPERATIONS
Operating income                                          (34)     (76)   (193)   (218)    163          306      142      174      396      356      348
Non operating income                                       17       84        31       31       31       31       31       31       31       31       31
Bad debts written off                                       0        0         0      300        0        0        0        0        0        0         0
Depreciation                                               82       87        88      104      119    2r0        544      56       568      578      5g0
Corporate tax                                               0        0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0    (129)
(Increase)/decrease in working capital
other than cash & cash equivalents                       (63)    (69)       86    (182)   (124)   (192)   (216)    (97)    (48)              1      122
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from operations                    2       27        12       34      189      3es      501      663      946      965      962
RETURN ON IHUESTMENTS AND
SERVICING OF FINANCE
Interest to operations                                     0        0        0        (8)   (105)   (286)   (365)   (375)   (371)   (278)   (245)
Leas:Interest accrued                                      0        0         0        2       24       45       20        2       (1)    (23)       (a)
Net cash inflow/(aut; low) from returns
on investments and servicing of finance                     0        0         0       (6)    (81)   (241)   (345)   (372)   (372)   (301)   (253)
INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES
EBRO project                                                0        0        0  (2,332) (6,4!5) (2,433)   (218)            0        0        0        0
Own funded investments                                     (6)    (11)    (!!)          0        0        0        0    (400)   (200)   (250)   (300)
Net cash outflow from investaent activities                 (6)    (1i)    (11) (2, 332  (6,415) (2,433)   (218)   (400)   (200)   (250)   (300)
FINANCING
Loan capital raised                                         0        0         0      740   2,776       921      44         0        0        0        0
Loan capital repaid                                         0        0        0         0        0        0        0        0    (394)   (394)   (394)
Donor granta                                               15        0         0   1,051   2,086        834      125        0        0        0        0
State grants                                                0        0        0       250      658       60      33         0        0        0        0
Hunicipal grants                                            0        0        0       241      796      467       16        0        0        0        0
Net cash inflow from financing                              !5        0         0   2,332   6,315   2,283        218         0    (394)   (394)   (394)
CASH & CASH EQUIVALENTS
Increase/(decrease) during year                            1!       16         1       28        8       (6)    L56    (104)    (20)         20
At begining of year                                         4       15       31        32       60       68      63      218      114        94      114
At end of year                                             15       31       32        60       68       63     218      114        94     !14       128



ANNEX C
Page 55 of 71
Riga Public Transport - TTP, Imanta & Talava
Assumptions For Financial Projections
For Years Ending December '91
1995         1996          1997          1998          1999          2000         2001          2002          2003
ECONOMIC
InllaLion:
Domestic                              %             25.00%        15.00%        10 00%       6.00%         6.00%         6.00%         6.00%         6.00%         6.00%
International                         %             2.70%         2.60%        2.60%         2.60%         2 60%         2.60%         2.60%         2.60%         2.60%
Exchange rate (USS/Lals)                               0.5           0.5           0.5           0.5           0.5           0.5           0.5          0.5           0.5
OPERATIONAL
Cumulative
Reduction in base revenue each year       %                                                                                                                                         on  1995
TTP                                                                 2.0%          2.3%         2.6%          2.9%          3.2%          3.5%          3.8%          4.1%          22.0%
Imanta                                                             3.0%          4.0%          5.0%          6.0%          7.0%          B.0%          9.0%          10.0%         41.8%
Talava                                                              2.7%         3.7%          4.5%          5.2%          6.0%          7.0%          8.2%          8.5%          37.9%
(% reduction on previous year's base revenue.)
As per Business Plan: base case assumes a reduction In revenue each
year due to increasing car ownership, population change, and
deteriorating service due to ageing fleet (Do nothing scenario)
Cumulative
New vehicles (Project):                                                                                                                                                              96103
Trams (TTP)                             numbers                                                                                                                                    0
Trolleybuses (77P)                      numbers                    20             10                                                                                               30
Bases (Imanta)                          numbers                    9             9                                                                                                 18
Buses (Talava)                          numbers                    9             9                                                                                                 18
New vehicles (Own funded):
Trams (TTP)                             numbers                     2            5             5             6             6             5             5             5             39
Trolleybuses (TTP)                      numbers                                   I            10            10            10            10            6             8             55
Buses (Imanta)                          numbers                                  4             8             9             9             9             9             8             56
Buses (Talava)                          numbers                                  2             6             7             7             7             7             8             44
Employees:                                                                                                                                                                          Cumulative
Reduction on previous year:             %                                                                                                                                          on 1995
TTP                                                                4 4%          3.4%                                                                                              7.6%
Imanta                                                             7.5%          9.5%                                                                                              16.3%
Talava                                                             9.0%          6.9%                                                                                              16.3%
FINANCIAL - REVENUE AND EXPENDrIURE (Stated in 1995 Lat equivalents)
Fares increase (real terms):              %
Annual                                                             5%            5%            5%            5%            5%            5%            5%            5%
Cumulative                                                         5%            10%           16%           22%           28%           34%           41%           48%
Subsidy from Riga city council           Lts'000
TTP                                                   1,884        1,584         1,584         1.484         1,484         1,284         1,284         1,284         1,284
Imanta                                                1,206         1,106        1,106         1,106         1,106         1,106         1,106         1,106         1,106
Talava                                                1.105         855          805           805           805           805           805           805           805
Note: Original 1995 budget levels are those indicated under 1996 (except for Talava:805).  1996 subsidy was increased
in the projections so as to eliminate forecast 1995 cash deficit.



ANNEX C
Page 56 of 71
RIGA PUBLIC TRANSPORT - TTP, IMANTA & TALAVA
ASSUMPTIONS FOR FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
FOR YEARS ENDING DECEMBER '91
1995        1996         1997           1998       1999         200D         20D1         2002         2003
Business Plan measures-:               Ltsu000
TTP                                                            803          1,420          2,000      2,106        2.113        2,135        2,142        2.149
Imanta                                                         328           633           1,049      1,198        1,256        1,334        1,392        1,478
Talava                                                         335           590            907       1,058        1,110        1,180        1,232        1,305
(I net positive effect)
Business Plan, additional revenue and reduced costs mainly due to:
(excluding fares increase & extra revenue from own funided investments)
- purchase of new vehicles and retirement of old vehicles.
Conversion of tram traction system (for TTP only).
50% reduction in fares evasion.
- Compersation for consessionary fares.
- Redefining network after survey.
Investment in spares and new plant & equipment.
Technical support and training.
Social tax is provided at 41% of payroll cost.
Base operaLing costs (Do nothing scenario):
Retained at 1995 level, except for:
Maintenanme & repair staff cost: increased by 2.5% (TTP) and 5% (ImantarTalava) each yew on previous year's cost.
Stores and materials cost: itcreased by 2.5% (TIP) and 7% (ImanLarTalava) each year on previous year's cost.
Depreciation cost: TTP - decreased by 5% each year on previous year's cost, starting 1996.
ImantaflTalava - round sum reductions to 1998; constant thereafter.
Depreciation:
Existing assets: as per present company rates.
New assets: Trams - 30 years.
Trolleybuses - 15 years.
Buses - 12 years.
Corporate tax:
Tax rate: 25%
Capital allowance: 40%
(- Capital allowance on written down value of fixed assets, including new investments.)
Unutilized tax losses, including available capital allowances, are carried forward
for five years, for set off against future profits.
FINANCIAL - BALANCE SHEET (Stated in 1995 Lat equivalents)
Cumulative
Investments - Project:                 Lts'OD0                                                                                                                              96-03
TTP                                                            2,189        1,854        553                                                                              4,596
Imanta                                                         1,544        1,012        81                                                                               2,637
Talava                                                         1,039        1,012        90                                                                               2,141
Total                                                          4.772        3,878        724                                                                              9,374
Borrowing for Project (all companies):
90% of investment cost.
Terms of borrowing (all companies):
- interest at 8.5% pa. (IBRD 7.5% + Municipality 1.0%)
-commitment fee at 0.5%.
- Repayment starting 2001, repaid equally over 12 years.



ANNEX C
Page 57 of 71
RIGA PUBLIC TRANSPORT - TrP, IMANTA & TALAVA
ASSUMPTIONS FOR FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
FOR YEARS ENDING DECEMBER '91
1995         1996          1997          1998          1999          2000          2001          2002          2003             Cumulatijv
Investments - Own funded:                                                                                                                                                               96-03
TTP                                                                 400           1t088         1,875        2,075         2,075           8 875       1.525         1,700             12,613
Imanta                                                             0             360           720           810           810           810           810           720               5,040
Talava                                                              0             180          540           630           630           630           630           720               3.960
Total                                                               400           1,628        3,135         3,515         3,515         3.315         2,965         3,140             21,613
Inventory:
Spare pants:
For existing assets: reducing balance.
For new assets: 39% of closing nen book value of such assets.
Fuel, tyres, equipment: constant 1995 level.
Corporate tac:
Corporate tax liability of any one year is paid: (a) in montthly installments in that year,
based on previous year's tan liability, and (b) the difference between previous year's liability
and actual current year liability is settled in the subsequent year.
Salaries and deductions payable:
1112 of annual cost. Salaries are paid after the month end.
Accounts payable:
VAT: 1/12 of revenue less relevant operating cost multiplied by 18%.
Electricity: 1112 of annual cost.
All oher: constant 1995 level.
Accrued interest:
25% of current year charge
July 25, 1995



ANNEX C
Page 58 of 71
DAUGAVPILS WATER AND WASTEWATER ENTERPRISE (UDENSVADS)
ASSUMPTIONS FOR FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
FOR YEARS ENDING DECEMBER '91
1995         1996         1997         1998          1999         2000         2001         2002          2003
ECONOMIC
Inflation: 
Domestic                                           25.00%        15.00%       10.00%       6.00%        6.00%        6.00%         6.00%        6.00%         6.00%
Internationml                                       2.70%         2.60%        2.60%       2.60%        2.60%        2 60%         2.60%        2.60%         2.60%
Exchange rate (USS/Lats)                              0.5           0.5          0.5          0.5           0.5          0.5          0.5          0.5           0.5
OPERATIONAL
Population served                       0tl0           96           94           92           92            90           90           89            89           89
Domestic water con sumption:
Av per capita consumption per day       m'             0.280        0.276        0.272        0.268        0.264         0.260        0.256         0.252        0.248
Billed water sales:
Domestic   -1995 to 1997: Previous year's salesncurrent year's population served/previous year's population served.
- 1998 onwards: Annual average per capita consumption population served (consumption normatives changed
in 1998 following completion of block metering.
Industrial -annual growth                                           1.47%        1.45%         1.43%        1.41%        1.39%        1.37%         1.36%        1.34%
Institutions - at constant 1995 level.
UFW as %  of production                 %              25%           25%           25%          8%           8%            8%           8%           8%
(Cotmumption normatives for households replaced in 1998 to actual consumption. Actual consumption is higher than the present billed norm.)
Billed sewerage volume:
Domestic - sanke volume as water sold.
Industrial - annual growth                                        1.50%         1.50%        1.50%        1.50%        1.50%         1.50%        1.50%        1.50%
Institutions - at constant 1995.
Employees:
Reduction on previous year            %                             5.0%         5.0%
Maintertnce dept staff transferred out numbers                      78
FINANCIAL - REVENUE AND EXPENDITURE (Stated in 1995 Lai equivalents)
Water tariffs:
Domestic                                           4.0          9.4           11.1         12.4         13.5          14.3         17.3         18.3          19.9
Industrial                                         9.0          9.9           11.1         12.4         13.5          14.3         17.3         18.3          19.9
Institutions                                       4.0          9.4           11.1         12.4         13.5          14.3         17.3         18.3          19.9
Watewater tariffrs:
Dometic                                            3.0          4.4           8.0          6.8          11.8          12.6         12.0         14.8          15.7
Itadustrial                                        6.8          7.3           7.7          8.2          11.8          12.6         14.0         14.8          15.7
Institutions                                       3.0          4.4           5.8          6.8          11.8          12.6         14.0         14.8          15.7
Tariffs are set to achieve full coat recovery, 1.3 debt service, target rates of return on assets (see below),
ind adequate operating cash balance. Balance between water/wastewater tariffs is maintained so as to achieve
balanced profitability between the two opetions.
Return on assets:
Minimum level required                %                                       1.5%         1.5%         1.5%          1.5%         2.0%         2.0%         2.0%
Retuan on assesU is defined as operating income, before interest and after corporate tax, over the average of opening and closing net fixed assets in service.



ANNEX C
Page 59 of 71
DAUGAVPILS WATER AND WASTE WATER ENTERPRISE (UDENSVADS)
ASSUMPTIONS FOR FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
FOR YEAR ENDING DECEMBER '91
1995        1996         1997        1998         1999         2000        2001         2002         2903
Internal plumbing maintenance of municipal blocks.
This activity is assumed to be transferred to the municipality from 1996 onwards
Municipal subsidies for operations: None.
Personnel costs:
Annual increase of 3% for both water and wasrewater operations. Social tax of 37% has been applied throughout.
Chemicals cost for water production:
Alumina:
Quantity used                       Kg'030       1,289        1,373        1.360       1,035        772         762          742          732          722
Price per OlOKg                     Lis           84          84           84           85          87          89           91           93           95
Cost                                Lts '00      108          115          114         88           67          68           68           68           69
Chlorine:
Quantity used                         Kg'0OO       78          77           77           64          55           54           53           53          52
Prices per OOOKg                      Lts          173         273          372          380         389          397          406         415          424
Cost                                  Lts'OOO      14          21           29           24          21           22           22           22          22
Total Chemicals coSt for water production          121         135          142          113         89           90           89           90          91
Notes:   1. Usage changes from mid 1998 on commissioning of Ziesnelu supply and decommissioning of Gajoks I
2. Chemicals costs increased by 2.2% per annum. In addition, cost of chlorime is raised to present international
price equally over three years; 1995 to 1997.
Chemicals cost for wastewater treatment:
Chlorine: Minimal Lts 2,00 to 3,000 up to 1998.
Polymer/line: Annual cost of Lts 116,900 from 1/1/99 on commissioning of remodelled STW
Power cost for water production:
Power used                            kwh'000      7,586       7,513        7,441        7,324       7,528        7,466        7,349       7,289        7,227
Price per kwh                        LUs          0.0158       0.0215       0.0215      0.0215       0.0215       0.0215       0.0215      0.0215       0.0215
Cost of power                         Lts'OOO      119          162         160          157          162         161          158          157         155
Power cost for wastewater treatment:
Power used                            kwh'OOO     2,969        3,223        3,198       3,510        6,829        6,795        6,717       6,685        6,654
Price per kwh                         Lts          0.0158      0.0215       0.0215       0.0215      0.0215       0.0215       0.0215      0.0215       0.0215
Cost of power                         Lts'0OO      47          69           69           75          147          146          144          144         143
Notes:   I. Power for water: Usage changes from mid 1998 on commossioning of Ziemelu supply and decommissioning of Gajoks 1.
2. Power for WW: Usage increases from 1/1/99 on commissioning of remodelled STW.
3. Cost of power was increased on 7/1/95 to LTsO.0215 per kwh.
Environmental fees:
For water produetion - cost per m'  Lrs          0.00333      0 00333     0.00333      0.00333      0.00500     0.00500      0.00500      0.00500      0.00500
For wastewater - cost per ma        Lts          0.00708     0 00708      0.00708      0.00708     0.00708      0.00708      0.00708      0.f0708      0.00708
Heat:
For water production: Increased by 5% annually up mo 1997. Consmtnt thereafter.
For wastewater: Increased annually by rate of domestic inflation.
Materials cost:
Constant 1995 cost



ANNEX C
Page 60 of 71
DAUGAVPILS WATER AND WASTEWATER ENTERPRISE (UDENSVADS)
ASSUMPTIONS FOR FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
FOR YEARS ENDING DECEMBER '91
1995         1996         1997         1998          1999         2000         2001         2002          2003
Maintettance cost:
2% cost of new assets, as from 1996, for both water and wastewater operations.
Administration cost:
Annual increase of 3%. Costs split equally between water and wastewater operations.
Bad debts:
Write off 'old' bad debts at 12/95.   Lts'00       300
Future bad debts, as % of revenue     %                          15.0%        10.0%        10.0%         10.0%        7.5%         5.0%         5.0%          5.0%
Depreciation:
Existing assets: as per present company rates.
New assets: Over 25 years, from date of commissioning.
Other operating costs: Increased annually by rates of domenstic inflation.
VAT (turnover tax):
Assumed that the enterprise will recover all in,put tax as the domestic consumer is now charged VAT.
Corporate tax:
Tax rate: 25%.
Capital allowance': 40%.
(I Capital allowance on written down value of fixed assets, including new investments).
Unutilized tax losses, including available capital allowances, are carried forward
for five years, for set off against future profits.
FINANCIAL - BALANCE SHEET (Stated in 1995 Lat equivalcnts)                                                                                                                   Cumulative
96-03
Investments - Project                   Ls'000                    2,332        6,415         2,433        216                                                                11,397
The above costs include VAT of Ltsl.5R7 million (to be fieanced by Daugavpils municipality.) Project costs are transferred from work in progress lo fixed assets in Ute year of commissioning of asset.
Investment for water supply allows for a balanced development of the Ziemelu wellfield, and water treatment. The new underground water supply is for a daily production of 13,000 m' and iron treatment
for that volume of water. The construction cost allows for all infrastructure (buildings, power supply, etc) at Use wellfield to cater for future expansion to its msaximum potential capacity of 33,000 m' per day.
Any project cost savings will be utilized towards developmens of the wellfield beyond the planned 13,000 m' daily output.
Financing of project:
Borrowing (IBRD/NEFCO)                Lts'000                     790         2,776        921          44                                                                 4,531
Donor grants - Sweden, Demnark, Finlard                           1,051       2,086        834          125                                                                4,097
State grams                                                       250         658          60           33                                                                 1,000
Municipal grants                                                  241         796          467           16                                                                1,520
Udensvads                                                         0           100          150          0                                                                    250
Total                                                             2,332       6,415        2,433        218                                                                11,397
Borrowing terms (IBRD/NEFCO):
- interest at 8.5%  pa. (IBRD/NEFCO 7.5%  + Municipality 1.0%)
-commitment fee of 0.5%.
- Repayment starting 2001, repaid equally over 12 years.
Investments - Own funded                Lus'000                     0          0             0            0            400          200           250          300           1,150
Own funded investments are for an ongoing capital investment program of rehabilitation of main water network over a long term period.



ANNEX C
Page 61 of 71
DAUGAVPILS WATER AND WASTEWATER ENTERPRISE (UDENSVADS)
ASSUMPTIONS FOR FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
FOR YEARS ENDING DECEMBER '91
1995        1996        1997           1998          1999          2000          2001          2002           2003
Consumer receivable - net of bad debts Days                              131         60            60             60            60            60             60            60            60
Inventory:
As % of closing cost of fixed assets
in service                             %                                         2.5%           2.5%          1.5%          1.5%           1.5%          1.5%          1.5%           1.5%
Accounts payable:
1/12 of relevant animal operatrig costs.
Taxes payable:
Corporate tax: Liability of any one year is paid: (a) in monthly installments in that year, based on previous
year n tax liability, and Co) the difference between previous year's liability and actual
current liability is settled in die subsequent year.
All other taxes: 1/12 of relevant annual taxes.
Accrued interest:
25% of current year change.
July 25, 1995



ANNEX C
Page 62 of 71
V. MONITORING, EVALUATION AND REPORTING
A. Monitoring Indicators
9. Project monitoring indicators have been established in order to enable the tracking of project inputs on key
development objectives throughout the project cycle. At the mid-term review the need to adjust or restructure the
project design, within the context of its overall development objectives, would be based on the data received
from these indicators. The overarching development objective of the proposed Project is to improve the financial
and operational management of municipal services in Latvia. The key indicators that will be used to monitor the
anticipated amelioration in the provision of municipal services will be: (i) improved cost recovery; (ii) improved
financial health (as measured by the cash flow and return on assets); and (iii) improved operational performance
(as indicated by, for example, reduced effluent pollution and reduced unaccounted for water volumes in
Daugavpils, and reduced fare evasion and public vehicle breakdowns in Riga). These specific monitoring
indicators will be indicative of the improved performance of the municipal services. They, together with
associated indicators, are presented in the following tables.
10.  Given the essential role that program monitoring and evaluation play in determining the impact of a given
intervention on development objectives, a number of indicators would be used to monitor and evaluate progress
during the implementation of the Project. The commercial, financial and operational indicators presented in the
following tables would be used to monitor the respective sub-projects.
11. Municipal Development Fund: The financial, commercial and operational monitoring indicators for the
sub-projects identified and implemented under the Municipal Development Fund, would be agreed as each
potential sub-project is developed. The indicators would be used to monitor the progress and effectiveness of the
sub-projects by measuring parameters similar to those identified for the two main Project components described
above. The indicators adopted for additional sub-projects would have to be acceptable to the World Bank.



Table A3.7 Project Monitoring Indicators
Riga Urban Transport Component:
Imanta
Indicator'               Year                     1996                                   1997                                  1998
Quarter'      1st      2nd      3rd       4th       1st      2nd       3rd       4th      1st       2nd      3rd      4th
Size of vehicle fleet             Target       172      155       155       155      144       144      144       144       144      144       144      144
(peak vehicles + reserve)
Actual
Staff/vehicle ratio               Target       6.4      6.2       6.2      6.0       5.8       5.6      5.5       5.4       5.4      5.4       5.4      5.4
(peak vehicles)
Actual
Passenger cost/kilometer'         Target      0.78      0.78     0.76      0 74      0.74     0.73      0.72     0.72      0.72      0.71     0.70     0.70
(sants)                           A
Actual
Passenger revenue/kilometer'      Target      0 40      0 42     0 44      0 46     0.46      0.48      0.50     0.50      0.52      0.54     0.56     0.58
(sants)
Actual
Index of average fare             Target       105      105       105      105      110.3    110.3    110.3    110.3    115.7    115.7    115.7    115.7
(June 1995 index = 100)           A
Actual
Debt service cover                Target       1.3      1.3       1.3       1.3      1.3       1.3       1.3      1.3       1.3      1.3       1.3      1.3
Actual
Return on assets                  Target      10%       10%      10%       10%       10%      10%       10%       10%      10%       10%      10%       10%
Actual                                                            I
Self fuiancing ratio              Target      30%       30%      30%       30%       30%      30%       30%       30%      30%       30%      30%      30%
Actual                                                                                    _
'Al costs at constant 1995 prices.
'Quarters ending March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31, 1996, 1997 and 1998.                                                                               (N
'Based on a trip length of 6.5 kmn.
o 1h
91A



Table A3.8 Project Monitoring Indicators
Riga Urban Transport Component:
Imanta ... continued
Indicatora               Year                       1996                                    1997                                   1998
Quarterb      lst      2nd       3rd       4th        1st      2nd       3rd       4th       1st       2nd       3rd      4th
Passengers evading fares           Target
(percentage)
Actual
Passengers partially exempt from   Target
paying fares
(percentage)                       Actual
Passengers exempt from paying      Target
fares
(percentage)                       Actual
Average fleet availability'        Target
Actual
Breakdowns of available fleet      Target
(percentage)                       Actual
Accidents                          Target
(per 100,000 vehicle km)
Actual
Waiting time during peak           Target                                                                   _         =         =         =         ==
(minutes)
Actual
Annual average fuel efficiency
(liters/100 kin)
Passenger density                  Target                                                                   _         =         =         =         ==_P
(per kmi2)
Actual                                                                                                                                    CD
'All costs at constant 1995 prices.
bQuarters ending March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31, 1996, 1997 and 1998.
'Based on a trip length of 6.5 km.



Table A3.9 Project Monitoring Indicators
Riga Urban Transport Component:
Talava
Indicator'               Year                     1996                                   1997                                  1998
Quarter'      1st      2nd      3rd       4th       1st      2nd       3rd      4th       1st       2nd      3rd       4th
Size of vehicle fleet             Target       157      137       137       137      126       126      126       126       126      126       126      126
(peak vehicles + reserve)
Actual
Staff/vehicle ratio               Target       7.0      6.7       6.5       6.3      6.2       6.1      6.0       5.9       5.9      5.9       5.9      5.9
(peak vehicles)                   Actual
Passenger cost/kilometer'         Target      1.00      1.00      1.00     1.00      0.97     0.95      0.93     0.90      0.90      0.89     0.88     0.87
(sants)                           Actual
Passenger revenue/kilometer'      Target      0 55      0 59     0 62      0.65      0 65     0 65      0 65     0 66      0.68      0 70     0 72     0.74
(sants)                           Ata
Index of average fare             Target       105      105       105       105     110.3    110.3    110.3    110.3    115.7    115.7    115.7    115.7
(June 1995 index = 100)
Actual
Debt service cover                Target       1.3       1.3      1.3       1.3      1.3       1.3       1.3      1.3       1.3      1.3       1.3      1.3
Actual
Return on assets                  Target      10%       10%       10%      10%       10%      10%       10%       10%      10%       10%       10%      10%
Actual
Self ftnancing ratio               Target     30%       30%      30%       30%       30%      30%       30%       30%      30%       30%      30%       30%
Actual          7                    1                         7
'All costs at constant 1995 prices.                                                                                                                                  I'd
bQuarters ending March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31, 1996, 1997 and 1998.
'Based on a trip length of 6.5 km.                                                                                                                                    1
o 1
,hlA



Table A3. 10 Project Monitoring Indicators
Riga Urban Transport Component:
Talava ... continued
X  0
Indicator'               Year                      196                                    17                                     1998
Quarter'      1st      2nd       3rd       4th       1st      2nd       3rd       4th       Ist      2nd       3rd      4th
XL4          Passengers evading fares            Target
(percentage)
Actual
Passengers partially exempt from   Target
paying fares
(percentage)                       Actual
Passengers exempt from paying      Target
fares___                                                                                  __
(percentage)                       Actual       ====_
Average fleet availability'        Target
Actual
Breakdowns of available fleet      Target
(percentage)                                     -         -        - =      =         =                   - ===                                  -         -
Actual
Accidents                          Target
(per 100,000 vehicle km)                                  -        -
Actual
Waiting time during peak           Target
(minutes)
Actual
Annual average fuel efficiency     Target
(liters/100 km)
Actual
Passenger density                  Target                                                                                                         _
(per kmi2)
IActual
'All costs at constant 1995 prices.
bQuarters ending March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31, 1996, 1997 and 1998.
'Operational transit vehicles/number of vehicles actually on street at peak.



Table A3. 11 Project Monitoring Indicators
Riga Urban Transport Component:
TTP
Indicator'               Year                      1996                                   1-7 198
Quarterb      Ist      2nd       3rd       4th       1st      2nd       3rd       4th       Ist      2nd       3rd      4th
Size of vehicle fleet              Target      628       628       628       612      596       580       564       548      548       548       548      548
(peak vehicles + reserve)
Actual
Staff/vehicle ratio                Target      6.1       61        61        6.1       6.0       6.0      6.0       6.0       6.0       6.0       6.0      6.0
(peak vehicles)                    A
Actual
Passenger cost/kilometer'          Target      0.68     0 68      0868      0.68      0 68      0.68     0.68      0 68      0 68      0 68     0.68      0.68
(sants)
Actual
Passenger revenue/kilometer'       Target      0.47      0 49     0 51      0.54      0 56      0.57     0.58      0 60      0 61      0.63      0 64     0 66
(sants)
Actual
Index of average fare              Target       105      105       105       105      110.3    110.3    110.3    110.3    115.7    115.7    115.7    115.7
(June 1995 index = 100)
Actual
Debt service cover                 Target       1.3      1.3       1.3       1.3       1.3      1.3       1.3       1.3       1.3       1.3      1.3       1.3
Actual
Return on assets                   Target      10%       10%       10%      10%       10%       10%       10%      10%       10%       10%       10%      10%
ActualIII                                                                                                 II
Self financing ratio               Target      30%       30%      30%       30%       30%       30%       30%      30%       30%       30%       30%      30%
1-Actual 
'AI costs at constant 1995 prices.
'Quarters ending March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31, 1996, 1997 and 1998.
'Based on a trip length of 6.5 km.
(D@
O t
H 



Table A3.12 Project Monitoring Indicators
Riga Urban Transport Component:
TTP ... continued
Indicator'               Year                      1996                                   1997                                  1998
Quarter'      1st      2nd       3rd       4th       1st      2nd       3rd       4th       Ist      2nd       3rd      4th
Passengers evading fares           Target
(percentage)
Actual
Passengers partially exempt from   Target
paying fares
(percentage)                       Actual
Passengers exempt from paying      Target
fares
(percentage)                       Actual
Average fleet availability'        Target                                   ___
(ratio)
Actual
Breakdowns of available fleet      Target
(percentage)
Actual
Accidents                          Target
(per 100,000 vehicle km)
Actual
Waiting time during peak           Target
(minutes)
Actual
Passenger density                  Target
(per km2)
Actual
'All costs at constant 1995 prices.
'Quarters ending March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31, 1996, 1997 and 1998.
'Operational transit vehicles actually on street at peak.                                                                                                                            w
co
o0 z
OZ



ANNEX C
Page 69 of 71
Table A3.13 Project Monitoring Indicators
Daugavpils Water Supply and Wastewater Component
Udensvads
Indicator'              Year       1996      1997     1998      1999     2004)     2001      2002     2003
EFndigb
Unaccounted for water             Target      3.5       3.5       1.0      1.0       1.0       1.0      1.0       1.0
(million m3 per year)                       (25%)    (25%)    (8%)        (8%)      (8%)      (8%)     (8%)    (8%)
(percentage of total production)
Actual
Number of employees               Targei      416      395       375       375      375       375       375      375
(total number)                               (5%)      (5%)      (0%)     (0%)      (0%)      (0%)     (0%)    (0%)
(percentage reduction in total)
Actual
Combined tariff                   Target      14.5     16.3      17.0     21.3      21.4      23.4     23.5      23.8
(1995 sants)                                    .
Actual
Combined tariff'                  Target      10.5     16.0      16.0      19.0     21.0      27.9     29.7      34.4
-adjusted for inflation-                                                                   .
(current sants)                   Actual
Billing collection performance    Target     85%       90%       90%      90%      92.5%      95%      95%       95 %
(percentage)
Actual
Consumer receivables              Target      135       60        60       60        60        60       60        60
(days)                                                                                     .
Actual
Debt service cover                Target      1.3       1.3      1.3       1.3       1.3      1.3       1.3       1.3
(minimum)                                                                         _
Actual
Return on assets                  Target               1.5%      1.5%     1.5 %     1.5%      2%        2 %      2 %
(percentage)
Actual
Water connections with meters     Target
(percentage)
Actual
Sewage collected and treated per    Target
water consumed
(percentage)                      Actual
Residual chlorine in supply       Target
network                                                                                        _
(percentage samples with          Actual
>0.2 mg/I)
'AII costs at constant 1995 prices.
'Years ending December 31.
'Tariffs to be increased annually to reach the levels indicated above (based on 1995 prices)



ANNEX C
Page 70 of 71
B. Progress Reporting
12. Throughout the execution of the Project, semi-annual reports shall be sent to the World Bank
from the project coordination units (Udensvads PMU, Riga City Council PMU and the Public
Investment Program PMU, respectively).The reports shall be in the format indicated below for the
two major project components. Reports for those sub-projects identified and implemented under the
Municipal Development Fund shall be produced on an ad hoc basis but shall be of a similar format to
the models described in this section, containing all the relevant information discussed below.
13. Each semi-annual report shall consist of: (i) an executive summary; (ii) two pages of text
describing progress, status, and problems encountered with the project component; (iii) updated
implementation schedules, based on those presented in this annex and revised to highlight any
differences between actual and anticipated project execution; (iv) fully completed monitoring indicator
tables; and (v) financial statements. These elements of the reports are described in more detail below.
(i) Executive Summary: A brief summary of the principal information contained in the report. The
summary should emphasize, for the six month period in question, significant project
developments, major problems encountered, corrective measures taken to overcome any
implementation difficulties, and unusual events. An opinion should be given as to the overall
progress and effectiveness of the implementation of the project component.s.
(ii) Project Status: The document shall report on the progress of the component's implementation.
Reference shall be made to the updated implementation schedules and any differences shall be
explained in the text. Problems encountered in project execution shall be discussed and solutions
proposed. Any other unusual events shall be presented. Staffing difficulties, both within the
implementing agency and/or project management unit themselves as well as those related to
consultants and contractors involved in the Project, should be reported. This section should
include information on any changes in project management arrangements and summaries on the
performance of engineering and other consultants retained under the Project. A written synopsis
shall be presented of the work carried out in the preceding six months and that to be undertaken
in the coming six months. In particular, for each of the sub-projects, direct reference shall be
made to the respective components listed below:
(a) Riga Urban Transport (with reference to associated Action and Business Plans):
Riga City Council: addressing fares evasion; compensation for fares concessions; redefining the
network after survey (in conjunction with all three enterprises); fare increases; electronic ticket
machine pilot scheme (in conjunction with the enterprises).
Imanta and Talava: investment in new buses; reduction of operating fleet; rehabilitation or capital
repairs; investment in spare parts; building new maintenance facility; investment in plant and
equipment; technical training for staff; administration and information.
TTP: investment in new trolleybuses; reduction of spare trolleybus fleet; reduction of spare tram
fleet; investment in spare parts; technical training for staff; conversion of tram traction systems;
investment in plant and equipment; administration and information.



ANNEX C
Page 71 of 71
(b) Daugavpils Water Supply and Wastewater:
Investment in all water supply and wastewater components; status of new Udensvads-municipality
performance contract; status of joint stock company venture; efficiency improvements in billing
and collection; reduction in unaccounted-for water; metering program; staff reduction / enterprise
efficiency improvement; time of response to water leaks, sewerage overflows, etc; potable water
quality; wastewater effluent quality and downstream river quality; implementation of tariff
increases; information technology / management improvements; status of twinning arrangement;
(iii) Implementation Schedules: The implementation schedules presented in this annex for the major
components of the Project will be made available to the respective implementing agencies as
software. In this way the execution of all the major components (together with all other smaller
components, for which the implementing agencies should create similar computer-based
schedules) will be effectively tracked and compared with the initial program. Graphic print outs
of the schedules should be appended to the semi-annual progress reports.
(iv) Monitoring Indicator Tables: The tables given above, which document changes in the
monitoring indicators, shall be reproduced for each report and incorporated as appendices.
(v) Financial Statements: Model forms for statements of income and expenditure are given above in
Section IV for each of the three Riga transport companies and for Udensvads, respectively.
Financial statements, based on these models and reporting on the previous six months
performance, shall be appended to the semi-annual reports.



ANNEX D
Page I of 7
DAUGAVPILS WATER AND WASTEWATER COMPONENT
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
A.Overview
1.    Implementation of the proposed project is anticipated to have positive environmental benefits
through improvement of water quality in the River Daugava and reduced pollution of the Baltic Sea
due to significant improvements in the performance of the municipal wastewater treatment plant.
2.    The proposed project component was the subject of an environmental review prepared by Saur
International (France)/Dynamco (United Kingdom), working in association with Aqua Brambis
(Latvia). The review was consistent with the requirement of the World Bank for a Category B project
and complies with the Latvian Law on Environmental Impact Assessment. The objective was to
evaluate the potential environmental impact from the reconstruction and rehabilitation program to be
carried out by Daugavpils Municipal Enterprise Udensvads (DMEU) under the project. The study
was conducted using a site-specific approach.
3.    The environmental review of the proposed project was prepared with the full cooperation of
the Latvian Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development (MOERD) and its
Daugavpils Regional Environmental Protection Committee. Representatives of the MOERD and its
Environmental Assessment Board have been involved in all stages of development of the proposed
project and have participated in a series of visits to all proposed program sites. Consultations have
been conducted with the representatives of the local municipality and DMEU.
B. Present Conditions
4.    Water supply. Both surface water (70%) and groundwater (30%) resources are exploited for
drinking water supply. Treated water complies with WHO and EU standards most of the time, and
quality problems (levels of iron, manganese, aluminum and THMs) are not considered to be a public
health issue although consumers are dissatisfied with the unpleasant color and odor of the water.
COD levels exceed EU guidelines for water to be treated to the highest standard. The oldest of the
two surface water treatment plants dates from 1889 and is in poor physical condition; the design does
not permit improvement. Chlorinators at both surface water treatment works are in poor condition
and represent a potential risk. Unsafe storage of large volumes of chlorine also poses a threat to
surrounding workers and inhabitants and should be addressed.
5.    At present, pollution incidents upstream of Daugavpils could have significant implications for
water supply especially as there is no upstream monitoring/warning system on the River Daugava and
there is no significant storage capacity within the water supply network should a production shutdown
be necessary as a result of a serious upstream pollution incident. The situation is exacerbated because
the Daugava is an international river and potential pollution sources exist upstream of Daugavpils in
Belarus and Russia as well as at Kraslava in Latvia and the Ignalina Nuclear Power Plan in Lithuania.
Chemical factories situated near the border represent a particular hazard. In November 1990, the
surface water treatment plants (Gajok 1 and 2) had to be closed for ten days due to a cyanide spill
(130 tons) in Novopolotsk, Belarus. Low level pollution occurs continuously.
6.    Leakage in the distribution network is reportedly very low (8%). This has been verified by
independent field tests and is lower than DMEU internal estimates. Factors explaining the unusually
low leakage are: limited extent of the "external" distribution pipework at 2.23 m/person (i.e. all that



ANNEX D
Page 2 of 7
pipework outside of the apartment blocks) due to the concentration of the population in large block
housing estates; low night pressures; and low relative age of the distribution network.
7.     Wastewvater Collection and Treatment. The cumulative length of the sewerage system in
Daugavpils is about 180 km and about 90% of the population is connected to the system. Leakage of
sewage to the surrounding soil through worn-out sewers is a potential threat to the quality of
groundwater. The infiltration of groundwater into sewers is significant and has also resulted in
overflows. Works aimed at the rehabilitation of these sewers should be given high priority to reduce
excessive hydraulic loads on the treatment plant and to minimize groundwater pollution.
8.     The Kandavas pumping station is responsible for the delivery of approximately 90% of the
treatment works' flow. The two pumps were installed in 1963 and one of the pumps cannot run for
more than two weeks at a time. Both are in need of urgent replacement. Many of the nineteen
satellite pumping stations are also in poor condition and require rehabilitation or replacement.
9.     Most of the municipal wastewater of Daugavpils is treated at plants consisting of only
preliminary and primary treatment with no biological phase in which the reduction of oxygen.-
consuming materials and of nutrients is poOI The current low level of wastewater treatment is one of
the major sources of pollution of the River Daugava and also has significant impact on the Gulf of
Riga. Daugavpils has been identified as one of the three priority pollution "hotspots" in Latvia under
the Baltic Sea Program.
10.   Sludge from the settling tanks is collected in two thickeners and taken by tanker for disposal
on sludge fields at the Krizi landfill site. The sludge treatment process needs to be improved to
reduce the volume of sludge, increase sludge stability, and develop a strategy for its final disposal and
utilization.
C. Elements of the Proposed Project
11.   A brief description of the proposed water supply and wastewater treatment improvements to
be carried out under the proposed project in Daugavpils is given below:
(a)    Water Supply
(i)    Bulk and block metering. Installation of bulk meters to improve the data on
network performance and to control water use. Installation of block meters
will enable more accurate billing for household consumption which is
currently under-invoiced due to underestimation of billing nonnatives.
(ii)    Vingri Equipment. To provide critical spare parts to maintain the current
plant performance for one of two existing groundwater abstraction plants.
(iii)   Ziemelu Well Field and Treatment Plant. To develop groundwater well field
to a minimum capacity of 13,000 m' per day with potential for eventual
expansion up to a maximum of 33,000 m3 per day; to complete pipeline from
site to main distribution network; and to construct iron removal plant.



ANNEX D
Page 3 of 7
(b)    Wastewater Treatment
(i)    Rehabilitation of Kandavas Pumping Station. Replacement of pumps to
increase reliability and minimize the possibility of flooding.
(ii)   Rehabilitation of Secondary Pumping Stations. Replacement of the most
dilapidated pumps in the nineteen satellite pumping stations to increase
reliability and minimize the possibility of flooding.
(iii)   Rehabilitation of Sewers. Reconstruction of worn-out sewers to limit
groundwater inflow and to minimize the potential for contamination of
groundwater by raw wastewater.
(iv)   Rehabilitation and Extension of Treatment Plant. Upgrading of the treatment
facilities to include a biological phase for the removal of organics and
nutrients (phosphorus and nitrogen) to meet HELCOM recommendations.
D. Environmental Impact
12.   The environmental impact which may result from the proposed water and wastewater
treatment has been divided into general impacts and specific impacts.
13.   General Impacts. There will inevitably be some environmental impacts associated with
construction activities. The magnitude of these impacts will depend on a number of factors including
proximity of houses, length of construction period, working hours and methods of construction. Such
impacts from large construction works (e.g., extension to the wastewater treatment works, Ziemelu
source development and iron removal plant) have the potential to be significant over a two year
period. In particular such impacts could include: noise and vibration; dust release; possible odor
release when working on existing sewerage and sewage treatment facilities; pollution of surface or
underground water due to release/spillage of material from construction sites; disruption of traffic and
noise pollution associated with transporting construction materials and large items of plant; pollution
risk and hazard to the health of construction workers if construction is carried out on contaminated
land (e.g. areas where DMEU sewage sludge has been stored). Visual environmental impacts are
expected to be mninimal. None of the water or wastewater treatment proposals involve resettlement of
indigenous people.
14.   Specific Impacts of Water Supply Component:
(i)    Bulk and Block Metering, Demand management is expected to result in a
decrease of water use which would have a positive environmental impact as
less water would be needed to be abstracted thus saving energy and materials,
and less wastewater would be produced, thus minimizing the possibility of
pollution in general and reducing the energy and materials spent on
wastewater treatment;
(ii)    Vingri Equipment, Modern equipment is expected to be less energy
consuming, thus having a positive environmental impact; and
(iii)   Ziemelu Well Field and Treatment Plant. Improved water quality would have



ANNEX D
Page 4 of 7
a positive health impact, particularly after full exploitation of Ziemelu which
will enable complete transition away from surface water to groundwater. The
reduction in the dependency upon the River Daugava affords the consumers of
drinking water a greater level of protection from the negative health effects
associated with a sudden deterioration in the river water quality caused by
upstream pollution. The proposed phased implementation of the wellfield
development will be accompanied by monitoring of adjacent groundwater
levels. Any impacts on local river flows or wetland ecology will thus be
observed sufficiently early so that mitigation measures can be introduced to
counter any negative effects. Construction of the pipeline, groundwater wells
and access roads will require only limited tree clearing as the site has already
been partially developed. Land take associated with establishment of iron
removal facilities at Jauna Forstate and the new pipeline is not considered to
be significant, however ecological site inventories will be undertaken before
final site selection is agreed. Noise is not likely to be a significant issue given
experience with other similar facilities. Iron removal facilities will generate
some sludge but this is estimated to be minor in comparison with that from
the waste water treatment plant. As for the wastewater sludge, a suitable
management strategy will be developed for the water treatment works' sludge.
This strategy will be incorporated into the scope of the technical assistance for
the detailed design of the iron removal plant.
(iv)   The groundwater source to be utilized is, however, potentially vulnerable to
pollution from two contaminated areas: a former dump for municipal solid
waste in Krizi, located about 2 lkn south-east of Ziemelu, and an old military
oil depot about 3.5 km north-east of Ziemelu. These have been studied and
have been found to pose no threat to area groundwater supplies for at least a
thirty year period. However, further monitoring and groundwater modelling
will be required to ensure that any potential risks are detected early enough to
allow for prompt mitigation in order to protect the wellfield over the longer
term. Funding for these investigations are included in the financing estimates
for the project. The City of Daugavpils has agreed to repair the cover over
the closed Krizi landfill which will further protect against any future threat of
contamination. Appropriate wellhead protection zoning will be incorporated
into the wellfield design and will ensure that the groundwater quality is not
compromised by surface contamination.
15.   Specific Impacts of Wastewater Treatment Component:
(i)    Rehabilitation of Pumping Stations. Upgrading of pumping stations will
improve efficiency thus saving energy and reduce costs; more reliable pumps
will minimize the risk of malfunction and possible consequent environmental
contamination from overflowing sewage pumping stations.
(ii)    Rehabilitation of Sewers. Rehabilitation of sewers will reduce groundwater
pollution and infiltration thus reducing the amount of water to be pumped as
well as reducing the possibility of flooding.



ANNEX D
Page 5 of 7
(iii)   Rehabilitation and Extension of Wastewater Treatment Plant.
Extension/upgrading of the Daugavpils wastewater treatment plant will
improve effluent quality and thus enhance the physicochemical and
microbiological quality of the River Daugava, the Riga Bay and river bathing
beaches in the discharge area. During the feasibility study and environmental
review, the option of constructing an entirely new facility at a separate
location was reviewed but was found not to be financially feasible or
justifiable. Industrial pre-treatment has been evaluated through sampling
during the feasibility study and found to be sufficient to enable biological
treatment of wastewater. The introduction of a wastewater influent
monitoring system will be included to ensure that any abnormal influent
industrial discharges are identified early and diverted so that they do not
poison the biological treatment phase. A complete sludge strategy will be
included in the scope of the technical assistance for the detailed design of the
wastewater treatment plant. The upgraded wastewater plant will include
mechanical dewatering equipment for the reduction of the sludge volume.
Such reduction in volume will also reduce environmental impacts arising from
transportation of sludge. After dewatering, the sludge will be treated by
either lime stabilization or composting. The strategy will identify the most
suitable and environmentally acceptable final disposal/reuse route for the
treated sludge.
16.   Proposed Mitigation Plan. The overall aim of the project is to undertake measures which will
improve the water supply and wastewater services of Daugavpils. The major environmental impacts
of the project will therefore be beneficial in improving the health and quality of life of the city's
population. Further positive impacts will result from the improvement in water quality in the River
Daugava and Riga Bay. The impact of construction will primarily affect the human population and
will be largely limited to relatively minor disruption and disturbance. It would be possible to reduce
the extent of this inconvenience by implementing regular construction site practices and procedures.
17.   Although the expected impacts of the project are positive, actions by DMEU will be required
to: (i) monitor raw and treated water quality; (ii) monitor industrial wastewater discharges; (iii)
improve sludge management; and (iv) monitor receiving water quality. These measures are discussed
below.
18.   Water Quality Monitoring. The monitoring of water quality at the source and after treatment
is carried out by the utility. The required analyses are set by law and consist of more than twenty
parameters. The Ministry of Welfare, through its Environment Health Centers, are supervising the
performance of the monitoring and carrying out control measurements (after treatment) about once
every month and additionally at household taps on a random basis. The list of monitored parameters
do not cover certain toxic parameters which could have an impact on human health. A recent United
States Environmental Protection Agency (US EPA) study (financed by United States Agency for
International Development) has recommended the expansion of the list. The Ministry of Health and
MOERD are currently considering the review of the monitoring requirements. As soon as the new
recommendations are adopted they should be incorporated into the water quality monitoring program
at Daugavpils.
19.   The new groundwater field at Ziemelu provides an important opportunity to improve drinking
water quality in Daugavpils. However as mentioned above, the source is potentially vulnerable to



ANNEX D
Page 6 of 7
pollution from two sources, the former municipal solid waste dump at Krizi and the former military
oil depot. Utilization of the Ziemelu wellfield will alter groundwater flows and is expected to divert
the contaminated plumes towards Ziemelu. Additional wells will be drilled to allow for the monitoring
of the aforementioned pollution sources as the phased development of the wellfield proceeds.
20.    A wellhead protection program has been put into place with the assistance of the US EPA.
However there is, at present, no legislation to protect the recharge area of Ziemelu groundwater
wellfield from potentially polluting activities or to restrict the patterns of land use in the area. The
situation is expected to improve since the Law on Protected Areas is currently being discussed in the
Parliament and is expected to be passed soon. Nevertheless, certain activities in the recharge area
(such as the installation of subterranean oil tanks or the quarrying of sand) currently require permits
from the MOERD and would not be granted on the protected zones already established around
Ziemelu welifield.
21.    Wastewater Monitoring. According to current legislation, the water utility is responsible for
monitoring the wastewater quality in the collection network, in the treatment plant and after treatment.
The list of parameters that are monitored consists of about 20 compounds. The utility is also
responsible for monitoring the wastewaters discharged by those industries which are connected to the
public sewerage system. The Daugavpils Regional Environmental Protection Committee oversees
DMEU's monitoring program by taking their own samples and analyzing them at their own
laboratory. Although the list of parameters for the monitoring of industrial wastes is extensive, the
US EPA study has proposed to include some additional toxins, which potentially can accumulate in
fish and in the sediments of receiving waters.
22.    Due to the decline in industrial activity in Daugavpils, the problem of heavy metals in the
wastewater is no longer considered to be a problem. The monitoring/regulating system, however, was
not able to prevent the discharge of excessive industrial loads as the pollution fees were far too low to
be a deterrent to the industries. The monitoring/regulating system has mainly been used to collect the
associated pollution fees from contravening industries rather than improve the quality of the industrial
effluent that is discharged to the municipal sewers. Under this project, with the introduction of
biological treatment at the wastewater works, illicit discharges must be more closely monitored and
controlled to provide a barrier against the failure of the plant's biological phase. A review of the
current industrial discharge permitting system, and recommendation for its improvement, will be
included in the technical assistance for the design of the wastewater treatment plant. A wastewater
influent monitoring system will also be included in the design of the treatment works which will
ensure that any influent toxic slugs are diverted so that the biological treatment phase is not poisoned
by sudden, excessive, toxic polluting incidents.
23.    Sludge Management. The quality of the sludge produced at the wastewater treatment works is
not regularly monitored. Some studies indicate that the levels of heavy metals have decreased, along
with the aforementioned decline in industrial activity in Daugavpils, to levels which would allow the
safe reuse of the stabilized sludge on agricultural land. According to the utility, local farmers are not
interested in using the wastewater sludge on their fields due to the fear of, inter alia, industrial
contaminants and odor release. Currently sludge is dried on dedicated fields which are located
adjacent to Krizi dump. The desiccated sludge, following a 1-2 year drying period, is used as cover
material for both the old and the new landfills.
24.    The upgrading of the existing wastewater treatment plant will include mechanical dewatering
equipment for the sludge that will allow its dry solids content to be increased to about 20-25 percent.



ANNEX D
Page 7 of 7
Two options for stabilizing the dewatered sludge were investigated during the feasibility study:
(i) lime stabilization; and (ii) composting with peat and sand. Preliminary calculations showed the
lime stabilization to be the cheaper option. A final decision on the method of sludge stabilization will
be made during the detailed design phase. There is also a clear need to launch a public information/
education campaign with the local farmers in order to inform them of the benefits of the stabilized
sludge as a safe fertilizer and soil conditioner. Currently Latvia does not have any regulations
concerning the reuse of sludge in agriculture. It is, however, expected that before the wastewater
treatment plant is commissioned, preliminary national guidelines will be available. These issues,
related to the final disposal of sludge, will be incorporated into the scope of the technical assistance
for the detailed design of the wastewater treatment plant.
25.   Although the configuration of the upgraded wastewater treatment plant will only be defined
following the detailed design stage, the following approximate estimates have been produced
(assuming the incorporation of primary sedimentation tanks) as to the anticipated volume and solids
content that the plant will generate: (i) primary sludge, 5 tons per day at 3% dry solids; and
(ii) secondary sludge, 5 tons per day at 1 % dry solids. Assuming both sludges will be co-thickened in
the sludge thickeners, then 250 m3 of thickened sludge, at 5 % dry solids, will be produced daily,
which will be dewatered to produce 50 m3 of sludge at 20% dry solids each day.
26.   Monitoring of Receiving Water Ouality. The monitoring of water quality in receiving waters
is the responsibility of the Hydrometereological Agency. Currently the Agency is taking monthly
samples upstream and downstream of Daugavpils. The list of parameters which are monitored
monthly is extensive. Regional committees also carry out some monitoring of surface waters, but this
is less comprehensive. The aforementioned US EPA study recommended that some additional
parameters (organic chemicals) be included in the surface water monitoring list.
27.   It is proposed that data on surface water quality be collected prior to the commissioning of the
upgraded treatment plant. This information would be used as a baseline against which the anticipated
improvement of the River Daugava's water quality would be measured. Such a monitoring program
would involve the analysis of water samples from various points along the river. Ideally, baseline data
collection would commence a year before the plant is commissioned.
E. Agreed Actions
28.   It was agreed that DMEU would, with the assistance of the MOERD and the Daugavpils
Regional Environmental Protection Committee, submit a plan to address these issues no later than
January, 31, 1996. Such plan would be discussed and agreed with the Bank. DMEU will be
required to implement this plan and to take other such actions with regard to environmental
monitoring and mitigation as may reasonably be required by the Bank.



ANNEX E
Page 1 of 3
RIGA URBAN TRANSPORT COMPONENT
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
A. Overview
1.    The implementation of the proposed project would have a positive environmental impact
through improvements that will increase use of public transport and limit the pace of growth use in
private auto transport. The project will also have a direct impact through reduced emissions and
reduced fuel consumption due to upgrading of the public transport fleet and to improved maintenance.
2.    An environmental review was prepared by the Dutch consultancy DHV in association with
Holland Transport Advising. The review is consistent with the requirement of the World Bank for a
category B project and complies with the Latvian Law on Environmental Impact Assessment.
B. Present Situation
3.    In the past few years the noise levels in Riga have increased due to an increase in transport
flows, bad road conditions and a decrease in technical conditions of most vehicles. Observations made
by the Environmental Health Dept., the Ministry of Welfare, in 1994, showed that, on main roads,
the actual noise levels are exceeding the standards (70 dB(A) during day time, 60 dB(A) during night
time) by between 10 to 20 dB(A). These standards were set in Soviet times.
4.    Vehicles are currently subject to annual roadworthy tests which would ensure that particularly
noisy buses would be kept off the road. A Law on Environmental Protection is currently being
discussed in the Latvian Parliament, although it is believed that this will have limited powers with
respect to abnormal noise levels. Enforcement of proposed regulations regarding noise are to become
the responsibility of the Municipality.
5.    The total emissions of NO,, CO and hydrocarbons for transport and stationary sources (boiler
houses - which produce hot water for apartments and factories, industrial sources etc.), for Latvia as
a whole, in 1993, are given below in Table 6.1. Air quality measurements have been undertaken in
the City of Riga. It has been agreed that the city would prepare an annual report on air quality.
Some typical concentrations measured in streets with heavy traffic are given below in Table 6.2. It
can be observed that the air quality standard with respect to NO,, is exceeded in streets with heavy
traffic in Riga. Generally, new cars are less polluting than old cars.
Table 6.1    Emissions of NO., hydrocarbons, CO and SO2 in kilotons per year for whole
Latvia, 1993
Transport        Stationary sources         Total
NO,                          29                    9                   38
Hydrocarbons                 24                    4                   28
Carbon Monoxide             128                   21                   149
SO2                          -l)                  42                    '
1) no data available
Source: Ministry of Enviromnent, Latvia, based on estimates of fuel consumption



ANNEX E
Page 2 of 3
Table 6.2     Measured concentrations of NO., SO2 and benzene at street level in the city of
Riga (fg/m3) in relation to air quality standards.
Measured concentration        Air quality standard
(tig/m3)                     (,Ag/M3)l
NO,                                      50                           401)
S2                                       13                           50'
benzene                                   11                           2)
1)    Latvian standard for yearly averaged concentrations
2)    No safe level of benzene can be recommended, as benzene is carcinogenic to humans and there is no
known safe threshold level [2]. In the Netherlands a limit value of 10 jig/m3 is used.
Source: Ministry of Environment, Latvia
6.     Random vehicle testing, undertaken by Riga Technical University, on buses with both diesel
and petrol engines, indicated that smoke emission was high, due to bad regulation of engines. The
University stated that, on average, 40% of existing buses tested failed the emissions check. The
RBMST now subjects buses operated by the three Riga public transport companies to regular
emissions testing every quarter. Failed vehicles are kept out of service until repairs can be made.
These requirements will be expanded to include all privately licensed buses. Specifications for fuel
used by the three Riga public transport companies comply with European standards.
C. Environmental Impacts of the Proposed Project
7.     Tramns. As a consequence of the proposed investment in converting 60 trams to thyristor
chopper control, the energy consumption will be reduced (calculated reduction of approximately 4375
MWh per annum). This reduction in energy consumption will lead to a slight reduction in air
pollution from electric power plants. This reduction, however, will not be of any influence on air
quality in the city of Riga. Good and preventive maintenance leads to a reduction of noise nuisance.
Technical assistance to be provided, to improve maintenance procedures, will have an impact in this
area.
8.     Trolleybuses. It is proposed to renew part of the fleet (30 trolleybuses). As a consequence, it
is calculated that energy consumption will reduce by approximately 1984 MWh per annum. This
reduction in energy consumption will lead to a slight reduction in air pollution from electric power
plants. This reduction, however, will not be of any influence on air quality in the city of Riga.
9.     Buses. It is proposed to renew part of the fleet (36 buses). New buses are less noisy and less
polluting than old buses. Some emission factors for (Dutch) buses built in the year of 1970, 1980 and
1990 are given below in Table 6.3. Emission factors of, for example, Ikarus buses will probably not
be totally comparable, although it may be considered that, for engines of these type of buses, more
modern techniques will reduce the volumes of pollution, with respect to CO, hydrocarbons and
particles. The newer buses to be purchased will be supplied with engines of the Euro II specification,
which are much less polluting than existing buses. It should also be noted that the Danish consulting
firm, RH&H, will undertake a demonstration project in Latvia to indicate where reductions in
emissions can be made.



ANNEX E
Page 3 of 3
Table 6.3.    Emission factors with respect to urban traffic (g/km) for new
buses produced in 1970, 1980 and 1990 [3]
Date of con-             CO            Hydrocarbons            NO,          Particles
struction
1970                     14                  10                 16          5.4
1980                     8.1                6.3                 16          2.2
1990                     6.6                5.3                 17           1.4
Source: "Centraal bureau voor de Statistiek, the Netherlands, 1992
Good maintenance and engine regulation will minimise air pollution and noise. Technical assistance to
be provided, to improve maintenance procedures, will have an impact in this area.
10.    Wider impact. The proposed investments will assist in reversing the trend towards greater use
of private cars and is an important environment consideration. Table 6.3 details emission factors, with
respect to cars and buses. The information is based on data from the Netherlands.
Table 6.3      Emission factors with respect to urban traffic (g/hn) for new cars
and new buses, 1990
Component     Emission by 25 cais         Emission by 50 cars        Emission by
(g/kmn)                   (g/km)                      one bus (g/km)
Gaso-    Diese'   LPG      Gaso-    Diesel    LPG
line                       line
CO            228       24      65        455      47       130      6.6
Hydrocarbons   25       6       11        50       12       21       5.3
NO,            12      15        18       24       30       36       17
Particles     0.75      5.8      0.38     1.5      12       0.75     1.4
11.    The use of 25 to 50 cars, instead of one bus, will result in much higher total emissions of CO
and hydrocarbons. The total emissions of NO, and particles are comparable. Noise levels generated
by 25/50 cars will also be higher than that produced by one bus.
12.    A further consequence of greater car use, instead of public transport, will be increases in
traffic volumes, with average vehicles speeds decreasing. This will result in more stops and increasing
accelerations, with subsequently higher emissions of all components and higher noise levels.



ANNEX F
Page 1 of 5
LATVIA
MUNICIPAL SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Riga Urban Transport
1.    Project Benefits. The proposed project would have significant economic benefits related to:
(a) reduced vehicle operating costs; and (b) passenger time savings. These benefits have been
calculated by comparing the "with" and "without" project scenarios. The assumptions used in this
analysis are further defined below.
(a)    Reduced vehicle operating costs. The state of equipment in the Riga public transport
companies has deteriorated significantly over the last five years given the lack of
investment in new equipment, maintenance and spare parts. The reduction in spares
budget has forced the companies into cannibalization of vehicles. Over time this
raises the cost of operating vehicles given the increasing number of breakdowns,
increased expenditure on maintenance, lower capacity utilization and increased fuel
consumption. Extensive corrosion of vehicles reduces structural integrity and
requires capital repairs to steel body works. Purchase of new vehicles, spare parts
inventories and maintenance equipment in combination with actions to retire the least
serviceable vehicles will enable a substantial reduction in maintenance costs (staff and
spare parts) and will reduce expenditures for fuel and energy.
The extent of these savings has been modelled for each individual measure based on
the assumption that costs would continue to increase at an average rate of 1 % per year
without the project. With the project, it is assumed that costs would fall initially by
10%. Costs for both scenarios are estimated in 1995 constant lats and have been
adjusted to remove taxes and to compensate for differences in prices. The most
significant adjustments are to: (i) increase the cost of electricity prices which have
been revalued to the external purchase price (roughly twice the current price paid by
the transport companies); and (ii) to remove the impact of the turnover tax (18%).
The government operates a floating exchange rate, with respect to the lat, and,
therefore, prices do not have to be adjusted in this respect.
Vehicle life is estimated at 12 years for buses and 15 years for trolleybuses.
Investments in tram thyristor chopper traction control systems are estimated to yield
benefits for 12 years given expected useful remaining life of the upgraded vehicles.
(b)    Passenger waitine time. Time savings are realized through a decrease in breakdowns
and vehicle availability, with an assumed passenger time loss of 5 minutes per
incident. The proposed investments in spare parts, machinery and training plus the
increased reliability of the new vehicles will improve the quality of the service
offered. In the "without project case," an annual increase in the number of
breakdowns and trips not operated was assumed to increase by 2% per annum. In the
"with project case," there is an initial decrease in breakdowns and trips not operated
by 90% and a further annual decrease of 1 % per annum due to better training and
additional new vehicle purchases. Non-work time was valued at 40% of work time.



ANNEX F
Page 2 of 5
The monthly wage was assumed to be 150 lats (significantly above the national
average) to account for the higher Riga incomes.
(c)    Terminal value. No terminal value has been assumed.
(d)    Additional benefits. Additional benefits resulting from the proposed investment were
not readily quantifiable and were not included in the analysis. These include:
reductions in vehicle congesion, increase in passenger mobility and improvement in
city image. This analysis also does not include any benefits due to the rationalization
of the network following completion of the passenger study.
2.    Project Costs. Costs used for estimating the economic rate of return are the total project costs
of the Bank project between 1996 and 2000 and additional investments made by the public transport
enterprises out of own source revenues to the year 2007. Estimates of local and foreign costs are in
1995 prices. Costs exclude price contingencies as these involve only inflation. No physical
contingencies are assumed on equipment purchases. Physical contingencies of 10% have been
assumed on civil works. As the portion of civil works in the sub-project are very small, this has little
impact. Local costs have been converted to US dollar equivalent using prevailing exchange rates.
3.    Economic Rate of Return. The economic rate of return was calculated by comparing the costs
and benefits of the two scenarios: "with project" and "without project." The economic rate of return
is 22%. Benefits due to passenger time savings are a small proportion of total project benefits (5%).
The net present value is US$8.8 million. A discount rate of 10% was used in calculating the net
present value. These calculations are shown in Table F-1.
4.    A sensitivity analysis was conducted to measure the impact of variations in costs and benefits
on the economic rate of return. The sensitivity was measured by calculating the switching values (the
extent to which costs or benefits would have to change to reduce the economic rate to 12%). Project
costs could be increased by a factor of 1.38 or project benefits reduced by a factor of .72 and the
economic rate of return would still remain at 12%. The impact of a potential devaluation of the
currency would be to an increase in project costs and a partial increase in project benefits. The
project would be able to maintain a 12% economic rate of return with a devaluation of 40%.
B. Daugavpils Water and Waste Water
5.    Project Benefits. The proposed project would have the following benefits: (a) public health
impacts from improved drinking water safety and quality; and (b) reduced discharge of untreated or
partially treated waste water to the River Daugava. An economic rate of return could not be
calculated as the benefits from both components are not easily quantifiable. Instead, a least cost
analysis of alternatives was conducted.
(a)    Improved drinking water safety and quality. Construction of a new groundwater
wellfield will enable diversification of water supplies and provide a basis for complete
movement away from surface water. Daugavpils is downstream from several major
chemical factories in Belarus and there have been several accidents involving
discharge of toxic chemicals into the river. In November 1990, 130 tons of cyanide
were discharged into the water and all surface water intakes in Daugavpils had to be
turned off for a period of 10 days. Daugavpils is also within close proximity to oil
storage facilities at Kraslava and the Ignalina nuclear power plant in Lithuania.



ANNEX F
Page 3 of 5
Diversification of water supply is expected to have significant positive public health
benefits and would reduce costs associated with provision of alternative water supply
during water emergencies.
Increased use of groundwater will also improve water quality. Iron, manganese,
aluminum, oxydizability and THM are higher than EU standards. While the iron and
other metals are mainly and aesthetic concern, the THMs are carcinogenic
compounds. Although they are common in most of the systems using raw water with
a high organic content, and the relation of cancer and THMs in drinking water is
difficult to prove, the general tendency is to move away from using contaminated or
otherwise high organic content surface waters to groundwater use or to use activated
carbon filters in combination with ozonation instead of chlorination.
The value of these benefits do not lend themselves to quantification, although it can be
reasonably assumed that the benefits are significant given the potential positive impact
on public health and the physical environment. Instead, a least cost analysis of
alternatives was conducted comparing transition to groundwater with use of activated
carbon filters and ozonation. The fixed investment costs of both alternatives was
comparable; however, the operating costs of upgrading the surface water treatment
works would be 25 % higher given the higher chemical costs. In addition, upgrading
the surface water treatment works would result in the city's continued vulnerability to
oil spills and accidental release of toxic chemicals. These risks could be mitigated at
further expense by increasing reservoir capacity and improving on early warning
systems; however, such measures could not eliminate these risks entirely.
(b)    Environmental benefits from improved waste water treatment. Daugavpils is one of
the priority "hotspots" under the Baltic Sea Program. Waste water receives only
preliminary and primary treatment, and the reduction of BOD and nutrients is poor.
This has a significant impact on the River Daugava, the Riga Bay and the Baltic Sea.
Under the project, the waste water treatment plant will be rehabilitated and a
biological treatment phase added. This will result in significant reductions in BOD
and nutrients. See Table F-2.
It is assumed that the local benefits of improved waste water treatment (recreational
value from improvement to local beaches and fishing) are captured in the above
estimation of benefits for the water supply component. Similarly, it is assumed that
local benefits of improvements to the sewage pumping stations and gravity sewers
have been captured in the above estimation of benefitis for the water supply
component. The positive externalities associated with improved water quality
downstream of Daugavpils, in Riga Bay and in the Baltic Sea are not easily
quantifiable. A least cost analysis of the alternatives has been conducted including
assessment of feasibility of constructing a new wastewater treatment works at a new
location which would allow increased space needed to allow for longer retention
times. This option was found not to be cost effective. Similarly, use of biofiltration
was examined and was not found to be cost effective.



ANNEX F
Page 4 of 5
Table F-2    Wastewater Treatment Plant Discharges: Existing vs. Proposed Treatment Plant
Parameter            Existing Treatment    Proposed Treatment    % Reduction
Plant Discharge       Plant Discharge
(t/year)              (t/year)
BOD5                 3780                   550                   85
Pt                   74                    20                     73
Nt                   550                   370                    33
C. Municipal Development Fund
6.    Projects selected for financing under the Municipal Development Fund must demonstrate a
minimum economic rate of return of 12%. The average is estimated to be 15% but will depend very
much on the distribution of projects among sectors and the extent to which benefits lend themselves to
quanitification.



Table F-i                _ _._ _
RIGA URBAN TRANSPORT COMPONENT
Calculation of Economic Rate of Return
Million lats
1 996    1997    19981 I 1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006    2007
___-    ____ __-------t----- ----_     t___               -   -           -___ _-_____
Investment costs                 -4.772   -3.8781  -0.724       0       0        0        0'       0       0        0        0        0
_  _ _ _   _  _____              _  ~___        ___ _  -     I   __   - _ 1-t        -__ _                    __   __   ___
Operating cost savings             0.58     1.42    1.73     1.91     1.911    1.91    1.91     1.91     1.91     1.91    1.91     1.91  _
Passenger time costs               0.11    0.11     0.111   0.12      0.12     0.12     0.1 0.13         0.4.11 f0.15              0.15
Net undiscounted ____            -4.082   -2.348 __1.116     2.03     2.03     2.03    2.041    2.04     2 05     2.05    2.06     2.06
Discount-rate                        1       1.1 _1.21    1.331   1.4641  1.61051_1.77156_ 1.9487   2.14359  2.35795  2.59374  2.85312    __
Net discounted   _     __        -4.082 -2.13455  0.92231  1.525171 1.38652  1.260471 1.15153  1.04684  0.95634   0.8694  0.79422  0.72202.
ERR                  _              0%                    1_                 _     1         ___ I_ I__<__ __
ERR                I21.70%                                                     
___ I                              _   ___--  _--  _--    __                                                          - 
______________         21~ ~~.7 2    m illion   lats__       _ _  _ _  _   __ _  __           _   _  _ _  __   _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _
Net present value                       _    __.42__m_____ lats            _     _   _    _ I_I_I           _ I
09
(D >
'h
in



ANNEX G
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
Riga Urban Transport
Institutional Overview - Richardson & Scales
Background Papers on Imanta, Talava and TTP - Richardson & Scales
Business Plans for Imanta, Talava and TTP - Richardon & Scales
Background Paper on Creating the Public Transport Unit - Richardson & Scales
Environmental Appraisal of Proposed Projects - Watson, DHV
Riga Urban Transport Assessment of Needs - Watson, DHV
Public Transport Policy Statement - Riga City Council
Proposal for Tariff and Concessionary Travel Rationalization - Riga City Council
Outline contracts with public transport enterprises - Riga City Council
2.    Daugavpils Water and Waste Water
Water and Sewerage: Feasibility Study - Dynamco/SAUR in association with Aqua Brambis
Background Paper - Bakalian and Dhalla
Review of Ziemelu Hydrogeology - Prols, GeoConsult
Minutes of Steering Comnmittee Meetings
3.    Municipal Development Fund
Criteria and Procedures for Selection of Projects
4.    General Correspondence
A wide range of correspondence from project preparation, appraisal and negotiations exists in
the project file and includes, among others:
Official correspondence from Ministry of Finance dated August 8, 1995, regarding on-lending
and implementation arrangements.
Confirmation of interest in co-financing from the Danish Environmental Protection Agency
dated July 13, 1995.
Confirmation of interest in co-financing by EU PHARE dated July 28, 1995.
Confirmation of interest in co-financing by SIDA dated August 18, 1995.
Confirmation of interest in co-financing by NEFCO dated August 21, 1995.






FINLAND      -              The boundories, colors,                       24                                                                            27
SWEDEN                                         denominations and any
other information shown
on this mop dov not
ESTOI         imply, on the part of                                    MUNICIPAL SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ESTONIA  (               The World Bank Group,
IRUSSIAN    any judgment on the legl                                                                                                      O
'   FED       status of any territory,                                                              PROJECT LOCATIONS                       PORTS
or any endorsement                                                            0      SELECTED CITIES                         RIVERS
*Riga                      or acceptance of such
LATVIA        9\            boundaries                                                                           MAIN ROADS                        9      NATIONAL CAPITAL
RAILROADS                               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
LITHEIANIA   L                                                          Kihnu                             To mIle
RU-- A?                                58                                                           To Leile            \               S                                                                   58
,TELARUS      58'                                                                               *'0 
FOLAND                                                                                                                           -
RUiiena                  To Tortu       A A,
Ruhnu                                                                                            /
21'                                                  Soar                                        Aloja                               .                   '1
..°Koflka                                                                         /     ,              >                   _,;\)           R U S S I A N
Ventspils                                                                                                                                        AI- sne '  ,/Limbaz   .trecif E D .
(f;f\Mrs9                                                       0,f-  f                                                                                 a~~esrog
Lie paja                                                    Doobel=a  e
u4lbene( 
~ 56°        To Klnipedo                                                                                                                                                                               T \  \
0 20    40       60       8Tuk         KILOMETERS                                                                                     uban. _ t. Q
Liepl                                                                                                                                           l | inas.  
w                   0    ~~~~~~10  20    30     40     50      60 MI[ES                                                                               To Vilnius 2                 B ELA R US                     N 
'°°   21-                                                                           24                                                                                  27                                      r°









-.1           :                    



