Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24041
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-39640; PPFB-P2850)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$27.3 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF
LATVIA
FOR A
MUNICIPAL SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
December 26, 2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ClURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 23, 2002)
Cwrrency Unit =  Latvian Lats
lats 1 = US$ 1.58
US$ I = Lat 0.63
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS           -   Country Assistance Strategy
DMEU          -   Daugavpils Municipal Enterprise Udensvads
DWWW          -   Daugavpils Water and Waste Water
EBRD          -   European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EMP           -   Environmental Management Plan
ERR           -   Economic Rate of Return
EU            -   European Union
EU PHARE      -   European Union Assistance Program for Eastern Europe
HELCOM        -   Baltic Marine Environment Protection Commission (Helsinki Commission)
IBRD          -   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
MDF           -   Municipal Development Fund
MOERD         -   Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development
MOF           -   Ministry of Finance
NEFCO         -   Nordic Environment Finance Corporation
PTU           -   Public Transportation Unit
RBMST         -   Riga Board of Municipal Services and Transportation
RUT           -   Riga Urban Transport
SA            -   Special Account
SIDA          -   Swedish International Development Agency
SOE           -   Statement of Expenditure
TTP           -   Riga Tram and Trolleybus Park
Vice President:  Jobannes F. Linn
Country Director:   Roger Grawe
Sector Manager:    Sumter Lee Travers
Task Team Leader:    Jeffrey Balkind



LATVIA
MUN SERVICES DEVT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     I
2. Pnncipal Performance Ratings                                                      I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               11
6. Sustainability                                                                  12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    13
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  17
9. Partner Comments                                                                 18
10. Additional Information                                                         19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               43
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               46
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  48
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              50
Annex 8. Comments from Borrower/ Implementing Agency                               52






Project ID: P034584                                    |Project Name: MIJN SERVICES DEVT
Team Leader: Jeffrey Balkind                            TL Unit: ECSIE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                      Report Date: December 26, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: MUN SERVICES DEVT                            L/C/TFNunber: CPL-39640;
PPFB-P2850
Countiy/Department: LATVIA                                             Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: General transportation sector (61%); Water supply
(13%); Sewerage (13%); Sub-national government
administration (13%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD: 01/05/1994                              Effective: 05/25/1996        05/28/1996
Appraisal:  06/26/1995                              MTR: 06/30/1998            11/25/1998
Approval:  12/14/1995                             Closing: 06/30/2001         06/30/2002
Borrowt er/lnIplemtenting Agency.  REPUBLIC OF LATVIA/Ministry of Environment and Regional Development
Other Partners:  Danish Environmental Protection Agency (DEPA), EU Phare, Swedish
International Development Agency (SIDA), Nordic Environment Finance
Corporation (NEFCO)
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:     Johannes F. Linn                          Wilfried Thalwitz
Country Manager:     Roger Grawe                              Basil Kavalsky
Sector Manager:      Sumter Lee Travers                       Thomas A. Blinkhom
Team Leader at ICR:  Jeffrey Balkind                          Kristin Gilbertson
ICR Primary Author.  Jeffrey Balkind; Inesis Kiskis;
Kari Johansson; William B.
Denning
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact. M
Bank Perforniance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entrv: S                     S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
The project is rated as marginallv satisfactory, based on the outcomes of the Riga Transport and
Daugavpils Water and Wastewater components. Sustainability of Riga Transport approach and



Daugavpils Water/wastewater depends on getting a tighter handle on the cost side of the enterprises and
their financial performance. The third component (the Pilot Municipal Development Fund) achieved a
better performance, but was not able to develop any institutional sustainability since the Ministry of
Finance and Ministry of Economy ended the operations of the MDF after the Bank loan was implemented.
The reasons for the unlikely sustainability are discussed in the report.
3. Assessment of Development Objective mad Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project was the first municipal development project for the Bank in the Baltics. The 1994
CAS for Latvia focussed the strategy on:
i. enhancing private sector development;
ii. improving public infrastructure services;
iii. strengthening the social safety net and improving social services; and
iv. addressing pressing environmental concerns - in particular the clean-up of the Baltic Sea as a
potentially "hot spot" that had become a major area of focus of neighboring bilateral aid programs,
especially among the Scandinavian countries.
Investments in municipal infrastructure and environment had been identified as a priority in the
Government's Public Investment Program (PIP). Since Latvian independence in 1991, policymakers in the
country had embarked upon an ambitious program of decentralization, reversing decades of Soviet
centralization of authority. Local governments were becoming self-reliant and accounted for almost half of
total public sector spending. Latvia had two tiers of government: national and municipal - there were no
provincial layers. The seven Republican cities - Riga, Daugavpils, Ventspils, Liepaja, Jelgava, Jurmala,
and Rezekne - had rajon status (Regional districts) but they functioned as large municipalities. Besides the
seven Republican cities, Latvia had 69 town municipalities and 493 pagasts or smaller urban and rural
municipalities. Understanding this structure is key to understanding the design of the project
The overall project aimed at supporting ongoing decentralization and inter-governmental fiscal
reforms by providing access to investment financing and technical assistance needed for rehabilitation and
improved management of municipal services in the two largest cities - Riga and Daugavpils - and
investment financing and technical assistance to a range of smaller municipalities, through the creation of a
Pilot Municipal Development Fund. The specific objectives (as stated in the SAR and Loan Agreement) are
built around three key components, which were to:
i. improve efficiency and quality of public transport services in Riga, improve the financial condition
and promote further corporatization of the three public transport companies in Riga;
ii. improve the quality of quality of drinking water in Daugavpils, reduce the discharge of untreated
and partially treated wastewater into the Daugava River and the Baltic Sea, and improve the
financial management and promote further corporatization of the Daugavpils Water Enterprise
(Udensvads); and
iii. pursue similar objectives in other communities in Latvia through the creation and financing of a
Pilot Municipal Development Fund (MDF).
Assessment of Development Obiectives and Project Design. The project was consistent with the CAS,
which emphasized the need to develop efficient public services, including at the local level. The Loan
combined a strong project focus in several different locations in the country. The basic objective was to
support the decentralization and intergovernmental fiscal reforms instituted by the Government, by
providing access to investment financing, institution building and technical assistance for needed
rehabilitation and improved management of municipal services.
-2 -



Sub-proiect Specifics: Ri2a Urban Transport. Public transport carried up to 80-90 percent of daily trips
in and around the city. Underlying the urban transport problems was the continuation of a public policy of
low fares and fare exemptions, in tandem with the inability of the local and/or state governments to make
up the difference between fare revenues and operating costs of public sector owned transport enterprises, as
they had done in socialist times. In Riga, the majority of public transport services are provided by three
public transport enterprises owned by the Riga City Council. Bus services are provided by Imanta
Autobus Park and by Talava Autobus Park, and tram and trolleybus services by the Tram and Trolleybus
Park (TTP). In addition private operators are free to apply to the municipality for licenses to run public
transport services in Riga. At the time of appraisal, the private services were seen as marginal and in
decline. The key objective was to support Riga City's approach to provide affordable public transport
services, subject to also attaining an improvement in the finances of the city's transport enterprises, and
greater efficiency in the delivery of public transport services in the city.
Project design was based on strengthening the traditional public utility approach to service
provision. Riga allows competition from private operators but public transport continues to serve key
groups - the two bus companies in particular (Imanta and Talava) serve outlying areas where poorer
residents live. The trolley bus and tram service of TTP is more for the inner city. The goal was to develop
the three public service providers to the point where more commercial transport operations would become
possible through service agreements, concessioning, or partial or full privatization, with the existing or a
different set of operators. The design was relevant to achieving this goal because it dealt with each major
area requiring attention: (i) immediate operational efficiency - through needed operational investments; (ii)
longer-run change of enterprise orientation to more commercial approaches - through financial discipline;
and (iii) change in public sector orientation - through political recognition and commitment of tariff levels
and/or subsidy levels necessary for on-going, financially sustainable, supply of transport services.
Institutionally, the design foresaw that the municipal enterprises could be privatized in the medium-term
after: (i) liberalization of fares allowed them to become financially viable; and (ii) after strengthening the
regulatory capacity of the existing Riga Board of Municipal Services and Transportation (RBMST) to
ensure a minimum level of competition, safety and coordination of routes. The design did not provide for an
integrated view of transport planning and operations within a strategic land use and municipal operations
perspective, important given the changes in spatial interaction and structure that would be expected through
the transition to a market economy and increasing use of private automobile transportation. It also did not
address the issue of coordinating existing regional (suburban) passenger services of the national railway
with municipal services.
DauQavDils Water/Wastewater. The objectives of the Daugavpils water and wastewater components were
appropriate to the development needs at the time. A changeover of water intake from the Daugava River to
ground water wells was justified due to the poor quality of the river water. Also, there was a security
aspect: Daugavpils is located just 50 km down river from Belarus, and industrials spills from Belorussian
producers into the river had already taken place prior to 1995. Latvia had joined intemational agreements
(HELCOM), which required improvements in the way the waste water was being treated and discharged.
At the time of design of the project, the local services operator, SIA Daugavpils Udens (known as DMEU)
was not an enterprise at all, but part of the municipality. It was unable to fully maintain its facilities with
the collected revenue and it depended upon receiving municipal subsidies.
The design forecast a flat water demand curve, and not what later turned out - sharply falling
water consumption as a result of project metering (good feature) and industrial recession in the Daugavpils
area (negative feature beyond the control of the project). The appraisal team envisaged that the utility
would reach full cost recovery in 2000 and onwards, and that the entity would be able to undertake the
- 3 -



financing of its further network rehabilitation out of own revenue. The physical facilities and financial
projections were based on flat demand. When metering, tariff increases and industrial recession decreased
specific consumption in Daugavpils much faster than thought - down to about one-quarter of the Soviet
legacy level (i.e. 125 litres per capita/day instead of 500 Ipcd), the consequent need to steepen the tariff
increases (to make up for falling total revenues) became politically difficult to implement in a timely
manner each year, and the consequent revenue lag, combined with the over-design of the entity's fixed plant
means that the attainment of full cost recovery is still several years away.
MuniciiDal Development Fund (MDF). The MDF component involved 34 municipalities all around the
country, with technical assistance carried out by a new Unit in the Ministry of Economy. After the
appraisals of the subprojects, the subloans in fact were concluded by the MOF (which disbursed the funds
to the municipalities). This split of functions later created difficulty as regards sustainability - see later
section. The design of the MDF was demand-driven, whereby municipalities had to state their preferred
investment and why. Projects eligible for financing from the MDF had to be investment projects in the area
of municipal services needs that reflected both local communities' and national priorities.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Componenzts:
The project had three main components, Riga Urban Transport (RUT), Daugavpils Water and
Wastewater (DWW), Municipal Development Fund (MDF), as well as an Institutional Development
Component to support the MDF.
MSDP - Summary of Original Components and Costs (US$ millions)
Component                         Sub-Component                     Total cost          Bank financed
Riga Urban Transport
new bus maintenance facility      0.9                 0.5
new buses, trolleybuses           12 1                11.0
tram electncal components         2.4                 2.2
spare parts, maintenance equipment, ticketing 2.9     2.7
equipment
Riga Urban Transport PTU          0.3                 0.3
Sub-total                         18.6                16.7
Daugavplls Water and Wastewater
metenng, Vgri upgrading           0.4                 0.3
groundwater well development and pipeline  9 4        5.5
rehabilitation of wastewater treatment plant 9.4      0.0
and pumping stations
Daugavpils PMU                    0.7                 0 6
Daugavpils design and twinning    2 4                 0 5
Sub-total                         22.3                6.9
Municipal Development Fund
________ _______ ________ ______ works                     4.3                 3.4
consultancies                     0 1                 0.1
Sub-total                         4.4                 3.5
Project Coordination Unit                                           0.1                0.1
TOTAL                                                               45.4                27.3
Source SAR, page 16
The Rica Transport component included the following sub-components. The costs of each were
provided in the general summary above.
New Buses. Purchase of 36 new articulated buses (18 each) and the disposal of 95 of the
oldest buses (49 Talava, 46 Imanta);
New Trolleybuses. Purchase of 30 new large and more energy efficient articulated
-4 -



trolleybuses and the disposal of some 56 of the oldest and small trolleybuses with no loss of
passenger carrying capacity;
Tram Electrical Equipment. Purchase of 60 thyristor chopper traction control systems,
suitable for the newer t-rams in the fleet;
Capital Repair Programs. Rehabilitate 80 buses at each enterprise (Talava, Imanta);
Spare Parts. Purchase of spare parts for general maintenance and capital repairs;
Relocation of Imanta Workshop. Close of one of Imanta's three maintenance sites and the
building of a new workshop at the main depot;
Workshop Plant and Equipment. Purchase of new plant and equipment;
Training and Technical Assistance. Provide the Riga City Council and the three public
transport enterprises with training and technical assistance to:
(i) facilitate implementation of the project including procurement;
(ii) oversee a pilot program to evaluate proposed implementation of a new ticketing
system;
(iii) oversee implementation of agreed action plans; and
(iv) support capacity building of the Public Transport Unit (PTU) and its implementation
of policy reforms agreed to and enacted by the Riga City Council in the attached Public
Transport Policy Statement.
The City of Riga agreed to implement all measures outlined in the Public Transport Policy
Statement including payment of compensation due to the public transport companies in connection with
concessionary fares that may be required from time to time by the City of Riga.
The Daugavvils component included two major physical subcomponents: (i) development,
treatment and rehabilitation of groundwater sources, which would enable the discontinuance of the
Daugava River as a water source for the town. Even after treatment, Daugava water was visibly and
technically substandard and a threat to health; (ii) rehabilitation of the existing wastewater treatment plant
would improve the adherence to HELCOM recommendations and improve raw water quality for potable
water production in and around Daugavpils, Latvia's second largest city. Small subcomponents were aimed
at improving wastewater pumping stations, monitoring and metering. Twinning and TA components were
designed to support institutional development and project implementation.
The MDF objectives were to help finance priority municipal investments. A related objective was
to help municipalities improve their project preparation capacities- strengthening the operational capacity
and efficiency of municipalities by assisting them in the design, appraisal, and execution of investment
programs; rationalizmg programs moving away from the ad hoc investment practices; and injecting rational
criteria into the geographical and sectoral distribution of investment funds. Although only some of the
larger cities were able to access loan financing for rehabilitation from IFIs, most municipalities were not of
sufficient size (nor did they have any experience with IFIs) to justify direct involvement. Thus, in order to
reach secondary cities and towns and to spread economic benefit, the creation of a MDF was chosen. The
design was an appropriate pilot size ($3.4 million) aimed at assessing experience as the project moved
along.
3.4 Revised Components.
The components of the Loan were not revised. The closing date of the loan was extended for one
year until June 30, 2002 to enable the rehabilitation of the Talava Maintenance workshop. This was done
because Talava's performance was lagging behind that of TTP and Imanta, partly on account of poor
maintenance facilties, which was putting at risk buses procured under the loan. This has been corrected
now.
-5-



3.5 Quality at Entry:
There was no QAG assessment of entry. This ICR rates Quality at Entry as SatisLactor with
caveats. The respective components' physical and institutional design choices were satisfactory from a
service perspective, and they represented a sound reading of what were the priority problems to tackle in
the two cities, recognizing that other IFIs were also involved (e.g. EBRD financed a water/wastewater
project in Riga). However, the Bank project encountered financial sustainability issues as regards the
operating enterprises (see next section). As explained below, the financial indicators reflected excessive
optimism in both the transport and water subcomponents. But given the knowledge available to Bank and
borrower at the time, especially in these early days after the fall of the Soviet Union, and the poor data
base, we rate QAE as satisfactory, although if we were judging design and outcomes with the benefit of
hindsight, we would rate the QAE as marginally satisfactory. Safeguard assessment at entry was
satisfactory with detailed attention given to the impact of traffic congestion on air pollution (Riga) and
wastewater treatment on surrounding firms and households (Daugavpils). The MDF too looked at
environmental safeguards.
The financial covenants and their corresponding three financial indicators did not work well in
practice. Three main indicators were chosen: (i) rate of return on assets of not less than ten percent for the
transport companies and 1.5 percent for the SIA Daugavpils Udens in the water case; (ii) positive net
income; and (iii) positive internal cash flow sufficient to service the debt (cash revenues/cash expenses of
1.3). The rate of return covenant sought financial performance far better than that enjoyed by similar
companies in most advanced market economies. This "stretch" goal was in retrospect patently unattainable.
Inadequate Monitoring Indicators. In the case of transport, 17 indicators were specified in the
Project Implementation Plan (PIP, shown as a 71 page Annex C to the SAR). Of these, 5 were with target
values unique to each operator, 3 were with target values the same for each operator (these were the three
financial indicators), and 9 were with no target values specified. There was no differentiation between
output and outcome indicators. There was no substantive discussion linking the choice of indicators in the
PIP to the issues and project description in the main text of the SAR.
In summary, the QAE for both the Riga Urban Transport component and the Daugavpils water
components was satisfactory with reservations noted. The QAE of the Pilot MDF was satisfactory.
4. Achievement of Objective andi Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achieventent of objective:
Overall the project outcomes were mixed, with some satisfactory, some not. The overall evaluation is
satisfactory. A disaggregated view is presented below.
Riga Urban Transport. All physical activities within this component were implemented as planned. The
specific objectives were to: (i) improve efficiency and quality of public transport services in Riga, (ii)
improve the financial condition, and (iii) promote further corporatization of the three public transport
companies in Riga. The efficiency gains were mixed. Several physical operational parameters have
improved. Where improvements have not been found is in the cost of operation. Details are provided in the
"Additional_Tables.doc" document attached electronically in Annex 7, List of Supporting Documents.
Transport energy efficiency has been improved. Quantity of energy used per vehicle km has
declined by 14%, 15%, and 16% for TTP, Talava, and Imanta respectively. Slight increases in recent
years could mean that the maintenance programs are not sustainable or that the longer run "steady-state" of
-6-



maintenance has not yet been reached. Aside from energy use, overall operating costs have not been
reduced. At completion, the number of vehicles in the bus fleets has not declined as expected, nor has the
number of employees. Questions of fleet size and labor are considered under Section 5.3. The rating for
environmental aspects of the project is substantial.
The quality of transport has also been improved. The rehabilitated trams and the new buses and
trolleybuses are more comfortable to ride and more reliable to operate. The rating for physical aspects of
the project is high
Improved finances. The outcome here is marginallv satisfactorv as the revenue side has
improved. The increase in passenger tariffs at a rate faster than inflation was accepted by the City of Riga
and ultimately was implemented. The proportion of passengers riding without paying has been reduced by
bringing in conductors and inspectors. On TTP, fare evasion has dropped from 30% of passengers to 7 or
8% now. The proportion of passengers riding with a reduced tariff has decreased somewhat (from about
41% at appraisal to about 38% at completion). However, costs of operation, especially staffing, have not
yet been restructured with the result that enterprise finances have not improved to the extent needed for
sustainable operations. The rating for financial aspects of the project is modest
Corporatization. The Riga Transport Project achieved its objectives of increased corporatization
of the companies. Over the implementation period the companies developed business plans, engaged in
international competitive bidding, delivered an improved quality of service, and improved their financial
position. The companies do not seem to be governed by the results of their business planning processes.
To some extent, this is due to the City of Riga requiring operations in addition to those envisaged in the
business plans. The rating for sector policy aspects of the project is negligible.
Daugavpils Water and Wastewater Component. All physical activities within the component were
implemented as originally planned. The specific objectives were to (i) improve the quality of quality of
drinking water in Daugavpils; (ii) reduce the discharge of untreated and partially treated wastewater into
the Daugava River and the Baltic Sea; and (iii) improve the financial management and promote further
corporatization of the Daugavpils Water Enterprise (Udensvads).
The quality of drinking water has improved with people no longer dependent on water from the
river. Also, untreated wastewater is not being run into the Daugava River, which improves the impact on
the Baltic Sea. These improvements are substantial. However, as regards the third objective, by closing
date the SIA "Daugavpils Udens" has not become a financially viable entity. As shown in Annex 3, its
financial position has remained precarious for most of the years. It is expected that the company will
achieve full cost recovery no earlier than 2005. Until then, the company will remain dependent upon
external grants and budget financing from the Municipality, even if no replacement investments will be
carried out. The situation-is especially critical during the coming years as the company may not be able to
fully service its debt. The company's financial situation becomes even more fragile should the Regulator of
Municipal Service Tariffs and Municipality decide not to follow the required tariff adjustments path or if
there will be further significant decline in water consumption. Impact here is therefore negligible.
Institutional progress. Institutional impact is substantial. In the course of implementation, the former
DMEU enterprise was reorganized into a shareholding company with limited liability SIA"Daugavpils
Udens". A Company Board consisting of the owner (Municipality) representatives rather than the senior
company executives, was created. The NEFCO, as a major creditor, was offered a seat in the Board of SIA
"Daugavpils Udens", which will help both the Municipality and the management of SIA "Daugavpils
- 7-



Udens" to overcome current financial difficulties. A management infornation system based on SCALA
software was introduced and currently is fully used as a tool to manage both day-to-day operations as well
as the strategic planning process. The Strategic Plan has become a major management tool within the "SIA
Daugavpils Udens". During the project implementation, staff reduction was 27%, mostly due to retirement
of the pension age staff. 45 staff members were transferred to other municipal-owned enterprises.
The main tool in the institutional support was twining with a similar size water company, Tampere
Waterworks, in Finland. The activities included operational support, training, visits, support for strategic
planning process, and a computerized billing system. SLA "Daugavpils Udens" has appreciated this
activity, which opened new ways and visions to the traditionally stagnant utility environment. One of the
institutional efficiency indicators is the number of staff per served population. SIA Daugavpils Udens has
been able to steadily rationalize activities, so that the mid-1990's staff of 457 has declined to 319 in 2000.
But the western benchmark value of 1.2-1.5/1000 population served, giving the target staff for SIA
"Daugavpils Udens" as 120-150, is still far off.
Municipal Development Fund. The MDF achieved its physical investment and institutional objectives as
regards helping municipalities to prepare and implement projects. The MDF did not achieve a longer term
sustainable objective for itself, because once the project was over, the MOF decided that lending to
municipalities and the appraisal of such projects should be done through the State Treasury window - the
MOF saw no need for preserving a MDF Unit within the Ministry of Economy. Details on the subproject
achievements are shown below.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Riga Urban Transport. The project costs, as they turned out, are summarized in Annex 2. Further
details are provided in the "disbursements_PTU_03.xls" spreadsheet attached electronically in Annex 7.
Specifically:
' new buses were procured and trams were rehabilitated (about 15 years have been added onto the
economic life of each tram);
v maintenance workshops at Imanta and Talava Bus companies were rehabilitated, while another old
workshop at Imanta was closed;
. conductors were placed on all buses and trams, who were checked by inspectors randomly on daily
trips; and
. new ticketing system evaluations were completed and implemented.
Thus, the physical output of the Riga transport component of the Loan is rated as high. As regards the
institutional development and public sector management outputs, these are rated as modest. The specific
results obtained were:
. a Public Transport Unit (PTU) was set up to coordinate planning and policies, and intemational
consultants assisted to refine the company business plans;
o accounting was improved and international accounting standards were adopted (especially important
for depreciation)" Unified Accounts" were adopted for all three public operators; and
o the companies started to use ICB procedures for buses and equipment bought outside of the project
as well.
Negative results were that there is no significant operating cost decline in the companies, no
sustainable subsidy mechanism for riders, business plans were not followed through, and the PTU seems to
have had little policy influence on the transport companies or on the Riga City Council. So the policy
impact of this component of the Loan is rated as negligible.
-8 -



Daunavuils Water/Wastewater. To improve water supply and distribution, the wellfield development and
iron removal plant with a capacity of 30,000 m /d was successfully completed and commenced operation
on January 2001. Produced water quality meets all relevant standards (see Annex 2). The Transmission
Main between Ziemelu Weilfield and Iron Removal Plant (EU PHARE funded line) was successfully
completed in 2000. Pumps were replaced at Vingri Intake with a result that electricity consumption was
halved. Furthermore, bulk and block meters were procured and installed and water quality monitoring
equipment taken into use.
As regards the sewerage and wastewater treatment (Kandavas and other pumping stations, and
sewer rehabilitation), key facilities were upgraded with mainly Danish-financed components. Regarding the
upgrading of the wastewater treatment plant, the Swedish, NEFCO and Latvian financed plant upgrading
was handed over by June 2000, but has had some design issues delaying the attainment of full treatment
efficiency. The plant does not yet meet the guaranteed treatment efficiency, although it is very near meeting
HELCOM recommendations. The project did not include sludge disposal management, as that would have
by far exceeded the borrowing limits of the DMEU. Sludge is currently disposed in earth basins
constructed on permeable soil in the old municipal landfill. The new Ziemelu wellfield is less than three
kilometers from the disposal site. Numerous hydro-geological studies have concluded that the disposal site
will not affect the new wellfield. The graph in Annex 3 shows the significant reduction of pollutant load
from Daugavpils to river Daugava during the past ten years, first through the declining industrial activities
and then through the improved treatment
Municipal Development Fund. The MDF part of the loan was committed in 34 subprojects, all of which
have been completed. Two thirds of the subprojects were for district heating and energy insulation in
schools. One third were for renovation of municipal buildings, mainly with energy efficiency items, small
water works, and environmental improvements. The distribution of subprojects financed by sector is
shown below, with schools renovation (installing energy efficiency boilers and insulation of class room
windows) subprojects taking up nearly half (48 percent) of the credit line (see Annexes 2 and 3. The next
largest group (35 percent) was municipal boiler houses, reconstruction of heat routes, installation of
metering and regulating equipment, as greater insulation of buildings.
Chart 1. Share ofproject sectors by amounts of loans accepted; to 2001
1%                         * Energy
4X) 35%                      * Education
7'         35.      0 Environment and regional
development
o Healfth
48%                          * Transport
O Culture
Environmental projects, transport sector and health projects accounted for small percentages.
The 34 MDF projects were implemented in 33 municipalities, which shows a good geographic
distribution. Details are shown in Annex 2.
-9-



4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of retturn:
The economic evaluation for the project at the time of appraisal was done separately for each component.
This approach will be continued here.
1ita Urban Transport
a Urban Transport - Summary Economic Evaluation Results (figures m Lats millions unless indicated)
At Appraisal  At Completion
All three transport operators All three transport operators  Two bus operators  Tram & Trolleybus only
together          together
Cost of this component     9.4               7.3                4.1                3.2
Evaluation Penod         1996-2007         1997-2008          1997-2008         1997-2008
EIRR                      22 %               12%                3 %               22%
NPV (at 10%)               4.4                0.9               -1.4               2.3
The EIRR at completion is roughly half of what was expected at appraisal (12 versus 22 percent). At
appraisal, the assumed 1% decrease in operating costs included all aspects of operating costs including
labor. Since then labor costs have increased, not declined as projected, because the number of staff has not
been reduced. Information provided does not allow the separation of the cost of employment of
maintenance-related personnel from other personnel. Accordingly staff costs have been excluded from the
economic re-evaluation since their non-specific nature may skew the results. Once only "physical"
maintenance and operating costs are considered then the absolute size of the potential savings is smaller
than assumed at appraisal. This results in a lower benefit per project year and the lower IRR and NPV
values. Details are provided in Annex 3.
On the Daugavpils Water/Wastewater part, a least-cost approach was pursued. The technical
solutions adopted for both the water upgrading part and the wastewater treatment part were the lowest cost
solutions. The complication later was that water consumption fell, which meant that the design norms could
have been possibly lowered (see Annex 3).
On the MDF part, NPVs ranged from 10 to 40 percent, (see Annex 3).
4.4 Financial rate of return:
liga lUrban Transport. A financial rate of return was not calculated at appraisal. After 1999, the
financial monitoring target was an operating margin of at least 30%. This is calculated as the surplus of
total income (passenger revenue, other revenue, and public support) over operating costs (excluding
depreciation) as a percent of total income. TTP managed to reach an operating margin of 24 percent by
2000, but this declined to 16 percent in 2001. Talava managed to attain 22 percent in 1999, but it declined
to 16 percent in 2000 and 3 percent in 2001. Imanta has been in single digits in all years. The primary
difference between expectations and outcome has been that costs have not decreased, in part due to running
additional services required by the city. All of the operators are reporting poorer results for the most recent
year (2001). More details are provided in Annex 3.
For SIA Daugavpils Udens, a financial rate of return was also not calculated at appraisal. Key variables
are as follows: the enterprise has made significant efforts to gradually reduce outstanding receivables. Bill
collection in the commercial customer group has improved significantly and it has been able to recover
some old debts accumulated during the years of business difficulties. The enterprise has made some
progress in costs savings. The total O&M costs have increased modestly by 4.5% during 1996-2001
period. In real tenns total O&M costs have actually declined by 13 percent during the same period.
Overall financial performance of SIA "Daugavpils Udens" showed improvement until 2000, but has been
declining since then. The operating margin was 24% and 25% in 2000 and 2001 respectively. Based on a
projection of costs, tariff development and income projections, the enterprise will remain dependent upon
-10-



external grants or the Municipal budget until 2005 even if no replacement investments will be carried out.
The situation is especially critical during the coming 3 years.
For the MDF component, where possible on the small subprojects, ex-post IFRRs were calculated,
ranging from 10 percent to 44 percent (Marupe District Heating Rehabilitation). Details are given in Annex
3. The schools renovation part helped the Bank gain useful experience for the ongoing Education Project in
Latvia. There are no IFRRs for the schools part.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional impact of the Risa Transport part was modest. Through the project, the Riga
Public Transport Unit (PTU), was created within the Traffic Department of the Riga City administration.
It is made up of a with a small staff: a director and two analysts. The original recommendation at
preparation was a staff of about 8, including one seconded from TTP. The PTU developed capacity to
coordinate the work of three quite different companies, to advise them on their business plans, to carry out
the bidding process, and to be the main line of communication with the Bank team. This result is
sustainable as the PTU has become a regular part of the Riga transport framework.
Daugavpils Water and Wastewater Component. The institutional development impact of the Daugavpils
Water and Wastewater component was high: the SIA "Daugavpils Udens" improved substantially over the
project implementation period, and it is better equipped to operate within the challenges of a market
economy. It is not at the point of having privatization potential, but has certainly achieved corporatization
objectives. A project implementation unit was set up within the SIA "Daugavpils Udens", which has
mastered international procurement.
Municipal Development Fund. The institutional impact of the MDF was high in helping municipalities to
prepare feasible projects, but it had no sustainability as a municipal fund because the MOF decided that the
work of the MDF should cease once this project was implemented. The MOF took the view that the MDF
was set up for the project alone and did not see it as a regular part of the governmental financial agencies.
The MOF prefers to lend to municipalities through the State Treasury.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside tle control of governmnent or implementing agency:
Differences in economic growth by region have had an impact on the project. In the region of
Daugavpils, close to the border with Russia, economic performance has been especially depressed. A
number of state enterprises have closed or are operating at very low capacity. This has affected water
demand. In Riga, economic conditions are more buoyant and public transport ridership, while it fell in the
mid-1990s has remained steady since. Motorization has continued strongly, providing an alternative mode
for Riga residents.
5.2 Factors generally' subject to government control:
The need to raise tariffs on both the Riga Transport and the Daugavpils Water/Wastewater
components was a key issue. This function is the responsibility of the respective City Councils. In both
cases, Departments of Social Protection exist in the municipality administrations, which look closely at the
social impact of tariff increases on households. As discussed in other sections of this report, the delicate
balance between the financial need to make tariff increases and their social impact is a complex issue. In
both cities, Municial officials (the Mayor and Council members) are elected positions, and the "pulse of the
public" is a very important consideration.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
- 11 -



RiUa Urban Transposrt. Revenue Collection has improved substantially. Conductors were introduced
during fall 1996 and 1997. Revenues from single ticket sales increased about 30%. Revenue
administration has improved as well. The extent of fare evasion has decreased from an estimated 10-30%
at appraisal to 7-8 % now.
Fleet Size. The SAR foresaw the total vehicle fleet size for each operator shrinking substantially as
non-operational vehicles were scrapped and taken off the books. As their financial position improved, the
companies would themselves invest in new equipment and continue modernizing their fleets and scrapping
older vehicles. The cost of these investments was included in the project cost used in the economic analysis
at appraisal. The total size of the fleets would remain at the lower level as operators rationalized routes to
concentrate only on those with the highest ridership. At completion, the number of vehicles in the bus fleets
has not declined as expected and bus operators have not reduced their routes. Most recent figures (2002)
show growth in the fleets of both bus companies. A summary is provided in the "Additional_Tables.doc"
document attached electronically in Annex 7, List of Supporting Documents.
Labor has not declined as expected at appraisal. Employment has increased at all three of the operators.
Details on employees, including several efficiency ratios, are found in the "Ops Data" spreadsheet attached
in Annex 7.
Dzgsavpils Water and Wastewater. Like everywhere else in the Baltic countries and Eastern Europe,
Daugavpils experienced a significant decline in water demand. This decline started first due to slowing
industrial activities, but was intensified later by metering of water sales, by increasing tariffs and by the
opportunity to significantly cut consumption by fixing leaking toilets. Currently, SIA "Daugavpils Udens"
bills about 173 Vip/d (liters/person/day), while cities like Tallinn, Riga and Siauliai bill between 70 and 130
lip/d (pre-collapse level was about 400 VIp/d). But sales are continuously declining in Daugavpils toward
the figures of the other Baltic towns. Because these declines were not anticipated, the upgraded facilities
were significantly overdimensioned compared to the present actual needs. The magnitude of the
overinvestment is around 30-40 %. About half of the city's household have water meters, which is less than
in other Bank projects in the Baltics, implying that water consumption in Daugavpils is still higher than if
there was wider coverage of meters. Nevertheless, the declining trend of water sales meant that SIA
"Daugavpils Udens" and Municipality of Daugavpils needed to accelerate tariff increases by more than
what was planned in order to keep the revenue in line with the planned development. However, this proved
politically difficult and caused tension between the Borrower and the Bank during implementation, and it
led to unsatisfactory PSR ratings in some years.
Municipal Development Fund. There were no major factors that affected implementation outcomes on this
component other than the functional issue between the MOF and MOE as discussed. Split responsibilities
undercut the obtaining of a unified view.
5.4 Costs andfinancintg:
Riga Transport. There were no other major factors affecting project costs and financing for this
component.
Dsaugavpills Water and Wastewater. The project faced a decline in water consumption. This reduced the
financial performance as discussed in Annex 3.
Municipal Development Fund. No special factors.
6. Sustainiability
6.1 Rationalefor su(stainabiliht r ating:
Due to financial performance problems, the project has not proved sustainable as a long-term
approach to handling municipal service delivery.
- 12 -



Riea Urban Transport. The rating for this component is unsustainable. On the positive side, the services
of Riga transport system are proving so far to be very resilient. In an era where many public sector
transport companies in the region, especially in the CIS countries, have seen rapid deterioration of service
and financial viability, Riga's transport system has witnessed substantial improvement in quality of service,
accompanied by modest, if still inadequate, improvement in the financial situation of the three operators.
The PTU has proven to be quite sustainable in that for the first time the sector is able to benefit from
coordinated planning and information exchange sharing. Prior to the project, the three companies operated
in isolation and did not share information. Today each one is able to receive information from the PTU
about the operations of the other companies. This peer group pressure has acted as a focal point to obtain
service improvements.
On the negative side, financial viability depends on the operating companies receiving new
equipment and/or capital grants from the municipal government on an ad hoc basis. In 2001 the number of
specialty categories for subsidies increased, giving rise to the view that the potential for political
interference will increase as the number of ad hoc mechanisms grows. More recently discount fares have
been ordered by the City for younger school children. The operators still perform very much like
govermment departments, subject to political, not market forces. Overall, this financial unsustainability
reduces the physical and efficiency gains of the project
Dauaavpils Water and Wastewater Component. While there have been technical and efficiency gains
and institutional improvement, they are not of sufficient magnitude to make this component sustainable.
Sustainability would be achieved if: (i) the current unaccounted water volumes are significantly reduced
(recently, some positive trends in reducing the UFW were recorded); (ii) further cost-cutting in the
enterprise is vigorously performed; and (iii) tariff decisions are not postponed. The wastewater sludge
disposal needs further costly attention. SIA "Daugavpils Udens" is already working on preparing the next
project, together with other Latvian towns, and hopes to obtain grant financing from The European Union's
ISPA Fund of at least 50 percent, and possibly 70 percent, of the investment costs. Without this, the project
progress achieved so far will be unsustainable.
Municipal Development Fund. The MDF has turned out to be institutionally unsustainable as explained.
There was no revolving fund set up under the loan and therefore no chance of channelling the reflows back
to municipalities for other investments. The MDF did help to impart valuable project preparation and
appraisal skills to the municipalities.
6 2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Under this project, there were no special Project Implementation Units (PIUs) set up other than the
PCU in Riga, and a Project Unit within SIA Daugavpils Udens - the project design used existing operating
companies in Riga and in Daugavpils. In that sense, there is no difficulty in transition arrangements to
regular operations for the two cities. Riga's PTU has "transitioned" already into a regular feature of the
City's transport work.
The MDF did not transition into a regular feature, as the MoF and the Ministry of Economy
eliminated it as a special Unit.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in identifying and helping to prepare the loan was satisfactory,
- 13 -



considering that these were the early days of post-Soviet Union and little hard data were known. The loan
design was ambitious, tackling transport, water/wastewater and a pilot municipal development fund (as a
separate activity) in one loan. From the first identification mission (November 1993) to Negotiations
(November 1995), it took two years, which was reasonable. Bank staff inputs were intensive in this period
because the different components required inclusion of transport and water specialists, a municipal fund
specialist, an environmental engineer, a building engineer, an urban architect, and a waste management
engineer. The mission teams lacked an urban planner or urban geographer, who could have given a
much-needed perspective on growth points in and around Riga, which would have been very useful for
planning the transport operations. International consultants with a bus operations background worked to
prepare detailed business plans for each transport operator in Riga. These were agreed and adopted by the
Bank, transport operators, and the City as the basis for the financial and operational assumptions
underlying this component of the project. The problems in the financial covenants and indicators (for both
the Riga and Daugavpils parts) have been fully discussed. Annex 6 summarizes the following ratings:
Overall Satisfactory
Riga Urban Transport Marginally Satisfactory
Daugavpils Water and Wastewater Satisfactory
Municipal Development Fund Satisfactory
7.2 Supervision:
This was a complex task as borne out by the fact that over the six years (May 1996-June 2002) of
project implementation, seventeen missions were required - about three per annum. The Bank's resident
staff in Riga and Vilnius carried out day-to-day supervision in the case of the Daugavpils water project,
while HQ staff were responsible for the Riga Transport and Municipal Fund work. The Daugavpils Water
and Wastewater Component, given the importance of Baltic Sea issues, was able to attract significant
donor support through trust funds, which aided the supervision task. On both Riga Transport and
Daugavpils Water, the supervision teams showed good flexibility in adapting the financial tests to fit the
actual situation, and they showed realism in dropping the requirement for an overall PCU to be located in
the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development.
The supervision of the Riga Transport component is rated as unsatisfactory. With the exception of the
financial indicators, the numerous and not very useful monitoring indicators were not reexamined, nor
restructured. The Bank correctly made reform of the passenger tariff and revenue side of the financial
picture a priority. The poor indicators and the little use made by the Bank of the transit operations
consultants who were helping the PTU, led perhaps to less focus on the cost control performance of the
transport operators. Alternatively project supervision could have made use of bus and tram operational
expertise by bringing in Bank consultants for this purpose. As regards the accuracy of the project's team's
reporting and the timeliness of calling attention to problems when they occurred, the Bank performed well.
The project was rated as Unsatisfactory overall in 1998 and financial compliance was judged
unsatisfactory in most years. The final PSR in June 2002 just prior to the Closing Date rated the project as
only marginally satisfactory. It is consistent with this ICR.
Overall Satisfactory
Riga Urban Transport Unsatisfactory
Daugavpils Water and Wastewater Satisfactory
Municipal Development Fund Satisfactory
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Despite the problems with financial indicators, in looking at the whole picture of all components and
- 14-



looking at preparation, appraisal and supervision, overall Bank performance is rated as satisfactory. The
Banks intensive effort and dialogue with the Borrower and the implementing agencies, backed up by key
bilateral support in the case of Daugavpils, has produced important positive results. This was recognized
when the Bank team won an "Excellent in Supervision Award". The strongest gains were in the institutional
progress made by SIA Daugavpils Udens, which in many ways had to operate in the most difficult setting
(economically depressed region). Bank supervision teams are to be credited with a pro-active stance,
recommending that modifications be made to the financial covenants, and Bank Regional Management is to
be credited with a proactive stance, visiting Daugavpils on several occasions. Bank management stressed
the need for the Municipality to take actions in a timely manner, i.e. when tariff increases were to be
adopted, these should be in the beginning of a year and not wait until most of the year had gone by. More
timely action was essential to improving the financial situation in SIA Daugavpils Udens. Bank
management, did note, however, that the constant push for higher tariffs (itself driven by falling revenues
because of collapsing water demand) was placing an undue social hardship on families in the economically
depressed areas. A social assessment was launched in 1999 to measure the social impact and it confirmed
that a balance had to be struck between tariff increases and social protection. Daugavpils city improved its
income-means testing of households qualifying for subsidies, as did Riga City.
Overall Satisfactory
Riga Urban Transport Mixed, some satisfactory, some unsatisfactory
Daugavpils Water and Wastewater Satisfactory
Municipal Development Fund Satisfactory
Borrower
7.4 Preparation.
There was no formal preparation requested of the Borrower - the MOF. The preparation missions dealt
mainly with the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development and the Ministry of
Economy. The details were left to the implementing agencies. Preparation from Riga City was fair.
However, there was no coordination of the work of the three transport companies - this only began to
emerge when the Public Transport Unit (PTU) was created in 1996. The City of Riga prepared a
satisfactory transport policy statement and detailed business plans for each transport operator were agreed
to. Preparation by SIA Daugavpils Udens was reasonable, but pursuit of overly large design standards was
a problem The Municipal Fund was set up as a pilot, and criteria were agreed at Negotiations. The
coordinator of the MDF was recruited in early 1996, and the basic manual for the MDF's operations was
developed in the first year of implementation. Criteria for subprojects were agreed at Negotiations, and the
first few subprojects were appraised by the MDF when it was staffed in early 1996.
Overall Satisfactory
Riga Urban Transport Satisfactory
Daugavpils Water and Wastewater Satisfactory
Municipal Development Fund Satisfactory
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The MOF handled all withdrawal applications for the MDF part, but had little to do in implementing
the loan's transport and water parts other than to review the few loan amendments and re-allocations of
loan disbursement categories that were made in the course of implementation. The MOF showed interest in
the project throughout implementation: officials of the MOF/Treasury met with each supervision mission to
review the mission's findings. Under pressure from the Bank the City of Riga raised the passenger tariff
levels faster than inflation and subsidy amounts were paid. However the City has also required more
transport services to be run, helping to keep operating costs above the projected levels. The Ministry of
Environment played a more detailed role on the Daugavpils Water Project by ensuring that the project
- 15 -



designs were in compliance with national environmental standards and polices. Municipality of Daugavpils
was slow in providing required help to SIA "Daugavpils Udens". As a result, tariff adjustments always
were lagging behind, thus aggravating the financial situation of the water utility. As regards the MDF part,
tensions began to emerge between the MOF and the Ministry of Economy in the third and fourth years, and
as a result, the MDF was discontinued as an entity beyond the loan's implementation period. There was no
revolving fund set up for channelling loan repayments from the municipalities back out to the communities.
Repayments were made to the MOF by municipalities, who could only get future funds out of the
Treasury's loan window. The review of lending to municipalities (and the appraisal of such projects) was
consolidated in the MOF/Treasury, specifically in the functions of the Treasury's Local Borrowings
Committee.
Overall Satisfactory
Riga Urban Transport Riga City - Mixed: some satisfactory, some not satisfactory
Daugavpils Water and Wastewater:
Ministry of Ernvironment and Regional Development Satisfactory
Municipality of Daugavpils Unsatisfactory
SIA Daugavpils Udens Satisfactory
Municipal Development Fund Satisfactory
7.6 ImiplemenitingAgency:
Riga Transport. The PTU did a good job in coordinating the needs of the three transport companies and
serving as the main communication channel with the Bank, although planned quarterly operational reports
and air quality reports were not issued.
SIA "Daugavpils Udens" showed substantial improvement as an entity. By the end of the project, its
operations in terms of management style and efficiency (water metering, billing, accounts receivables)
compared well with that of the other water utilities in the Baltics. Among the Baltic water utilities which
participated in Bank-financed projects, SIA Daugavpils Udens made the greatest progress in improving its
operations.
The MDF was highly efficient. It was staffed by just two persons, who carried out a large workload in
appraising 34 subprojects and helping to oversee their implementation. The MDF staff were responsible for
overseeing procurement and they advised the 34 small municipalities on Bank procurement procedures, and
on project reporting and monitoring.
Overall Satisfactory
Riga Urban Transport Satisfactory
Daugavpils Water and Wastewater Satisfactory
Municipal Development Fund Satisfactory
7.7 Overall Borrowier performance:
As regards the Borrower (defined as the MOF under the loan), performance was satisfactory. Areas of
weakness were a lack of coordination between the respective Ministries (MOF, Ministry of Economy, and
Ministry of Environment Protection and Regional Development) and with the cities.
Overall Satisfactory
Riga Urban Transport Satisfactory
Daugavpils Water and Wastewater Satisfactory
Municipal Development lFund Satisfactory
- 16 -



8. Lessons Learned
1. An "early generation project" that included a view of fiscal decentralization. The Baltics countries
were among the first in the FSU to embark on developing a framework for fiscal decentralization, under
which municipalities would be accountable for their own borrowing decisions and would be judged
accordingly. The MoF would no longer be the decision-maker of municipal investment needs. This project
was therefore a forerunner, in which the Bank and the Government grouped together three sectors (urban
transport , water/wastewater, and district heating/energy efficiency in schools) in several different locations
(Riga, Daugavpils and more than two dozen smaller municipalities). But with the innovative approach,
came a set of unanticipated difficulties. One was how to ensure coordination and consistency between the
various parts of the loan. The lack of a project coordinating unit in the Ministry of Finance prevented the
Government from playing an overseeing role on the project. Thus, the coordination role fell more on the
Bank's shoulders. Another problem was how to cope with revenue problems in SIA Daugavpils Udens in
the face of falling water demand. The Bank's linkages with other water projects helped to provide a
consistent approach, e.g. a web site was maintained showing the comparative tariff structures in other
water/wastewater projects in the Baltics. The web site proved useful for city officials to monitor and for
reminding the Municipal Council of its need to take action.
2. Use of Indicators. Project experience reinforces the essential need for meaningful and timely indicators
to guide the management of the project. The rate of return on assets measure (10 % for Riga transport
companies, and 1.5 % for SIA Daugavpils Udens) aside from the excessively high target values, were not
reliable or practical indicators because the enterprise assets had not been revalued and there were problems
in interpreting accrual and cash flow accounting definitions. Tighter controls could have been put in place
to keep the transport operating companies on track with their cost control efforts if Riga City had used a
cost-related absolute-value indicator, such as number of staff employed in each of the three transport
enterprises, rather than only summary financial indicators. The Bank showed flexibility, substituting the
operating margin for the rate of return on assets, but even the operating margin mixes both cost and
revenue effects.
3. Demand Estimates. The water demand curve of 1991-94 indicated that demand was falling. The
collapse of industrial production was hitting state enterprises around Daugavpils especially hard. The
reduction in early 90's was largely due to a decline in the industrial water use. The debate between the
appraisal team and the client was that while the client believed industry would pick up in the near future,
the appraisal team argued that even in that case new industries would use less water. The other argument
was that the norm of 250 VIc/d was too high for domestic use and should be closer to westem averages of
150-180 V/c/d. The adopted design figures (these could not be based on average consumption at the time)
especially for the Bank-financed iron removal plant were not far from those Westem country norms. No
one at the time predicted that people would start within five years to install water meters in their own
homes. There was a faster than expected response to installing metering and higher tariffs combined to
impact on unit water consumption. People started to show consumption of 60-80 V/c/d, which is in line
with urban Western Europe. In Daugavpils, the project's designed water production capacity was in line
with initial demand, but not metered demand under higher tariffs.
4. Utiflity Performance Regulation and Evaluation. The difficult questions of evaluating municipal public
utility performance need to be reviewed by a nationally appointed Public Service Utility Regulator. Under
the Bank's Programmatic Structural Adjustment Loans (PSAL), much attention has been focussed on a
- 17 -



national level regulator. The PSAL experience shows that the national approach also needs to be extended
down to the purview of municipal utilities.
5. The Municipal Development Fund. There should not have been a split of the subproject appraisal
function (with the MDF) from that of concluding the actual subloans with the municipalities, disbursing
funds to them, and collecting repayments (these functions were with the MoF/Treasury). Municipal
development credit lines to Lithuania and Georgia have benefitted from the lesson leamed here, as they
concentrate all of the key functions in one entity.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/inipleynenting agency:
Riga Transport
Detailed comments were provided by the Riga Public Transport Unit (PTU), which have been placed in
Annex 8.
Daugavpils Water
Detailed commnents were provided by SIA Daugavpils Udens, which have also been placed in Annex 8.
Municipal Development Fund (MDP)
The MDF completed its ICR of the project. The MDF's ICR rates the project outcome as
"satisfactory", the Sustainability as "Likely", the institutional impact as "High", the Bank performance as
"Highly Satisfactory", the Borrower's performance as Satisfactory, and the quality of entry as
"Satisfactory". The MDF says that the project was not at risk at any time.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Four donors - Sweden SIDA, Denmark's EPA Department, the Finnish Ministry of the
Environment, and the Nordic Environment Finance Company (NEFCO) - have followed project progress at
all times; they joined the Bank in missions, they helped to address issues and bring them to the attention of
policymakers in Daugavpils and at the national level in Latvia's Ministry of Environmental Protection and
Regional Development, and in the MoF. The donors agreed with the Bank's analysis on key project issues
such as the need to raise tariffs, the need to keep the physical implementation moving, and the need to focus
on institutional improvement of the SIA Daugavpils Udens. Their mutual role was crucial to the project
outcome.
The following comments were received from the Finnish Ministry of the Environment on the
Daugavpils component (the comments of the other donors will be available in January and will be part of
the official record):
As part of the project, the Finnish grant amounting to US$ 1.2 million was targeted to the
Twinning cooperation between Tampere Water Works and Daugavpils Water and Wastewater Enterprise
(DWWE) for a three year period. The cooperation was focused on formulation and implementation of (a) of
a new External Relationship Policy; (b) a new Management and Administration Procedures, Systems and
Organizational Development of DWWE; (c) an improved Operation and Maintenance Practice; and (d) a
Training Program.
- 18 -



The Twinning component was implemented successfully according to the plans and targets.
Resources reserved by the Finnish partner and the Finnish Ministry of the Environment were adequate for
attaining effectively the targets set in the project: Cooperation worked well and in line with the principles of
Twinning cooperation, which has led to continuous partnership. The participating personnel of Tampere
Water was highly committed to the task. The outcome of the construction of the waste water treatment
plant would have been more successful if the comments by the Twinning partner would have been better
taken into account before the implementation phase.
Cooperation between the Twinning partner and the construction company needs to be improved.
Delays in the project meant that the Twinning partner was not necessarily in place when mostly needed.
Kristiina Isokallio
Director, Central and East European Cooperation;
Ministry of the Environment, Helsinki, Finland
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable
10. Additional Information
The project was conceived in the era when social assessments were still in their early days. Thus, the
design of the tariff conditionality (Riga Transport, Daugavpils Water/Wastewater) reflected an
overwhelming concem for financial viability of the enterprises, but insufficient attention to the impact of
repeated tariff increases on affected households. However, as a result of adjustments made during loan
implementation, and with the help of a detailed social assessment done in Daugavpils in 1999, when more
than a thousand households were interviewed, the tariff conditionality became more flexible with the
adoption of the operating margin test.
-19 -



Aunne   1L. Key Performanmee InDdicatolrs/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
IndtcatorlMatzix                Projected in last PSR              ActuaULatest Estimate
(i) Riga Urban Transport           The project files and spreadsheets listed in
Annex 7 contain the indicators that were
Indicators as 12/95 vs. 12/97, 12/98 (where  used. They are more detailed (such as staff
available)                         employed at the three companies, see below)
than were the original ones coming from the
Size of fleet (peak vehicles plus reserve):  SAR.
Owned Vehicles. (TTP 628, 586: Imanta
172,197; Talava157, 179)
Peak Vehicdes- (TTP 445, 425; Imanta: 120,
120; Talava 105
(i) StaffNehicle ratio (peak vehicles):
TTP. 6.07, n a; Imanta: 6 43, 8.84; Talava
6.95, 8.14.
(i) Passenger cost/kilometer (santimes):
TTP: .24, .41; Imanta .27, 41; Talava. 26,
.40 (excludes depreciation)
(i)
Passenger revenue/kilometer (santimes):
TTP: 19, 35; 1manta .17, 25; Talava: .14,
25)
(i)
Passengers evading fares: This indicator
has improved considerably with the
introduction of conductors. Practically, riders
cannot evade payment anymore.
Riga Urban Transport - Staff Employed
1994     1995     1996     1997     1998     1999     2000     2001
TTP
SAR projection         2,639    2,702    2,583    2,496    2,496    2,496     2,496    2,496
Actual, total                            2,858    3,282    3,893    3,960     3,904    3,901
drivers                                    891      854      861      880      886       900
conductors                                   0      498    1,120     1,136    1,135    1,147
maintenance, technical                   1,930    1,897    1,876     1,906    1,845    1,817
Talava
SAR projection           730      730      664      618      618      618      618       618
Actual, total            697     740       700      930      910      942      948      969
drivers                  260                        531      543      568      302
conductors                 0        0               531      56                271      593
maintenance, technical                              399      376      387      387      370
llmanta
SAR projection           685      772      714      646      646      646      646       646
Actual, total            683     760       700    1,075    1,026     1,045    1,086    1,131
drivers                  336        0               593      577      596      324      619
conductors                 0        0                                     1___  ___  266  ___
maintenance, technical                              452      419      419      465      478
Note: non-zero entries where data is not available have been left blank, total employment also includes
Other employees not shown separately
Source: SAR, PTU
- 20 -



Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix             Projected In last PSk         Actuali/atest C-stimito
End of project
DWWW Indicators
Indicator                Year      1996    1997    1998   1999    2000   2001    2002
Ending
Unaccounted for water    Target    3.5     3.5     1.0    1.0     1.0     1.0    1.0
(million m3 per year)              (25%)   (25%)  (8%)    (8%)    (8%)   (8%)    (8%)
(percentage of total     Actual    4.6     4.1    4.0     4.7     4.2    3.9
production)                        (31%)   (30%)   (31%)  (37%)   (37%)  (36%)
Number of employees      Target    416     395    375     375     375    375     375
(total number)                     (5%)    (5%)   (0%)    (0%)    (0%)   (0%)    (0%)
(percentage reduction in total) Actual  420  385  369     350     327    319
Combined Tariff (santimes)  Target  14.5   16.3    17.0   21.3    21.4   23.4    23.5
(1995 santimess)                                                                 33
Actual
Combined tariff          Target    10.5    16.0    16.0   19.0    21.0   27.9    29.7
-adjusted for inflation-  Actual   14.5    17.1   23.6    27.7    30     33
(current santimes)
Billing collection       Target    85%     90%    90%     90%     92.5%  95%     95%
performance              Actual    85%     101%   97%     97%     100%    105%
(percentage)
Consumer receivables     Target    135     60     60      60      60     60      60
(days)                   Actual    161     87     80      80      94     90
Debt service cover      Target     1.3     1.3     1.3    1.3     1.3     1.3    1.3
(minimum)                Actual
Return on assests        Target            1.5%    1.5%   1.5%    1.5%   2%      2%
(percentage)            Actual
Note: The setting of the leakage indicator (Unaccounted-for-water) has been flawed. The initial levels are
based on pure estimates. The production was not accurately metered, and the consumption was only
partially metered, domestic consumption not at all. Consequently, the difference (UAFW) remained a wild
guess. Furthermore, the project did not include water distribution network rehabilitation, so the targeted
drop in UAFW, from 3.5 million m3/y down to 1.0 million mr/y was baseless. Anyway, the actual UAFW,
40% of production, is high and in need of special attention and significant investment in the near future.
The quality of drinking water quality in Ziemelu Wellfield at the end of the project is much
improved.
-21 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)  A rs,   ca     tt    Pe__
. j   t.               .            ~~~~~~~~Appraisal . Actual/Latest  Percentag~ of
Estimate     Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component            US$ million   US$ million
Riga Urban Transport
Equipment Purchase                                 17.40          19.40           43.2
Technical Assistance                                0.50           0.33            1.2
DWWW
Water Supply and Distribution                       7.95           9.49           19.5
Sewerage and Wastewater Treatment                   7.55           8.85           18.7
Technical Assistance and Ancillaries                2.60           3.48            6.5
MDF
Project Investrnents                                4.30           4.25           10.6
Institutional Development Component                 0.20           0.20            0.5
Total Baseline Cost                                40.50          46.00
Physical Contingencies                             1.80
Price Contingencies                                3.10
Total Project Costs            45.40          46.00
Total Financing Required            45.40          46.00
ProJect Costs by Procurement Arrangements LAppralsal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Prouroment MethodB
Expendlture Category      CNC                      OtherNBF.               Total Cot
1. Works                     0.90         4.30         0.00         0.00         5.20
(0.50)       (3.40)       (0.00)        (0.00)      (3.90)
2. Goods                    14.80         0.00         3.00         0.00         17.80
(13.50)       (0.00)       (2.70)       (0.00)      (16.20)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         1.80         1.80         3.60
(0.00)       (0.00)       (1.60)        (0.00)      (1.60)
4. Supply and Install        6.90         0.00         0.30         11.60        18.80
(5.30)       (0.00)       (0.20)        (0.00)      (5.50)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                     22.60         4.30         5.10        13.40        45.40
(19.30)       (3.40)       (4.50)       (0.00)      (27.20)
- 22 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category       ICB           NCB          Other
1. Works                      2.04          0.39          0.00          0.00         2.43
(0.93)        (0.27)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (1.20)
2. Goods                      14.52         0.00          2.65          0.00         17.17
(13.27)        (0.00)       (2.30)        (0.00)       (15.57)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00          3.61          2.13         5.74
(0.00)        (0.00)        (1.51)       (0.00)       (1.51)
4. Supply and Install          6.38         0.00          0.08          9.75         16.21
(5.43)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (5.43)
5. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                      22.94          0.39          6.34         11.88        41.55
(19.63)        (0.27)       (3.81)        (0.00)       (23.71)
'Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component: Overall Project (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component: Overall       Appraisal Estimate         Actual/Latest Estimate
Project___                                                    _  =__=,_--_
Bank     Govt.     CvF.      Bank     Govt,-    (C oF,  Baink  (.ovt.  CoF.
Riga Transport         16.80      1 .90    0.00       16.91     2.82    0.00   10.7   148.4   0.0
DW'WW
Water Supply            6.55      1.61     2.31     6.34      1.20      1.95    96.8   74.5  84.4
Wastewater                       3.03      7.10               2.91      5.94           96.0  83.7
TA and etc.             0.45     0.24      1.17     0.47       1.85     1.18   104.4  770.8  100.9
MSDP TOTAL             27.30     7.10      11.00                                0.0    0.0    0.0
The SAR did not include financing break-down by component, just a Summary Financing Plan. Daugavpils
had 5 foreign co-financiers.
Details on Riga Transport are shown below.
-23-



World Bank disbursements Loan No. LV-3964 for rehabilitation of Riga public transport and co-financing of Riga City
Council and municipal bus companies Imantn and Taiva (1996-2002):
Total WB      Tanlava      Imanta       TTP      Cofinnncing  Talasv   Imanta     .TP
Disbursements                                      of RCC and
bus
companies
Services
Consultants    $302,998.21  $72,719.57  $81,809.52  $148,469 12
services
PTU             $26,974.58   $6,473.90   $7,283.14   $13,217.54
sub-total,    $329,972.79  $79,193.47  $89,092.65  $161,686.67
services
Goods               .                        _                                             _         _
Spare parts  $1,287,079.60  $318,645.58  $344,251.25  $624,182.77  89,913.54  26,475.68 63,437 86
LVL       LVL       LVL
Mercedes       $469,664 15  $271,628.79  $198,035.36             73,257.97 42,338.28 30,919.69
Benz spare                                                           LVL       LVL       LVL
parts
Trolleybuses  $5,083,752.81                       $5,083,752.81  292,813.51                   292,813.51
LVL                           LVL
Mercedes     $6,023,057.75 $3,011,528.88 $3,011,528 88          304,744.00 152,372.00 152,372.00
Benz buses               I                                           LVL       LVL       LVL
Bus washing     $54,239.08  $54,239.08
machine
Bus lift        $12,054.02  $12,054.02                            2,960.73  2,960.73
LVL       LVL
Bus systems      $7,742.59   $7,742 59                            1,210.00  1,210.00
tester                                                               LVL       LVL
Other bus      $270,260.86  $270,260.86                          43,695.22 43,695.22
equipment                                                            LVL       LVL
Tram         $2,159,899.30                        $2,159,899.30  142,472.68 142,472.68
refurbishment                                                        LVL       LVL
sub-total,  $15,367,750.16 $3,946,099.80 $3,553,815.48 $7,867,834.88  951,067.65 411,524.59 246,729.55 292,813.51
goods                                                                LVL       LVL       LVL       LVL
Works
Imanta         $934,852.98             $934,852.98              677,466.00          677,466.00
maintenance                                                          LVL                 LVL
workshop
Talava         $274,120.90  $274,120.90                          70,704.02  70,704.02
maitenance                                                           LVL       LVL
workshop
sub-total,  $1,208,973.88  $274,120.90  $934,852.98     $0.00  748,170.02 70,704.02 677,466.00 0 00 LVL
works                                                                LVL       LVL       LVL
Total              $16,906,696.83 $4,299,414.17 $4,577,761.12 $8,029,521.55 1,699,237.67 482,228.61 924,195.55 292,813.51
I__ _ __   _LVL              LVL       LVL       LVL
Table 2: Summary of the MDF Implemented Projects
Table: Number of Projects and Amounts Accepted by Sectors; to 2001
Sector                              Number    of  projects  Total amount of loans required (LVL
submitted              (USS)); (1USS- 0,595 LVL)
ENF          Energy                                       12            712 836 (I 198 043,69)
EDF          Education                                     15          972 461 (I 634 388,23)
EVF          Environment and regional development          1           135 000 (226 890,76)
WEF          Health                                        1           79 025(132 815,12)
TRF          Transport                                                 15 000 (25 210,08)
CUF          Culture                                       4            106 042 (178 221,84)
_TOTAL:                                        34            2 020 364 (3 395 569,75)
Project title                             Municipality                           Project crso.St    W'orhl RanA
Ltian aintitont
Reconstruction of district heating        Council of Marupe parish (Riga        Ls 252 337         Ls 201 874
supply network in Jaunrarupe village      region)
-24 -



Heating supply and water supply of  Council of Rundale pagasts (Bauska Ls 40 000  Ls 32 000
Pilsrundale Secondary school      region)
Reconstruction of Allazi parish Primary Council of Allazi pagasts (Riga  Ls 120 000  Ls 30 000
school                            region)
Improvement of physical and education Council of Belava pagasts (Gulbene Ls 35 000  Ls 28 000
work of Belava parish Ozolkalna  region)
Primary school
Improvement of central heating system  Council of Roja parish     Ls 50 000     Ls 40 000
in Roja parish                    (Talsi region)
Reconstruction of boiler house in  Council of Valmiera parish     Ls 128 000    Ls 104 000
Valmiera parish                   (Valmiera region)
Reconstruction of boiler house and  Council of Lejasciems parish  Ls 49 350      Ls 40 000
heating supply system in Lejasciems  (Gulbene region)
parish
Setting up of sport complex in Trapene Council of Trapene parish  Ls 54 036     Ls 29 000
parish                           (Aluksne region)
Reconstruction of Siksni Primary  Council of Dunika parish       Ls 46 020      Ls 23 276
school                           (Liepaja region)
Reconstruction of heating supply   Council of Lizums pagasts      Ls 152 000     Ls 50 000
system in Lizums parish           (Gulbene region)
Completion of construction works of  Council of Adazi parish (Riga  Ls 350 000   Ls 280 000
assembly and sports hall of Adazi  region)
Secondary school
Reconstruction of district heating  Council of Grobina parish     Ls 71 000      Ls 56 800
supply system Grobina parish      (Liepaja region)
Increasing of heat resistance of Preili  Council of Preili region  Ls 98 781     Ls 79 025
polyclinic
Reconstruction of heating supply   Council of Bauska town         Ls 75 400      Ls 60 320
system in Bauska
Construction of sports hall and   Council of More parish (Cesis  Ls 25 573       Ls 15 000
reconstruction of culture hall in More  region)
Completion of construction works in  Council of Garkalne pagasts (Riga  Ls 250 000  Ls 190 000
Garkalne Primary school           region)
Reconstruction of the roof of Secondary Council of Durbe appanage (Liepaja Ls 17 735  Ls 15 000
school in Durbe                  region)
Reconstruction of heating supply  Council of Amata appanage (Cesis Ls 60 000     Ls 25 000
system in Amata parish "liksi" village region)
Construction of Mazozolu primary  Council of Mazozolu pansh (Ogre  Ls 90 000     Ls 14 800
school for 180 pupils             region)
Il-stage of reconstruction of central  Municipal services enterprise of  Ls 86 303  Ls 69 042
boiler house, setting up of heat  Malta municipality (Rezekne
consumption meters and construction  region)
of new distnct heating network in
Malta pansh
Reconstruction of culture hall in Selpils Council of Selpils parish  Ls 25 781   Ls 19 652
(Jekabpils region)
Improvement of water supply system  Council of Olaine town        Ls 234 000     Ls 135 000
and water metenng system in Olaine
town
I stage of reconstruction of central  Council of Pavilosta town (Liepaja  Ls 16 000  Ls 12 800
boiler house in Pavilosta town    egion)
Modernisation of central boiler house  Municipal services enterprise of  Ls 37 000  Ls 29 000
- 25 -



in Dobele                          Dobele municipality
Reconstruction of Primary school in  Council of Virga parish (Liepaja  s 51 319  Ls 28 600
Virga parish                      region)
Reconstruction of pedestrian bridge  Council of Skankalne parish  Ls 21 347      Ls 15 000
over Salaca in Skankalne         (Valmieras region)
Reconstruction of heat supply system in Social Care centre "Tervete"  s 30 000   Ls 24 000
social care centre "Tervete"      (Dobele region)
Reconstruction of Berzgale Primary  Council of Leimaoi parish     Ls 18 399      Ls 12 785
school       I                    (Jekabpils region)
Construction of the structure of roof of Council of Rujiena town (Valmiera  Ls 103 048  Ls 50 500
library in Rujiena town          region)
Construction of sports hall of    Council of Koknese parish       Ls 307 000     Ls 210 000
Secondary school in Koknese       (Aizkraukle region)
Reconstruction of Primary school in  Council of Kuku parish (Jekabpils Ls 19 700  Ls 14 000
Kuku parish                       region)
Construction of sports hall and culture  Council of Nautreni parish  Ls 50 000   Ls 40 000
centre in Nautreni parish         (Rezekne region)
Reconstruction of roof of culture club i Council of Karsava town (Ludza  Ls 26 113  Ls 20 890
Karsava town                      region)
Conncetion of sanitation-hygiene  Council of Belava parish (Gulbene  s 36 297    Ls 25 000
rooms, canteen, cabinet of chemistry of region)
the Kr.Valdemars primary school of the
Belava parish to the sewage of the
village
TOTAL--No. 34    -          -           -,                                -      Ls2 02036
-26 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
The economic evaluation for the project at the time of appraisal was done separately for each component.
This approach will be continued here.
Riga Urban Transport
First, we look at some key trends:
Passenger Tariff Levels With some "lumpiness," these have been increased faster than inflation. The
increases in tariffs have not been excessive compared to increases in GDP per capita.
Riga Urban Transport - Passenger Tariff (figures In Lats unless noted)
1991     19951    199      1997     1991     199      2000     20011
Single Fare tanff                      008/      008q     014      0140    0.18(    0.180    0.20     0.200
Date of fare mcrease                                     June I            June I            Feb 11
Average fare per fare paymng passenger  0.02     0.042    0.06     0.06    0.07     0 08     0 094    0.098
Average asa % of single farc            31/       530/4    48     48%I     430,     47%/c    48!/1    49%
Smgle fam tanff per GDP per capita             0.0091/4  0012    0 011'/4  0.0120/  0.011 0/  0.0110/c 0.010%
Source: SAR, PTU
Discount riders. These have decreased slightly due to better fare collection discipline and changes in City
of Riga fare policy. Discount fare in this context means reduced fares mandated by social policy, not the
discounts that may arise from the use of monthly passes or marketing promotions. The structure of the
discounts are politically influenced. Since fall 2001 all schoolchildren in grades I to 4 are carried free of
charge. For a limited period, prior to elections in early October 2002, all pensioners were able to ride free
of charge on weekends.
Riga Urban Transport - Discount Passengers (Three Public Operators) (figures in passengers millions unless noted)
1994     1995     1996     1997     199       1999      2001      2001
Total revenue passengers                316.5             212.5    232 o    256 6     247 1     229.71    219.31
Passengers travellmg with discount fam                              94 8    109.14    108.7      83        838
Discount passengers as a % ofttotal disou41ntcr                             43i q     44108      37./4     381
Source: SAR, PTU N.B these figures exclude passengers travelling free of charge (children under age 7, invalids, people over age 80).
These represent 3 to 5 % of total passengers until 2001 and may represent a higher proportion now
Public Subsidy Levels. These have increased in nominal terms, with slight decline since 1998 in constant
terms. There has been no decline in constant terms per passenger. Subsidies have become more complex
with new categories of subsidy added in 2001 to facilitate equipment purchases. New buses in both
companies are being purchased with 20% of the cost met by the City at the time of purchase and the
remainder is financed as a lease over seven years. The lease payment amounts are being paid to the
companies by a new category of subsidy.
Riga Urban Transport - Subsidies Provided (Three Public Operators) (figures in Lats millions unless noted)
1 991    1995      199(     1997      1998     1999      2000     2001
Ticketrevenue                             7.7               14.5     15.7      19.7     20 8      21.7     21.5
Other revenue                             0.5                0 3      l l       2.7      3 2       3 3      1T7
Subsidies                                 3.(4 _____  [      3.       4.2       4.7      48        4.8      4 9
Total income                             113                18.0     20.9      27.1     28.8      29 8     28 2
Subsidies, constant value (1995 base)     3.5               2.8       33        3 6      3.4       3.3      33
Subsidy (constant value) per trip (Lats)  0.011            0 013    0.01'    0.014     0.014     0 01i    0.015
Source: SAR, PTU
The summary results of the economic analysis, ex-post, are presented below:
Riga Urban Transport - Summary Economic Evaluation Results (figures in Lats millions unless indicated)
At Appraisal                                  At Completion
,                      ,
All three transport    All three transport I Two bus operators      I Tram & Trolleybus
- 27 -



operators together  operators together                      only
Project cost                                 7.3               4.1               3.2
9.4
(IBRD & local,
plus later local
investment)
Evaluation Period       1996-2007         1997-2008         1997-2008          1997-2008
EIRR                      22 %              12 %               3 %               22 %
NPV (at 10%)              4.4                0.9               - 1.4             2.3
Details on the economic, financial, and operational data are provided in spreadsheets attached
electronically to Annex 7, List of Supporting Documents.
Project Benefits
At Appraisal. All calculations were based on constant currency values and net of taxes. There was no
residual value assumed at the end of the evaluation period. NPV was calculated at 10%. Economic
benefits in the SAR were based on reduced vehicle operating costs and reduced passenger waiting time.
Vehicle operating costs were assumed to increase 1% p.a. whether or not there was a project in place.
However with the project there was an assumed one time drop of 10% in vehicle operating costs.
Passenger waiting time was assumed to be growing at 2% p.a. in the without project case. With the project
there would be a one time 90% decrease in waiting times followed by a further 1% p.a. decline. However
the passenger time cost was relatively unimportant, accounting for only 7% of the present value of the net
benefit stream.
Values of the costs and benefits flows (undiscounted or discounted) were not separately provided in the
SAR, only the net benefit flow. This makes it more difficult to assess the appropriateness of the
assumptions.
Economic Analysis Assumptions
SAR               SAR                ICR               ICR
with project     without project     with project     without project
evaluation period      1996-2007         1996-2007          1997-2008         1997-2008
investment costs         9.374              0.0              7.331               0.0
(million Lats)
annual change in        1% p.a.            1% p.a.      actual 1997-2001,     3.5% p.a.
vehicle operating costs              (3.5 to 4% wtd avg in followed by 1% p.a.
financial evaluation)
one-time change in       - 10%              none         actual 1997-2001       none
vehicle operating costs
annual change in       -1% p.a.           2% p.a.         not evaluated      not evaluated
passenger waiting
tim e_               _ _  _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _   _
one-time change in       -90%               none          not evaluated      not evaluated
passenger waiting
Source: SAR, ICR (spreadsheet "OpsData.xls")
The economic analysis was based on simple, clear, assumptions. The financial forecast was based
on the detailed business plans developed during preparation. These examined revenues, expenditures,
- 28 -



staffing, etc. in considerable detail. Some older spreadsheets of the financial analysis have survived to
provide evidence of this work. In the time available it has not been possible to reconcile in detail the
assumptions used in the two analyses. Generally the financial forecast was done constant currency value
terms. The assumed rates of increase in maintenance costs without the business plan actions were higher
than the 1% p.a. assumption of the economic analysis. Individual line items were given different cost
increase rates. A weighted average of these yields overall cost increases without taking action of 3.5% to
4% p.a. There was no financial IRR, nor NPV calculated in the SAR.
The principle business plan and financial analysis assumptions were:
. purchase of new vehicles (in addition to the 66 project vehicles, another 184 vehicles under each
operators own funding, save one mechanic per year per new bus))
* retirement of old vehicles (save Lats 2,000 annual operating cost per bus)
* reduce fare evasion by 50% (from 10% of riders to 5%, generates 5% more revenue)
compensation for concessionary fare
* redefining the route network (one-time 5% revenue improvement)
* investment in parts and spares
*   investment in new plant and equipment
* in the base case (do nothing) operating costs would increase as follows:
-      maintenance and repair staff cost: TTP 2.5% p.a., Talava/Imanta 5% p.a.
-      stores and materials cost: TTP 2.5% p.a., Talava/Imanta 7% p.a
-      fuel consumption increases 2% p.a.
-      revenues fall 2% p.a. due to car ownership
-      revenues fall 1% p.a. due to population decline
-      revenues fall 1, 2, 3, 4 % in 1 st through 4th years (and presumably at 4% p.a. after that)
due to increasing vehicle unreliability
At Completion. All calculations are based on constant currency values and net of taxes. No residual
values were assumed. The project benefits are again be based on the reduction achieved in vehicle
operating costs. Information on reductions in breakdowns or trip reliability has not been provided to allow
for a meaningful calculation of passenger time savings. Given that these savings represented a very small
part of the initial quantitative justification for the project they will be dropped from the benefits calculation
at completion.
Excluding staff costs. If anything, including staff costs would have made the returns lower from the data
provided one is not able to separate the cost of labor related to maintenance from the cost of other labor.
Operations and financial data prepared by Bank consultants during supervision were not available in
electronic format.
Transport energy efficiency has been improved although not quantified for this analysis. Quantity of
energy used per vehicle km has declined by 14%, 15%, and 16% for TTP, Talava, and Imanta respectively.
Details are provided in the "Additional_Tables.doc" document attached electronically in Annex 7, List of
Supporting Documents. Slight increases in recent years could mean that the maintenance programs are not
sustainable or that the longer run "steady-state" of maintenance has not yet been reached.
Project Returns. Differences in results for TTP and bus companies. The project investments were a
smaller proportion of TTP's activities than they were for the two bus companies. Nevertheless the results
for TTP were much better than for the two bus companies. The TTP investments were primarily directed
toward significant operational improvements in an existing heavily used fleet, which continues to be heavily
used.
- 29 -



Financial indicators results. A financial rate of return was not calculated at appraisal. The following
table provides summary results of financial indicators. After 1999 the financial monitoring target was an
operating margin of at least 30%. This is calculated as the surplus of total income (passenger revenue,
other revenue, and public support) over operating costs (excluding depreciation) as a percent of total
income. TTP has managed to reach around 50 to 70% of this target. Talava managed to attain about 50%
of the target between 1998 and 2000. Imanta has not been able to achieve the target. All of the operators
are reporting poorer results for the most recent year (2001).
Financial Results (Lats millions, current values, unless noted)                               l
1 99    1995    1996    1997     1998    1999    2000    2001
TTP
Passenger revenues            4.82            9.52    10.73   13.70   14.47   15.12    14.95
Total revenues and support    6.54            10.97   12.3    16.29   17.31   17.81    17.03
Operating costs               6.52            10.38   10.95   13.00   13.91   13.58    14.28
Operating margin              0.02            0.59     1.4     3.28    3.4(    4.23    2.75
Op margin %                   0.30/           5.40/  11.6/  20.2   19.70/  23.70/   16.1%
Talava
Passenger revenues            1.4             2.46     2.15    2.69    2.87    3.05    3.17
Total revenues and support    2.26            3.56     4.2     5.61    6.09    6.10    5.37
Operatingcosts                2.2             3.19    4.18     4.79    4.78    5.11    5.23
Operating margin              0.01            0.36     0.46    0.82    1.32    0.99     0.14
Op margin %                   0.6/           10.2/   1.1/   14.7%   21.60/   16.2/   2.6%
Imanta
Passenger revenues            1.5(            2.48     2.79    3.30    3.43    3.49    3.41
Total revenues and support    2.47            3.47     4.34    5.15    5.41    5.86     5.78
Operating costs               2.46            3.36     4.20    4.74    5.08    5.49    5.68
Operating margin              0.01            0.11     0.14    0.41    0.33    0.37    0.10
Op margin %                   0.6/            3.20/   3.1/    7.9%    6.20/    6.30/   1.70/
Source: SAR, PTU
Explanation of Project Returns
Demographics. The Latvia national population and the City of Riga population is declining. The only
area showing slight population growth in recent years is within the Riga District but outside of existing
built up areas, a market almost impossible to serve by public transport. Details are provided in the
"Additional_Tables.doc" document attached electronically in Annex 7, List of Supporting Documents.
Revenue and Passenger Trend. The proportion of passengers travelling on discounted fares has not declined
in a significant way. Declining overall ridership over the last four years (1998 to 2001). The private
operators increasing numbers, share, and share of revenue. The official data here may understate
passengers by two or three times. A change-over is occurring within the private operators as they move out
of "taxibuses" and into "minibuses". The SAR forecast passengers much higher than actually was
experienced, although the SAR did correctly evaluate two important influences. The number of riders
appears to increase during the early years of the project as better inspections result in more riders being
counted. However the longer run trend of declining public transport use due to declining population and
increasing use of the automobile eventually begins to force the numbers down.
- 30 -



RIGA URBAN TRANSPORT
Passengers (994 - 2001
400,000                                                                                     100%
350.000                                                                                     90%
-*_- - --    --       ---        -     ---- - -       --* __ -  80%
300,000                                                                                     7 .0%
250,000               \                               -                                     60% l
* 200,000                                                                                      50%
1W,00040
~~~.ooo                                                   __        4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0%
20%
50,000                                                                                      0
0       t            .     t     ,                                                     0%
s00        1900      s00       900       S100       100        o00       1900
|       Sorio1- - - -SARprOj  _ oPublic -     - Private  - -Totl        iO01icount
R ga Urban Transport - Motorization in Latvla
199            199       199       199       199       I999      2000      2001
Motor vehicles per 1,000 population  1    127.61    16571     188.7     213.51    236.51    260.31    280.51
Annual change (%)                                    300/      140/      131/4     11X/4    lo0/       80/
Source: SIMA
Private bus operators. Theses have been more successful than anticipated, although they still represent a
small share of the market. The private operators are licensed by the City of Riga Traffic Department to
operate on specified routes, which can overlap with each other and with routes provided by the three public
operators. They charge a fare-by-distance ranging from Lats 0.20 to 0.30 per trip. There are no
discounted fares. The private operators are picking up the high value and growing part of the market. A
restructuring of these operations is occurring as "taxibuses" (25-30 seats) are being replaced by
"minibuses" (14 seats). Some commentators mentioned that the passenger numbers could be under
reported by a factor of two or three times. Licenses for taxibuses are not being renewed by the City (since
May 1, 2002). The two public bus companies have been required by the City to operate more services on
routes were taxibus services have been withdrawn.
Riga Urban Transport - Private Bus O  erators, Passengers pe year (0oos)
1 99~     1995     1996      1997      1998      199S      200(     2001
Pnvate Operators
Taxibuses                                                                          5,50(     5,30(    4,525
Mimbuses                                                                          12,90(    14,90(   17,092
Total passengers                                                                  18,40(    20,20(   21,618
Annual change                           _                                                    9.8/      7.0 0/
Publc Operators                     316,46                    1  231,999   256,610   247,055   229,661   219,281
Annual change                                                           10.60/    -3 70/    -7 OV     -450/
Pnvate + Public                    _                                                 265,455   249,861   240,899
Private as % oftotal             I    - 50/                                             6.90/    8.1       9.00/
Source: SAR, PTU, discussions with operators
Daugavpils Water Company (Idensvads): Past and Future Performance
There are four key factors that have affected project performance and are critical to the project's
-31 -



IFRR and IERR: (i) revenue growth (water sales, billing, and tariffs); (ii) costs of running the water entity;
(ii) physical loss of water in the system (unaccounted for water); and (iv) the wider environmental benefits
of water sewerage treatment.
Water Demand. Demand for water services in Daugavpils in terms of billed water sales has decreased 39
percent during 1996 - 2001 period. Decline of billed water for domestic customers was 38 percent,
declining from 198 Ipcd in 1996 to 127 Ipcd in 2001. These figures may, however, overestimate the real
decline of residential water consumption as it includes also large in-house water losses in apartment blocks.
The largest decline of water consumption, however, occurred among commercial customers (45%) as many
enterprises were closed for business during Russian economic crisis. Decline among budget institutions
was least affected (29%). There are signs of stabilization of water consumption based on the first quarter
data of 2002. However, some 50% of water bills are still calculated using consumption norms, which may
lead to significant differences with actual or flat meter consumption. While the domestic water consumption
is expected to further decline some 5% in 2002, consumption of institutional and commercial users is
expected to increase some 8-10 percent compared to the first quarter of 2001.
Total water production declined by 27 percent during 1997-2001 period, while unaccounted for
water increased from 32 percent to 41 percent during the same period. The latter includes also large
in-house water losses. According to a technical study carried out by the SIA "Daugavpils Udens", the total
unaccounted for water in the first quarter of 2002 was 36 percent, out if which some 16 percent were
in-house losses, mostly as a result of manipulation of water meters.
Table 1. Water roduction and consumption in Dau avpils (1996-2002)
P _____    1996     1997     1998     1999    2000    2001    2002   |
Water Production     1000 m3    n/a     13,361   12,830   12,733  11,351   9,758    8,693
Water sales:
- Domestic billings  1000 m3  6,737    6,047    5,690    5,159   4,651   4,166    4,109
- Institutional billings  1000 m3  927  964      960     929      717     654      685
- Commercial billings  1000 m3  1,713   1,567   1,609    1,206   1,076    935      940
Total water sales    1000 m3    9,377    8,578    8,259   7,294   6,444    5,755    5,707
Domestic water         Ipcd     198       180      169     154     140      127     125
consumption
Unaccounted for water   %       n/a       36       36      43       43      41       34
* Estimate, based on the first three quarter data and 2002 budget.
Tariff development. Tariff adjustment in Daugavpils has been in line with the SAR projections. In 1996
the combined water tariff was 16 santimes/m3 (VAT excluded). In relation to present level of 33
santimes/m3, the nominal rise has been two-fold (Figure 1). Currently, some 50% of domestic water bills
are still calculated using individual meters. The rest is based on a complicated system of consumption
norms. There are twelve norm categories varying from 33-250 liters per capita per day. The Municipal
Government has approved the plan to start billing of residential customers based on master meters. It is
expected that the switch to master meters would reduce water losses in apartment blocks and will increase
the volume of billed water to domestic. However, further tariff adjustment would also induce water
conservation - net effect on the volume of billed water may remain neutral.
As a result of continuing delays of tariff decisions in the past, the current combined tariff of 33
santimes/m3 has remained behind of growing needs of the SIA "Daugavpils Udens" caused by declining
water demand, debt service and incremental operating costs of new production facilities. In May 2002 the
SIA "Daugavpils Udens" proposed a new tariff of 41 santimes/m3 to Daugavpils Municipality (24 percent
increase). The proposal was rejected by the Public Services Regulatory Agency on the grounds of overly
- 32 -



large water losses in the networks.
Figure 1: Nominal tariff development
40-
25
sa
nti
ei i                            20                            = 7 - | SAR projected tanff levels
3
15
10 
5 
0  -
1997       1998       1999       2000        2001
The above graph depicts nominal tariffs.-In real terms the slope would be negative because
Daugavpils water entity was not able to keep pace with inflation because the City Council was often late in
approving the tariff increase. The company needs to make more progress in addressing the large water
losses in order to appropriately justify future tariff increases. Current tariff levels barely cover operating
costs and are not sufficient to undertake any cash-flow based maintenance and rehabilitation works. The
company will not be able to undertake any rehabilitation works in the years to come. unless appropriate
tariff adjustment will take place.
The graphs below illustrates the SIA "Daugavpils Udens" institutional resolve for high billing
collection in the environment of steeply increasing tariff and high unemployment. At the end of the Project,
the billing collection rate from residential sector in Daugavpils was in range of 97-98%, while the billing
rate from Industrial and Commercial sectors exceeds 100% as the companies are paying the old debts.
Tariff, Billing Collection and Unemployment Development In
Daugavpils
120                                           - 7  035. -  O .5
0.33
-       ~~~101             _03
ito    99                                          03
277
0 25
s0
-:- Unemployment %  0 2
At  --                           -v  lIng Colle60on %
4-.- Combined tanff, LWm3  015 -i
40
0103                   .                    _ - t - r ~ ~ 01
20
089    85     75    106     13    99    8&7  005
0                                                0
1995   199i  1997   1998   1999   2000  2001
33 -



The graph below shows consumption, unaccounted for water (physical losses in the system) and
apartment metering:
Specific Consumption, Unaccounted-for-Water and Apartment
Metering
400                                                  100
350                            -                     so
300--3ti           301  -              -             80
~~ Zs3              -      -  _-70
-           242             7
250                                 2 
.0Spedfic Total Biling lUp/d         215    - -
200 .-- Unaccounted- r-Wateripid                     s -  50 S
-6-. Metered Apartments %                49  t 17 3
o50 -                                         127 *  40
-    1 89 t01-7                        m 1 30
100-
so --                          7i2                 , 120
0o~      1        3   4                             10
1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001
Production, Billing and Treatment Capacities
70,000-                       - . .
60,000
60,000
50-000  -   -  50,000  t
50,000 
. 47                             41,200   41,200
40,000  50        --   .      _-         - ,   .-. -
40.740 X1;78  -          34.801-7 40,200
30,000           -t            -i       2      61310~00
,2,3      8~~~~~~~30      2&.73(
20,000  - Water Production m3d
-GWater Billing m3/d
10,000 -  -Water Treatment Capacity m3/d
D E-Wastewater Treatment Capacity m/  
0
1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001
Financial performance during the project period. Table 2 summarizes the financial performance of the
Company as realized in 1996-2001, and shows expected results for 2002 based on the first 3 months'
actual development and the estimated budget for 2002. Financial performance of SIA "Daugavpils Udens"
showed improvement until 2000 and has been declining since then. The operating margin, which is a
measure of company's full cost recovery from operations, was 24% and 25% in 2000 and 2001
respectively. The company showed net loss of 0.3 mill/ LVL in 2001, mainly as a result of delayed tariff
decisions. The company will face even larger loss in 2002 if no tariff adjustment takes place.
Delayed tariff adjustrnent decisions would have a serious impact on the SIA "Daugavpils Udens"
financial sustainability, and could hamper the company's debt service causing a postponement of necessary
replacement investments. Cash flow based replacement investments have already been lagging behind. In
2001 the amount of replacement investments was only 49 thousand LVL, well below the investment
- 34 -



requirements that is necessary to maintain the current level of services. According to the 2002 budget, the
company's planned replacement investments were 75 thousand LVL. However, it is expected that the
company will not be able to carry out any investments this year due to the shortage of funds.
Table 2. Financial lerformance of the S[A "Daugavpils Udens" (199  002)
1996     1997      1998     1999     2000     2001     2002*
Average service tariff LVL/m3  0.16    0.17      0.25     0.28      0.3     0.33      0.33
Net Revenues        MLVL       1.6      1.6      2.2      2.1       2.1      2.1      2.1
- O&M costs       MLVL       1.5      1.8       1.8      1.7      1.6       1.6      1.6
Operating margin    MLVL       0.1     -0.2      0.4      0.4       0.5      0.5      0.5
- Depreciation    MLVL       0.1      0.1      0.1       0.1      0.2      0.7       0.7
- Interest payments  MLVL     0       0.1       0         0       0.1      0.2       0.3
- Other income    MLVL        0        0        0        0.1      0.1      0.1       0.1
(costs)
Net profit before  MLVL        0        -0.3     0.3      0.4       0.4     -0.3      -0.5
taxes
Operating margin               5        -12       16       20       24       25        24
(>40%)
Working Ratio         %        95       112      84        80       76       75        76
(<65%)
Operating Ratio (<85  %       100       117      88        86       85       109      111
* Estimate, based on the first quarter data and 2002 budget.
Cost savings. The SIA "Daugavpils Udens" has made some progress in costs savings. The total O&M
costs have increased modestly by 4.5% during 1996-2001 period (Table 3). In real terms total O&M
costs have actually declined by 13 percent during the same period. The largest increase has been
transportation cost: 78 and 48 percent in current and real terms respectively. The largest cost declines have
occurred in resource and pollution charges (30 and 42 percent in current and real terms respectively),
which reflects the impact of project investments into wastewater treatment facilities. The cost of electricity,
another major production input, has increased only 4 percent in current terms (13 percent reduction in real
terms). However, it is expected to increase by 10% in 2002 as a result of commissioning additional well
fields and operation of wastewater treatment plant.
Table 3. Selected operating and maintenance costs of SIA "Daugavpils Udens", 1996 - 2002 (current
terms)
1996     1997      1998     1999     2000      2001    2002*
Resource/Pollution  1000 LVL  211       215      305      183      254       147      176
Taxes
Total Staff Cost  1000 LVL    547      643       602      605      588       596      601
Materials and     1000 LVL    129      188       196      172      124       109      108
Maintenance
Electricity       1000 LVL    252      287       294      275       172      263      289
Transport         1000 LVL    27        33       39       48        52       48        50
Other Costs       1000 LVL    279      308       280      277      274       277      280
Miscellaneous    IOOOLVL      52       129       109      104      118       125      120
(administration cost)
rotal O&M Costs   1000 LVL   1,497     1,803    1,825    1,663     1,583    1,565    1,624
* Estimate, based on the first quarter data and 2002 budget.
Bill Collection. The SIA "Daugavpils Udens" bill collection has been relatively good during the project
period. The company have made significant efforts to gradually reduce outstanding old debts. Bill
collection in the commercial customer group has improved significantly and SIA "Daugavpils Udens" has
- 35 -



been able to recover some old debts accumulated during the years of business difficulties (Table 4). The
collection rate of among budget organizations has declined to 95% during the first quarter of 2002.
Table 4. Bill collection in SEA "laugavpils Udens" (1997 - 2002)
Units      1997      1998       1999       2000      2001      2002*
Domestic users    _              90        94         95        98         102       99
Institutional users   %         n/a        93        101        107        117       95
Commercial users      %         N/a        78         96        93         103       107
Total collection rate  _          101        89        96         100       105        99
' Estimate, based on the first quarter data and 2002 budget.
Future financial performance of SIA "Daugavpils Udens". The future financial performance of SIA
"Daugavpils Udens" is primarily determined by the development of water demand, Municipality's tariff
policy, savings in operating costs and improvements in network system efficiency (mainly reduction of
unaccounted for water). Based on 9 months operations data in 2002, it is assumed that the total water sales
will be similar to 2001 sales at the level of 5.7 mill. m3 per year. Domestic water consumption is expected
to decline to the level of 4.1 mill. m3, or about 124 Ipcd, and remain constant thereafter. Total water
production is assumed to stabilize at the level of 8.5 mill. m3, leaving the level of unaccounted for water
32%.
The adjustment of tariff development is based on the assumption that the company will reach the
target financial indicators as specified in the SAR by year 2005, which is four years later than what the
SAR envisaged (Table 5). After that, tariff adjustments will still be needed but at a slower pace, to
maintain SIA "Daugavpils Udens"' financial health and allow proper cost recovery (including revaluation of
assets) and debt service. The actual tariff decisions will of course depend on the company's management
decisions on performance improvement, such as cost cuttings and reduction of water leakages, and on the
dynamics of future water demand.
Table S. Major assumptions of he projecti ns of water demand (2002 -2010)
2002       2003      2004       2005       2006   2007 - 2010
Total population       1000       114       114        114        114       114        114
Water Production     1000 m3     8,880     8,700      8,600      8,500     8,500      8,500
Water sales:
- Domestic billings  1000 m3   4,106      4,065     4,065      4,065      4,065     4,065
- Institutional     1000 m3     737        741       741        741        741       741
billings
- Commercial        1000 m3     939        940       940        940        940       940
billings
Total water sales    1000 m3     5,782     5,746      5,746      5,746     5,746      5,746
Domestic water        lpcd        125       124        124        124       124        124
consumption
Combined tariff      LVL/m3      0.33       0.37       0.41      0.45       0.47      0.47
Change in combined      %          0         11        10         9          4          0
tariff
Other main assumptions underlying financial projections include: (a) average cash turnover - 120
days; (b) average inventories turnover - 60 days; (c) average liabilities turnover - 35 days; (d) average
target collection period - 45 days; and (e) average annual inflation rate - 2%. The projections assume a
slightly increasing O&M costs in real terms, as it is expected that gains in cost efficiency will be offset by
real price increases of electricity and increasing maintenance costs.
- 36 -



The projected financial flows and indicators are shown in Table 6. It is expected that the company
will achieve the full cost recovery by 2005.
Table 6. Projected financial performance of SIA "Dauvpils Udens" X2002 - 2010)
2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007   2008   2009   2010
Net Revenues            MLVL    2.1    2.3    2.5    2.8    2.9    3.0    3.0     3.0    3.0
- O&M costs           MLVL     1.6    1.6    1.6    1.6    1.6    1.6    1.6    1.7    1.7
Operating margin        MLVL    0.5    0.7     0.9    1.1    1.3    1.3    1.3    1.3    1.3
- Depreciation        MLVL     0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7
- Interest payments   MLVL     0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.1
-Other income (costs)  MLVL    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1
Net profit before taxes  MLVL   -0.5   -0.3   -0.1    0.2   0.3    0.4    0.4     0.5    0.5
Operating margin (>40%)   %      23     30     36     41     44     45     45     44     44
Working Ratio (<65%)      %      77     70     64     59     56     55     55     56     56
Operating Ratio (<85)     %     112    101     93     85     81     80     80     80     80
Based on these assumptions, the company will remain dependent upon external grants (e.g. from
bilateral donors) or the Municipal budget until 2005 even if no replacement investments will be carried out.
The situation is especially critical during the coming years as the company may not be able to fillv service
its debt (Table 7). Total annual debt service costs will reach 0.8 mill LVL in 2004. The company's
financial situation becomes even more fragile should the Municipality (regulatory agencies) decide not to
follow the assumed tariff adjustments paths or there will be further significant decline in water
consumption.
Table 7. SIA "Daugavpils Udens" proiected cash flow for 2002 - 2010
2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007   2008   2009    2010
Cash from operations     000    233    409    624    897    1,042  1,123  1,148  1,175  1,202
LVL__                                  _  _   _
- Working capital needs  000    1     30     23     31     15      7      0      0      -I
LVL   ___
- Total debt service    000    632    703    764    765    765    770    771    775    779
LVLI
Change in net working    000     1      30     23     31     15     7      0       0     -1
capital                  LVL
Cash surplus/deficit     000   -401   -354    -186    70    247    339    377    400     425
LV L        I  _  _  _ _ _  _ _        _I_              _  _
The table below shows O&M costs in relation to investment costs and net working capital
projected until 2015.
Table 8: Results of Financial Anal ysis ('000 LVL)
Year       Investment Cost  Net Working   O&M Costs with    O&M Costs   Incremental O&M
Capital         Project     without Project     Costs
1995                                          1,049           1,049            0
1996           1,891           -2             1,497           1,101           396
1997           3,782          -368            1,803           1,156           647
1998           3,782           1,240          1,825           1,214           611
1999           4,188          -1,806          1,663           1,275           388
2000           4,112           672             1,583          1,339            244
-37 -



2001            707             502            1,565          1,406           159
2002                             1             1,651          1,491            160
2003                            30             1,655          1,550            105
2004                            23             1,660          1,613            47
2005                            31             1,664          1,677            -13
2006                            15             1,668          1,727            -59
2007                             7             1,672          1,779           -107
2008                             0             1,676          1,832           -156
2009                             0             1,680          1,887           -207
2010       _-I                                 1,684          1,944           -260
2011                             0             1,688          2,002           -314
2012                             1             1,692          2,062           -370
2013                            0              1,696          2,125           -429
2014                            0              1,700          2,188           -488
2015                             1             1,704          2,253           -549
Environmental Amenity Values. The wastewater treatment investments have improved the water quality in
Daugava River. Improved water quality in downstream areas are generating direct use benefits, which are
related to people's recreation activities, such as swimming, angling, birdwatching, etc. People may thus
have a positive willingness to pay (WTP) for improvement in environmental quality in the river.
Aggregating WTP across individuals who directly benefit from this environmental improvement would give
us a measure of the total environmental amenity benefits. However, evaluation of environmental amenity
benefits from improved water quality is complicated, since the quality of water in downstream areas may
be affected by a variety of factors. For example, water quality may have improved due to reduced
discharges from point and non-point sources of pollution as many industrial and agricultural enterprises
have scaled down their (polluting) production activities or have been terminated altogether. Evaluating
environmental amenity benefits in downstream areas requires separating the changes in water quality
resulting from project wastewater treatment activities from changes in water quality resulting from general
economic improvement and less discharge by polluting industries. Although no formal model was
constructed, spot checks among users and physical tests conducted by the entity on sample water specimens
revealed a significant improvement in water quality.
Effluent Load from Daugavpils fo River Dauga
3=0
3000
axo11                  --- oEffluent bad BOD, ty
Effluent --ad P.- 
zi . ' , -                     =a= Effluent load N, tVy
150  1450
1937   '-                    -/
-         tlO  O     9~~~~~~~~~~130 3
1000~ ~ ~ ~  ~~~10 -3
'               s      - 9;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10
50- 295, 8  247  232  2D5  2S5  175  2t\7 31  21
1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  199  1997  1998  1999  ZIO   0l1
- 38 -



Health benefits. Health benefits were not quantified in the analysis, but many studies have shown the
importance of such benefits. In a world of full information, such benefits should be reflected in the higher
WTP for water that the people currently pay through water tariffs. To the extent that people use poor
quality water because they are not informed about its health effects, we have an additional benefit that can
be added to the normal economic benefit. However, unlike some countries in ECA region the motivation
for this project was not the poor quality of the water in terms of organic or microbial pollution, but in terms
of unreliable supply and irnproved taste properties (i.e. smell, hardness and high iron content). As a result,
WTP for improved water quality (and resulting consumer surplus) may still not be sufficient to generate an
acceptable rate of return.- This is exactly what the recent Bank-financed contingent valuation study found.
The study estimated consumer WTP for improved water quality in three Bank project cities: Klaipeda
(Lithuania); Liepaja (Latvia) and Haapsalu (Estonia) reference: Valatka S. and R. Lenkaitis. 2002.
Estimating Benefits for Water Quality and Wastewater Treatment and Recreational Improvements in the
Baltic States. Report prepared for the World Bank. The results show that the population's WTP for
improved water quality is rather low. For example, the median WTP estimate in Liepaja (a city with a
higher average income levels than Daugavpils) was only 0.3 Lats per m3 of water. However, the results
may be biased downwards due to the retrospective nature of questions and low current tariff levels.
Another contingent valuation study carried out in Sigulda (a medium sized city located 50 kmn
north from Riga) in 1997 estimated the population's WTP for improved drinking water quality (health
benefits) and improved water quality in Gauja River (environmental amenity benefits) reference: J.
Malzurbris, S. Senkene, and R. Ready. 1997. A Contingent Valuation Study Estimating Willingness to
Pay for Improved Water Quality in Sigulda, Latvia. Report prepared for the Harvard Institute for
International Development. The analysis suggested that although almost all respondents had some positive
WTP for the drinking water improvement, the WTP was generally low. The median WTP for the drinking
water improvement was estimated at 0.42 Lats per person per month. Assuming that there is in average
3.2 members in the household, the monthly WTP per household would be some 1.34 Lats. For
comparison, average household monthly cost of water services in Daugavpils was 2.08 Lats in 1997. The
respondents' WTP was even lower for the improvements of water quality in Gauja River (i.e. sewerage
services). Estimated median WTP for the Gauja River improvement was 0.13 Lats per person per month,
or 0.42 Lats per household. The average monthly household cost of sewerage services in Daugavpils was
1.21 Lats in 1997.
Municipal Development Fund
In order to assess the outcome of the MDF component, two of the types of subprojects carried out
by the MDF were reviewed ex-post: (i) district heating; and (ii) schools renovation.
The ICR reviewed the project analysis regarding the "Reconstruction of the District Heating Supply
Network in Jaunmarupe"
Sub-Borrower: Marupe Parish Council
Principal Performance Rating: Highly Satisfactory
Original Objective. The subproject's main objective was to extend the life and increase the lifetime the
operating efficiency of the Jaunmarupa village heating system, and improve environmental conditions in the
affected area.Secondary objectives were institutional improvements in the company
The project objectives were clearly defined and in line with the State's energy sector policy and the
Marupe Council development strategy. The State energy sector gave priority to increase energy efficiency
in local boiler houses and heating systems, especially with a focus on better understanding new technologies
- 39 -



before undertaking large- scale investment projects. In addition, the local government and the DH company
had shown interest in working together to implement changes in the way heat supply was delivered to
households in the Jaunmarupe village.
Original Components. The projects for the construction of Jaunmarupe village district heating supply
network included:
o      replacement of pipelines of underground district heating ducts and part of pipelines of
overground district heating ducts by prefabricated district heating pipes with polyurethane foam
insulation;
o      dismantling of 28 existing heat substations and replacement by new automatically
adjustable equipment for district heating and domestic hot water supply;
o      replacement or reconstruction of damaged insulation of pipelines (1700 m span) of
overground heating network of the village;
a      installation of 920 hot water meters and spherical taps in 453 apartments in Jaumnfirupe
village apartment-houses.
The project was financed by a subloan out of the MSDP Loan, and by Lats 51,000 Marupe local
self-government contribution.
Implementing Agency. SIA "Marupe"(Marupe Ltd). They managed the implementation process very
well. The cooperation of the staff of the company with the municipality was highly satisfactory. This was
one of the integrated, complex projects in which heat supply system reconstruction of Jaunmarupe village
included improvements to the supply of both heat and hot water to residents of individual houses and blocks
of apartment houses, companies, and also to a complex of greenhouses of "Marupe, Ltd". As a result of
beneficial experience of this subproject, which was financed by the World Bank, the municipality carried
out heating system rehabilitation in other villages - Marupe and Skulte.
Tariff and Regulatory Policies. A correctly chosen tariff is one of the most significant aspects of a
project that is related to service rendering, it is important when speaking about possibilities of new project
implementation and it is important from the point of view of the existing energy sector system maintenance
and from the point of view of the paying capacity of inhabitants. In the project implemented in Marupe
village the extra charge above the net cost of a heat unit for consumer groups in 2000 constituted: for
inhabitants - 14 %, for enterprises - 18,6 %, but for the hothouse complex -0 %. Evaluating the project,
inhabitants are the winners after all, because in order to repay the credits without the hothouse join-up, the
tariff would have had to be raised much higher than it was. The Marupe hothouse complex is the largest
consumer of heat energy in the area. Were it not for this consumer, the required supply of heat would be
much lower, annual turnover of the heat producer would be less and this would have caused the necessity to
fix a higher heat supply tariff.
"Marupe, Ltd" on its side invested in modernizing the boiler house. The enterprise "Marupe, Ltd"
hothouse (or greenhouse) complex (produces tomatoes and cucumbers) became more competitive on the
local market and in markets of neighboring countries. In its turn it ensures the municipality's tax revenues
were given more stable flows. As result of the project implementation, the residents in Junmarupe were
provided with hot water all year round, and the tariff levels were rationalized. The tariff of hot water is now
based on objectively higher production costs, but take into account seasonal variations, e.g. in the summer
period when heating practically is not used. The project enabled all of the produced heat to be rationally
used, yielding sound efficiency indicators.
-40-



Rehabilitation of the Marupe District Heating System. According to the feasibility study, a rapid
improvement in performance was to be realized after implementation of the project components. The
demand forecast was that consumption of heat, would first go down while the network was being upgraded,
and then it increase again from the lowest point of the 1997/98 winter to present. The project was a basis of
a continuation of a large investment project in Jaunmarupe village. The arranged routes and installed heat
units helped to demonstrate why a cogeneration station needed to be set up in the territory of "Marupe,
Ltd". Parallel funds from Denmark were arranged, with the Danish support covering 25 % of the total costs
of the subproject. This allowed the boiler house to be rehabilitated.
Table 9. Subproject Cost and Financing by Componen C thousand t  s)
Appraisal     Actual/Latest
Project Cost By Component                           Estimate        Estimate
Lats            Lats
Network Rehabilitation                               202.107         136.267
Consumer Heat Meters                                 85.000          63.262
Consumer Hot water Meters                            40.000          25.035
Maintenance Function Enhancement                      0,000          23.430
Other*                                                7.000           4,342
Total Baseline Cost                                  334.107         252.337
Total Project Costs by:
World Bank loan                                      252.337         201.87
Marupe parish Council - own contribution              81.77           51.0
Improvement of environmental conditions in affected areas. The Project has been able to help reduce
local air pollution, as well as emissions of greenhouse gases (C02). Here the largest effect of
environmental improvement is achieved by decrease of emission amounts of C02 gases into the
atmosphere.
The following table illustrates the reductions at the project completion (tons of pollutantlyear).
Dust       S02          N02            C02
47         _        1,18x 10 (-3)  1,77 x 10(-3)
kg/m3           kg/m3
Net Present Value/Economic rate of return. The subproject has had significant economnic benefits.The
key benefits have been the extended life of the DH assets, reduced fuel consumption, reduced water and
electricity costs, improved efficiency of automated consumer substations, and improvement of
environmental conditions in the affected areas. The MDF calculated the ERRs (ex-ante, ex-post) as
summarized in the following table 4:
Economic Rates of Return, Summary Table               ERRs
At appraisal                                          58.0 %
At completion                                         44.2 %
with intemational valuation of environment benefits   45.9 %
The main benefits comprised reduction of heat losses and the extended life of the DH assets. The MDF
estimates that the DH network average life was extended from about 5 years to 30 years. This explains why
the ERR is so high. also because of the produced heat energy is almost hundred percent used, thanks to the
-41 -



capacities taken by the greenhouses and minimal heat losses in the profoundl& insulated heat networks. The
benefit of reduced fuel consumption in heat production also is a very important issue. Comparing years
1998 and 1996, decrease of the amount of exhaust from the boiler house is 12 %, but comparing years
2000 and 1996, the decrease is already 14 %. In addition, electricity savings amounting compare
1996/2000 to 461,795 MWh/year of electricity were assumed or 8 345 Ls/ year. Reduction of electric
energy consumption was as follows: 1996- 45,93 kW/h/Gcal, 1998 - 22,17 kW/h/Gcal, 1999- 24,71
kW/h/Gcal, 2000- 26,22 kW/h/Gcal, where the average decrease was 46 %. The high rates of return were
tested for sensitivity. The life of the renewed assets was decreased by half to 15 years, and the rate of
return falls to around twenty percent, which is still acceptable.
Emergy EiFciency in Sclouls aind School IBuildings Reuovation. One of the indicators of effective
municipality development concems the quality of schools in local areas. In small urban areas, schools often
serve also as a municipal culture center. In the majority of small municipalities (parish) there is usually
only one elementary school. In many cases the school buildings were built decades ago and are close to a
breakdown, and the technical provision within the schools is obsolete. At the same time there are
municipalities where there are unfinished school buildings in structure but municipalities lack funds to
finish them. Many rural schools do not have an adequate sports hall or do not have them at all, impairing
the opportunity to get exercise among the children. The MDF component sought to address some of these
deficiencies. Assembly halls or some other larger schoolroom were adapted for the needs of physical
culture and sports.
In order to carry out capital investments in construction of unfinished school buildings and make them
efficient and justified, a number of preconditions had to be ensured:
o the object (a sports hail, an assembly hall, computer class in a school) developed by a municipality
should become a service center for the vicinity. Different sports and cultural activities would go on
there, gathering people from the whole parish and also from neighboring parishes (thus actually several
municipalities would cooperate in maintenance and use of the objects);
o by uniting neighboring parishes the parish infrastructure would be used jointly and the majority of
children from former neighboring parishes would study in the new schools, in convenient and modem
circumnstances, just because this is going to be their new common school now;
o the quality level of school programs would be increased, new teaching staff would be attracted, more
attention would be paid to languages and infornation, basis of entrepreneurship, and optional training
would be offered according to the requirement.
The MDF enabled school renovation works to be carried out in 15 municipalities. Some Lats 1.634
million together with the World Bank credits totalling about $1.63 million (48 percent of the $3.4 million of
MDF loan funds) were allocated to the schools renovation program, including construction of sports halls
in 5 municipalities. The project does not have rate of return analysis for this part of the MDF component,
but user satisfaction surveys conducted by the schools among parents and students showed very favorable
results.
-42 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
.a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
Month/Year     Count           Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
November                     I    Division Chief T. Blinkhorn;
1993/February                1    TTL K. Gilbertson, Fin. Econ.
19 94                        1    Municipal Fin. Jorge Martinez;
I    Urban Transport Iles;
I    Buildings/Energy C. Kaergaard;
I    Water/Env. Engineer Homanen;
I    Municipal Engineer Ossen
I    Mun. expenditure E Betubiza
I    E. Peterson Housing
May 1994                     1    TTL K Gilbertson (Fin. Econ.)
I    Solid Waste S. Cointreau
I    Env. Specialist D. Vetter
I    Economist S. Cornelius
I    Bldgs. Engineer C. Kaergaard
1    Urb. Transport Armstrong
1    Wright
I    Financial Analyst G. Dhalla
I    Water/Env. Engineer K.
Homanen
TWUWS specialist Balkalian
September 1994               1    TTL K Gilbertson (Fin. Econ.)
I    Env. specialist B. Baratz
I    Solid waste S. Cointreau
I    Urb. Transport
Armstrong-Wright
Water/Env.Engineer K.
Homanen
June/July 19 95              1    Env./Social specialist E. McGean
Appraisal/Negotiation
August 1995                  1    TTL Gilbertson (Fin. Econ.)
I    Water/Env. Eng. K
I    Homanen
I    Social specialist: E. McGean
1    Env. M. Gambrill
I    Fin. Analyst G. Dhalla
I    Urb. Transport Armstrong
3    Wright
Sweden SIDA, Denmark
EPA and EU PHARE joined
the mission
Supervision
February 1996                 1   TTL Gilbertson Fin. Econ.           S             S
I   Water/Env. Eng. K.
-43 -



Homanen
April 1996                   1   TTL K. Gilbertson (Fin. Econ.)    HS            S
I   Urb. Transport Armstrong
Wright
October 1996                 1   TTL K. Gilbertson (Fin. Econ.)     S            S
1   Operations Analyst M. Armaly
I   Env. Engineer K. Homanen
June 1997                    1   Operations Analyst M. Armaly       S            S
I   Env. Engineer K. Homanen
I   Financial Analyst. K Pakkari
August 1997                  1   Fin. Analyst K. Paakkari           U             S
September 1997               1   TTL J. Balkind (Urban Econ.)       S            S
I   Operations Analyst M. Armaly
November 1997                1   Transport Specialist S Mitric      U             S
I   Financial Analyst K Paakkari
MTR two missions:            I   TTL J. Balkind (Urban Econ.)       U            U
Riga Transport:              I   Operations Analyst M. Armaly
March/ April 1998;           1   Financial Analyst K. Paakkari
Daugavpils Water
April 1998                   1   Daugavpils Water Mission
l/P and D/O                     Leader: S. Soderstrom
ratings                      I   Fin. Analuyst K. Paakkari
downgraded to U in               Env. Engineer K. Johansson
June 11 590 Foin             I   Env. Specialist; K. Homanen
RVP and CD visit             I   Operations Assistant: K. Smits
Daugavpils June
1998 review
mission findings,
discuss with the
City
Oct/Nov 1998                 1   Sector Director (R. Halperin)      S             S
I   Urban Sector Mgr. (M.
I/P and D/O ratings          I   Thalwitz)
upgraded                     I   TTL J. Balkind (Urban Econ.)
I   Social Assessment: K.
Cartwright
Operations Officer: M. Armaly
June 1999 Riga               I   TTL J. Balkind (Urban Econ.)       S             S
Transport and                I   Operations Officer M. Armaly;
MDF; April 99                    Env. specialist 1. Kiskis
Daudavpils water                 Water engineer K. Johansson
December 1999                1   TTL J. Balkind (Urban Econ.)       S             S
Riga Transport.              I   Operations Officer M. Armaly
MDF
December 1999                1   Env. Specialist: I Kiskis          S             S
Daugavpils Water             I   Org./Mgt. Specialist M. Lariola
I   Fin. Analyst: K. Paakkari
-44 -



I   Mun. Engineer K. Johansson
I   Env. Economist P. Elliste;
I
May-June 2000               1   Env Specialist I. Kiskis           S             S
Daugavpils Water            I   Fin. Specialist K. Paakkan
I   Org./Mgt Specialist (Finland)
Riga Transport              I   Mun. Engineer K. Johansson;
I   Riga Transport J. Balkind
Sept. 2000, Riga            I   TTL J. Balkind (Urban Econ.);      S             S
Transport, MDF              I   Environmental Specialist I.
I   Kiskis
October 2000                1   Environmental Engineer
I   Environmental Economist P.
I   Elliste
Financial Specialist K. Paakkari
Mgt. Specialist M. Lariola
April 2001                  1   Env. Specialist 1. Kiskis          S             S
Daugavpils Water,           I   Mgt. Specialist M. Lariola
last supervision            1   Financial Specialist K.
mission on this part        I   Mun. Engineer K. Johansson;
June 2001 Riga               1  TT'L JBalkind (Urban Econ.)
Transport
November 2001;               1  TTL JBalkind (Urban Econ.);        S             S
June 2002 last
supervision mission         I   Ditto
Riga Transport
ICR
March 2002                  1    Tr. Econ. W. Denning
Oct 2002                    1    Tr. Economist W. Denning
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                  ActuaVLatest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               n/a                        406
Appraisal/Negotiation                    n/a
Supervision                              n/a                        469
ICR                                      n/a                        20.0
Total                                    n/a                        895
-45 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Acihievement of Objecdves/O3utputs of Componenats
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
LI Macro policies                   O H OSUOM O N * NA
Li Sector Policies                  OH OSU O M ON O NA
O Physical                          O H OSUOM O N O NA
O Financial                         O H OSU*M O N O NA
Oi Institutional Development        0 H (O SU 0 M 0 N 0 NA
C Environmental                     O H S SU O M O N O NA
Social
Ej Poverty Reduction          O H OSUOM O N * NA
L Gender                      OH   OSUOM O N * NA
O Other (Please specify)      OH OSUOM ON O NA
O Private sector development        0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
Oi Public sector management         0 H S SU O M 0 N 0 NA
i Other (Please specify)            O H OSUOM O N O NA
RATINGS BY COM1ONENT
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Riga Urban Transport: Part A
Rating
LlMacro policies                    O H OSUOM O N       O NA
I Sector Policies                   O H OSUOM O N O NA
O Physical                          @9) H OSUOM O N O NA
L Financial                         O H OSUOM O N O NA
L Institutional Development         0 H O SU OM 0 N 0 NA
Li Environmental                    O H O SU O M O N O NA
Social
O] Poverty Reduction          O H OSUOM ON O NA
Li Gender                     OH   OSUOM     O N * NA
O Other (Please specify)      O H OSUOM O N O NA
L Private sector development        0 H O SU O M 0 N O NA
O Public sector management          0 H O SU $ M 0 N 0 NA
O Other (Please specify)            O H OSUOM O N * NA
Dauzavpils Water and Waste Water: Part B
Rating
O Macro policies                    O H OSUOM O N O NA
O Sector Policies                   O H OSUOM O N O NA
Oi Physical                         0 H OSUOM O N O NA
Li Financial                        OH   OSUOM     O N O NA
O Institutional Development         () H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
El Environmental                    O H 6 SU O M O N O NA
-46-



Social
Li Poverty Reduction         O H OSUOM O N O NA
O Gender                     O H OSUOM O N O NA
3 Other (Please specify)     O H OSUOM O N eb NA
L Private sector development       0 H O SU O M 0 N 9 NA
Li Public sector management        0 H 0 SU D M 0 N 0 NA
L Other (Please specify)           O H OSUOM ON O NA
Municipal Development Fund: Part C
Rating
L Macro policies                   O H OSUOM O N O NA
Li Sector Policies                O H O SU    M  O N O NA
O Physical                         * H OSUOM     O N O NA
O Financial                       O H OSUOM O N O NA
Li Institutional Development       0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
L Environmental                    O H *SUOM O N O NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction          O H OSUOM O N () NA
Li Gender                    O H OSUOM O N Q NA
l Other (Please specify)     O H OSUOM O N O NA
L Private sector development       0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
L Public sector management        0 H * SU O M 0 N 0 NA
LiOther (Please specify)          O H OSUOM O N O NA
-47 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                   Rating
O Lending                                             OHSOS OU OHU
Li Supervision                                        OHS*S         OU     OHU
O Overall                                             OHS*S OU OHU
These ratings are an aggregate of the component ratings and line explanations below. Bank performance
was mnixed. Overall satisfactory.
6.2 Borrowerperformance                               Rating
Li Preparation                                        OHS*S         OtU    OHU
L  Government implementation performance              O HS * S      O  U   O HU
O Implementation agency performance                   O HS *S       O  U   O HU
O Overall                                             OHS*S OU OHU
Governuent performance and agency performance was mixed: Overall satisfactory. See detailed ratings
below.
RATINGS BY COMPONENT
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
Rita Urban TransDort: Part A
6.1 Bank performance                                  Rating
Li Lending                                            0 HS * S        0  U  0 HU Project could have been
more tightly designed: Indicators, financlal covenants
Li Supervision                                         0 HS 0 S     0  U   0 HU Bank should also have
emphasized cost side. Main emphasis was on fares/revenues
r                                Overall               O      HS * s   0  U  O HU  this rating is weighted by
the fact that the Bank lending preparation and supervision gave a marginally satisfactory outcome.
6.2 Borrower performance                              Rating
L Preparation                                          0 HS * S     0  U   0 HU Satisfactory, business
plans of companies prepared
Li Government implementation performance               0 HS 0 S     0  U   0 HU    Riga Council approved
necessary fare increases
fL Implementation agency performance                   0 HS 0 S     *  U   0 HU Transport operators did
not fully implement business plans
Z Overall                                              0 HS 0 S       * U  0 HU    Unsatisfactory, costs not
controlled, financing unsustainable
Daueavuils Water and Waste Water: Part B
6.1 Bank performance                                  Rating
Li Lending                                            OHS OS        O  U   O HU     Bankand SIA
Daugavpils prepared the project
El Supervision                                        O HS 0 S      O  U   O HU     Entity achieved good
institutonal progress Municipality would delay tariff increases
O Overall                                             0 HS 0 S      0  U   0 HU    supervision focussed on
- 48 -



costs side and tariffs, problem In declining consumption
6.2 Borrowerperformance                                  Rating
L] Preparation                                           0 HS 0    S   *  U   0 HU SIA Daugavpils Udens
had too large design standards
O Government implementation performance                  0 HS 0    S   0  U   0 HU     Munidpality would
delay tariff increases
O Implementation agency performance                     O HS * S       O  U   O HU Good Institutional
progress in SIA Daugavpils Udens
O Overall                                                0 HS 0 S      0  U   0 HU    Satisfactory performance
Municipal Development Fund: Part C
6.1 Bank performance                                     Rating
El Lending                                               0 HS 0    S   0  U   0 HU subproject criteria were
well formulated
O Supervision                                            O HS O    S   O  U   O HU     supervision was good
O Overall                                                O HS * S      0  U   O HU     Bankperformance
satUsfactory
6.2 Borrowerperformance                                  Rating
3 Preparation                                            OHS OS O U O HU
OI Government implementation performance                 0 HS 0    S   0  U    0 HU    MoF handled its part of
subloan approval
O Implementation agency performance                      0 HS 0    S   0  U    0 HU The MDF followed up on
subprojects well
? Overall                                                O HS * S      0  U   0 HU     Overall saUsfactory
performance
- 49 -



Annex 7. LAst of Supppourdng iDocuments
BANK DOCUMENTS
1. Staff Appraisal Report No. 14950-LV, November 20, 1995.
2. Identification Mission Aide-Memoire, November 1993.
3. Identification Mission Back-to-Office Report, March 21, 1994.
4. Preparation Mission Back-to-Office Report, June 14, 1994.
5. Preparation Mission - Enviromnental Aspects Back-to-Office Report, October 15, 1994.
6. Preparation Mission Back-to-Office Report, October 31, 1994.
7. Pre-appraisal Mission Back-to-Office Report, August 5, 1995.
8. Appraisal Mission Back-to-Office Report, August 9, 1995.
9. Pre-effectiveness Mission Back-to-Office Report, February 27, 1996.
10. Supervision Mission Back-to-Office Report, May 28, 1996.
11. Supervision Mission Back-to-Office Report, October 25, 1996.
12. Portfolio Status Report (non-mission, update only), January 21, 1997.
13. Supervision Mission Back-to-Office Report, June 25, 1997.
14. Review Mission - Daugavpils Water Component Back-to-Office Report, September 8, 1997.
15. Supervision Mission Back-to-Office Report, October 7, 1997.
16. Supervision Mission - Riga Urban Transport Component Back-to-Office Report, November 11, 1997.
17. Review Mission - Riga Public Transport Component Back-to-Office, December 8, 1997
(Infrastructure Sector Director joined the mission).
18. Supervision Mission Back-to-Office Report, April 15, 1998 (served as an MTR although not called
that; RVP later visited Daugavpils regarding the                     water/wastewater part).
19. Supervision Mission Back-to-Office Report, November 18, 1998 (served as an MTR although not
called that)
20. Supervision Mission Back-to-Office Report, June 18, 1999.
21. Supervision Mission Daugavpils Water Component Back-to-Office Report, December 7, 1999.
22. Supervision Mission Back-to-Office Report, December 21, 1999.
23. Project Status Report, June 28, 2000.
24. Supervision Mission Back-to-Office Report, November 2, 2000.
25. Supervision Mission Back-to-Office Report, June 27, 2001
26. Supervision Mission, BTO/PSR, June 30, 2002
27. ICR Mission Back-to-Office Report
OTHER DOCUMENTS
PolicyStmtofRigaCity.d  City of Riga Transport Policy Statement as annexed to the SAR
RiqaTraMcDevConcept 1999-2003Riga Traffic Development Concept 1999-2003, March 1999.
ICR WORKING FILES
-50-



Additional_Tables_2002-12-19.i
disbursements_PTU_03.: Summarizes Bank and locally funded disbursements. Supplied by the PTU.
ICR Economic Evaluation files:
ops_data_2002-12-19.) Summary of all operational and financial data. Includes the detailed IRR and
NPV calculations.
_
veh_histO3.xls Additional information on the vehicle fleets.
econ_re-evaLSARO3.x Provides an attempt to reconstruct the economic IRR and NPV calculations done
at appraisal.
- 51 -



Additional Annex 0. Comments from lBorrowerIrImplementing Agency
The following comments have been provided by the Rigs Public Transport Unit (PTU):
Operating costs have been controlled all the time, as monthly reports have always been requested to
be sent by the transport companies to the PTU for operational monitoring. Besides that, operating costs
covering a whole year of operation split by types of expenditures (e.g. fuel, electricity, salaries etc.) are
being compared and monitored among all three municipal operators. The normal procedure of the Riga City
Council even includes submission of data on both operating costs as well as qetailed revenue data before
end of each year for acceptance at various Committees of the Riga City Council (e.g. Traffic and Transport
Committee, Finance Committee).
Some of the main items contributing to ever increasing Operating expenditures have been
depreciation expenditures resulting from purchases of new buses (especially over the past few years), as
well as costs of fuel (see Graphs I and 2 below).
0,315  0.315
X 0,286  o  0  >  0X2 ~~~~~~~0,2
0.286  0.28   0.28                                0.3
-- 0.275 0.280265 025
2001
/0,241 0,24 0,237                         -3- 2000
0.218  0.22  .22                                         J9
01.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ om  om          Om      *     19
a~~~~ pa  a  C a A    t      ,  a, CxOo
Gesph 1.
Changes m libe costs of desel fud
duing a pmiad fiom 1999. to 2001. (mc.L VAT)
80% -                                       75%
70%m                               65%
601%                        4                  S ,
58%                                        ,uiovatsd~~~~~~~~~~~41  #1
~40%1--0Pmodno
30%-          21     %      _25% 1_                  Oto  s
20%     14%  111 9                                   POP0rv,o.io of
10%      %s.                                            b um n_I
0% Io.r                   
1997    1998    199     200     201     2
Year
Graph 2
Prporbmn of rew or ecently renovawd velucles
The business plans made in 1998, thus elaborating the original business plans, already envisaged a
slight increase in the number of staff at the companies, which is partly due to the fact that the actual
mileage operated by all companies has been growing (see Graph 3), which requires more drivers and
- 52 -



conductors. Besides that, the companies have signed contracts with bus suppliers that envisage maintenance
of buses at the companies rather than at the supplier's service stations.
TTP Total       Trams       Trolleybuses     Imanta         Talava
2001        30 435 800     13 689 400    16 746 400     11 606 496     11 530 400
2000        30 302 800     13 646 400    16 656 400     10 803 647     10 876 200
1999        30 291200      13 461 900    16 829 300     10 382 912    10 743 252
1998        29 902 500     13 241 800    16 669 900     10 294 337     10 060 199
Graph 3.
Kilometers run by the transport companies from 1998 - 2001
Air Quality Reports. Due to the fact that the project envisaged mainly achievement of specific
financial and operational targets of the municipal transport companies, air quality, which undoubtedly
contributes to sustainability of transport in the long run, was not specified as an exact target.
Nevertheless, due to the fact, that Latvia is an accession country to the EU, the new buses purchased
under the World Bank funded contracts are equipped with necessary EURO-2 and EURO-3 standard
engines, resulting in lower emissions. All buses purchased in the future will also comply with the latest
emission standards, therefore Riga City's commitment to improvement of environmental conditions
should not be questioned. Besides, the City of Riga has adopted an environmental strategy covering a
period from 2000 - 2010, which highlights the environmental problems and actions to be taken to
achieve reduction in air pollution generated by traffic.
Quarterly Operational Reports. PTU receives operational reports from all three companies on a
monthly basis, and occasionally PTU requests operational reports on a day-to-day basis when, for
example, Riga City takes a specific decision on transportation of a certain group of passengers. In such
cases, daily reports are sent to the PTU in order that daily changes in revenues, for example, on a
specific route, or from certain types of ticket sales can be monitored and necessary actions taken and
reports made.
Long-term financing. Riga City Council approved a traffic development concept in 1999 covering a
period from 1999 - 2003, which described the main tasks of the city for improvement of public
transport services and a financial standing of the companies and also a special purpose development
program for the period from 2002 - 2005, which determines the main tasks for the Riga's public
transport. Besides that, a Public Transport development model was worked out in Year 2000 by
company "Invest-Riga" which even fiurther detailed development targets and tasks for improvement of
public transport services. These plans, among other tasks, also foresaw long term financing of transport.
Comments from SIA Daugavpils Udens
Water. Contracts and procurement for water supply subcomponent were carried out according to the
WB regulations. At the beginning of the project the WB office in Riga organized several training seminars,
which contributed to establishing useful contacts and helped in implementing the project. The procurement
procedures of the WB were described in great detail and very clearly. However, in some cases it is very
difficult to observe the time of the performance of contracts, if all procedures are to be followed. Ziemeliu
wellfield can serve as an example: its construction was delayed for 6 months due to the necessity to agree
the changes in the power supply scheme with the WB.
During the implementation of construction contracts, the Daugavpils Udens had enough rights and
possibilities to ensure the most efficient technical solutions within the framework of the contract were
- 53 -



followed. During preparation the enterprise planned its development based on the forecasts and decisions
taken in 1989-90, since in 1995 there was no clear strategy of communal services development in the city
and in the country in general. This, undoubtedly, determined the company's position regarding the water
demand forecast and, consequently, the required capacity of water and wastewater plants.
Undoubtedly, a very important part in the institutional development of the company belongs to the 4
year cooperation with the water company from Tampere (Finland). In the course of this cooperation, the
company managed to reorganize its work in many aspects. New accounting and billing programs were
introduced, new repair and maintenance methods were mastered for the equipment and water supply and
sewage networks. The structure of the company's departments and units was changed in order to minimize
the operating costs and to maximize water and wastewater sales. Together with the partners the company
developed the criteria for day-to-day and strategic planning. All this enabled the company to adjust its
operations to market economy conditions.
Wastewater and Sewerage. This component of the project was financed by SIDA (Sweden) and
DEPA (Denmark) grants, NEFCO loan and from the local budget. The disbursement of funds was subject
to a number of conditions and limitations, which not always took into account national taxation and local
construction norms. The Daugavpils Udens didn't have enough opportunities to influence organizational
and technical decision-making during the implementation of the contracts. The procurement procedures
were regulated by the national rules of donor countries and the conditions of grant agreements. During the
preparation of tender documents it turned out that the volume of works considerably exceeded the available
financing. As a result, it was necessary to abandon some components, such as sludge utilization, etc. The
project implementation experience has shown that the most important thing for obtaining good results is the
institutional development of the company. It is a long process, 3-4 years. That's why it has to precede or
pass ahead of the technical project. This would ensure more reliable water demand forecasts and facilities
development plan.
PMU Director, S. Selitsky
The Municipal Development Fund commented that the project outcomes were fully satisfactory and
the institutional achievements in helping municipalities to prepare viable subprojects was high.
- 54 -






24041
Rert No.: iR
Tfype-:



