Page  1
                                                              CONFORMED COPY
                                                         LOAN NUMBER 3964 LV
                           DMEU Project Agreement
                  (Municipal Services Development Project)
                                   among
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                             AND DEVELOPMENT
                                    and
                          THE CITY OF DAUGAVPILS
                                    and
               THE DAUGAVPILS MUNICIPAL ENTERPRISE UDENSVADS
                          Dated January 26, 1996
                                                         LOAN NUMBER 3964 LV
                         DMEU PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated January 26, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) on the one
hand and THE CITY OF DAUGAVPILS and THE DAUGAVPILS MUNICIPAL
ENTERPRISE UDENSVADS (DMEU) on the other hand.
      WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between REPUBLIC OF LATVIA (the Borrower) and the Bank, the
Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to Twenty-Seven Million Three
Hundred Thousand dollars ($27,300,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on
condition that the City of Daugavpils and DMEU agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in
this Agreement;
      (B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and DMEU which will be guaranteed by the
City of Daugavpils, a portion of the proceeds of the loan
provided for under the Loan Agreement will be relent to DMEU on
the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the City of Daugavpils and DMEU, in consideration
of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement with the
Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in
Page  2
this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                                Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Loan Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the term "PMU" means the Project Management Unit
established at DMEU and referred to in Section 2.07 of this
Agreement.
                               ARTICLE II
                     Execution of Part B of the Project
      Section 2.01 (a) The City of Daugavpils and DMEU declare
their commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth
in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, without
any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under the Project Agreement,  DMEU shall carry out  Part B of
the Project  with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
environmental, and engineering and water supply management
practices,  the City of Daugavpils shall take or cause to be
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources necessary or appropriate to enable
DMEU to perform such obligations, and DMEU shall provide,
promptly as needed,  the funds, facilities, services and other
resources, required for the Project.
      (b)   The City of Daugavpils shall enter into a
contract satisfactory to the Bank with the DMEU regarding the
terms and conditions under which water and wastewater services
will be provided by the DMEU to the City of Daugavpils.
      (c)   The City of Daugavpils shall exercise its rights
under the contract specified in paragraph (b) of this Article
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower, the
City of Daugavpils and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes
of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
City of Daugavpils shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive
such contract or any provision thereof.
      Section 2.02. Without limitation upon the generality of
the obligations of the City of Daugavpils set forth in Section
2.01 of this Agreement, the City of Daugavpils shall:
      (a)   enable DMEU to comply with its obligations set forth
in Sections  3.02,  3.03 and  3.04 of this Agreement through
maintaining user charges at the requisite levels through
periodic adjustments made on the basis of a formula for
calculation of tariff increases in real terms agreed with the
Bank;
      (b)   permit DMEU to disconnect customers, as necessary, in
order to enable DMEU to comply with its obligations set forth
in Section  3.05 of this Agreement relating to the reduction of
collection period for accounts receivable to 60 days commencing
with the year 1997; and
      (c)   take all action required on its part for the
reorganization of DMEU in accordance with Section 2.08 of this
Agreement.
      Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Page  3
Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
      Section 2.04  (a) The City of Daugavpils and DMEU shall
carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Part B of
the Project.
      (b)   For purposes of Section 9.08 of the General
Conditions, and without limitation thereto, the City of
Daugavpils and DMEU shall:
            (i)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable
                  to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later
                  than six (6) months after the Closing Date or
                  such later date as may be agreed for this
                  purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a
                  plan for the future operation of Part B of the
                  Project; and
            (ii)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to
                  exchange views with the Borrower, the City of
                  Daugavpils and DMEU on said plan.
      Section 2.05 (a) DMEU shall duly perform all its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the City of Daugavpils and DMEU
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the
effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
      (b)   The City of Daugavpils shall provide an unconditional
guarantee for the repayment of the principal, interest and
other charges due under the DMEU Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
      Section 2.06 (a) The City of Daugavpils and DMEU shall, at
the request of the Bank, exchange views with the Bank with
regard to the progress of Part B of the Project, the
performance of their obligations under this Agreement and under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Loan.
      (b)   The City of Daugavpils and DMEU shall promptly inform
the Bank of any condition which interferes or threatens to
interfere with the progress of Part B of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance
by the City of Daugavpils and DMEU of their obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
      Section 2.07 (a) During the execution of the Project, DMEU
shall: (a) maintain the PMU with (i)  functions and
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, including coordination
with PCU in preparation of the report referred to in Section
3.05 (b) of the Loan Agreement, and (ii) staff, in adequate
numbers, with qualifications, experience and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank; and
      (b)   take all measures necessary to comply with all
relevant environmental requirements of the Borrower governing
the activities undertaken in carrying out Part B of the Project
as well as with an environmental monitoring plan for Part B of
the Project agreed with the Bank.
      Section 2.08 (a) By January 1, 1997, DMEU shall furnish to
the Bank its proposed plan for reorganization of the legal
structure of DMEU for review and comments; and
      (b)   by  December 31, 1997, take all action required to
implement the said reorganization plan taking into account the
comments and suggestions received from the Bank.
Page  4
                             ARTICLE III
                          Financial Covenants
      Section 3.01 (a) DMEU shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures of DMEU.
      (b)   DMEU shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
                  year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                  in any case not later than six (6) months after
                  the end of each such year, the report of such
                  audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
                  such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested; and
           (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
      Section  3.02 (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, DMEU shall, for each fiscal year after fiscal year
ending on December 31, 1996 generate funds from internal
sources equivalent to at least 1.3 times the debt service
requirements of DMEU for the relevant fiscal year on all debt
of DMEU.
      (b)   For the purposes of Section  3.02 (a):
            (i)   The term "funds from internal sources" means
                  the difference between:
                  (A)   the sum of (m) revenues from all sources
                        related to operations, (n) net non-
                        operating income and (o) any reduction in
                        working capital other than cash; and
                  (B)   the sum of all expenses related to
                        operations, including (x) administration,
                        maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of
                        taxes (excluding provision for
                        depreciation and other non-cash operating
                        charges), and (y) any cash dividends and
                        other cash distributions of surplus,
                        increase in working capital other than
                        cash and other cash outflows other than
                        capital expenditures.
            (ii)  The term "net non-operating income" means the
                  difference between:
                  (A)   revenues from all sources other than those
                        related to operations; and
                  (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
                        lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
                        of such revenues.
           (iii)  The term "working capital other than cash"
                  means the difference between (a) current assets
                  excluding cash and (b) current liabilities at
                  the end of each fiscal year.
Page  5
            (iv)  The term "current assets excluding cash" means
                  all assets other than cash which could in the
                  ordinary course of business be converted into
                  cash within 12 months, including accounts
                  receivable, marketable securities, inventories
                  and prepaid expenses properly chargeable to the
                  operating expenses within the next fiscal year.
            (v)   The term "current liabilities" means all
                  liabilities which will become due and payable
                  or could under circumstances then existing be
                  called for payment within 12 months, including
                  accounts payable, customer advances, debt
                  service requirements, taxes and payments in
                  lieu of taxes, and dividends.
            (vi)  The term "debt service requirements" means the
                  aggregate amount of repayments (including
                  sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest
                  and other charges, on debt.
           (vii)  The term "capital expenditures" means all
                  expenditures incurred on account of fixed
                  assets.
      Section 3.03 (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, DMEU shall, for each fiscal year after fiscal year
ending  December 31, 1996, have a net income greater than zero.
      (b)   For the purposes of Section  3.03 (a):
            (i)   The term "net income" means "net operating
                  income".
            (ii)  The term "net operating income" means total
                  operating revenues less total operating
                  expenses.
           (iii)  The term "total operating revenues" means
                  revenues from all sources related to
                  operations.
            (iv)  The term "total operating expenses" means all
                  expenses related to operations, including
                  administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and
                  payments in lieu of taxes, and provision for
                  depreciation on a straight-line basis at a rate
                  of not less than 4% per annum of the average
                  current gross value of DMEU's fixed assets, or
                  other basis acceptable to the Bank, but
                  excluding interest and other charges on debt.
            (v)   The average current gross value of DMEU's fixed
                  assets shall be calculated as one half (1/2) of
                  the sum of the gross value of DMEU's fixed
                  assets at the beginning and at the end of the
                  fiscal year, as valued from time to time in
                  accordance with sound and consistently
                  maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to
                  the Bank.
            (vi)  The term "current net value of DMEU's fixed
                  assets" means the gross value of DMEU's fixed
                  assets less the amount of accumulated
                  depreciation, as valued from time to time in
                  accordance with sound and consistently
                  maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to
                  the Bank.
      Section 3.04 (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, DMEU shall, earn for each of its fiscal years after its
Page  6
fiscal year ending on December 31, 1996, an annual return of
not less than 1.5% of the average current  net value of DMEU§s
fixed assets.
      (b)   For the purposes of Section  3.04 (a):
            (i)   The annual return shall be calculated by
                  dividing DMEU's net operating income for the
                  fiscal year in question by one half (1/2) of
                  the sum of the current net value of DMEU's
                  fixed assets at the beginning and at the end of
                  that fiscal year.
            (ii)  The term "net operating income" means total
                  operating revenues less total operating expenses.
           (iii)  The term "total operating revenues" means
                  revenues from all sources related to
                  operations.
            (iv)  The term "total operating expenses" means all
                  expenses related to operations, including
                  administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and
                  payments in lieu of taxes, and provision for
                  depreciation on a straight-line basis at a rate
                  of not less than 4% per annum of the average
                  current gross value of DMEU's fixed assets, or
                  other basis acceptable to the Bank, but
                  excluding interest and other charges on debt.
            (v)   The average current gross value of DMEU's fixed
                  assets shall be calculated as one half (1/2) of
                  the sum of the gross value of DMEU's fixed
                  assets at the beginning and at the end of the
                  fiscal year, as valued from time to time in
                  accordance with sound and consistently
                  maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to
                  the Bank.
            (vi)  The term "current net value of DMEU's fixed
                  assets" means the gross value of DMEU's fixed
                  assets less the amount of accumulated
                  depreciation, as valued from time to time in
                  accordance with sound and consistently
                  maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to
                  the Bank.
      Section 3.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
commencing with the year 1997, DMEU shall reduce the collection
period for its accounts receivable to 60 days.
                              ARTICLE IV
                      Effective Date; Termination;
                      Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
      Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank, the City of Daugavpils and of DMEU thereunder shall
terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall
promptly notify the City of Daugavpils and DMEU thereof.
      Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any
cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
                              ARTICLE V
Page  7
                       Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement
between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in
writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by
mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which
it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's
address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD               248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.         82987 (FTCC)
                                           64145 (WUI) or
                                          197688 (TRT)
      For The City of Daugavpils::
            Kr. Valdemara iela 1
            Daugavpils LV-5400
            Latvia
      For DMEU:
            Udensvada iela 3
            Daugavpils  LV-5400
            Latvia
      Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any document required or permitted to be executed,
under this Agreement on behalf of the City of Daugavpils and
DMEU may be taken or executed by the Chairman of the City
Council of the City of Daugavpils for the City of Daugavpils
and the Director of the DMEU for the DMEU, or such other person
or persons as the Chairman of the City Council of the City of
Daugavpils or the Director of the DMEU respectively  shall
designate in writing, and DMEU shall furnish to the Bank
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
      Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Basil G. Kavalsky
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                  Europe and Central Asia
Page  8
                        THE CITY OF DAUGAVPILS
                        By /s/ Ojars Kalnins
                                         Authorized Representative
                        THE DAUGAVPILS MUNICIPAL ENTERPRISE UDENSVADS
                        By /s/ Ojars Kalnins
                                          Authorized Representative
