 IEG
                                                                                              Report Number: ICRR14783

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                      Date Posted: 06/26/2015

              Country: Nepal
            Project ID: P113002                                                   Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Social Safety                Project Costs (US$M):                     21.7                59.0
                        Netsproject
  L/C Number:                                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                      21.7                59.0
      Sector Board:       Agriculture and Rural      Cofinancing (US$M):                         0                   0
                          Development
          Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                  09/30/2008
                                                              Closing Date:            09/30/2011            09/30/2014
          Sector(s):      Other social services (75%); Crops (14%); Public administration- Agriculture; fishing and
                          forestry (11%)
         Theme(s):        Global food crisis response (100%)


Prepared by:              Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Judith Hahn Gaubatz       Judyth L. Twigg         Lourdes N. Pagaran        IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    According to the Emergency Project Paper (page 9) and the Grant Agreement (page 6), the objective of the
    project was as follows:

        To ensure access to food and basic needs for vulnerable households in the short term in food insecure
         districts.

    In 2010, Additional Financing was approved for the project and the project objective was revised as follows
    (Financing Agreement, page 5):

        To improve access to nutritious food for highly food insecure households in the short -term;
        To create opportunities for improved agricultural production in food insecure districts .



b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 08/18/2010

c. Components:

    Component 1 (Appraisal: US$ 16.2 million; Appraisal + Additional Financing: US$ 58.5 million; Actual: US$ 50.5
    million): This component was to support food/cash for work programs in highly food insecure districts; these
    programs were to provide cash or in-kind payments to the poor in return for work performed in labor-intensive
    public works projects. Public works included critical infrastructure and livelihood activities such as rural road
   rehabilitation, flood control and soil conservation. The program aimed to provide 50 to 70 days of employment to
   about 400,000 individuals.

   Component 2 (Appraisal: US$ 3.0 million; Appraisal + Additional Financing: US$ 8.5 million; Actual: US$ 7.0
   million): This component was to provide support for fertilizer use in remote areas, in order to sustain local
   agricultural production. Because of significant price increases in fertilizer and fuel (alongside fuel shortages), the
   project was to provide a transport subsidy for transporting fertilizers and seed to remote district offices. The
   component aimed to reach 15,000 rural farmers.

   Component 3 (Appraisal: US$ 2.5 million; Appraisal + Additional Financing: US$ 3.0 million; Actual: US$ 1.5
   million): This component was to support project coordination and monitoring and evaluation activities.

   With the Additional Financing, the following revisions were made to project components:
     The food/cash for work program was to be continued, but it was to prioritize the more cost-effective cash
       -for-work modality, where local conditions allowed (i.e. access to financial services). Public works projects
       were also shifted away from road rehabilitation to creation of alternative livelihoods and and
       agriculture-related assets.
     A community challenge fund was to be introduced. It was to pilot test approaches to improving health and
       nutrition among pregnant and nursing mothers through behavior change.
     Technical assistance (including in the form of pilot interventions) was to be provided to increase the
       effectiveness of the government's cash transfer and public works programs.
     The development, production and distribution of breeder and foundation seeds was to be financed.


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   Project cost
     The actual project cost was US$ 59.0 million, compared to the original cost plus Additional Financing
        amount of US$ 69.5 million. The difference was due to a combination of cancellation of part of project funds
        (because of availability of alternative financing) and favorable exchange rate gains.

   Financing
      The project was originally financed by an IDA Credit of US$ 16.7 million and a grant from the Food Price
       Crisis Response Trust Fund of US$ 5.0 million. Additional Financing of US$ 47.8 million (from the IDA Crisis
       Response window, restructuring of an existing avian flu project, and remaining funds from an existing
       economic technical assistance project) was approved in 2010 to continue support during the food price
       crisis.
      US$ 5.3 million was cancelled (US$ 2.4 million from the Credit and US$ 2.9 million from the grant) in 2014.

   Borrower contribution
     There was no planned Borrower contribution.

   Dates
        May 2010: Additional Financing in the amount of US$ 47.8 million was approved. Although the peak of the
         food shortage crisis had passed, continuing chronic hunger and high food prices in the country necessitated
         continued financing. The project focus shifted from emergency response to medium- to longer-term aims,
         including improvements in agricultural production and government capacity to address chronic food
         insecurity. The project objective was formally revised. The closing date was extended from September
         2011 to September 2013.
        September 2013: The closing date was extended from September 2013 to September 2014, in order to
         allow for full implementation of pilot activities.
        September 2014: US$ 5.3 million was cancelled due to the availability of alternative funding from other
         donors, reduced scope of one of the pilot activities, and favorable exchange rate gains. There was also a
         reduced need for project coordination costs, as the food/cash for work program ended as planned and the
         remaining activities were the pilot activities.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   Original Objectives
   Relevance of the original project objective is rated High. The project was prepared as an emergency response to
   the food crisis, due to a significant rise in global fuel and food prices. It aimed to provide immediate assistance to
   vulnerable households, as severe drought conditions, limited road access, and high transportation costs also
   contributed to the food shortage. There were limited social protection programs functioning in the country to
   guard highly vulnerable populations during crisis. Although the emergency nature of the project has become less
   relevant to current country conditions, the project objective remains highly relevant to the Bank's Country
   Partnership Strategy (FY 2014-18), which identifies improved health and nutrition services, particularly for the
   poor and disadvantaged, as a key outcome. It is also highly consistent with the government's national strategy to
   address food insecurity.

   Revised Objectives
   Relevance of the revised project objectives is also rated High. The revised objectives shifted to address
   medium- to longer-term needs in improving the government's ability to address chronic food insecurity and local
   agricultural productivity to protect against future shocks from food shortages.

b. Relevance of Design:

   Original Objectives
   Relevance of the project's design under the original objective is rated High. The main project intervention, the
   food/cash for work program, responded to the immediate needs of the targeted population by providing access to
   food. The project design and institutional arrangements utilized existing programs (the government's Rural
   Community Infrastructure Works), which enabled rapid start-up in light of the crisis. Other project interventions,
   including the local public works projects and the provision of subsidies for fertilizer and seeds, aimed to support
   medium-term goals to sustain local agricultural production. The program targeted 21 districts that were identified
   as most severely affected by the food shortage (identified by the World Food Program's vulnerability analysis
   mapping) and an additional two districts that were severely affected by flooding; at the household level, it relied
   on self-targeting (through offering a lower-than-market wage rate for unskilled labor).

   Revised Objectives
   Relevance of the project's design under the revised objectives is rated Substantial. The interventions were
   relevant to the medium- to longer-term outlook, by increasing emphasis on activities to promote agricultural
   productivity and protect against future shocks from food shortages. Additional activities were intended to develop
   the government's capacity to address nutrition and food insecurity issues. These latter activities were largely
   designed as pilots, implemented on a small scale to demonstrate their effectiveness before being incorporated
   into government policy. However, the likelihood of sustaining impact was somewhat limited, as the project did
   not include interventions to qualitatively improve the existing community infrastructure program.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   To ensure access to food and basic needs for vulnerable households in the short term in food insecure districts
   / To improve access to nutritious food for highly food insecure households in the short -term (Original and
   Revised Objective)

   According to the PAD (pages 2-3), there were approximately 2.5 million rural people affected by food price
   increases and in need of immediate food assistance. Of these, 1.3 million have been classified as highly to
   severely food insecure.

   Outputs
     Implementation of food/cash for work program. Over 140,000 households worked 60-80 days per year,
       which achieved the target of 60, in exchange for either food or cash. The project distributed over 88,000
       metric tons of food and US$ 5.2 million in cash transfers.
     Distribution of micronutrient powder to 97,526 children aged 5-69 months.
     Implementation of pilot activity, in which four districts (2,693 households) implemented activities to promote
       improved nutrition behavior among pregnant and nursing women. An impact evaluation was also carried
       out, with results expected in mid-2015.
     Implementation of pilot activity, in which cash transfer beneficiaries received at least one payment via
       branchless banking. This pilot was implemented in three of six planned districts; the remaining three
       districts were dropped from the activity due to complications with the procurement of the service payment. A
       process evaluation was carried out.
     Establishment of monitoring information systems in district offices.

   Outcomes
     940,000 individuals benefitted from the food/cash for work program. The ICR does not provide a
       disaggregation of the data between direct beneficiaries who participated in the food/cash for work program,
         and indirect beneficiaries who resided in the areas where the public works assets were being created. This
         surpassed the target of 800,000.
        The household food consumption score for poor and food insecure households in project areas increased
         from 42 to 48. The household food consumption score is based on dietary diversity, food frequency, and
         relative nutritional importance of different food groups.
        98.0% of targeted households reported an increased ability to meet their food needs. This surpassed the
         target of 95.0%.

    Achievement is rated Substantial due to the meeting of implementation targets and substantial evidence of
    improved food consumption.


    To create opportunities for improved agricultural production in food insecure districts (Revised Objective)

    Outputs
      Implementation of food/cash for work program. Over 140,000 households worked 60-80 days per year,
        which achieved the target of 60, in exchange for either food or cash. Works included those that directly
        promoted the creation of agricultural assets (small-scale irrigation, greenhouses, orchards and fishponds,
        and agriculture training) as well as those that focused on community infrastructure (community water points,
        schools, and rural roads).
      Provision of subsidies to transport over 11,200 metric tons of fertilizer. This surpassed the target of 3,500
        metric tons.
      Production of over 1,700 metric tons of breeder and foundation seeds, including crop varieties that are better
        suited to food insecure areas.
      Completion of studies on improving the production of breeder and foundation seeds, fertilizer policy options,
        and beneficiary assessments.

    Outcomes
      The ICR did not disaggregate the number of farmers that received the fertilizer/seed support, but project
        monitoring indicated that 100 percent of the fertilizer reached smallholder farms (those with less than 1
        hectare of land) (ICR, page 13). However, the ICR (page 9) reports that 9 out of the 23 districts saw a
        decline in the amount of fertilizers available at least at one point over the course of the project because of
        the overall lack of fertilizer supply in the country.

    Achievement is rated Modest, as there was limited evidence of actual improvements in agricultural production.

5. Efficiency:

    No economic analysis was prepared at appraisal. The project design included elements that would likely
    contribute to efficiency in the use of project resources, such as the targeting of the most highly food insecure
    districts, self-targeting of the poorest households, and the installation of a monitoring information system that
    would eliminate duplicate or "ghost" beneficiaries. Costs for Component 1 (86% of actual project cost) were
    expected to be high in relation to anticipated benefits, due to food storage, handling, and transport costs
    associated with the need to deliver the food to remote areas via helicopter. The fertilizer subsidy intervention
    (less than 15% of actual project cost) was also not expected to be cost-effective.

    The ICR (Annex 3) includes a calculation of costs and benefits based on actual project outputs. The analysis
    confirms a relatively high cost-benefit ratio of 2.17 in 2008/09 and 1.74 in 2010/11. However, the cost-benefit
    ratio decreased further to 0.64 in the last six months of the project period. It is noteworthy that the project design
    was adjusted over the project period to increase efficiency, namely shifting to more cash for work, instead of food
    for work, exchanges; helicopter transport was ended in June 2011. As noted in the ICR (page 31), M&E data
    indicated that cash for work programs were judged to be more efficient and therefore, with the approval of the
    Additional Financing, the decision was taken to implement cash for work instead of food for work, where possible.
    Lastly, the "benefits" identified in the calculation do not include less tangible benefits such as nutritional
    improvements and social/economic benefits from improved community infrastructure.

    Due to the above information, as well as the lack of a feasible least-cost option, the efficiency of the project is
    considered Substantial.

a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                Rate Available?                     Point Value                  Coverage/Scope*
   Appraisal                       No
   ICR estimate                    No
                                      * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

   Original Objectives - Satisfactory
   Relevance of the original project objectives is rated High and relevance of the project design is rated High.
   Achievement of the objective to ensure access to food and basic needs for vulnerable households in the short
   term in food insecure districts is rated Substantial due to meeting of implementation targets and substantial
   evidence of improved food consumption. Efficiency is rated Substantial.

   Revised Objectives - Moderately Satisfactory
   Relevance of the original project objectives is rated High and relevance of the project design is rated Substantial.
   Achievement of the objective to improve access to nutritious food for highly food insecure households in the
   short-term is rated Substantial due to meeting of implementation targets and substantial evidence of improved
   food consumption. Achievement of the objective to create opportunities for improved agricultural production in
   food insecure districts is rated Modest due to limited evidence. Efficiency is rated Substantial.

   According to OPCS/IEG harmonized guidelines, the overall outcome rating of a restructured project is
   determined by weighting the proportion of the grant that disbursed before and after the project restructuring. The
   project disbursed US$ 14.1 out of US$ 59.0 million (or 23.9%) before the restructuring, and US$ 45.05 million
   out of US$ 59.0 million (or 76.4%) after the restructuring. Therefore, the weighted overall outcome rating is
   Moderately Satisfactory .

a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   The peak of the food shortage crisis had passed by the end of the project period; however, food insecurity
   remains a chronic issue for many parts of the country. The main project interventions - food/cash for work
   programs and transport subsidies - were ended with the project closing, and the government has not allocated
   budget to continue these programs. However, the shift in emphasis to improving agricultural production may
   contribute to longer-term outcomes, and the pilot testing of activities to improve the government's capacity to
   address food insecurity may also help by demonstrating potential options for the future.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   The project's design and implementation arrangements were built on existing programs to facilitate
   implementation readiness. It relied on the logistical capacity and experience of the World Food Program
   (WFP) in accessing remote areas and implementing food/cash for work programs as a means to provide
   immediate food assistance. It also utilized the ongoing Rural Community Infrastructure Works program,
   implemented by the WFP and the Ministry of Local Development. Utilization of WFP capacity helped to
   address risks of low implementation capacity and low fiduciary capacity. However, the project also relied on
   WFP's existing M&E system, which did not necessarily establish clear linkages between project outputs and
   outcomes (see Section 10).


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                        Moderately Satisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

   The adjustments to project design, at the time of Additional Financing, were clearly based on lessons learned
   from the original project implementation. Critical revisions to the project objectives and the results framework
   were also made during the project restructuring, shifting emphasis of activities to more cost-effective
   cash-for-work programs and to creation of agriculture-related assets. The Bank team took proactive steps to
   identify alternative sources of financing and technical support when government budget releases were
   delayed. It also provided support to address initial problems in fiduciary management. Revisions to the
   project indicators helped to address the shortcomings in the M&E design.



  Quality of Supervision Rating :               Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   The government provided an overall supportive policy environment; however, there were repeated delays in
   releasing budget due to the Assembly's failure to approve the national budget in a timely manner. There were
   also delays in signing project agreements. These led to some implementation delays, including in critical
   evaluation activities and the pilot activity aimed to improve nutrition of pregnant and nursing mothers.


  Government Performance Rating                                Moderately Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

   The Ministry of Local Development was the primary implementing agency for the food/cash for work
   programs. With significant help from the WFP, it effectively implemented most planned activities, albeit with
   delays. As noted in beneficiary assessment findings (ICR, page 17), there were some shortcomings in the
   dissemination of information about the program and inadequate supervision of public works projects. There
   were no major fiduciary problems reported.

   The Department of Agriculture was the primary implementing agency for the fertilizer/seed subsidy programs.
   It was overall effective in implementing activities as planned, although there were some shortages reported in
   fertilizer supply during varying points in the project period.


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   The original M&E framework relied heavily on WFP's existing reporting framework and data collection
   instruments, given the implementing agency's limited M&E capacity. As noted in the ICR (page 9), this
   "represented a pragmatic choice the project team had to make." However, this meant that the links to the
   project-specific results framework were "somewhat tenuous." For the pilot activities, there were evaluative
   activities planned to assess results and inform future government programs.

b. M&E Implementation:

   Data according to the original set of indicators were not well-tracked, for example, the number of acute food
   insecure people in the most critical areas receiving food aid (no data available disaggregating this figure from the
   total number of project beneficiaries) and the proportion of district headquarters in targeted areas that maintained
   access to fertilizers and seeds. Important evaluative activities were carried out as planned, including for the
   branchless banking pilot, as well as three rounds of beneficiary surveys.


c. M&E Utilization:

   As noted in the ICR (page 31), M&E data indicated that cash-for-work programs were judged to be more efficient
   than food-for-work programs, and therefore, with the approval of the Additional Financing, the decision was taken
   to implement cash-for-work where possible. However, the ICR (page 20) reports that, despite repeated urging
   from the Bank to analyze monitoring data and review them in a higher-level policy forum, the government did not
   take full advantage of the opportunities to review its existing policies on food security.


M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

   The project was classified as a Category "B" project. The Environmental and Social Management Framework
   (ESMF) from a parallel project was considered valid for this project, with some adjustments made to operational
   procedures. Safeguards on Cultural Property (OP 4.11), Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12), and Indigenous
   Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) were triggered. The ICR (page 10) reports that no significant environmental or social risks
   materialized during the project period. There were some minor shortcomings noted: there was no environmental
   management plan for some sub-projects (community infrastructure works), and first aid and work safety items
   were not available or not in use at some sites. Accordingly, the Bank team recommended regular technical
   monitoring of the community public works projects by the World Food Program.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

   Procurement: Procurement performance was rated Moderately Satisfactory throughout the project period,
   although there were some delays that affected the pace of implementation. There were no major issues with
   procurement compliance, according to the ICR.

   Financial Management: Financial management performance was initially rated Moderately Unsatisfactory but
   then improved to the satisfactory range for the remainder of the project period. The Ministry of Local
   Development improved its capacity over the project period, and no major problems were reported. Minor
   shortcomings included overdue audit reports (FY 2009/10 and FY 2010/11) due to delays in release of financial
   documents by the World Food Program. The ICR does not report on results of the audit reports (i.e. unqualified
   or not).

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

   None reported.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                            ICR                 IEG Review                     Reason for
                                                                                    Disagreement/Comments
                   Outcome: Moderately                 Moderately
                            Satisfactory               Satisfactory
        Risk to Development Significant                Significant
                   Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Satisfactory             Moderately             There were some shortcomings in the
                                                       Satisfactory           original M&E framework.
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                     Moderately
                              Satisfactory                   Satisfactory
              Quality of ICR:                                Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    Lessons reported in the ICR and adapted by IEG:

         Budgetary top-up to existing government programs can be an expedient way to respond to emergencies,
          but may put sustainability of benefits at risk. In the case of this project, the injection of additional financial
          resources helped to address the immediate food crisis, but interventions to improve the quality of the
          program were not undertaken and therefore the benefits likely diminished when funding ended.
         A project that is initially conceived and designed as an emergency operation can be used as an
          opportunity to begin addressing longer-term challenges, once the peak of the crisis has passed. In the
          case of this project, the approval of significant additional financing was used as an opportunity to shift
          focus to the government's capacity to address chronic food insecurity, including adding interventions to
          build capacity and to demonstrate policy options. The formal revision of the project objective also helped
          to emphasize the shift in project focus.

14. Assessment Recommended?                    Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    The ICR is concise and provides a candid discussion of the project given its emergency context. Disaggregated
    data would have strengthened the analysis of the results chain (better linkage of project outputs to outcomes).
    The ICR does not report on the results of audits (i.e. unqualified or not).

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
