                                      Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR00003263



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
             (IDA-45100 IDA-47500 IDA-H4240 IDA-H5790 TF-93058)



                                        ON A

                                  GRANT/CREDIT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 40.1 MILLION
                        (US$ 58.2 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                          TO

                                       NEPAL

                                        FOR A

                         SOCIAL SAFETY NETS PROJECT

                                    March 27, 2015




Social Protection and Labor Global Practice
Nepal Country Department
South Asia Region
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

              (Exchange Rate Effective March 9th, 2015)

               Currency Unit = Nepalese Rupee (NPR)
                       NPR 1.00 = US$ 0.01
                      US$ 1.00 = 100.07 NPR

                          FISCAL YEAR
                          July 1 to June 30

               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AF                   Additional Financing
AFSP                 Agriculture and Food Security Project
ASC                  Agricultural Service Center
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
CCF                  Community Challenge Fund
CO                   Community Organizer
CPS                  Country Partnership Strategy
DDC                  District Development Committee
DOA                  Department of Agriculture
EMP                  Environmental Management Plan
ICR                  Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA                  International Development Agency
ISR                  Implementation Supervision Report
MLD                  Ministry of Local Development
MIS                  Management Information System
MOFALD               Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development
MOU                  Memorandum of Understanding
NARC                 Nepal Agricultural Research Center
NPC                  National Planning Committee
PAD                  Project Appraisal Document
PAF                  Poverty Alleviation Fund
PIT                  Project Development Objective
PDO                  Project Implementation Team
RCIW                 Rural Community Infrastructure Works
SSN                  Social Safety Net
SSNP                 Social Safety Nets Project
VDC                  Village Development Committee
WFP                  The World Food Programme




                                 ii
       Vice President: Annette Dixon
    Country Director: Johannes C.M. Zutt
    Practice Manager: Pablo Gottret
Project Team Leader: Jasmine Rajbhandary
   ICR Team Leader: Yasuhiko Matsuda




                   iii
                                                 NEPAL
                                   Social Safety Nets Project (P113002)



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 11
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 17
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 17
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 20
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 20
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 21
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 22
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 30
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 34
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 36
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 39
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 40
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 51
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 55




                                                             iv
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Social Safety
Country:                Nepal                   Project Name:
                                                                          NetsProject
                                                                          IDA-45100,IDA-
                                                                          47500,IDA-
Project ID:             P113002                 L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                          H4240,IDA-H5790,TF-
                                                                          93058
ICR Date:               03/30/2015              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     ERL                     Borrower:
                                                                          NEPAL
Original Total
                        USD 0.00M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 54.16M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 54.07M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Department of Agriculture
 Ministry Of Federal Affairs and Local Development
 The World Food Programme
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       07/29/2008     Effectiveness:             01/28/2009        01/28/2009
                                                                                  09/26/2013
Appraisal:            09/05/2008     Restructuring(s):
                                                                                  09/12/2014
Approval:             09/30/2008     Mid-term Review:           10/17/2011        10/17/2011
                                     Closing:                                     09/30/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings            Borrower            Ratings
Quality at Entry:     Satisfactory         Government:         Moderately Satisfactory




                                                i
                                                      Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                                            Moderately Satisfactory
                                                      Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                          Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                                         Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                          Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                                Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                      Quality at Entry
Project at any time          Yes                                               None
                                                      (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any                               Quality of
                             No                                          None
time (Yes/No):                                        Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                             Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                     Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Crops                                                                    14                   14
Other social services                                                    75                   75
Public administration- Agriculture, fishing and forestry                 11                   11


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Global food crisis response                                              100                100

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                            At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:              Annette Dixon                         Isabel M. Guerrero
Country Director:            Johannes C.M. Zutt                    Susan G. Goldmark
Practice
                             Pablo Gottret                         Adolfo Brizzi
Manager/Manager:
Project Team Leader:         Jasmine Rajbhandary                   Gayatri Acharya
ICR Team Leader:             Yasuhiko Matsuda
ICR Primary Author:          Anastasiya Denisova




                                                   ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To ensure access to food and basic needs for vulnerable households in the short term in
food insecure districts.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
To enable Government to improve access to nutritious food for highly food insecure
households in the short term and to create opportunities for improved agriculture
production in food insecure districts.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally        Actual Value
                                              Values (from       Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                               approval           Target        Completion or
                                              documents)          Values        Target Years
                Improved access to food in food insecure districts for poor households
Indicator 1 :
                vulnerable groups in short term
Value
                                            800,000                         940,000
quantitative or 0
                                            beneficiaries                   beneficiaries
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/30/2008                    07/30/2009                      07/07/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Indicator dropped at the Additional Financing
achievement)
                Household food consumption score above baseline of 42 for poor and food
Indicator 2 :
                insecure households in food insecure districts
Value
quantitative or 42                          &gt;42                          48
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2010                    09/30/2013                      07/30/2012
                The FCS is a composite score based on dietary diversity, food frequency, and
Comments        relative nutritional importance of different food groups.
(incl. %
achievement) Public works component (component 1a) completed implementation prior to
                July 2012
                Number of households benefitting from assets created for agriculture production
Indicator 3 :
                activities
Value
quantitative or 0                           140,000                         142,434
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/01/2008                    09/30/2013                      07/31/2012
Comments
                *Target was set on an annual basis to avoid double counting of repeat
(incl. %
                beneficiary households across years.
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Direct and indirect project beneficiaries (number)




                                              iii
Value
                                           170,000
quantitative or   0                                                          185,934 households
                                           households
Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/30/2008               09/30/2013                        05/03/2013
Comments
                  *The number combines beneficiary households from public works and support
(incl. %
                  for seed and fertilizer components.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Direct project beneficiaries, % women
Value
quantitative or   0                        40%                               58%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/30/2008                09/30/2013                        05/03/2013
                  % female is tracked only for the Public Works component, so the measure
Comments
                  represents % of public works beneficiaries who are female. Since no new
(incl. %
                  activities were undertaken under the component since July 2011 (FY12), the data
achievement)
                  reported is from October 2011.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                   Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                             Values (from                      Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                             Revised
                                                approval                      Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                              documents)                      Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Number of days of food/cash for work per household per annum
Value
(quantitative   0                         60                                    60-80
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/30/2008                  09/30/2013                            09/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Percent of targeted households reporting increased ability to meet their food
Indicator 2 :
                needs
Value
(quantitative   0                         95.00                                 98.00
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/30/2008                  09/30/2013                            08/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %        *Based on beneficiary assessments
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Maintain or increase current level of fertilizer availability in remote districts
Value
(quantitative   484.98                    3500.00                               11213.90
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/30/2008                  09/30/2013                            07/31/2012
Comments        *Indicator captures cumulative total quantity of fertilizer transported in year
(incl. %        2008-2012. Reported by DOA. Supervision missions tracked changes at a district
achievement) and year level.



                                                 iv
Indicator 4 :     Improved community water points constructed or rehabilitated under the project
Value
(quantitative     0                           200.00                             405.00
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/30/2008                  09/30/2013                         07/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %          This number is cumulative through the life of the project
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Roads rehabilitated under the project
Value
(quantitative     0.00                        600.00                             851.00
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/30/2008                  09/30/2013                         07/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %          *measured in km - cumulative through the life of the project
achievement)
                  Number of districts in which cash transfer beneficiaries receive at least one
Indicator 6 :
                  payment via branchless banking
Value
(quantitative     0                           6                                  3
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/27/2013                  09/30/2014                         09/30/2014
Comments
                  *3 out of 6 pilot districts were dropped from the pilot due to complications with
(incl. %
                  the procurement of the service payment
achievement)
Indicator 7 :     Completion of CCF implementation as designed
Value
(quantitative     0                           100.00                             60%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/27/2013                  09/30/2014                     06/04/2014
Comments          This represents the status of Component implementation during the last ISR
(incl. %          mission which was in June 2014. The project closed in September 2014. Thus
achievement)      the reported number understates the % of completion.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                     Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                            IP              Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                 (USD millions)
  1     04/11/2009             Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory              0.00
  2     11/28/2009             Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory            11.70
  3     05/22/2010             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   11.73
  4     01/18/2011             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   12.55
  5     06/29/2011             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   48.43
  6     12/23/2011             Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory            48.54
  7     06/05/2012             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   49.80
  8     12/01/2012             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   49.92



                                                  v
  9   06/25/2013          Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory         51.95
 10   01/15/2014          Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory         51.95
 11   07/28/2014          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                52.39


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     To enable full implementation
                                                     of the pilots associated with the
                                                     social safety nets activities and
                                                     to introduce results indicators
 09/26/2013       N       S     MS           51.95
                                                     associated with two sub-
                                                     components which hitherto had
                                                     no indicator associated with
                                                     them.
                                                     To cancel the equivalent of
                                                     USD5.3 million that was
 09/12/2014       N       S       S          53.37   unlikely to be spent by the
                                                     closing date of September 30,
                                                     2014




I. Disbursement Profile




                                          vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
1.     When the Social Safety Nets Project (SSNP) was approved by the Board in
September 2008, Nepal had just emerged from a decade-long insurgency. 1 The
Comprehensive Peace Agreement was reached in late 2006 and a Constituent Assembly
was elected with the mandate of drafting a new constitution. Nepal formally abolished the
monarchy in June 2008. Yet the Constituent Assembly was unable to draft and enact a new
republican constitution during its term which ended in 2013. In short, the period in which
SSNP was prepared and implemented was characterized by political turmoil and
uncertainty over the immediate future of the country, including its constitutional structure.

2.      Despite the conflict and the limited state capacity for service delivery, Nepal
achieved remarkable progress in poverty reduction as poverty headcount fell from 42 to 31
percent between 1995-96 and 2003-04. 2 However, the decline in poverty was accompanied
by other negative developments such as increased inequality, persistent geographic
disparities in poverty incidence and social indicators, the perception as well as reality of
social exclusion among certain categories of the population such as women and certain
caste groups, and the abysmal record in child malnutrition, among the worst in the world. 3

3.      Nepal was in the midst of this post-conflict transition period when it was hit by the
global fuel and food crises. Negative effects of the crises threatened to undo the benefits of
the poverty reduction and social development of the previous decade. In turn, a worsened
economic condition could have undermined the ongoing attempts to regain people’s trust
in the State and the still fragile peace process.

4.      Nepal’s challenging geo-climatic conditions aggravated the negative effects of the
food and fuel crises. First, limited road access and the resultant high transportation costs
tended to keep food prices high in Mid- and Western Nepal. This condition was
exacerbated by the rising fuel prices as a result of the global fuel crisis. Second, severe
drought had led to drop in crop production by as much as 70 percent in some communities.
Finally, in August 2008, severe floods in the Eastern districts of Sunsari and Saptari placed
about 50,000 people in immediate need of food assistance.




1
  The conflict particularly affected the rural areas where the state presence had historically been limited while
largely sparing urban areas under government control. It resulted in more than 14,000 deaths and untold
numbers of injured, “disappeared” and internally displaced people.
2
  The poverty headcount continued to drop to 25 percent in 2011.
3
  Nepal Resilience Amidst Conflict: An Assessment of Poverty in Nepal, 1995-96 and 2003-04. World Bank
Report No. 34834-NP, 2006.

                                                       1
5.      Although the food price inflation was lower in Nepal than in other South Asian
countries, Nepal was particularly vulnerable to this shock due to some of its long-standing
structural weaknesses, including: (i) the large number of the vulnerable population
concentrated around the official poverty line, high malnutrition rate (41 percent); (ii) lack
of an institutionally well-established food-based safety net program to effectively
safeguard the impact of the crisis on poor and vulnerable populations; and (iii) small
average farm size and low agricultural productivity, resulting in four out of every five
households in Nepal being net food buyers. 4 Thus in addition to those in immediate need
of food assistance at the time of the project appraisal the World Food Programme (WFP)
estimated that more than 6 million people in 23 districts in Western Nepal were chronically
food insecure.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
“To ensure access to food and basic needs for vulnerable households in the short term in
food insecure districts.” 5

Outcome Indicator
•   Improved access to food in food insecure districts for vulnerable groups in short term.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
“To enable Government to improve access to nutritious food for highly food insecure
households in the short term and to create opportunities for improved agriculture
production in food insecure districts.” 6

Outcome Indicators:
• Household food consumption score above baseline of 42 for poor and food insecure
   households in food insecure districts.
• Number of households benefitting from assets created for agriculture production
   activities.
• Direct and indirect project beneficiaries (number), of which female (percentage).

6.      The PDO was revised when the Additional Financing (AF) was approved in May
2010 to continue the support, given the continuing chronic hunger, malnutrition and high
food prices in the target areas. Under the AF, the project’s focus shifted from the exclusive
aim at short-term relief and incorporated some medium-term orientations, such as the
specific support for sustainable improvement in agricultural production.




4
  Nepal Agriculture and Food Policy Note. World Bank. July 2008
5
  SSNP Financing Agreement, p.5, Nov. 2, 2008.
6
  SSNP Additional Financing Agreement, p.5. Aug. 18, 2010.


                                                  2
1.4 Main Beneficiaries
7.       The primary beneficiaries of SSNP were food insecure individuals located in food
insecure and remote districts. However, some of the components had a more precisely
identified set of beneficiaries. In particular the public works component (Component 1/1a)
was designed to benefit the food-insecure households from the 21 most food insecure
districts 7 and two districts from Terai (Saptari and Sunsari) that were affected by Koshi
floods in 2008. The project component aimed at increasing agricultural productivity via
support of the fertilizer subsidy and seed development (Component 2) targeted small holder
farmers in the project area. The beneficiaries of the health and nutrition pilot component
(Sub-component 1b) were expecting and new mothers with children/infants below two
years old. Whereas the sub-component 1c introduced after the AF mostly benefited
Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development (MOFALD), although to the extent the
pilot resulted in improved service delivery, the beneficiaries of the social security
allowances in the targeted districts would have benefited as well.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
8.      Component 1: Rural Community Infrastructure Works (RCIW) (US $16.78
million; actual amount disbursed by the closing date of the project US $52.3 million):
The Component 1 supported the Government’s existing public works program, Rural
Community Infrastructure Works (RCIW), with budgetary top-up so that the program
could expeditiously expand and address short-term shortage in food and basic needs among
vulnerable households. RCIW offered 50 to 70 days of employment in public works
annually to about 480,000 individuals in 21 food-insecure districts to build community
infrastructure such as rural roads, irrigation, flood control, soil conservation structure, etc.
The program operated with two levels of targeting: (i) geographic targeting according to
the level of food insecurity in districts; 8 and (ii) self-targeting of the poor within food
insecure communities at the household level. The component also provided micro nutrient
supplementation to children aged 6-59 months.

9.       Component 2: Support for fertilizer use in the remote areas (US $3 million;
actual amount disbursed by the closing date of project is US $4.96 million): The
component supported: (a) increased budget for the transport subsidy for private sector
transport of fertilizers and seeds to 26 remote districts, and (b) data collection, monitoring
and targeting activities to ensure small farmers were getting the subsidized fertilizers. 9 The
activities in the latter included the design and piloting of a voucher scheme for poor farmers


7
  The food insecure districts are determined through WFP’s food security analysis work; Vulnerability
Analysis Mapping (VAM).
8
  According to the Project Paper MOLD and WFP used poverty maps and WFP’s food security surveillance
system and the WFP Market and Price Impact Assessment Report. Twenty-one districts out of the tentative
30 were selected.
9
  Eleven of the 26 districts were also covered by the Component 1 whereas the other districts were those
located in remote mountainous areas of the country which suffered from high costs of transporting fertilizers
and seeds.

                                                     3
and farmer sensitization on the proper use of fertilizer. The fertilizer support program was
expected to reach 15,600 farmers across 26 districts (an average of 600 farmers per district).

10.      Component 3: Project coordination, monitoring and evaluation, beneficiary
assessments (US $2.5 million; actual amount disbursed by the closing date of the project
is US $0.91 million): Besides supporting the standard project management arrangement
and monitoring and evaluation, this component also supported capacity building of central,
district and village level administrative officers. Among evaluations to be funded under
this component was a detailed assessment of the existing cash transfer programs focusing
in particular on: (a) a review of the existing program administration systems (e.g. targeting,
record keeping, payments, staffing and skills); and (b) design of an improved program
administration, including assessing the current targeting systems and payment methods.

1.6 Revised Components
11.     Successful implementation of the original project, the continued food shortage in
the target districts and the availability of additional IDA funds led to the Additional
Financing (approved in May 2010). AF introduced increased focus on longer-term
solutions and was accompanied by some adjustments to the PDO, as described above, and
changes in the component structure. While the public works program continued to be the
most dominant element of the project in terms of financing, new priorities were highlighted
as sub-components with emphasis on supporting the Government’s ability to address
chronic food insecurity still prevalent especially in remote areas.

12.      Sub-component 1a. Public Works Program – Scale-up of Agriculture-focused
Activities (US $36.31 million): This sub-component continued the option of the food/cash-
for-work program carried out under the original Component 1 but prioritized the more cost-
effective cash-for-work modality over food-for-work wherever local conditions allowed.
It also shifted the focus away from roads to projects providing alternative livelihoods for
local communities and agriculture-related assets in line with the revised PDO which
emphasized creation of “opportunities for improved agriculture production in food insecure
districts.” 10 In addition the sub-component introduced explicit gender focus in the program
design as well as scale-up of the distribution of micronutrient powders, which had been
piloted successfully in 17 districts under the original project.

13.     Sub-component 1b. Health and Nutrition (H&N) Pilot – Community Challenge
Fund (US $2.5 million): This new sub-component was introduced in light of persistently
high malnutrition rates despite improved access to food because of the tapering off of the
food crisis and the successful delivery of emergency assistance under the original project.
The new sub-component was deliberately experimental, and hence kept at a small scale,
with the aim to test effectiveness of community groups as channels to promote improved


10
     Road projects were chosen only to link communities to markets.


                                                      4
nutritional behavior among pregnant and nursing women. The sub-component was
designed in consultation with the Ministry of Health and Population (MOHP) and
implemented in four districts through the Poverty Alleviation Fund (PAF) which had
extensive experience in operating at community level and funded proposals from
communities on a competitive basis. The intervention promoted specific behaviors related
to women’s food consumption and care during pregnancy through awareness-raising
activities and modest financial incentives. 11

14.     Sub-component 1c. Strengthening Safety Net Systems (US $3.5): The sub-
component built on the findings of an assessment of the existing safety net systems
(completed under the original Component 3) and supported the Government in pursuing
the following two broad objectives: (i) increasing the efficiency and effectiveness of
delivery of the cash transfer and public works programs and (ii) increasing the
accountability in the management and administration of these safety net programs at both
central and local levels.

15.     Component 2. Support for Seed and Fertilizer (US $5.5 million): This component
continued support for the Government’s program to supply chemical fertilizers and
improved seeds at subsidized prices to farmers in remote areas to address continued lack
of food supply. To contribute to longer-term productivity gains in the agricultural sector,
the revised component under AF supported development, production, and distribution of
genetically pure breeder and foundation seeds through the Nepal Agricultural Research
Council (NARC). It also added support to establish (i) an independent monitoring system
and (ii) several distribution centers within a district to improve ease of access for farmers
from remote areas.

16.    Component 3. Project coordination and monitoring and evaluation (US $0.5
million): This component continued to finance project coordination and beneficiary
assessments. In addition, it included support for the Food and Nutritional Awareness
programs to improve household-level understanding of food safety and nutrition.

1.7 Other significant changes
17.      In September 2013 the project went through a level-2 restructuring. The closing
date was extended until September 30, 2014 to enable full implementation of the pilots
associated with the social safety nets activities. Although the PDO remained unchanged,
the restructuring resulted in addition of two new intermediate indicators to the Results
Framework: (i) “Completion of CCF implementation as designed,” and (ii) “Number of
districts in which cash transfer beneficiaries receive at least one payment via branchless
banking” to track the two sub-components which had been introduced with AF.




11
   The winning proposals were piloted in four food insecure districts and the impact was to be measured using
a randomized controlled trial method.

                                                     5
18.     Finally, the project went through another level-2 restructuring in September 2014
to cancel the equivalent of USD5.3 million that was unlikely to be spent by the closing date
of September 30, 2014. The main reasons for the cancelation of this balance were: (i) the
fact that other grants replaced SSNP as funding sources of some of the evaluation
activities; 12 (ii) implementation delay leading to the decision to curtail the pilot branchless
banking payments under the sub-component 1c; and (iii) exchange rate gains.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
19.     With only three months for preparation the original design of SSNP drew on a
pragmatic choice to provide budgetary supplementation to existing government programs,
RCIW (Component 1) and the transport subsidy (Component 2). These were the only
existing programs whose objectives were well-suited to alleviate effects of the food crisis
in the short run and were implementation ready. There was recognition of the technical
limitations of these programs, especially regarding the inefficiency of the subsidy program.
Both components therefore included support for studies to find ways to improve the
programs’ designs (e.g. a study to improve targeting of the transport subsidy and a review
of the existing safety net programs).

20.     The design of the components under AF reflected lessons learned from the
implementation of the original project and studies conducted during the implementation.
While the AF continued some emergency support in light of persistent chronic hunger and
malnutrition, both the Bank and the Government recognized the increasing importance of
more sustainable solutions. This was reflected, for example, in the shift away from food-
for-work which involved high logistical and administrative costs toward cash-for-work
wherever possible, and the scale-up of the micronutrient distribution under Component
1/1a as well as the addition of the seed development and distribution under Component 2.
Furthermore, AF included two new sub-components, the Community Challenge Fund
(CCF) (Sub-component 1b) and Strengthening of Safety Net Systems (Sub-component 1c)
aimed specifically at piloting potential future strategies for longer-term solutions in the
areas of nutrition and social protection. Inclusion of these sub-components entailed some
risks as they were less implementation ready and added some complexity to the project
design. It is not clear from the available documentation to what extent such risks were
explicitly considered. However, the content of the new activities was fully in line with the
PDO and related secondary objectives, even if some of these (e.g., strengthening safety net
systems to enhance the government’s capacity to respond to future crisis more effectively)
were not explicitly recognized in the results framework.




12
  These were the South Asia Food and Security Nutrition Initiative (SAFANSI) and Strategic
Implementation Evaluation Fund (SIEF).

                                               6
21.     The choice of some of the key implementing partners reflected pragmatic choices
based on their track records in the respective areas to minimize the risk of implementation
failure for lack of capacity and experience. WFP had a strong record of implementing
public works programs in remote areas of Nepal, including implementation of RCIW in
collaboration with Ministry of Local Development (MLD). 13 The reliance on WFP also
allowed the Bank to mitigate the risks associated with weak procurement and financial
management capacity of MLD at the time. Although this choice might have come at the
expense of opportunities to strengthen MLD’s own capacity to manage RCIW in the long
run, the emergency nature of the original project justifies this trade-off.

22.     Similarly PAF was chosen as the implementing partner for Sub-component 1b
because of its successful experience of working in the targeted communities. However, the
decision to involve MOFALD as a partner through a formal MOU so as to ensure a degree
of ownership and design the fund flow to pass through MOFALD entailed some risks to
efficiency in implementation.

23.     The Government’s commitment at entry was adequate and the interventions
proposed were consistent with its short-term objective of mitigating the effects of the Food
Crisis. The relatively satisfactory implementation of the original project bodes well with
this assessment and also provides a ground for the judgment at the AF stage that the
government commitment continued to be adequate.

24.     The initial risk assessment identified MLD’s weak capacities for project
implementation and financial management as well as the involvement of two separate
ministries in the project as a source of substantial risk. The AF Project Paper identified
enhanced coordination between MLD and the Ministry of Agriculture and capacity
building as mitigating measures. However, interdependence between the components was
minimal during implementation and hence the coordination challenge between the
ministries did not pose a major obstacle to implementation. For the public works
component, the risk mitigation strategy hinged heavily on relying on WFP’s existing
implementation arrangement.

25.      A weakness of the project design, especially under AF, is a degree of disconnect
between the PDO and the new sub-components 1b and 1c even though both, if successful,
would contribute to improved food security in the long run and hence were relevant
activities for the project. Adjustments to the Results Framework with the 2013 restructuring
partially rectified this weakness.




13
     Later the ministry was renamed to Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development.

                                                      7
2.2 Implementation
26.     The project implemented rather smoothly overall despite the political situation in
Nepal. Mitigation measures were taken whenever possible. However, certain systemic
factors like budget delays affected implementation of more than one component. Other less
systemic factors affected implementation of some of the components and sometimes only
in some of the districts.

27.      Repeated delays in budget releases, which resulted from the Constituent
Assembly’s frequent failure to approve the budget on time, slowed down implementation
of all the components. Their effects were partially mitigated in the case of Component 1/1a
with the implementation arrangement that allowed deposit of funds directly into a WFP
account. While by design there was no mitigation mechanism in place in the case of
Component 2, NARC was able to use its own funds first for subsequent reimbursement to
minimize disruption of the seed production cycle.

28.     While both Components 1 and 2 achieved their aggregate performance targets,
implementation was sometimes uneven across the districts. For example, implementation
effectiveness of Component 1/1a varied from district to district because of location-specific
obstacles such as bandhs and transport strikes and reaching the most remote districts proved
a challenge at times for Component 2.

29.     Some of the factors affecting implementation were component specific. In addition
to the delayed releases of the budget as discussed above, the sub-component 1b suffered
from the protracted process of MOU signing between MOFALD and PAF, which was
intended to ensure ownership by MOFALD. The signing finally took place more than two
years after the Board approval of the AF. The delay had a cascading effect on the
implementation schedule. 14 The Bank partially mitigated the effects of these delays by
finding alternative sources to fund and continue the impact evaluation beyond the project’s
closing date. However, although the design of the impact evaluation envisioned
implementation of intervention for close to 24 months, the component had only seven
months left for actual implementation. 15

30.      A main impediment to timely implementation of the sub-component 1c was
procurement-related. MOFALD’s slow decision-making and low capacity, as anticipated
in the risk assessment, indeed slowed down procurement. One was to hire a firm to design
an MIS and digitize social protection beneficiary records in 12 districts. Another was to
hire commercial banks as payment service providers (PSP) in two clusters of districts (three
districts per cluster). As MOFALD moved slowly to hire a procurement specialist to



14
     The sub-component which was initially planned to start in October 2013 started only in January 2014.
15
     While information sessions were conducted for seven months, cash was distributed only for four.


                                                      8
manage these processes, the Bank used a parallel project (Human Development and Social
Protection Pilot) to provide interim support, which facilitated successful installation of MIS
in 12 districts and hiring a PSP for one cluster. 16 Although, failed procurement resulted in
cancellation of the other cluster, the successful implementation of the payment pilot in one
cluster yielded a number of important lessons and contributed to MOFALD’s resolve to
continue investing in its systems strengthening.

31.     Overall Component 2 performed satisfactorily and achieved its targets. However,
some complications arose in implementation of the support for the fertilizer and seed
subsidy in some districts. For example, some districts did not receive fertilizers because
their severe remoteness meant that the subsidy was insufficient to compensate for the
higher transportation cost. Additionally, nine out of the 23 districts saw a decline in the
amount of fertilizers available at least at one point over the course of the project because
of the overall lack of fertilizer supply in the country. Some activities intended to inform
longer-term policy improvements were only partially carried out. While a study of a
voucher scheme to improve targeting efficiency of the subsidized fertilizer distribution was
carried out, the scheme itself was never piloted as originally envisioned.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

32.     Overall the choice of monitoring indicators was adequate given the M&E capacity
of the implementing partners. While some of the intermediate results indicators show
somewhat tenuous logical links to the PDO, this is partly because of the initial limited
monitoring capacity of the implementing agencies and represented a pragmatic choice the
project team had to make.

33.      For example, monitoring of Component 1/1a relied heavily on WFP and yet
WRP’s reporting was unable to distinguish between new and repeat beneficiaries. As such
the project has not been able to establish how many beneficiaries, in net terms, have
benefited from the public works component. 17 The indicators for Component 2 in the
results framework only capture availability of subsidized fertilizers and seeds in remote
areas instead of the actual use by the farmers. Upon recommendations by the Bank, DOA
carried out studies of fertilizer use in various districts and as part of the mid-term review,
the Bank commissioned an independent evaluation to check possible contribution of the
fertilizer use to increase in yields.




16
   The cancellation of procurement in one cluster of districts directly undermined the achievement of the
intermediate outcome indicator associated with the sub-component: “Number of districts in which cash
transfer beneficiaries receive at least one payment via branchless banking.”
17
   However, well aware of this limitation the Bank team set targets annually and did not add the data to avoid
double counting and inflating program reach.

                                                      9
34.     A particular weakness in the M&E design is the failure of the PDO to capture the
objectives of the Sub-components 1b and 1c, which were the priorities under AF. An
impact evaluation is a core of the sub-component 1b but its ability to measure impacts
might have been compromised by the truncated interventions of the pilot as described
above. As for Sub-component 1c the intermediate results indicator, by design, could only
be measured once only when the implementation was completed. This made the indicator
useful only for ex-post verification of the extent to which the sub-component was
implemented and not for any possible mid-course correction. However, the Bank separately
conducted a process evaluation of the payment pilot supported under Sub-component 1c to
draw lessons from the experience.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
35.    Safeguards: No significant environmental or social risks materialized in the course
of project implementation. Instead SSNP financing and the need to meet the associated
safeguard requirements contributed to the adoption of more rigorous environmental, safety
and health guidelines in the public works sub-projects, whether implemented by WFP or
MLD/MOFALD. 18

36.     Despite significant improvements in the environmental and social standards of
public works through the course of the project implementation, at the time the funding for
this component ran out there were still some glitches. For example, the independent
consultant noted that there was still no Environmental Management Plan (EMP) for some
sub-projects, first aid and work safety items were not available or not in use at some sites,
and meeting technical standards remained a challenge for some sub-projects. As a result
regular technical monitoring of sub-projects was recommended, which WFP is currently
implementing while MOFALD lacks capacity to do so.

37.      Procurement: The project consistently received “Moderately Satisfactory” ratings
on procurement throughout its implementation even though procurement risks were
highlighted in the design stage for both the original project and the AF. Weak procurement
capacity and the possibility of undue external influence in bidding processes had been
flagged as risks. While procurement delays affected implementation pace of some of the
activities, no major compliance issue arose throughout project implementation.




18
   For example, the RCIW project implementation manual (PIM) adopted an addendum from the Rural
Access Improvement and Decentralization Project (RAIDP) Environmental and Social Management
Framework (ESMF) for internalizing environmental management functions within the RCIW working
procedures and later the Draft Technical Guidelines for Project Management and Design of Small Rural
Infrastructures, which were prepared and used by both WFP and MLD. The guidelines not only established
a procedure for addressing environmental issues early in the design of the project, but also defined quality
framework and standards to ensure minimum level of health and safety processes.

                                                    10
38.     Financial Management: Performance in financial management was rated as
“Moderately Unsatisfactory” during the first supervision mission and improved to
“Moderately Satisfactory” and “Satisfactory” since then. MLD made satisfactory progress
in building its financial management capacity over the course of the project. However, due
to delays in release of financial documents by WFP, the Audit Reports for FY2009/2010
and FY2010/2011 stood overdue until August 15th, 2012 and resulted in temporary
suspension of disbursements. During implementation, no major problem in financial
management arose in regards to DOA although minor issues crept up at different moments.
For example, throughout project implementation DOA did not always receive the reports
from district offices on the fertilizer subsidy in a consistent format.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
42.      The project as initially conceived was an emergency response operation and thus
did not necessarily incorporate post-completion operation/next phase elements. The Bank
engagements with RCIW and the transport subsidy effectively ended with the completion
of the respective components. After the Bank’s exit, the programs mostly reverted to the
ways in which they used to operate both in terms of scale (due to reduced budget) and
design. An exception is the Bank’s continued support for seed production with NARC,
integrated into a more comprehensive package of support under the Global Agriculture and
Food Security Project (GAFSP) approved by the Board in January 2013.

43.     One sub-component that led to strong post-completion engagement is Sub-
component 1c. The successful payment system pilot, supplemented by deployment of a
modern MIS to manage beneficiary databases in selected districts, has led to a decision by
MOFALD to continue investing in strengthening its administrative architecture for social
protection service delivery. The Bank tapped/mobilized two grant-funded technical
assistance projects to supplement these efforts and the Government has officially requested
a follow-on IDA project to continue the work. 19

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
44.     The relevance of project objectives is High. In 2008 when the project was initially
designed and appraised as an emergency response, its PDO focused on the short-term
provision of food to vulnerable households. 20 The situation changed by the time of the
Additional Financing and subsequent restructuring and extension. Progressively, the
immediate response to the food crisis was replaced with efforts to support the country’s
long-term needs in building greater resilience to chronic food shortage and household-level


19
   The two grant-funded TA projects are: Human Development and Social Protection Pilot Project (P125331)
and Safety Net System Building TA (P153410).
20
   The operation was approved as part of the Nepal Food Crisis Response Program which also included
Additional Financing to the Irrigation and Water Resource Management Project (P114912).

                                                  11
vulnerability this created. The revised PDO reflected this shift, albeit somewhat
incompletely. It has remained relevant in the current context and is consistent with the
Bank’s strategy for both the agriculture and the social protection sectors as outlined in the
Nepal Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) FY2014-2018. The CPS prioritizes Bank
assistance to tackle child malnutrition and hunger, strengthen the government’s capacity
for social protection service delivery, and increase agricultural productivity.

45.     The project design was highly relevant to the objective both in the original project
and in the AF. The two main original components, public works and transport subsidy,
complemented each other by preventing crisis-induced dip in demand for food among the
target population and by maintaining the availability of critical farm inputs to sustain local
agricultural production. Their relatively implementation ready status was fully appropriate
for the crisis response. With AF, the PDO appropriately shifted to give greater weight to
support for, or exploration of, longer-term solutions while winding down the original
components 1 and 2. The new component activities consisted of support for enhancing
local production of seeds, critical inputs which Nepal could produce locally (unlike
chemical fertilizers for which Nepal has had to depend on imports), and pilots to explore
effective ways to deliver nutrition-promotion activities and cash transfer benefits. Both the
support for seed production and social protection system strengthening were designed and
implemented to strengthen relevant government agencies.


3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
46.     The project surpassed targets associated with the PDO. In the original project, the
stated objective was focused on providing short-term relief to vulnerable households in
food insecure districts. Against the original target of 800,000 beneficiaries assisted either
directly or indirectly through the food/cash-for-work programs, the project reached
940,000 beneficiaries by July 2009, less than a year since the effectiveness. 21

47.      With the AF in 2010, additional and more refined indicators were added to track
the project’s progress toward meeting the PDO, which was slightly revised to include
support for creation of opportunities for improved agricultural production in food insecure
districts. These consisted of the “household food consumption score,” which registered the
value of 48, above the target value of 42; “the number of households benefiting from assets
created for agriculture production”, which reached 142,434 by July 2012, surpassing the
target of 140,000; 22 and the number of direct and indirect beneficiaries, which combined


21
   Direct beneficiaries are those who participated in the food/cash-for-work program as laborers and received
food/cash benefits in return. Indirect beneficiaries are those who did not participate in the food/cash-for-work
program but resided in the areas in which public works assets were being created.
22
   The number of beneficiaries reached in FY2008/09 and FY2009/10 were higher at 180,758 households
and 226,028 households, respectively.


                                                      12
the beneficiaries of the public works program and the seed/fertilizer support. As of May
2013 when both components had largely finished implementation, the number of
households benefiting from these core components was 185,934 against the target of
170,000. Of these 58 percent were women. 23

48.     Project performance tracked with the intermediate outcome indicators corroborates
this assessment. During the SSNP implementation, RCIW was able to offer between 60
and 80 days of paid employment per participating household. The target was 60. Ninety-
eight percent of the respondents of the beneficiary survey conducted in August 2012
reported increased ability to meet their food needs thank to the project interventions.

49.      While the results framework lacked an indicator that directly measured agricultural
production or farmers’ use of the subsidized fertilizers and seeds, the indicator measuring
the amount of fertilizer availability showed that more than twice the target amount of
fertilizer (11,213.9mt vs. 3,500mt) was made available in the target districts over the course
of the project. Monitoring done for the mid-term review indicated that 100 percent of the
subsidized fertilizers had reached smallholder farmers (i.e., those with less than 1ha of
land).

3.3 Efficiency
50.     Based on the available financial data and qualitative information and taking into
account the fact that SSNP was a crisis response project that operated in highly challenging
logistical contexts, the overall efficiency is judged to be Modest. Because of the availability
of data and the relative weight, the efficiency analysis was driven by the performance of
the public works component which accounted for close to 85 percent of total disbursement.
The team was unable to locate data to assess comparative efficiency of the transport
subsidy component (in an emergency situation in difficult terrains as in Nepal) and hence
omits Component 2 from the analysis.

51.    While Component 1/1a fully achieved its targets and contributed tangibly to
mitigate negative consequences of the food crisis, these achievements came at a relatively
high cost. Nepal’s mountainous geography and the reliance on the relatively costly WFP
operations for emergency logistics to deliver food to hard-to-reach areas drove up the cost
of program delivery. Nonetheless, as the effects of the initial crisis gradually dissipated,
the Government made appropriate adjustments to switch to more cost-effective cash-for-
work modality, obviating the need to continue relying on the costly delivery of food to
remote communities, and eventually discontinued the use of WFP helicopter operations for
food delivery. Reflecting this shift, the administrative cost decreased toward the latter
phase of component implementation. Between FY2008/09 and FY2011/12 (until March
2012) the costs of transport, storage and handling (of food) accounted for 34.5 percent of


23
     As of July 2012 as reported in the mid-term review aide memoire.

                                                     13
the total cost, higher than the benefit cost (32.5 percent) including both commodities (food)
and cash. The ratio of the budget allocated for benefits to the overall budget of the program
in this period would place SSNP in the bottom third of the 24 public works programs
reviewed in Del Ninno et al. (2009). 24 However, these are not emergency public works
programs whose operating costs are not strictly comparable to SSNP’s.

52.     SSNP’s cost-benefit ratio, measured as a share of the benefit budget as a share of
the total cost, improved toward the latter years of implementation. In the initial stage of the
project (FY2008-09), it cost the government and WFP $2.17 to deliver $1 of cash or food
benefits (i.e., cost-benefit ratio of 2.17) but the cost-benefit ratio improved to 1.73 in
FY2010-11 and to 0.64 in the final semester of component implementation. This final ratio
is comparable to an emergency public works project in Afghanistan, which achieved
estimated cost-benefit ratio of 0.55-1. 25

53.     While incidence analysis is not available, the component design ensured limited
risks of leakage as the districts and the villages were selected using an objective measure
of food insecurity. Within each community, a self-targeting method standard in public
works programs was used to identify and enroll eligible beneficiaries who were more likely
than not to be poor.

54.      No data was available to assess the cost-effectiveness of the transport subsidy for
fertilizers and seeds. However, this was a program that was deemed to be inefficient even
at the appraisal stage and the PAD referred to the need to evaluate its effectiveness and
phase it out eventually. 26 The decision to support this program was justified and justifiable
in order to maintain a “basic level of input supply and maintain local food production in
remote districts to abate the impact of food insecurity in these areas.” The rising fuel cost
had led to a 40-percent drop in the supply of fertilizers and seeds to the remote districts
that had been supported with the subsidy program during the 12-month period prior to
SSNP.

55.     Implementation of component 1c resulted in clear efficiency gains for the
Government. Implementation of MIS to digitally record the beneficiary data, in
combination with the branchless banking using biometric verification of beneficiary
identities in three pilot districts, resulted in elimination of about 21,000 ghost beneficiaries
and thus savings of a bit more than NPR 25 million. This represented about 15% of the




24
   Del Ninno, Subbarao and Milazzo “How to Make Public Works Work: A Review of Experiences” World
Bank. May 2009.
25
   “Implementation Completion and Results Report on a Grant to the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan for the
Emergency Community Empowerment and Public Works Project.” World Bank. July 27, 2005.
26
   SSNP PAD, p. 12.


                                                   14
total benefit amount paid in these districts. For lack of data, we were not able to conduct a
cost-benefit analysis, however. 27

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
56.     The overall rating for the project is Moderately Satisfactory. This is based on: (i)
the High relevance of both the objective and the design at the time of appraisal, the approval
of the AF, and under the most recent CPS; (ii) High efficacy, on account of the full
achievement of the PDO targets driven by the performance of the two most substantial
components (1/1a and 2) both for the original project and the AF; and (iii) Modest
efficiency largely due to the emergency nature of the original project design which required
reliance on relatively costly existing programs and the lack of viable, lower-cost
alternatives to supporting the existing food-for-work and the transport subsidy programs.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
56.     No direct measure of poverty impact was collected for the project. However, by
design, the public works component targeted food insecure districts and villages identified
with an objective measure of WFP’s vulnerability analysis mapping in some of the poorest
regions of Nepal. Within each community, the wage level was set low enough to attract the
relative poor through the self-targeting mechanism. More than half of the respondents in
the beneficiary survey in 2012 reported they were able to sustain their food needs for at
least three months with the SSNP support (either in cash or in kind).

57.     The public works component was implemented with certain gender-sensitive
features. About half of the beneficiaries were women, many of whom were of reproductive
age. The program applied additional safeguards, such as ensuring that pregnant and
lactating women were provided only with light work so as to minimize negative
consequences on their wellbeing. The program paid equal wages to women and engaged
them in user committees where their voices could be heard.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
58.     While institutional strengthening was not one of the explicit objectives of the
project given its initial emphasis on emergency response, two components (Sub-
component 1c and component 2) have contributed tangibly, if still incompletely, to this
goal. The Sub-component 1c has laid useful foundation for upgrading MOFALD’s capacity
to manage its social protection mandates. So far the gains have mostly been in the form of
demonstration of feasible options for upgrading MOFALD’s key administrative systems
to deliver safety net services and less in building sustainable institutional capacity in
MOFALD. But the demonstrations have been positive. Both the MIS and the branchless


27
   As part of the follow-on engagement, the Bank, in partnership with MOFALD and UNCDF, is conducting
a detailed activity-based costing of the branchless banking payment modality for comparison with the
traditional manual payment method used by MOFALD.

                                                 15
banking payments have proven useful for the reduction of opportunities for corruption and
efficiency gains due to the elimination of ghost beneficiaries and the corresponding
budgetary saving of about 15 percent of the benefit cost.

57.     Component 2 contributed to revitalization of NARC as it strengthened the
organization’s capacity via training and financed the renewal of equipment and physical
infrastructure. Through the support by SSNP, NARC established a dedicated unit in charge
of seed science and technology and restored physical installations of some of its
Agricultural Research Stations to promote production of locally-adapted seeds.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

58.     The project played a crucial role in deepening and/or expanding Bank engagement
in agriculture and social protection in Nepal. Prior to SSNP, the Bank engagement in
Nepal’s social protection sector had been limited to occasional non-lending activities as
part of regional/global tasks. SSNP, along with the Emergency Peace Support Project
which was processed around the same time, opened the door to increasingly deeper Bank
engagement in social protection, which has now grown into one of the pillars of Bank
assistance in Nepal. Similarly, the Component 2 (especially the support for the seed
development activities) revitalized Bank engagement in agriculture in Nepal.


3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

59.    Three rounds of beneficiary satisfaction surveys were conducted in 2010, 2013 and
2014. The sample size ranged from 519 respondents in the first round and was around 250
in the next two rounds from 6 to 7 districts, representing different geographic regions
covered by the project. The surveys found that:
       • The beneficiaries’ general knowledge about the program was limited as the
           majority thought the main objective of the public works program was rural road
           construction and reported on somewhat ineffective information dissemination
           on certain operational details of the program;
       • The vast majority were aware of the amount of benefits, either in cash or in kind
           that they would receive in exchange for participating in public works; and
       • The vast majority of the respondents reported limited ability to sustain
           themselves with their own food production and appreciated the project’s impact
           in allowing them to sustain themselves for additional 3 to 6 months;
       • Most of the beneficiaries were satisfied with the program with more than half
           of the respondents reporting their ability to sustain themselves for more than 3
           months with the SSNP assistance; and
       • Some beneficiaries residing in areas far from a market reported preference for
           the program to continue with the food-for-work modality to some extent; and
       • Other imperfections in program implementation were reported including poor
           communication and information dissemination, inadequate provision of tools
           and materials for construction, inadequate supervision of works by the RCIW
           and district officials, and delayed payments of cash benefits.

                                            16
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Substantial
60.     The overall risk to development outcome is assessed as Substantial because of the
limited sustainability of some of the project’s impacts. In particular, SSNP did not result
in significant qualitative improvements in RCIW and the transport subsidy even though the
short-term objectives sought through supporting these programs were fully achieved (as
reflected in the efficacy ratings on these components). MOFALD’s capacity to manage
RCIW was not enhanced and measures to improve efficiency and equity of the subsidy
scheme (e.g., a voucher scheme) was never implemented.

61.     On the positive side, the sub-component 1c, especially with the active follow-on
engagement by the Bank, has generated strong commitments by MOFALD to continue
investing in and expanding the use of modern administrative systems for social protection
service delivery. Similarly, SSNP helped revitalize NARC, which now attracts additional
support from development partners interested in supporting further investments in Nepal’s
agriculture sector, including the Agriculture and Food Security Project.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory
62.    Overall the Bank performance on Quality at Entry was Satisfactory. The Bank
responded quickly to the Government’s original request for emergency assistance. The
choice to provide budgetary top-up to the existing government-run programs was
pragmatic and the choice of the programs – RCIW and the fertilizer transport subsidy –
was appropriate for the project’s objective of protecting the most vulnerable households
from negative effects of the food and fuel crises. With the Additional Financing, the lessons
from implementing the original project were aptly reflected in the adjusted project design.
The risk assessments were adequate as they highlighted MLD’s limited implementation
capacity as well as fiduciary risks. The quality of the results framework could have been
higher had the PDO managed to capture the contributions of the Sub-components 1b and
1c. However their inclusion resulted from the Bank’s deliberate decision to explore options
for longer-term solutions for resilience to chronic food insecurity and poverty through
small-scale pilot initiatives and as such it was technically difficult to incorporate exact
outcomes in the results framework.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory
63.    The Bank performance in the Quality of Supervision is Satisfactory. The Bank
team’s pro-activity was evident when it found an alternative source of funding to continue
the impact evaluation of the Community Challenge Fund (Sub-component 1b) or when it
advised MOFALD to make use of a procurement consultant who had been hired for another

                                             17
Bank-funded project to support implementation of the sub-component 1c. The Bank team
pro-actively compensated for some of the weaknesses in the Results Framework by
systematically tracking additional indicators and engaging in dialogue on more sustainable
solutions to Nepal’s food insecurity both on the agriculture side and the social protection
side. These included data on actual usage of subsidized fertilizers and seeds by targeted
farmers and a detailed process evaluation to review actual implementation of the payment
pilot under the Sub-component 1c. The Bank also tried to use SSNP to engage in relevant
policy dialogue, for example, the involvement of the NPC Task Force on Food and
Nutrition Policy through Sub-component 1b or its attempts to introduce qualitative
improvements in the transport subsidy. However, the Bank faced limited traction from the
government in these latter attempts.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
64.     Overall Bank performance is assessed as Satisfactory. The performance on quality
at entry was Satisfactory given the Bank team’s responsiveness and the pragmatic decision
to quickly identify workable options to deliver crisis response expeditiously despite
Nepal’s limited institutional capacity and challenging geographic conditions. The decision
at the AF stage to gradually shift the project’s focus toward longer-term solutions was also
appropriate and so was the design of the new component structure as these reflected the
Bank’s learning from implementation of the original project. However, the quality of the
results framework could have been higher had the PDO somehow captured expected
contributions of the Sub-component 1b and 1c. The quality of supervision was also
Satisfactory. However, the lack of traction, despite efforts by the Bank, in improving some
of the policies related to food security led to the substantial risk to development outcomes.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
65.    Government performance in implementing SSNP is rated Moderately Satisfactory.
Given the country’s low capacity and the fragile political environment that characterized
much of the implementation period, the overall project implementation was adequate and
more than sufficient for the project to achieve outcome/output targets.

66.     However, there were several limitations in the government performance which
either weakened implementation or created risks to the development outcomes. Recurrence
of certain problems often caused significant delays and compromised some aspects of
project implementation. Most notably, the Constituent Assembly failed to approve the
budget on time throughout project implementation. While strictly speaking this falls
outside the direct purview of the Government, they were nonetheless serious impediments
to expeditious project implementation.



                                             18
67.     Another important limitation in the government performance is apparent lack of
commitment to sustain the short-term gains obtained from SSNP. Since the last
disbursement of the Component 1/1a in 2012, the reduced budget allocation has
significantly curtailed the program’s ability to continue providing a degree of food security
to vulnerable households in the targeted areas on a per household basis. The Government’s
vision of the future of RCIW is ambivalent. Similarly, a specific improvement in the way
in which subsidized fertilizers and seeds were distributed to Agricultural Service Centers,
thereby lessening the burden of the farmers, was discontinued and rolled back once the
SSNP support ended.

68.     The government failed to take full advantage of the opportunities that SSNP offered
to review its existing policies on food security, improve the quality of the schemes, and
build implementing agencies’ capacities to manage them. The Government failed to heed
repeated urges from Bank supervision missions to analyze monitoring data generated from
the SSNP-supported programs and review them at a relevant policy-making forum, such
as the Project Steering Committee or the National Planning Commission Task Force on
Food and Nutrition Security.

69.    The protracted process for MOFALD and PAF to sign a memorandum of
understanding to start implementing the Community Challenge Fund under the sub-
component 1b, again despite repeated follow-up from the Bank supervision team, was an
example of poor inter-agency coordination, at least initially. However, once they signed
the MOU, MOFALD and PAF improved coordination, for example, in trying to implement
mutually complementary local infrastructure sub-projects.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
70.    The two primary implementing agencies, MLD/MOFALD and DOA, both
performed adequately to implement the programs supported by SSNP. However, the good
implementation performance of the Component 1/1a owes largely to the arrangement
whereby the bulk of the work was handled by WFP.

71.      DOA’s performance in monitoring project activities and their effects appears
adequate. DOA was responsive to the concerns about fertilizer not reaching the most
remote areas or low demand from these districts, and implemented alternative strategies
such as soil management. But, it never invested in reviewing the policy rationale of the
fertilizer subsidy despite the question about its cost-effectiveness.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
72.    The overall borrower performance is rated as Moderately Satisfactory primarily
because of the project’s achievement of the PDO. There were, however, numerous
shortcomings such as the repeated delays in budget approvals, procurement delays, and so

                                             19
on – and in some cases curtailment of the component’s achievements – as well as higher
risks to the development outcomes than otherwise.

6. Lessons Learned
73.     Budgetary top-up to existing government programs can be an expedient way to
scale up emergency support. However, sustainability of benefits will be at risk if the Bank
contribution is limited to temporary injection of additional financial resources rather than
also extending to qualitative improvements of the program and/or institutional capacity
building of the implementing agencies.

74.     An emergency operation can create opportunities for medium- to longer-term
policy dialogue and more sustained engagement on institutional development, especially if
the project performs well and justifies continued support either through Additional
Financing or follow-on operations. Pro-active implementation support and policy dialogue
by the Bank may be necessary to capitalize on these opportunities. In a fragile state (as
Nepal was officially considered to be during the implementation of SSNP) the low
capacity, including for high-level decision-making, may necessitate longer engagements
including through multiple follow-on operations.

75.     Opportunistic inclusion of related activities can be beneficial for the purpose of
experimentation and for opening new areas of policy dialogue and operational
engagements. But, it can also dilute the logical coherence of the project’s results framework
unless care is taken to refine the PDO and the results framework accordingly. This was a
weakness of SSNP. Negative effects on the coherence of the results framework may be
limited if one component is dominant in terms of financing and its contribution to the PDO
as was the case with SSNP.

76.     A related lesson for caution in opportunistic inclusion of related activities is the
added complexity in project design as well as the risk of supply-driven initiatives despite
limited government ownership. If combined with significant investments in dialogue by
the Bank, successful demonstrations through such opportunistic activities could contribute
to building government ownership as has been the case with the Sub-component 1c. But it
could also produce outputs with limited government buy-in, while possibly burdening
project implementation performance.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
N/A

(b) Cofinanciers
N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
N/A

                                             20
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                                      Actual/Latest
                                        Appraisal      Additional                   Percentage
                                                                        Estimate
           Components                   Estimate       Financing                        of
                                                                         (USD
                                      (USD millions) (USD millions)                 Appraisal
                                                                        millions)
Improving Access to nutritious food
                                              16.78           42.31       52.30         312%
for vulnerable populations
Support for Seed and Fertilizer                 3.0            5.5        4.96          165%
Project Coordination Monitoring
                                                2.5            0.5        0.91          37%
and Evaluation
Total Project Cost                            22.28           48.31       58.17         261%


(b) Financing
                                                                      Actual/Latest
                                        Appraisal      Additional                    Percentage
                                                                         Estimate
         Source of Funds                Estimate       Financing                         of
                                                                           (USD
                                      (USD millions) (USD millions)                  Appraisal
                                                                         millions)
Borrower                              0.00            0.00            0.00          .00
International Development
                                      17.28           48.31           53.17        307%
Association (IDA)
Trust Fund                            5.00            0.00            5.00         100%
Total                                 22.28           48.31           58.17        261%




                                               21
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1(Original)/Component 1a (Additional Financing): Public Works

Outputs prior to the Additional Financing (AF)
                              Tonnage
                                                                      No. of workers engaged
 S.No Districts              distributed           Activities
                                                                             (approx.)
                                 (mt)
                                         Pond irrigation and
   1.   Acham                   2,464                                        15,400
                                         drinking water scheme
                                         15 km along Kuwakot-
   2.   Baitadi                  131                                                 1,210
                                         Bhatana corridor
                                         9.6 km along Dipayal-
   3.   Bajhang                  400                                          3,130
                                         Chainpur
   4.   Bajura                     -     Widening of 10km                     4,100
                                         30 km will be accessible
   5.   Darchula                 100     to the southern part of              1,558
                                         district headquarters
                                         68 km of 3 strategic road
   6.   Dadeldhura               200     corridors was planned to             1,150
                                         be motorable
                                         Small irrigation and
   7.   Dailekh                 1002                                          6,000
                                         drinking water systems
                                         17km of accessible road
                                         planned at Sidhakothan-
                                         Jugu-Singati.
   8.   Dolakha                  800                                          4,652
                                         32km of accessible road
                                         planned at Mude-Deurali-
                                         Melung
                                         Pond, micro-irrigation and
   9.   Doti                     106                                          1,360
                                         drinking water systems
                                         14.6 km of accessible
  10. Dhanusha                   200     roads planed of which                 650
                                         7km has been completed
  11. Jajarkot                   500     Roads                                2,600
                                         6km of dry road
                                         Khalnaga-Dillichouwr. In
  12. Jumla                      250                                           705
                                         addition dry walls were
                                         created
  13. Kalikot                    300     Not reported                         2490
                                         2 rural road projects:
  14. Kavrepalanchowk            325     1.Katunje-Bankhu and 2.              1,160
                                         Bohoredobhan-Timilbesi
                                         Consolidation work in
  15. Makwanpur                  450                                          1,793
                                         7.5km stretch


                                          22
                                       6.3km in Sukhadhik-
  16.   Mugu                  300                                           2,890
                                       Gamgadhik
  17.   Pyuthan                50      Road Construction                     579
                                       2 rural road projects:
  18.   Ramechap              600      1.Fulasi-Doramba and 2.              3,674
                                       Jiri-Those Bamti
                                       Community buildings,
                                       drinking water systems,
  19.   Rolpa                 600      small scale irrigation, rural        13,424
                                       roads, mule trials and
                                       learning centers.
                                       2.2 km stretch of road in
  20.   Salyan               132.5                                          1,372
                                       Marke-Rampur
                                       Construction/renovation
                                       of community buildings,
                                       drinking water systems,
  21.   Rukum                719.16                                         46,597
                                       small scale irrigation, rural
                                       roads and mule trials and
                                       learning centers.
                                       Construction of fish
                                       ponds, culverts, rural
                                       roads, school playgrounds,
  22.   Saptari               450                                           16,937
                                       river training,
                                       rehabilitation of houses
                                       and fruit plantations.
                                       32.1 km of motorable road
  23.   Sindhupalchok         325                                            910
                                       in three corridors
                                       Construction/rehabilitation
  24.   Sunsari               1648     of fish ponds, culverts,             29,879
                                       and rural roads
                                       Construction of rural
  25.   Surkhet              201.87    roads, small irrigation              1,631
                                       systems and foot trails
                                       Road maintenance in
  26.   Udaypur               235                                           1,200
                                       Ranibas-Rauta-Puwari

Outputs after the Additional Financing
The activities were over by the first trimester of F.Y. 2011/2012
 Districts             Mt Total          NPR Total Households Beneficiaries SSNP
                       (rice+pulses) (cash            Total       Totals    /WB
                                         distributed)                       district
                                                                            stocks
                                                                            (Mt)
    1. Achham               531          20,369,264      4,226       23,666     -
    2. Baitadi              875          23,936,598      6,930       38,808    71
    3. Bajhang              856          20,506,142      5,495       30,772     -

                                         23
    4.    Bajura          1,757            -            7,199         40,312     539
    5.    Dadeldhura        62             -             453           2,537       -
    6.    Dailekh          294         3,749,135        4,967         27,815     142
    7.    Darchula         490         3,672,361        4,727         26,469       -
    8.    Dolpa             72             -            1,657          9,279     173
    9.    Doti              67             -             758           4,245      76
    10.   Humla            625             -            4,031         22,573       -
    11.   Jajarkot          86             -            1,873         10,489     129
    12.   Jumla            510             -            2,150         12,040       -
    13.   Kalikot         1,441            -            7,497         41,981       -
    14.   Khotang           45             -             826           4,626     186
    15.   Makwanpur        285             -            1,280          7,169       -
    16.   Mugu             752             -            4,686         26,242       -
    17.   Pyuthan           96             -             679           3,801       -
    18.   Rolpa           1,089            -            3,377         18,910       -
    19.   Rukum            163             -            1,819         10,186       6
    20.   Salyan            87             -            1,266          7,090     139
    21.   Sindhuli           -             -              -              -         -
    22.   Solukhumbu         -             -              -              -         -
    23.   Udaypur         3,824            -            3,824         21,416       -
 Total                   69,719       72,233,500       69,719        390,426    1,461

Assets Created:
 Activities/Assets                            Units             Achievements Plan (Nov’10-
                                                                (Nov’10-     Jun ’11)
                                                                Jun ’11)
 Access to market and other facilities
 Construction of rehabilitation of roads      Km roads
                                                                     60             89
 (feeder roads)
 Construction and rehabilitation trials       Km trials             154            163
 Construction and rehabilitation of           No.combuild
                                                                     0              5
 community facilities
 Construction and rehabilitation of school    m.boundry
                                                                   1,458          1,233
 facilities
 Agriculture production activities
 Construction and rehabilitation of           No. Ponds
                                                                     1              4
 community pond
 Construction and rehabilitation of           No. Canal
                                                                     96            156
 irrigation canals
 Construction and rehabilitation of           No. Irr. Land
                                                                    496            784
 irrigation schemes
 Agriculture land improvement                 No.I Land              0              77
 Technology/transfer
 Proper compost making                        No.Compt.pits        2,906          5,139
 Training on farmer field school              No.fft.class

                                             24
 Community demonstration, homestead            No.gardens
                                                                   -               691
 and kitchen garden
 Plantation works                              Ha. Land
                                                                  413              451
                                               Planted
 Health and sanitation
 Construction of rehabilitation of drinking    No. Water.
                                                                   3                70
 and other water schemes                       Schemes
 Total Number of Schemes
 Total new schemes                             N/A                 82             2,539
 Total rehabilitation schemes                  N/A                 33              123
 Total number of schemes                       N/A                115             2,662


Component 1b: Community Challenge Fund (CCF)

A total of 591 community organizers (COs) from 184 Village Development Committees
(VDCs) across the four districts were chosen for the intervention. Of these 591 COs, 199
were control CO’s which consisted of 1,289 households, 203 were information only
treatment group COs with 1,377 households and 189 information plus cash treatment group
COs with 1,316 households. The end line survey was finished by the end 2014 and the
report is expected to be shared by mid-2015.

 S.N     District     # of VDCs       # of COs       # of Women   # of Children
 1       Sarlahi      50              152            1,141        1,106
 2       Sindhuli     35              114            786          796
 3       Ramechap     37              116            449          416
 4       Rautahat     62              209            1,852        1,878
 Total                184             591            4,228        4,196

Studies under Component 1b:
“The Community Challenge Fund Baseline Report: Submitted to the Strategic Impact
Evaluation Fund.” Prepared by Michael Lever and Karishma Wasti. World Bank. 2014.

Component 1c: Strengthening Safety Nets Systems
  • Monitoring Information System (MIS) installed in 12 District Development
     Committees (DDCs)
  • Branchless Banking via Private Sector Service Provide (PSP), Citizen’s Bank
     piloted in three districts: Baglung, Banke, Surkhet.

Personnel hired (2014):
1 procurement officer
1 payment expert
12 Social Protection Officers (SPO)
Trainings (2014):

                                              25
MIS training and training of the newly hired SPOs

Studies under Component 1c:
“Assessment of Social Assistance Programs Administered by the Ministry of Local
Development.” Doug Johnson and Pushpa Subedi. World Bank. 2011.
“Social Safety Nets Branchless Banking Pilot: Process Evaluation Findings”. Yashodhara
Rana and Daulat Jha, Anoop Nambiar, Soyesh Lakhey, Surabhi Pudasani, Savant Shrestha.
October 2014.

Component 2: Support for Seed and Fertilizer

DOA/ SSNP + SSNP –AF (2008/13)
Summary of DOA/SSNP Fertilizer and Seed Sales Distribution under Input Transport
Subsidy Scheme (2008-2013)

 SN                 FY 2065    FY 2066     FY 2067    FY 2068 FY 2069 Grand
                    to 066     to 067      to 068     to 069   to 2070  Total
                    Progress   Progress    Progress   Progress Progress
 1    Fertilizer    484.98     3394.2      3531       3803.7            11214.98
      Tran. (mt)
 2    Seed Tran.    24.57      176         190        236.36    211        626.76
      (mt)
 3    Service       228        469         584        800       507        800/826
      available
      VDC
 4    (Add.)        7775       21525       14000      15490     7917       58790
      Benefit
      Family No.

Seed production sub-component.
National Agricultural Research Center (NARC), year wise production of seeds.
 Crops       Breeder seed (mt)        Foundation seed (mt) Total source seed (mt)
             Target      Progress     Target     Progress    Target       Progress
 Year I (2010/11)
 Rice        15.6        15.46        367.2      341.3       282.8        356.8
 Wheat       30          27           161.5      171.5       191.5        199.5
 Maize       14.5        3.99         101.5      120.5       116          124.5
 Lentil      1.7         1.05         9.3        8.8         11           9.3
 Millet      0.2         0.2          1.8        2.3         2            2.2
 Total       62          47.7         641.3      644.4       603.3        692.3
 Year II (2011/12)
 Rice        34.4        27.8         532.8      532.4       567.2        560.2

                                          26
    Wheat       32         45.3         239.9       276.7       271.9       322
    Maize       24.1       8.1          258.5       202.7       282.6       210.8
    Lentil      3.3        0.4          18.9        13.9        22.2        14.3
    Millet      0.4        0.2          6.2         4           6.4         4.2
    Total       94.2       81.8         1056.3      1029.7      1150.3      1111.5
    Year III (2012/13)
    Rice        37.5       29.9         578.8       551.7       616.3       581.6
    Wheat       36.5       38           297.8       403.2       334.3       441.2
    Maize       17         14           261         177.2       278         191.2
    Lentil      2.5        1.9          24.3        17.8        26.8        19.7
    Millet      0.5        0.5          5.5         4.8         6           5.3
    Total       94         84.3         1167.4      1154.7      1261.4      1239
    Grand
                250.2      213.8        2865        2828.8      3015        3042.8
    total

Publications and Reports Produced Under Component 2 of SSNP

Publications:
• Project Progress Report – Seed Sub-Component 2 (SSNP-AF-2) Support for Seed –
   July 2013. Seed Science & Technology Division/NARC
• Proceedings of the National Review Seminar, Food Crisis Response Program – March
   2014.
• IWRRMP/DOA
• Progress Report (2008 – 2014) – IWRMP/FCRP/SSNP. DOA/MOAD
Studies/Reports (Available):
•     Improving the Production of Breeder and Foundation Seeds in Nepal – March 2010.
      Pramod K. Agrawal
•     Fertilizer Policy Options Study November 2012. Harbhajan Singh & T.B. Thapa
•     Independent Monitoring and Beneficiary Assessment of Fertilizer and Improved Seed
      Transportation and Distribution in Districts Cluster A (Taplejung, Sankhuwasabha,
      Terhathum, Bhojpur, Khotang, Okhaldhunga, Solukhumbu, Ramechhap, Gorkha,
      Manang, Mustang, Myagdi) September 2012. SSNP/DOA
•     Independent Monitoring and Beneficiary Assessment of Fertilizer and Improved Seed
      Transportation and Distribution in Districts Cluster B (Darchula, Bajura, Bajhang,
      Achham, Dailekh, Jajarkot, Mugu, Humla, Salyan, Rukum, Rolpa) September 2012.
      SSNP/DOA
Other Studies/Reports (List Provided on 23Ffebruary 2015 by IWRMP/DOA)
(Some Hard copies are available at the project Office/DOA)
• Independent Monitoring of Fertilizer and Improved Seed Transportation in Cluster ‘B
   Districts (Ramechhap, Okhaldhunga, Solukhumbu and Khotang) (FCRP/SSNP) –
   2011

                                            27
•   Independent Monitoring of Fertilizer and Improved Seed Transportation in
    Ramechhap District (FCRP/SSNP) – 2011
•   Independent Monitoring of Fertilizer and Improved Seed Transportation in
    Okhaldhunga District (FCRP/SSNP) – 2011
•   Independent Monitoring of Fertilizer and Improved Seed Transportation in
    Solukhumbu District (FCRP/SSNP) – 2011
•   Independent Monitoring of Fertilizer and Improved Seed Transportation in Khotang
    District (FCRP/SSNP) – 2011
•   Independent Monitoring and Beneficiary Assessment of Fertilizer and Improved Seed
    Transportation and Distribution for Cluster A – Bhojpur District
•   Independent Monitoring and Beneficiary Assessment of Fertilizer and Improved Seed
    Transportation and Distribution for Cluster A –Sankhuwasabha District
•   Independent Monitoring and Beneficiary Assessment of Fertilizer and Improved Seed
    Transportation and Distribution for Cluster A – Taplejung District
•   Independent Monitoring and Beneficiary Assessment of Fertilizer and Improved Seed
    Transportation and Distribution for Cluster A – Terhathum District
•   Independent Monitoring and Beneficiary Assessment of Fertilizer and Improved Seed
    Transportation and Distribution in Districts Under Cluster D – Rukum District
•   Independent Monitoring and Beneficiary Assessment of Fertilizer and Improved Seed
    Transportation and Distribution in Districts Under Cluster D – Rolpa District
•   Independent Monitoring and Beneficiary Assessment of Fertilizer and Improved Seed
    Transportation and Distribution in Districts Under Cluster D – Salyan District
•   Independent Monitoring and Beneficiary Assessment of Fertilizer and Improved Seed
    Transportation and Distribution in Districts Under Cluster D –Jajarkot District
•   Independent Monitoring and Beneficiary Assessment of Fertilizer and Improved Seed
    Transportation and Distribution in Districts Under Cluster D – Rolpa District
•   Independent Monitoring and Beneficiary Assessment of Fertilizer and Improved Seed
    Transportation and Distribution in Districts Under Cluster C – Manang District
SSNP Support to Pair Review of the Following Documents (soft copies provided)
• Peer Review Report of Agricultural Development Strategy by Tara Nath Pandey
   (Consultant) -September 2013
• Report on Rangeland Management Plan and Implementation Strategies By Dinesh
   Pariyar (Consultant) – September 2013
• Peer Reviewing Agricultural Development Strategy by Bhairab raj Kaini (Consultant)
   –September 2013
• Peer Review Final Assessment Report on ADS by BKP Shah (Consultant) –
   September 2013
• Comment on Agricultural Development Strategy by Tulsi Gautam (Consultant) –
   September 2013
Component 3: Project Coordination and monitoring and evaluation

Studies and Assessments:

                                         28
   •   Beneficiary Satisfaction Survey (2010)
   •   Beneficiary Satisfaction Survey (2012)
   •   Gender and Nutrition Review of three Public Works Programs: the Rural
       Community Infrastructure Works (RCIW), Rural Access Improvement &
       Decentralization Project (RAIDP), and Rural Sector Development Project (RSDP)
       (2013)
   •   Beneficiary Satisfaction Survey (2014)

Workshops:

   •   Presentation by Ms. Jolanda Hongenkamp (Head of Program, WFP) on Ethiopia
       Productive Safety Nets Program (2011)
   •   Branchless Banking Workshop: Experiences from Pakistan and Bangladesh
       (2014)

Training:

   •   Web based monitoring 2014
   •   Grievance redress mechanism 2014
   •   Project management 2014
   •   Monitoring and Evaluation training (Bangkog, Thailand) 2013




                                         29
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

Given the emergency nature of the project efficiency can be assessed as modest. The
following sub-components are evaluated in terms of economic efficiency: sub-component
1a (public works) and sub-component 1c. Public works component represents close to 85%
of disbursement during the course of the project and gets the biggest weight in terms of the
assessment of overall project efficiency. Its efficiency is assessed using the cost-benefit
ratio. While initially high due to the emergency nature of the operation the ratio declined
and efficiency improved significantly in the course of project implementation making it
comparable to non-emergency public work programs. In regards to component 1c there is
evidence that it has already contributed to the increase in efficiency of MOFALD’s
operations and resulted in annual budgetary saving of close to 250,000 USD (which
constitutes 15% of the amount previously paid).

Sub-component 1/1a
Overall the component benefitted 188,258 HHs in FY 2008/2009 and 142, 434 HHs after
the AF. We are relying on two measures to assess the efficiency of this component: cost-
benefit ratio and the percentage of total component expenditure that reached beneficiaries.
They communicate mainly the same information allowing us to assess which proportion of
project money had reached and benefited the intended population. We use both since while
the former measure is more intuitive the latter allows us for better comparison with other
programs.

Before proceeding further with the analysis it is important to keep in mind that these
numbers have to be judged carefully in case of SSNP because the public works program
was operating as a crisis response program through most of the project time. This mode of
operation drives up the cost of the program for two reasons: (i) high proportion of food for
work programs, which are more costly due to storage and handling, (ii) high transportation
costs due to necessity to deliver food to remote areas that are often accessible only by
helicopter. The evolution of the costs and in particular increase in operating efficiency as
the nature of the project changed from the emergency response substantiates this fact.
Predictably the cost decreased with the increase in the proportion of cash for work over
food work projects after the AF. Demobilization of the helicopter service in June 2011
reduced it even further.

It is important to note that the first step in the cost reduction was driven by utilization of
the M&E data by the project team. Cash for work programs were judged to be more
efficient and at the time of the AF the decision was taken to implement them whenever
possible.

Cost-benefit ratio: Cost-benefit ratio measures the ratio of benefits (in this case cash and
food transfer) to the costs of their delivery. It is important to notice the evolution of this
ratio through the life of the project. Initially it is estimated to be 2.17, which means that it
costs $2.17 to deliver $1 of benefits to the intended population. It declines to 1.73 by FY
2010/11 and then even further to 0.64 (meaning that it costs just $0.64 to deliver $1 of

                                              30
benefit) in the last half a year of project implementation. The last value is comparable to
the cost-benefit ratio from the Afghan emergency public works project that closed in 2005
where the ratios were estimated to be around 0.55-1 28 (which was a cash for work project).
Comparing to somewhat older data from other sources average cost-benefit ratio for WFP
public works is quoted as 1.71 and average cost-benefit ratio for CARE administered
projects is as high as 2.62 29.

Transfer to the beneficiary as a percentage of total cost: This measure is used to assess
which percentage of the program costs is represented by the direct transfer to the
beneficiary30. The transfer itself represents only about 35% of the total program cost till
June 2011, which makes it rank in the bottom 1/3 of the 24 public works programs
information on which is reviewed by Del Ninno et al. (2009). Note though that all of the
reviewed programs are regular public work programs aimed at the poverty alleviation and
not the emergency response ones. Furthermore, very few of the ones analyzed are food for
work based. To highlight the importance of the former observation we note that once the
helicopter service is discontinued and transportation costs are significantly reduced the
transfer becomes 60% of the total costs, which places it among medium to high efficiency
programs according to the ranking from Del Ninno et al (2009).

Program Overhead: Lastly program overhead as proportion of total costs is another
measure often used in assessment of the public works programs. To have a fair comparison
with regular food for work programs we assume transportation and food handling costs out.
This results in the program administrative overhead of around 23-26%, which is only one
percentage point higher than average overhead costs of food for work programs 31.


 Table 1. Expenditures associated with the Public Works program in USD

                             Expenditures as per Current Budget
                                                                                 Between
                                  FY 2008/2009         FY 2010/2011
                                                                          Jul 2011- March 2012
                                  $                     $
     Commodities                 4,932,937             8,375,462          $         806,801
     Cash Transfer in Lieu        $                     $
     of Commodity                175,700               4,021,690          $       1,235,929




28
   “Implementation Completion and Results Report on a Grant to the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan for
the Emergency Community Empowerment and Public Works Project.” World Bank. July 27, 2005.
29
   Armendáriz, Beatriz, and Jonathan Morduch. The economics of microfinance. MIT press, 2010.
30
   This follows methodology proposed in Del Ninno, Subbarao and Milazzo “How to Make Public Works
Work: A Review of Experiences” World Bank. May 2009.
31
   Comparisons are drawn based on information from Ethiopia Social Safety Nets Program that bases its
analysis on Grosh et al. 2008 “For Protection and Promotion: Design and Implementation of Effective
Social Safety Nets.”


                                                  31
  Food Transportation,         $                 $
  storage and Handling        6,864,982         13,322,595          $         516,290
  Project Operational          $                 $
  Costs                       2,211,558         3,758,312           $         676,870
  WFP Direct Support           $                 $
  Costs                       953,968           2,114,954           $         118,783
  WFP Indirect Support         $                 $
  Costs                       1,060,854         2,342,056           $               -
                               $                 $
  Total                       16,200,000        33,935,069          $       3,354,673
  Cost/Benefit Ratio                       2.17           1.74                          0.64
  Transfer as % of
  Total Costs                     32%                       37%                         61%
 Source: World Food Program (WFP)


Lastly it is important to note that this analysis could be treated as if it was based on a lower
bound of the benefits the component delivered due to the following reasons. First of all, it
does not take in account the positive impact the infrastructures created through this
component had on economics and food security of the communities. Second of all, shift
away from roads to less capital intensive projects with more flexible implementation
schedules allowing for better ability to respond to unanticipated food shortages represents
potential for other gains from the beneficiary perspective that are not captured by the
measures above. Lastly, the measure also does not incorporate the positive effect of the
micro nutrient supplement that was distributed with food.


Sub-component 1c.
Sub-component 1c is one of the smallest components of the project. Yet it is one that is the
most likely to claim being efficient. The idea behind the component was to pilot potential
improvements to the functioning of MOFALDs social assistance programs. The
enhancements were the introduction of MIS in 12 districts and piloting of branchless
banking in 3 districts.

The efficiency gains from this type of intervention come mostly from: (i) providing the
government with tools for better budgeting due to more reliable count of beneficiaries, and
(ii) savings due to elimination of fraud.

Table 2. Efficiency gains from introducing branchless banking payments in Banke,
Surkhet and Baglung districts.
                  # Beneficiaries ('000s)     Budgetary Saving (millions NPR)
                           Reduction in the
  District                   number of                                     Budgetary
              Before After                  Before             After
  Name                        "ghost"                                       Saving
                            beneficiaries

                                              32
     Banke       28.9      24.8             4.1             51.3       47.05            4.25
     Surkhet      31       23.6             7.4              51         42.4             8.6
     Baglung     34.9       25              9.9             57.7        45.3            12.4
      Total      94.8      73.4            21.4             160       134.75           25.25
 Source: Ministry of Federal and Local Development.

The installation of MIS in itself led to elimination of a large number of duplicate entries
across all the districts allowing for a more accurate budgeting. Furthermore, in the districts
where branchless banking was piloted elimination of about 21 thousand “ghost”
beneficiaries resulted in annual budgetary savings of more than 25 million NPR
(approximately 250,000 USD), which constitutes about 15% of the amount previously paid.

Furthermore, a recent study 32 of social assistance programs done by the World Bank
concluded 33 that elimination of leakage plays an important role if current programs were
to be scaled up to reduce the rate of under coverage. To be more specific projections based
on fixed nominal benefit levels and assumption of coverage of all those eligible estimate
gains from reduction of leakage to be 0.12% of GDP in 2019 and 0.10% of GDP in 2024.




32
   “Improving Social Protection for the Vulnerable in Nepal: A Review of Social Assistance Programs and
Expenditures.” World Bank. 2014.
33
   Conclusion is based on analysis that drew upon qualitative information about specific programs gathered
from various ministries, budget data, and the Third Nepal Living Standard Survey (NLSS III) conducted in
2010-11, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and population projections from the International Labor
Organization (ILO).


                                                   33
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes



(a) Task Team members
                                                                   Responsibility/
           Names                      Title               Unit
                                                                     Specialty
Lending
Gayatri Acharya         Lead Economist                 GSURR
Mohamed Ihsan Ajwad     Senior Economist               GSPDR
Supervision/ICR
Gayatri Acharya         Lead Economist                     GSURR
Kiran Ranjan Baral      Consultant                         GENDR
John D. Blomquist       Program Leader                     SACIN
                        Senior Rural Development
Purna Bahadur Chhetri                                      GFADR
                        Specialist
Maitreyi Das            Lead Social Development Specialist GSURR
Anastasiya Denisova     Young Professional                 GSPDR
Maria E. Gracheva       Senior Operations Officer          GHNDR
Drona Raj Ghimire       Environmental Specialist           GENDR
Phoebe M. Folger        Operations Officer                 GHNDR
Samantha L. Forusz      Program Manager                    HRDPR
                        Senior Rural Development
Frauke Junglbluth                                          GFADR
                        Economist
                        Disaster Risk Management
Shyam KC                                                   GWADR
                        Specialist
Luc Laviolette          Senior Nutrition Specialist        AFCC2
Yasuhiko Matsuda        Senior Public Sector Specialist    GSPDR
Jyoti Maya Pandey       Junior Professional Associate      GSPDR
Bigyan B. Pradhan       Senior Operations Officer          SACNP
Jasmine Rajbhandary     Social Protection Specialist       GSPDR
Sabin Raj Shrestha      Senior Financial Sector Specialist GFMDR
Tara Shrestha           Program Assistant                  SACNP
Changqing Sun           Senior Economist                   GSPDR
Bahadur Bishnu Thapa    Junior Professional Associate      SACNP
Shambhu Prasad Uprety   Senior Procurement Specialist      GGODR
Albertus Voetberg       Lead Health Specialist             GHNDR
Karishma Wasti          Junior Professional Associate      GFADR
Barbara Weber           Senior Operations Officer          GPSOS




                                       34
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY09                                                                 27.44
                          Total:                                     27.44
Supervision/ICR
FY09                                                                  38.25
FY10                                                                  47.03
FY11                                                                  35.03
FY12                                                                  76.41
FY13                                                                  35.46
FY14                                                                  45.60
FY15                                                                 379.90
                          Total:                                     657.68




                                       35
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
Beneficiary Satisfaction Surveys (BSS) were conducted on 2010, 2013 and 2014. This
section captures the methodology used and the key findings of the three BSS.

Methodology:

All three BSS included: (1) structured interviews with the beneficiaries; (2) focus group
discussions with beneficiaries; and (3) interviews with the stakeholders. The structured
interview with beneficiaries consisted of twelve modules covering composition by caste
and ethnicity; awareness; socio-economic conditions and inclusion of targeted groups;
participation; beneficiary perception of the program; formation of user committees; level
of beneficiary participation; utilization and ownership; impact; satisfaction level; other
agencies and their involvement in the program and suggestions and recommendations.

Selected districts were supposed to represent geographic regions. The sample size within
each district is only disclosed in the first BSS while the latter two BSS only mentions that
the sample size in the study represents 10-25% of the total beneficiaries in the selected
districts. Table below contains information on the districts selected and the sample size in
each district for each component:
 S.No Year            District        Public Works              DOA-SSNP NARC-
                                      Program                                 SSNP
                                      Total        Sample       Sample Size Sample Size
                                      Population Size           (HHs)         (HHs)
                                      (HHs)        (HHs)
 1.                   Jumla                820        100              -            -
 2.                   Ramechhap            800        124              -            -
 3.          BSS      Dhanusha             510        100              -            -
 4.         (2010)    Baitadi              300         84              -            -
 5.                   Dailekh              270         60              -            -
 6.                   Rolpa                200         51              -            -
                Total                     2,900       519              -            -
 1.                   Khotang                -         60             25            -
 2.                   Makawanpur             -         60              -           15
 3.                   Gorkha                 -          -             75            -
             BSS
 4.                   Salyan                 -         51             25            -
            (2012)
 5.                   Kalikot                -         42              -           20
 6.                   Doti                   -         26              -            -
 7.                   Bajura                 -         25             25            -
                Total                        -        264            150           35
 1.                   Khotang                -         60
 2.                   Makwanpur              -         45
             BSS
 3.                   Sindhuli               -          -
            (2014)
 4.                   Rukum                  -         50
 5.                   Kalikot                -         46
                                            36
 6.                         Bajhang               -             55
 7.                         Banke                 -              -
                  Total                           -            256

Key Findings:
      •   Beneficiaries’ knowledge about activities under the program was limited. BSS (2010) and
          BSS (2012) revealed that 78.2% and 64.8% beneficiaries respectively thought that the main
          purposed of the program was road construction in the rural areas. The story did not change
          much by 2014; as then about 77% of the respondents still felt that the main scope of the
          project was road construction.
      •   According to BSS (2010) about 48% respondents reported to have received the information
          on working schedules and remuneration prior to the program, while 35% indicated they
          had knowledge about the program overall. BSS (2012) revealed that very few beneficiaries
          in Makwanpur (3.3%) and Salya (12%) felt adequate amount of information was shared
          with them. The BSS 2014 on the other hand reported that 28% respondents had received
          information on program overall; 29% on working modality and about 31% on
          remuneration. 56% said that income and expenditure of rice and account of the project as
          a whole is written in the project book. However in BSS 2012 this figure dropped to 26%
          who said that income and expenditure of rice and account of the project as a whole is
          written in the project book.
      •   Knowledge about the amount of compensation in terms of Food/Cash was high in all
          BSS’s. According to BSS (2010) and BSS (2012) 90% and 95% beneficiaries were aware
          of the amount of rice/cash they would receive for the public work performed.
      •   The socio-economic level of beneficiaries in the sampled district was generally low across
          all three rounds. When asked about the sustainability through respondents’ own
          agricultural products 94% (BSS 2010) reported that they could sustain for less than 6
          months with their own productivity. About 55.3% (BSS 2012) and 55% (2014) reported
          sustainability for 3 to 6 months and up to 6 months respectively.
      •   Table below represents the payment received by the beneficiaries from food/cash for work
          programs (on average).

           Year        Work days      FfA                                      CfA

           2010        59             314 kg of rice and 20 kg of lentils      NRs. 2000

           2012        48             257 kg of rice and 40 kg of lentils      NRs.10,208 (Doti)

           2014        24             153 kg of rice and 18 kg of lentils      NRs. 5,698

          *lentils were provided only in certain districts: lentils were distributed in one out of the sampled
          districts in 2012 and in two out five sampled districts in 2014.

      •   The survey participants of BSS (2010 and 2012) reported that the food and cash received
          was majorly beneficial and allowed them to sustain themselves for additional three to six
          months.


                                                      37
   •   Use of cash: BSS 2012 reported that most of the beneficiaries of cash for work utilized the
       cash received for medical expenses (26.7%) and to buy grain and food (21.7%). The pattern
       changed slightly overtime with larger proportion being allocated to food. According to the
       BSS (2014) 37% of the respondents spent the cash on purchase of food items, 25% utilized
       the money for buying clothes and 22% maintained their houses.
   •   Beneficiary satisfaction: The satisfaction level with the overall program was
       exceptionally high. Satisfaction level was at 99.6% for those surveyed for BSS (2010) and
       98% for those surveyed for BSS (2012). The question changed slightly in case of BSS
       2014, but overall satisfaction levels remained high as 51% reported the program was good
       while 44% reported it to be very good.
   •   Adequacy of benefit amounts: While overall about 94% survey participants responded
       that their family income increased due to SSNP, according to BSS 2012 only 2% of
       respondents could sustain for more than 6 months with rice/cash they received from SSNP.
       Majority (29.5%) of the respondents sustained for four months and 23% for three months
       from the income of implemented SSNP. However, the situation improved by the time of
       BSS 2014 with 12% of respondents reporting that they sustained for 12 months due to the
       benefits received from the program.

Suggestion and Recommendation
   •   The beneficiaries in all the three BSS claimed SSNP had helped them to cope with and
       overcome the food crisis. They, however, also indicated the need to continue the program.
   •   There was a continued indication for a need for better communication about the functioning
       and the length of engagement provided by the program. Both BSS (2010) and BSS (2012)
       noted the need for an orientation program and information on the duration of employment
       since many were not aware of the number of days they were supposed to work, which
       limited their ability to plan. Furthermore, the issue of lack of information on program
       functioning was raised in BSS (2014) as well.
   •   While cash for works program were judged as more efficient the beneficiaries interviewed
       during the BSS (2010) and BSS (2014) requested the options of both food and cash as they
       had to travel long way to reach the store. For example, in the hilly districts the beneficiaries
       had to travel 1-2 days to take rice home.
   •   The workers interviewed during BSS (2012) reported that the information provided in
       orientation and training is not enough for them to contribute properly in case of some of
       the projects. For example, they requested for technical training in Bjura (hydro electricity
       project) and specific training for fruits and vegetable farming in Kalikot and Doti.
   •   The beneficiaries in BSS (2012) and BSS (2014) also claimed to have received inadequate
       support of tools for the construction of road or irrigation canals. They also complained that
       the cash provided was not sufficient to cover cost of construction materials.
   •   The inadequacy of supervision and monitoring from RCIW and district team was indicated
       in the findings from BSS (2010) and BSS (2012). During BSS (2010) respondent asked for
       an appointment of local Social Mobilizer to monitor the progress of the program
   •   There was complains of not receiving the cash on a timely basis in all the three BSS.




                                                 38
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)




                                   39
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

                     Nepal Social Safety Nets Project (SSNP)
              Government of Nepal Implementation Completion Report

                                       -   Summary -
The Nepal Food Price Crisis Response Program was initiated by the Government of Nepal
in the financial support of World Bank to mitigate the food crisis in 2008. This study is
based on the review of project appraisal document of Nepal food crisis response program,
monitoring and evaluation reports of project coordinator’s office and technical reports from
the District Agriculture Development Offices (DADOs).
The main objectives of the program were to implement: (i) the social safety net measures
to provide access to basic needs (mainly food) to vulnerable households in food insecure
districts; and (ii) agricultural productivity enhancement activities to expedite a supply
response through in yields and consequently the production of staples food.
There were two separate programs under Nepal Food Crisis Response program: Social
Safety Nets Project and Additional Financing to Irrigation and Water Resource
Management Project. [The reporting on the latter has been omitted for the purpose of this
ICR].
The Nepal Food Crisis Response Program was jointly implemented by Ministry of Federal
Affairs and Local Development (MOLD at previous), Department of Irrigation and
Department of Agriculture. An implementation arrangement was the following. Under the
Social Safety Nets project, the food/cash-for-work programs was implemented by MOLD
in partnership with WFP and technical assistance while and the agriculture production
support was building on the on-going DOA IWRMP arrangement.

Component 1.a Public Works Programme:
Programme activities and modalities
The following activities are implemented as part of this component of the SSNP:
         •   Food and/or cash for assets (F/CFA)
         •   Food and/or cash for training
         •   Micronutrient supplementation for children aged 6-59 months.
Food and/or cash for assets activities focus on creating productive assets and improving
livelihood opportunities. Assets developed include small-scale irrigation and other water
management systems, greenhouses, orchards and fish ponds and are complemented with
agriculture and livelihood training. Project designs also take into consideration landless
and nearly landless population as to create assets that would benefit those segments of the
population and include income generating activities such as training in the sustainable
management and marketing of high value medicinal and aromatic plants, and alternative
livelihoods such as beekeeping, orchards and animal husbandry.
In the selected districts, cash-based interventions were implemented to improve access to
food for targeted households and to stimulate the local economy, benefiting as well local

                                            40
traders and nearby communities. Beneficiaries received cash or a mix of food and cash,
taking into consideration issues such as year-round food availability in markets, size of
local markets, market access, inflation and wages, security and beneficiary preference and
institutional capacity.
To address high rates of micronutrient deficiencies and under-nutrition among children,
micronutrient powders (“MNPs”) were provided for all children within the age group of 6-
59 months in households participating in F/CFA activities. Fortified with essential vitamins
such as A, B, C and D, this supplement helps reduce micronutrient deficiencies in young
children.

Results:
The project made satisfactory progress in particularly with regards to meeting the urgent
needs of highly food insecure households in food insecure districts and VDCs. Since the
start of the programme in September 2008, the SSNP has helped address the urgent need
for food and cash in remote and food insecure districts of Nepal. A significant shift towards
the creation of agriculture assets has been seen, thereby creating the potential to improve
agriculture production in these food insecure districts. The support to date has helped
achieve the following results:
       •   A short term employment in average 60 workdays /person was provided to
           180,758 households in FY 08/09 and 142,434 Households in FY 10/11 through
           construction of various public assets which contributes in enhancing agriculture
           production. Micro nutrient powder was distributed to 97,526 children between
           5-69 months old in June 2011.
       •   A total of 851 Km. of constructed and rehabilitated roads, including 675 Km.
           under the original SSNP (November 2008 – June 2009) and 176 Km. under
           additional financing (May 2010 – June 2011).
       •   A large number of agriculture production activities and technology transfer
           have been completed between May 2010 and June 2011: A total of 3,873 ha. of
           irrigated land has been possible due to the construction of irrigation schemes;
           10,700 compost pits have been constructed and 6023 farmers trained in farmer
           field schools to ensure improved land management and technology transfer;
           1637 hectare of land have been covered with plantations and 218 hectare of land
           have been improved for agriculture purposes.
       •   104 drinking water schemes were finalized.
The Project has supported food/cash for work programs which employed vulnerable
households in the most food insecure districts across the country (Table 1). Public works,
supported by the SSNP funds, Government of Nepal and other Donors were carried out in
a partnership arrangement between the Ministry of Local Development and the World Food
Program. These public works were focused on improving agriculture-related infrastructure
and activities, access to markets and on decreasing vulnerability to floods. Over 2 years,
the program helped support 1.05 million people across the country, with approximately
756,000 people located in the Mid and Far-Western districts during the implementation
period. The projects employed over 180,000 workers and contributed to improving food
sufficiency levels for up to 2.5 months for the most vulnerable households. Koshi post-

                                             41
flood recovery projects in Saptari and Sunsari were carried out between 2008-9 and
supported over 7,500 families through the recovery and rehabilitation projects of flood-
damaged infrastructure. Livelihood activities were promoted through various vocational
trainings and project schemes including the creation of irrigation and drinking water
schemes, and the construction/rehabilitation of community buildings, wooden bridges and
rural roads, among others.
Table 1 : Beneficiary and Food/cash distribution during the project phase.
                                                               Commodity (mt)
                                                                                             Cash
          Beneficiary     Beneficiary                                                     Transfer
  Year        HH          Population     Chickpeas Lentils MNP Rice Split Peas    Total     (USD)
  2009      284054         1,590,700             -     464   6 35,727   1,943    38,140           -
  2010      170710          955,976          1,146      11 30 24,856    2,336    28,379   1,712,616
  2011      103875          581,700          2,216     246   8 19,984       -    22,454   3,519,571
         Source: Standard Progress Report, WFP, 2009 to 2011.



The program also supported the provision of multiple micronutrient powder (MMP) with
essential vitamins and minerals for children aged 6-59 months, across 33 districts. In the
period January – July 2011, the program benefitted nearly 50 thousand households (of
which more than 50% were female headed) and completed more than 2,200 projects
including community nurseries, kitchen gardens, plantations, livestock sheds, poultry
distribution, proper compost making, construction of gabion boxes for the protection of
river banks among other food security-related activities.
Public works schemes implemented under the project were of 3 types: Food for Assets
(FFAs): where beneficiaries were compensated with food in lieu of cash wages for their
participation in FFA projects; Cash for Assets (CFAs) where beneficiaries were
compensated with the equivalent of the wage rates of standard food for assets activities,
and Cash and Food for Assets (C&FFA) where part of the wage compensation was
distributed in food and the other part in cash. Despite late starts due to delays in finalizing
the budget and work program, this component has completed all planned sub-projects.
These project activities, complemented by a favorable monsoon season, contributed to
improving the overall food security situation in Nepal during this period. The production
of wheat and barley (winter crops) was 12.2% higher than the previous year. Reflecting
the improved food security situation across Nepal, household food security indicators
showed positive changes compared to the same period in the previous year: a lower
proportion of households reportedly experienced shocks and food shortage due to shocks;
a larger proportion of households consumed an acceptable diet; the percentage of
households that resorted to severe coping strategies such as borrowing, depending on less
preferred food and spending savings on food, declined by more than 20% compared to the
corresponding period of the previous year. However, the food security situation remains a
concern in some isolated pockets where crops were affected by localized natural disasters
such as hailstorms and insufficient rainfall.

Impact:


                                                      42
The SSNP successfully supported over a million food insecure people through constructing
assets that could be used for increasing local food production or improving access to
markets. The agriculture input support contributed to improving local food and seed
production, and further had the potential of improving productivity of food crops. Over
2,200 projects including nurseries, kitchen garden, plantations, livestock shed, poultry
distribution and proper compost making among others, added to the economic
empowerment of the beneficiaries. The infrastructure constructed through the SSNP
included the construction of community assets such as, gabion boxes for river bank
protection, roads, foot trails, irrigation canals and schools. Some of the direct impacts of
SSNP were:
1.    Creating Employment Opportunities: The project employed over 180 thousand
      workers through Food and Cash for Assets activity. These public works focused on
      improving agriculture-related infrastructure and activities and access to markets, and
      also on decreasing the vulnerability of communities to natural disasters. About two
      and a half months of employment was provided to the participants that contributed
      to assisting them in achieving food security at the household level in the longer term
2.    Local Infrastructure: A significant amount local infrastructure was built through the
      SSNP programme that aimed facilitating the agricultural related activities to further
      flourish in the communities. Ten different types of infrastructures including,
      schools, community buildings, irrigation canals, rural roads, and bridges were
      constructed. These assets met the technical, social, environmental, and health and
      safety standards stipulated by the Government.
3.    Women’s Empowerment: The SSNP was gender inclusive. About half of the
      beneficiaries of SSNP were women, many of whom were of reproductive age. The
      program ensured that pregnant or nursing women participating in public work
      programs received access to food/cash but additional safeguards were applied, such
      as ensuring that they were provided only with light work. Thus, it was assured that
      the work that women were involved in did not have any negative consequences on
      their health.
4.    The women beneficiary appreciated the fact that the programme paid women equally
      for working on the assets construction and provided opportunity to raise their
      awareness by engaging them in the User Committee (UC) which is established
      democratically. More than half of the leadership positions in these committees were
      filled by women, who participated in all relevant decision-making processes related
      to project planning, construction, and maintenance.
5.    WFP Nepal’s commitment to promote worker’s safety, was ensured through the
      provision of insurance schemes which allow compensation for injured parties and
      family members of participants who have lost their lives in WFP-supported FFAs.
      In order to ensure safe working condition, almost 52% of the beneficiary households
      were provided orientations on safety measures.
6.    Long Term Impacts: Beside the short term direct impacts, the community assets
      created through SSNP had long lasting impacts on the recovery and relief of the
      vulnerable populations. The longer term benefits included better access to markets
      made possible through constructions of trails and widened roads which lead to

                                            43
      increase in imports and exports of goods. Similarly, skills based trainings and
      income generating activities opened up opportunities for people to start up small
      businesses or services.

Conclusion:
The SSNP contributed to the increase in food security by supporting the livelihoods and
building resilience of the most vulnerable population. In short, the SSNP increased the
ability to meet household food needs of the beneficiaries; increased their income by
improving their livelihoods; improved dietary frequency and diversity; and reduced
vulnerability to, and the impact of, shocks and natural disasters. About 2.7 million people,
approximately a half in the Mid- and Far-Western Development Regions of the country
benefitted from the SSNP. Livelihood activities were promoted through various local
infrastructure building, vocational training and other projects including the creation of
irrigation and drinking water schemes, and the construction or rehabilitation of community
buildings, wooden bridges and rural roads among others. The improved public
infrastructure allowed the community to improve agriculture outputs. Similarly, the
reconstructed roads and trails opened access to markets, allowing the farmers to transport
their products to the markets. Activities such as replantation programmes and construction
of gabion boxes for river bank protection decreased the communities’ vulnerability to
future shocks.
A very good partnership between different stakeholders, including the Government of
Nepal, local NGOs and WFP was a significant factor in achieving the successful conclusion
of SSNP. Through the firm dedication of all stakeholders, the project was able to reach out
to over 90 percent of the targeted beneficiaries and contribute to improving their household
food security.


Component 1.b Community Challenge Fund
Intervention Strategy/Modality:
The “community challenge fund” (CCF), as mentioned in the SSNP Additional Financing
Paper was implemented through the Poverty Alleviation Fund (PAF). An implementation
agreement (Memorandum of Understanding) was signed between MoFALD and the PAF
with the details of the implementation modalities.
The intervention targeted the most marginalized members of Community Organizations
(COs) that has been formed under the Poverty Alleviation Fund (PAF). The COs was the
primary unit of intervention.
The interventions was consisted of
   a) Information arm (Treatment 1)
   b) Information + Cash arm (Treatment 2)
   c) Neither information nor cash (Control)
At the end of the intervention a comparison across the three groups will assess and compare
the impact of the treatments. In particular, it will focus on assessing effectiveness of
information alone and information plus cash modalities.


                                            44
Initially Ramechhap, Rasuwa, Sarlahi and Sindhuli were the four food insecure districts
chosen for the intervention based on their nutritional status, access to services as discussed
with the Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development. In addition, these districts
satisfied the necessary prerequisites of being districts that PAF operates in and not having
had a prior intervention by any other health and nutrition projects. However, Rasuwa was
later replaced with Rautahat due to an overlap with a similar intervention under the
Suaahara project funded by USAID.
With the technical support from the World Bank, a total of 600 COs from 185 VDCs across
the four districts have been chosen for the intervention. The detailed table is given below:


                                No. of COs
                         No. of Info     Info + Cash
  SN    District         VDCs   only     only        Control Total
  1     Ramechhap        37     42       40          43      125
  2     Rautahat         62     73       66          70      209
  3     Sarlahi          51     48       48          56      152
  4     Sindhuli         35     42       38          34      114
        Total            185    205      192         203     600


One of the main activities of the intervention was to transfer the information on nutritional
knowledge to the beneficiaries. Service agencies were contracted to develop information
package and also to deliver trainings to the project team. The information package was
largely based on the Essential Nutrition Action (ENA) booklets that provide easy to
understand directives on nutrition, breastfeeding and multi vitamin use.
The service agency provided several rounds of cascading training in order to educate the
Social Mobilizers (SMs) and Female Community Health Volunteers (FCHVs) who lead
the information intervention at the CO level.
The first round of training, the district level training of the trainers (ToT) served to educate
the Program Coordinators (PCs) from Partner organization and Project Managers (PMs)
from PAF. After this round of training was completed, the PCs, with the back-stopping
support of the service agency, provided the final round of cascading training to the SMs
and FCHVs within their respective districts. Once trained, the SM and the FCHV facilitated
sessions during the monthly CO meetings where the information was presented and
discussed. Actual materials were included flipcharts for the CO meetings and colorful,
simple booklets for members to take home.
Cash incentive was provided to the eligible members of the COs under the "Info+cash".
The COs submitted the proposals to the PAF mentioning the number/list of eligible women
and duration of the program. After carrying out rapid appraisal of the CO proposal, an
agreement was signed. The cash/fund was transferred to the existing CO accounts of the
relevant COs. The CO was responsible to distribute the share of cash to the eligible women
in the regular monthly CO meetings.


                                              45
Progress Achieved:
To achieve the objective, necessary inputs and activities were carried out during the project
period. The major activities included hiring service agency to conduct baseline survey
before the intervention starts, procuring service agency to develop information package
and deliver training to the project team as well as to provide the technical back-stopping
support to the project team during the intervention, transferring the cash/fund to the COs
assigned under the 'Info+cash" and providing orientation and mobilization supports to the
COs/beneficiaries on nutritional knowledge. The major achievements made by the project
are given in the below table:

 SN        Output indicators                                   Progress as of 30 Sep 2014
 1         A service agency hired for baseline survey          CEDA was hired for the assignment
 2         Baseline survey completed before the intervention   Completed
           starts
 3         A service agency hired to develop information       Helen Keller International (HKI) Nepal was
           package and deliver trainings                       hired for the assignment
 4         Number of PCs trained ToT on information            44 PCs were provided training on ToT on
           package (ENA)                                       ENA from CCF districts
 5         Number of SMs trained on ENA                        124 SMs were provided training on ENA
 6         Number of FCHVs trained on ENA                      240 FCHVs were trained on ENA
 7         Number of COs facilitated/Nutritional knowledge     397 COs were oriented/facilitated on ENA
           transferred by SMs and FCHVs                        and other nutrition and health related
                                                               activities
 8         Number of COs provided fund for cash distribution   Agreement with 191 COs done and fund was
           to eligible women                                   disbursed in their bank account
 9         Number of cash recipients for improving             1995 women received cash incentives
           nutritional outcomes
 10        Number of POs involved in social mobilization and   44 POs
           transferring the nutritional knowledge to the
           beneficiaries



Component 1c. Strengthening Social Safety Net Systems
Component 1c of Social Safety Net Project aims to improve social cash transfer. The
project majorly completed the following activities:
      a)   Equipping the DDC and Municipalities for operation of MIS at local level
      b)   Establishing data connectivity to DDC and MOFALD
      c)   Data entry of social security beneficiaries
      d)   Payment of social security allowance via PSP (Payment Service provider) in pilot
           district Banke, Baglung and Surkhet

The flow of the activities is as follow:




                                                     46
                                                         Payment
                                            Data         service
                                  Establish entry of
                           Equipp data      benefecie
                           the    connecti ries in MIS
                    Prepa DDC/M vity
                    re MIS un.


The project successfully completed in 2014 September 30th. The status of the service is
given below:
    SN Activities             Vendor               Work           Service
                                                   Performance Acceptance
                                                                  report (SAR)
    1     MIS               SPI Nepal Pvt. Ltd. Under             Not yet prepared
          development       Thapathali,            operation and
                            Kathmandu          JV testing
                            Software Paradigms
                            International Group,
                            LC, USA
    2     Supply         of WDN           (World Complete         Prepared      and
          hardware          Distributor Nepal Pvt. with     final service       was
                            Ltd.) Kantipath        report         satisfactory
    3     Data entry        Softech Infosys JV Complete           Prepared      and
                            Rolling Plan Pvt. Ltd. with     final service       was
                                                   report         satisfactory
    4     Data              World            Link Complete        Prepared      and
          connectivity      Communication Pvt. with         final service       was
          establishment     Ltd                    report         satisfactory
          PSP (payment Citizen Banks Intl Complete                Prepared      and
          service Provider) Ltd. Kamaladi          with     final service       was
                                                   report         satisfactory

Additional supported activities were:
   1. Recruitment of 12 Social Protection Officers (SPOs) and Payment specialist for
      around 6 month through Human recruiting agency (Rolling Plan Pvt. Ltd.
      Kathmandu). They were provided with training.
   2. Solar and other MIS Operation related equipment was purchased in some DDC's.
   3. Computer distributed in Kathmandu Metropolitan city ward offices and training
      was conducted for them.

Some procurement item cancelled after initiation:


                                           47
   i.      Solar installation in ward offices of Kathmandu (NCB)
   ii.     PSP cluster 2 (QCBS)
   iii.    MIS modification (CQS)

The overall outputs of the project were as follow:
   1. Around 65 thousand of beneficiaries of Surkhet, Banke and Baglung were enrolled
      with bio-matrice details and few thousand social security benefiaries’ details were
      edited and paid manually.
   2. Social Security allowance beneficiaries' data for 9 districts namely Accham,
      Bajhang, Tanahun, Sindhuli, Rautahat, Mahottri, Morang, Sankhusava and Sunsari
      district were prepared. Among them for 7 districts’ social security allowance
      transfer from Ministry, DDC-VDC and VDC to beneficiaries was made on the basis
      of data entered into the MIS system. For remaining two districts,Mahotari and
      Rautahat, data collection was completed with citizenship number. DDC staffs were
      also trained during the data entry.
   3. MIS was developed for Social security and vital registration administration. Social
      security MIS was operated and Vital is being planned to be implemented within
      this month.

Component 2: Support for Seed and Fertilizer

The outcomes and progress under Safety Nets Project
The major tasks completed under this category were transportation subsidy on fertilize and
improved seed transportation up to the Service Centre Level of 23 remote districts of Nepal.
The target was 7240 metric tons for fertilizer and 650 for improved seeds where as the
progress was 11214 metric tons of fertilizer (Annex: 2 and 3) and 837 metric tons of
improved seeds.

Outcomes:
The Crop Productivity and Food security situation of the farming community is increased
due to synergetic effect of package of agricultural practices and the use of fertilizer and
improved seeds in the project served areas.
   Increase in crop Yield
    The yield of cereals (maize, wheat and paddy) has increased by 20% in Bajhang
     and Achham, more than 50 percent in Jajarkot,
    The assessment on the production and yield of the surveyed households
     (Okhaldhunga) are observed distinctively positive. Among the major food crops;
     maize, wheat and paddy yields have increased by 94.4 percent, 109.3 percent and
     77.3 percent respectively.
    Yield of the main cereals like paddy, maize and wheat increased substantially by
     20 percent is also reported from Dailekh.


                                            48
   Improvement in Food security situation
    2 to 3 months in eastern hills (Solu, Khotang and Okhaldhunga) and Ramechhap,
    2 months of Western hill of Manang,
    2 months of Mid-western hills of Jajarkot and Rukum,

Conclusions
The brief assessment of the Nepal food Crisis Response Program reveals that the projects
are effective in fulfilling the objectives of increasing the agricultural productivity through
proper implementation of small irrigation schemes, subsidy on fertilizer and improved seed
transportation, community level seed production and soil improvement through sustainable
soil management practices.
The projects not only changes farmers’ existing scenario of agriculture but also changes
their knowledge and skills on account management and other technical knowledge about
the small irrigation schemes, community based seed production and sustainable soil
management practices which would help them to stand their own in future.
So, the impact of the project was found encouraging. It also challenged the traditional
concept of the agriculture and allowed farmers to move towards the commercial agriculture
to improve their livelihoods.
Based on the review of the project activities following conclusions can be drawn:
    The yield of cereals (maize, wheat and paddy) has increased by more than 25 to 50
     percent in most of the districts.
    The Food security situation is improved by 2 to 3 months in project area
    The 1130 metric tons of improved seed is produced during first year in 21 mid hill
     and high hill district and the seed replacement rate is increased from 6.5 to 10
     percent.
    Capacity enhancement of 538 individuals (106 Officers, 186 JT/JTAs and 246
     Farmers) which may sustain the seed production at community level at near future.
    The program is found highly relevant in addressing the long term needs of the target
     population, particularly those having suffered an important and sudden economic
     shock of food crisis.

Recommendations

Subsidy on chemical fertilizer and improved seed transportation:
   •   Establish distribution facilities at the VDC level
   •   Ensure timely delivery of inputs (such as seed and fertilizer), which should happen
       preferably one month before cropping season


                                             49
•   Utilize farmer cooperatives for both assessment of demand for inputs and for
    distribution of seeds and fertilizer.




                                     50
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Meenu Hada, WFP National Programme Officer for the SSNP project- input for the
SSNP assessment:

The SSNP successfully supported over a million food insecure people through constructing
assets that could be used for increasing local food production or improving access to
markets. The agriculture input support contributed to improving local food and seed
production, and further had the potential of improving productivity of food crops. Over
2,200 projects including nurseries, kitchen garden, plantations, livestock shed, poultry
distribution and proper compost making among others, added to the economic
empowerment of the beneficiaries. The infrastructure constructed through the SSNP
included the construction of community assets such as, gabion boxes for river bank
protection, roads, foot trails, irrigation canals and schools. Some of the direct impacts of
SSNP were:

       7. Creating Employment Opportunities: The project employed over 180 thousand
           workers through Food and Cash for Assets activity. These public works focused
           on improving agriculture-related infrastructure and activities and access to
           markets, and also on decreasing the vulnerability of communities to natural
           disasters. About two and a half months of employment was provided to the
           participants that contributed to assisting them in achieving food security at the
           household level in the longer term
       8. Local Infrastructure: A significant amount local infrastructure was built through
           the SSNP programme that aimed facilitating the agricultural related activities
           to further flourish in the communities. Ten different types of infrastructures
           including, schools, community buildings, irrigation canals, rural roads, and
           bridges were constructed. These assets met the technical, social, environmental,
           and health and safety standards stipulated by the Government.
       9. Women’s Empowerment: The SSNP was gender inclusive. About half of the
           beneficiaries of SSNP were women, many of whom were of reproductive age.
           The program ensured that pregnant or nursing women participating in public
           work programs received access to food/cash but additional safeguards were
           applied, such as ensuring that they were provided only with light work. Thus, it
           was assured that the work that women were involved in did not have any
           negative consequences to their wellbeing.
       10. The women beneficiary appreciated the fact that the programme paid women
           equally for working on the assets construction and provided opportunity to raise
           their awareness by engaging them in the User Committee (UC) which is
           established democratically. The UCs allow the participation of women and
           marginalized groups in decision making processes. More than half of the
           leadership positions in these committees were filled by women, who
           participated in all relevant decision-making processes related to project
           planning, construction, and maintenance.
       11. Cash transfer to women through smart card system have a positive effect on
           their empowerment by allowing them greater participation in decision making

                                            51
           level, according to the report on the outcome monitoring through the third party
           monitoring system. WFP’s cash transfer programme enhance women’s
           mobility and allowed them to access to banking interface therefore contributed
           in developing their confidence and leadership role in the community at the same
           time allowed them to purchase diverse variety of food which contributes in the
           nutritional wellbeing of the family.
       12. WFP Nepal’s commitment to promote worker’s safety, is ensured through the
           provision of insurance schemes which allow compensation for injured parties
           and family members of participants who have lost their lives in WFP-supported
           FFAs. In order to ensure safe working condition, almost 52% of the beneficiary
           households were provided orientations on safety measures.
       13. Long Term Impacts: Beside the short term direct impacts, the community assets
           created through SSNP had long lasting impacts in the recovery and relief of the
           vulnerable population. The longer term benefits included better access to
           markets made possible through constructions of trails and widened roads,
           leading to easier import and export of goods. Similarly, skills based trainings
           and income generating activities opened up opportunities for people to start up
           small businesses or services.


Conclusion:
The SSNP contributed to increasing the food security, supporting the livelihoods and
building resilience of the most vulnerable population. In short, the SSNP increased the
ability to meet household food needs of the beneficiaries; increased their income by
improving their livelihoods; improved dietary frequency and diversity; and reduced
vulnerability to, and the impact of, shocks and natural disasters. About 2.7 million people,
approximately a half in the Mid- and Far-Western Development Regions of the country
benefitted from the SSNP. Livelihood activities were promoted through various local
infrastructure building, vocational training and other projects including the creation of
irrigation and drinking water schemes, and the construction or rehabilitation of community
buildings, wooden bridges and rural roads among others. The improved public
infrastructure allowed the community to improve agriculture outputs. Similarly, the
reconstructed roads and trails opened access to markets, allowing the farmers to transport
their products to the markets. Activities such as replantation programmes and construction
of gabion boxes for river bank protection decreased the communities’ vulnerability to
future shocks.

A very good partnership between different stakeholders, including the Government of
Nepal, local NGOs and WFP was a significant factor in achieving the successful conclusion
of SSNP. Through the firm dedication of all stakeholders, the project was able to reach out
to over 90 percent of the targeted beneficiaries and contribute to improving their household
food security.

 Way Forward:
Recognizing the need to focus on pro-poor and broad-based economic growth and
capitalizing on the successes RCIW as a national social protection programme, WFP will

                                            52
mainstream the best practices and incorporate the lessons learned from almost two decades
of experience, so that MOFALD will establish an improved and scalable model for RCIW
to address the core issues of hunger, resilience, and vulnerability of population primarily
in mid and far-west hills and mountains. For the future re-modeled RCIW activity, WFP
will focus on some of the following key areas:

Concrete strategy for the next 3-4 years: Both the external evaluation conducted by WFP
HQ and assessment of beneficiary perceptions by the MOFALD have concluded that the
constructed infrastructures have enabled communities to increase household income,
reduce migration, improving gender disparities and reducing use of credit for food
purchases. In order to continue consolidating the impacts, the current RCIW will take two-
pronged strategy – a) review the overall status and needs for potential up-gradation and/or
rehabilitation of assets created during the previous years; b) support construction of new
asset and promote livelihood support activities identified within the VDPs and the resource
and technical scope of RCIW.

Operation and Maintenance of Asset: Considering the capacity of the community and
other local stakeholders involved, maintenance plan will be developed for each category
of assets to be created. Such maintenance plans need to be integrated right at the planning
stage of the FFA interventions and shall include budgets, potential partnerships and a
process for formal handover and integration into existing local government / community
systems with clearly defined roles and responsibilities of each actor. To ensure
maintenance and operation of created assets, longer-term partnership with local VDC /
DDC and/or other actors will have to be ensured. MOFALD will ensure formulation of
appropriate policy to promote such partnership.

Expansion of Cash-based transfers Using Innovative Transfer Technologies: Use of
cash instead of food has been one of the key shifts in RCIW programmatic approach for
last few years. Besides being cost-efficient, the cash modality provides opportunities of
multipurpose use of cash for families. Regular market assessments are done to ensure that
cash transfers are only used in areas where food is available in the local market (and where
supply can be increased easily). The use of banks to transfer cash to RCIW beneficiaries
makes the initiative efficient, transparent and unique in itself. MOFALD will draw WFP’s
experiences in Nepal and elsewhere to further expand the concept and transfer technologies
the lessons from which could also be beneficial for other social transfers schemes that
Ministry implements.

Links with Resilience: One of the emerging needs for country like Nepal is to enable
communities and households in disaster risk reduction and adaptation to changing climate.
Future focus of RCIW therefore should be on strategic planning to address such link with
resilience. As recommended by the recent FFA evaluation conducted by WFP HQ, this
may also help address the funding problems faced by countries by positioning RCIW in
this direction of DRR and climate change adaptation and other country specific resilience
building efforts that are of interest to major donors, development partners and government.




                                            53
Value added from partnership with WFP: Based on several years of partnership,
MOFALD strongly believes WFP as an important and ideal partner for rural asset creation
and livelihoods promotion as well as scaling up of employment programme for vulnerable
population in geographically remote areas in Nepal. Besides having expertise in logistical
management, modalities of food assistance, WFP is also ideally positioned to implement
and expand asset creation projects due to its global experience. In addition, WFP Nepal’s
NeKSAP has detailed information, data/knowledge base that are extremely useful
resources that could assist MOFALD develop better understanding of needs, challenges
and feasible response strategies for improving food security




                                           54
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


World Bank Documents
Country Partnership Strategy of the World Bank Group for Nepal FY2014-2018. June 19, 2014.
The World Bank Group

Country Program Evaluation. The World Bank in Nepal 2003-2008. Independent Evaluation
Group. 2010. The World Bank Group

Christensen, Asger. Implementation Completion and Results Report on a Grant to the Islamic
Republic of Afghanistan for the Emergency Community Empowerment and Public Works Project.
Report No: 33120-AF. July 27, 2005. Agriculture and Rural Development Sector Unit. South
Asia Region

Van Domelen, Julie. Implementation Completion and Results Report on a Grant to the Federal
Democratic Republic of Ethiopia for a Productive Safety Nets APL II Project in Support of the
Second Phase of the Productive Safety Net Program. Report No: ICR00001676. December 29,
2010. Social Protection Unit. Human Development Department. Africa Region

Emergency Project Paper on a Proposed Food Crisis Response Program to Nepal Consisting of a
Credit/Grant for a Social Safety Nets Project and An Additional Financing Credit to the Irrigation
and Water Resource Management Project. September 11, 2008. Sustainable Development. Nepal
Country Department. South Asia Region

Emergency Project Paper on a Proposed Credit to Nepal for An Additional Financing for the
Social Safety Nets Project. Report No: 54331-NP. May 7, 2010. Social Protection Unit. South
Asia Region.

International Development Association Interim Strategy Note for Nepal. Report No: 38119-NEP.
January 22, 2007. Nepal Country Management Unit. South Asia Region

Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Project Restructuring of Social Safety Nets Project. Report
No: RES-10488. September 30, 2013. Social Protection Unit. South Asia Region

All project Aide Memoires, Financing Agreements and Implementation Status Reports.

Social Safety Nets Project (SSNP) Documents

Agrawal, Pramod K. “Improving the Production of Breeder and Foundation Seeds in Nepal.”
March 2010.

Government of Nepal/Ministry of Federal and Local Affairs. Nepal Food Crisis Response
Programme. Consulting Services for Beneficiary Assessment of Social Safety Nets Project. Final
Report. July 2012

NFCRP/RCIW. Beneficiary Satisfaction Survey. 2010.

NFCRP/RCIW. Beneficiary Satisfaction Survey. 2014.


                                               55
Studies and Evaluations

Armendariz, Beatriz and Jonathan Morduch. The Economics of microfinance. MIT Press 2010.

Grosh, Margaret; Carlo Del Ninno, Emil Tesliuc, and Azedine Ouerghi. For Protection and
Promotion. The Design and Implementation of Effective Safety Nets. World Bank. 2008.

Independent Evaluation Group. The World Bank Group and the Global Food Crisis. An
Evaluation of the World Bank Group Response. June 2013.

Ninno, Carlo del; Kalanidhi Subbarao and Annamaria Milazzo. “How to Make Public Works
Work: A Review of the Experiences.” Social Protection Discussion Paper. No. 0905. World
Bank. May 2009.

The World Bank. “Improving Social Protection for the Vulnerable in Nepal: A Review of Social
Assistance Programs and Expenditures.” September 2014.

The World Bank. Nepal Resilience Amidst Conflict: An Assessment of Poverty in Nepal, 1995-96
and 2003-04. Report No. 34834-NP, 2006.

The World Bank. Nepal Agriculture and Food Policy Note. July 2008.

Government of Nepal Documents
CBS (2011), Statistical Pocket Book of Nepal, Central Bureau of Statistics, Katmandu, Nepal

DADO (2068/69), Annual Agriculture Development Programs and Statistics, District Agriculture
Development Office, Ramechhap

DADO (2068/69), Annual Agriculture Development Programs and Statistics, District Agriculture
Development Office, Solukhumbu

DADO (2068/69), Annual Agriculture Development Programs and Statistics, District Agriculture
Development Office Okhaldhunga

DADO (2068/69), Annual Agriculture Development Programs and Statistics, District Agriculture
Development Office Khotang

DADO (2068/69), Annual Agriculture Development Programs and Statistics, District Agriculture
Development Office Manang

DADO (2068/69), Annual Agriculture Development Programs and Statistics, District Agriculture
Development Office Dailekh

World Bank (2008), Food Crisis Response Program to Nepal, Project Appraisal Document
(PAD).
NFCRP (2011/12), Annual Progress Report. IWRMP-DOA
NFCRP (2008), Project implementation Manual (PIM)

IWRMP/NFCRP (2011/12), Independent monitoring report of NFRP 2012

                                              56
IWRMP/NFCRP (201), Monitoring and Evaluation of Activities under Additional Financing to
IWRMP.

MOAC (2010), Statistical Information on Nepalese Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture and
Cooperatives, Kathmandu, Nepal

NPC (2007), Interim Three Years Development Plan of Nepal




                                             57
58
