Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.8925
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
- NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
--- (LOAN/CREDIT 1844/lD14-IND)
JULY 25, 1990
Agricultural Operations Division
Country Department 5                                                              2
Asia Regional Qffice
:ThE docameo bas a estdoWed _kfmon _may be used by r*e dy bi me Pedom&e If
te  offkf dudes. Us contens may not otowebe dbdosed w*MWo.B=   mfwa_r



CURRENCY EQUIVALE!;
(as of July 1989)
Current Unit a Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00       -  Rp 1,770
Rp 1 million  G  US$565
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AARD      -  Agency of Agricultural Research and Development
ARM       -  Agricultural Research and Management Project  -
AS5AG     -  Agriciltural Operations Division, Country Department V, Asia
Region
BAPPENAS  -  Ministry;of Finance
BI        -   Bank Indonesia
CARP      -   Center for Agriculture Research Planning
GOF       -   Government of Indonesia
GPA       -   Grade Point Average
HYV       -   High Yielding Varieties
IADS      -   International Agriculture Development Service
IARC      -   International Agriculture Research Center
IRRI      -   International Rice Research Institute
ISNAR     -   International Service for National Agriculture Research
MDC       -  Manpower Development Committee
MIS       -  Management Information System
MOA       -  Ministry of Agriculture
xAR II    -   National Agriculture Research II Project
NLAS      -   National Library for Agriculture Sciences
PIU       -   Project Implementat)ion Unit?
PUSAT     -   Research Coordinating Center
RMP       -   Research Master Plan
RSI       -   IBRD - Resident Staff Intdonesia
SAR       -   Staff Appraisal Report
TA        -   Technical Assistance
TOEFL     -   Test of English Formal Language
TOP       -   Tata Operational Unit
TOR       -   Terms-of-Reference
USAID     -   United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USK ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
July 25, 1990
MEMORANDUM 1T THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECTs Project Completion Report on Indonesia National
Agricultural Research ProLect (Loan 184OCredit 1014-IND)
Attached,  for information,  is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Indonesia - National Agricultural Research
Project (Loan 18,40/Credit 1014-IND)" prepared by the Asia Regional Office
with Part II of the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
Th document has a restriced distibution and nay be used by rcpients only In the peformace
| of their ocal duties Its contents may not oterwise be disclosed without Wod lnk autori_ation.



FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Loan/Credit 18401 1014-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE .. . .                      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           i
EVALUATION SU1 4ARY  . . . .              . . . . . . . . .i
PART I    PROJECY2 REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . .1
1.   Project Identity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .            1
2- .  Background  .-. . ......... . . .   ... * - 1
3.  Policy Context  . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . .    ..     .  .      1
4.  Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . . .           2
S.  Project Design and Organization . . . . . . . . . . . .           2
6.  Proj-ect Implementation and Implementation Experience  .          3
7.  Research Management and Programming . . . . . . . . . .           5
8.   Project Impact  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . .          6
9.  Project Sustainability  . . . . . . . . . .  . . .  .             7
10.  Bank Performance  . . .....  .          . . . . . . .   .        7
11.  Lessons Learned . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           .          8
12.  Borrower's Performance  . . . . . .                  .           8
PART II  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROVER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . .            9
1.  Implementation Phase   . . ... . . . . .                          9
2.   Training .  . . .. . . . .        .  . . . . . . . . .           ;9
3.  Technical'Assistance                   .. .21
4.  Civil Workss  The Borrower's Strength and Weaknesses  .          26
5.  Procurement   . . . .          . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   33
6.   Project Management  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         36
7.  Research Management         .       ..... . ...           -      37
8.  Finance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          39
IMPACTSOF THE NAR PROJECT  . . .      . . . .         . . .          42
CONCLUDING REMARKS . . .................. .                           44
PART III  STATISTICAL INORMATION . .        . . . . . . ..  .. . .         47
APPENDIX 1 -NON-BANKEXTERNAL SUPPORT FOR AARD . . . . . . . l             61
This d6cument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornlance
of their official duties. Its contepts may not oiherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Loan/Credit 1840/1014-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This Project Completion Report (PCR) reviews the implementation of the
Second National Agricultural Research Project in Indonesia, for which a credit
(US$30.0 m) and loan (US$35.0 m) in the total amount of US$65.0 million were
approved on 05106180. The credit/loan will close on 6/30190 on schedule.
About US$1.5 m is expected to be undisbursed.
The Preface, Evaluation Summary and Parts I and III of the PCR were
prepared by staff of the Agricultural Division of the Asia Technical Department
(ASTAG), and was reviewed by staff of the Agricultural Operations Division,
Country Department V (AS5AG). Part II was prepared by the Borrower.
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final
supervision mission of the project in December 1988. and is based, inter alia,
on the Staff Appraisal Report No. 2805, dated April 4, 1980; the Loan and
Development Credit Agreements dated June 16, 1980; supervision reports;
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; discussions with Government of
Tndonesia (GOI) officials; and internal Bank memoranda.



- it -
INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Loan/Credit 1840/1014-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Evaluation Summary
1. Introduction
1.1       The National Agricultural Research II Project (N#IE  II) covered by this
PCR was the second agricultural research operation in Indontesia supported by the
Bank. It supported the expansion and strengthening of the agricultural research
system by the provision of facilities, equipment, staff training and technical
assistance and other services. The project evolved from GOI's interest in
maintaining the momentum in research development that started under the first
research project (NAR I, Lu. 1179-IND) which supported similar development but
was heavily focussed on rice, rubber and vegetable research.
2. Obiective
2.1       The objective of the NAR 1I project was to su.pport Government's
research objectives bys (a) expanding research in subsectors other than rice
and rubber i.e, fruits, lowland vegetables, livestock, fisheries, forestry,
estate crops (other than rubber) and industrial crops; and (b) strengthening the
overall institutional framework for research to complement smallholder rubber
development and the national extension services (para. 4.1).
3. Implementation Experience
3.1       The project was successful in developing human resources, and creating
facilities for research and, to a lesser extent, in developing research program-
ming procedures. In all, 185 Ph.D and 529 M.Sc candidates were trained in
addition to short term (690 months), non-degree (250 months) and English
language training. All the civil works and procurement of goods was completed.
Eleven reviews covering 25 of Agency for Agriculture Research Development (AARD)
research units were conducted to analyze past performance and ongoing activities
in order to identify means of strengthening the research program. Thus, a crit-
ical mass of trained scientists and basic research facilities were created, and
through the detailed technical reviews the stage was set to improve research
management and programming. The implementation experience is discussed below:
3.2       Developing Human Resources:  The project exceeded its human resource
development targets in that it trained 55 more PhD and 29 more H.Sc. candidates
than the original appraisal target of 120 Ph.D and 500 M.Sc's. However, a clear
assessment of the types of training required was not done at the outset, and
this resulted in some imbalances in human resource development.
3.3       Providing Facilities for Research:  The project exceeded its physical
target in civil work construction by about 152 at a cost of approximately
rupiahs 31.6 billion (US$24.86 million), compared to the SAR estimate of



- iii -
approximately rupiahs 23.2 billion (US$37.13 million). A cost overrun of
approximately 36Z in rupiah terms transla_es to an underrun of 33? in US dollar
terms due to successive devaluations of the rupiah against the dollar during the
course of the project. The quality of construction and design were generally
acceptable. Construction problems due to involvement of inexperienced and
underfinanced small-scale local contractors could have been avoided in the
initial stages of implementation through a strrnger program to support and
supervise contractors. Procurement of laboratory equipment, farm equipment,
furniture, scientific journals, publications and computers, were completed as
projected in the SAR, and the newly built research facilities are mostly fully
equipped and staffed. During the project, lack of adequate operational funds
has been a bottleneck in utilizing the project facilities. Extremely tight
operation and maintenance budgets have led to some deterioration of project-
created assets (6.3).
3.4       Developint Research Programming Procedures:  Eleven research reviews
of different subsectors and a Research Master Plan (RMP) for food crops were
completed with technical assistance. A methodology was developed for research
program review which is being adopted by all the Research Institutes. The
development of a Management Information System (MIS) and data base were also
initiated for research programming, human, financial and physical resources.
The recommendations of the eleven reviews were only minimally implemented during
the NAR II project period, but the results of both the reviews and the RMP were
heavily used in the preparation of a new Agricultural Research Management
Project. The development and implementation of the MIS is continuing under this
project. Proper planning and prioritizing of research during NAR II
implementation was difficult due to the uncertainty and severe constraints of
funds (7.1).
4. Results
4.1       It is too early to assess the full results of the Project.  Many of
the trained staff have only recently returned and physical facilities have just
been completed. It is reasonable to expect, however, that the increased number
of well-trained, confident and motivated staff working with improved facilities
will result in expanded, more productive and relevant research programs.
However, the new generation of researchers need to set priorities based on
farmers' needs in order to systematically plan and manage research programs for
production applications rather than scientific interest. The newly trained
staff are in a better position to take up this challenge provided they have
adequate and reliable budgetary support. In addition to weak and unpredictable
funding, another important factor affecting the impact of the project has been
the lack of synchronization between the establishment of provision of new
facilities and equipment and the return of trained staff to utilize them
(para. 8).
5. Sustainability
5.1       A critical mass of physical facilities and human resources were built
up during the implementation of the NAR I and NAR II projects. Due to'the firm
commitment of GOI to suppnrt agricultural research, it is expected that the
project will maintain a high level of. net-benefits by providing a solid basis
for the further development and strengthening of an efficient national research
program to produce the technologies required to underpin further agricultural



- iv -
development. This is dependent, however, on further improvement of research
management and an adequate and reliable steady supply of operating funds. These
requirements are being addressed in a research management project (Agriculture
Research Management (ARM) Project, Ln. 3031-IND) following the NAR II project.
to ensure continued benefits (para. 8).
6. Findings and Lessons Learned
6.1       The project was successful in expanding research facilities and
providing increased numbers of trained professional research staff, but was
somewhat less successful in improving research management to ensure the
immediate and efficient utilization of 1he newly created assets the development
of urgently needed technologies in the areas identified in the project
objectives. Thus, physical targets were met but the full impact on improving
the quality, relevance and cost-effectiveness of the resulting research is yet
to be felt. Some of the important lessons learnt aret
-    Weaknesses and gaps in the staffing of multidisciplinary research
teams carrying out major research programs should have been more
clearly identified at the outset of tho project and a long-term master
plan for human resource development should have been prepared.
-    In some cases, insufficient attention was given to providing strong
guidance and support to staff members returning from training to
assist them in immediately starting effective problem-oriented
research projects.
-    more attention should have been paid to training technicians and
technical support staff.
-    the nomination and selection process for candidates for MSc and PhD
level training in the beginning did not always result in the
selection of the best candidates and study area, but this improved
substantially later in the project.
-    the construction of physical facilities, procurement of equipment and
training of staff could have been better planned and implemented to
ensure better utilization of newly created research assets; in this
connection, the project should have dealt more explicitly with
improving important aspects of research planning and management.
-    the commitment of the Government to provide adequate and timely oper-
ating research budget is essential to ensure satisfactory benefits.



INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Loan/Credit 184011014-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK' S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Prolect Identity
Project Names                National Agricultural Research Project
Loan/Credit No.              1840/1014 IND
RVP Unit:                    Asia Region
Countrys                     Indonesia
Sector:                      Agriculture
Subsector:                   Agricultural Research
2. Background-
2.1       Sector Development Objectives:  The Government's objective for tbe
agricultural and rural sector during the project period were to:  (a) create
productive employment to raise the-income of the rural poor; (b) incrfase the
domestic food supply to keep pace with rising demand; (c) expand agricultural
exports, particularly of smallholder tree crops; and (d) ensure productive,
sustainable use of Indonesia's land, water and other natural resources.
3. Policy Context
3.1       At the time of the appraisal, the general policy of agricultural
development was to maintain rice self-sufficiency by providing credit and input
subsidies, and to promote tree crop expansion and also some diversification,
hence research was production and not efficiency oriented. Therefore,
Government policies were directed to the expansion and strengthening, with Bank
and other donors' support, of relevant agricultural research to sustain agricul-
tural development, increase rural employment and incomes, and expand non-oil
export earnings. GOI's first five-year development plan of 1969-74 emphasized
rice production and assigned agricultural research responsibilities to the
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and its Directorates General of Food Crops, Estate
Crops, Forestry, Fisheries and Animal Husbandry. Later, it was recognized that
the organizational format of assigning responsibility for agriculrural research
on a commodity basis to each Directorate was not fully meeting the requirements
of an effective, national research system. A Presidential Decree in 1974
established 14 agencies for research and development? including AMD to
coordinate and administer the national agricultural research system. During
later 5-year plans, research was expanded to other subsectors such as secondary
food crops, upland rice, and cropping systems (including intercropping of
coconuts and rubber), but not all were developed to the same extent. Increasing
attention was also given to economics and location-specific research on food
crops. The main objective under Repelita IV (1984-89) was to expand research in



-2-
the various subsectors, especially foodcrops, tubercrops, legumes, horticultural
and estate crops, livestock and fisheries, with a slowly increasing focus on
farming systems for different agro-ecological zones. Efforts were also made to
increase the relevance of the overall research program to Government's
priorities for *ericulture. The Bank has been associated with MARD since its
creation and har supported Indonesia's development of national agricultural
research through a series of projects. The NAR II project was the second
project supported by the Bank and was followed by the ARM project which became
effective in July 1989.
4. Proiect Objectives and,Description
4.1       Project Obiectives.  The objectives of NAR II were to expand the
resources to carry out research in other subsectors; i.e., fruits, lowland
vegetables, livestock, fisheries, forestry, estate crops other than rubber, and
industrial crops; and to strengthen the overall institutional framework and
infrastructure for agricultural research with strong linkages with the
Smallholder Rubber Development activities and the National Extension service.
4.2       Proiect Components.  Major project components included technical
assistance, staff tri4ning and physical facilities for an expanded and
reorganized AARD. The project provided fors
(a) Overseas and local training for AARD staff, which incluaed 120 PhD/DR
and 500 MSc/MS overseas and local fellowships; and 690 person months
of overseas and local non-degree training;
(b) 48 person-years of long-term and 11 person-years of short-term tech-
nical assistance in a wide range of research activities;
(c) Physical development of existing research centers and institutes and
three new fishery research institutes throughs (i) construttion of
research buildings and staff housing; (ii) experimental farm/site
improvement and expansion; (iii) and provision of scientific, workshop
and office equipment and vehicles; and
Id) Incremental operating expenses associated with (a) to (c) above.
5.   Project Design and Organization
5.1       Design.  The project was designed with a view to support the long-
term national research program. The first phase of this program was started in
1975 under the first Bank-supported project (NAR I, Ln. 1179-IND) which focussed
on the expansion of research through the development of new research institutes
and the strengthening of existing institutes for four commodities i.e., rice,
secondary-crops, highland vegetables and rubber. The second phase of the
program, supported by the Bank assistance (NAR II, Ln. 1840/1014-IND) was
designed to strengthert research in other commodities i.e., fruits, low land
vegetables, livestock, fisheries, forestry, estate crops other than rubber and
industrial crops. Conceptually, the project was focussed on providing
facilities and building up a cadre of professional research staff. The scope
and size of the project proved to be appropriate In the light of Its defined
objectives. In retrospect it can be said that the management aspect of research
did not receive adequate attention. This was an important weakness in the



-3-
design. Thus, in terms of achieving physical and human resources targets, the
project achieved, and even exceeded some of its targets but overall project
impact was reduced by the fact that repearch planning and management did not
keep pace with the development of physical infrastructure and trained staff.
However, the investment made so far are providing a solid basis for continued
strengthening of these recognized weaknesses which is being supported by *he
recently approved ARM Project.
5.2       Organization.  The organization and management of the project was
vested with AARD.   Within MARD a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was set up
under NAR I, whose responsibility and role were clearly defined and understood;
as a result the project was implemented in time and targets were achieved and,
in some cases, exceeded.
6. Project Implementation aitd Implementation Experience
6.1       Despite some initial dtlays in appointing key staff, and in starting
civil works, overall project implementation proceeded satisfactorily and the
project was successfully completed. Project implementation, accomplishments,
and problems encountered during implementation are discussed i-n the following
paragraphs:
6.2       Developing human resources:  The target in term of numbers of trainees
(Ph.D, M.Sc. and others) exceeded the SAR target, as shown in the following
table.
SAR                            Actual
Local Degree       Ph.D.             50               83
M.S.            450              450
Overseas Degree    Ph.D.             70              102
M.S.             50               79
S1                -               20
$02               ^              110
Short term         Local            540 m            690 m
Non-degree         Overseas         150 m            250 m
English language               $160,000        $220,224
6.3       In the initial years, however, the emphasis was mainly on numerical
targets, with too little attention given to the appropriateness of the proposed
field of study or candidate in the context of identified needs. Later during
the project the diqciplines requiring strengthening within the various research
institutes, and the need for specialized skills were more carefully identified.
A more comprehensive assessment of human resource development at the outset
would have avoided some wastage and shortfalls in staff development. The
lessons emerging are, first, that deficiencies in staffing or disciplines
required for multi-disciplinary research teams conducting various research
programs should have been more carefully assessed at appraisal and a more com-
prehensive long-term master plan of human resource development should have been
undertaken. Secondly, greater provision should have been made for providing
guidance and assistance to staff members returning from training in starting new
programs of problem-oriented research. Thirdly, more attention should have beets
paid to triining of sufficient numbers of technicians and technical support



-4-
staff. Fourthly, the weakiasses in the nomination and selection processes of
candid&es for specialized training should have been more carefully assessed
during appraisal and anticipated in meeting the overall objectives of the human
resource development.
6.4       The performance of consultants was generally satisfactory and
technical assistance (TA), as planned at appraisal, made a significant impact
and contributed substantially tro the successful implementation of the project.
However, some prollems were encountered which affected the effective utilization
of TA. These were mainly associated withs (a) developing schedules and plans
for the utilization of T.A.; (b) preparation of appropriate Terms of Reference;
(c) location of consultant who has experience, professional competence and human
relation skills and is available at the time required; (d) identification of
appropriate counterparts. These problems were only partially resolved during
project implementation.
Prevision of Research Facilities
6.5       The project exceeded its physical targets for civil works construction
by 15?, Actual construction costs of approximately rupiahs 31.6 billion
exceeded the target of rupiahs 23.2 billion by 36?. However, in US$ terms, due
to the declining value of the rupiah during the project period, this translated
to an actual cost of $24.86 mm versus SAR $37.3 mm.
Civil works activLties                SAR          Additional        Actual
Building area                       78,948 sm       12,086 sm      91,039 sm
Experimental farm                      659 ha          133 ha         792 ha
Experiment pond                          3ha            65 ha          68 ha
Total cost                     Rps 23.21 bn                   Rps 31.57 bn
($37.13 m)                     ($24.86 m)
6.6       Procurement of equipment to a value of US$15.7 mn also exceeded the
targets set in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAM) at $10.2 mn. The labor&tory
equipment (US$9.5 million) was distributed and instulled in 14 research units;
farm equipment (US$1.2 million) was also distributed and installed 'n 14
research units; furniture (US$2.10 million) was distributed to 25 research
units; scientific journals, publications and computers (US$2.6 million) were
made available to 30 research units. The installation, quality and
appropriateness of equipment and other inputs was in most cases satisfactory.
6.7       Civil work construction plans could have been more closely synchron-
ized with other project activities such as procurement of equipment and
supplies, and staff training schedules.  This was not always achieved under the
project resulting in some situations where new stecialized equipment cannot be
used because there is no trained staff or, vice versa, newly trained is
underutilized because of lack of facilities and support. Such situations could
have been avoided with better planning but are now gradually being rectified.
6.8       Lack of adequate and timely funds for research operations has been one
of the main bottLenecks in utilizing the facilities created fo. research under
the NAR II Project. This is a national problem, and, unfortunately whenever the



-5-
national budget is cut, research is amongst the first items to be affected and,
as a consequence, many research operations are abandoned in the middle of the
experimental period, to be resumed later when funds become again available.
This increases both the time required and cost of research significantly.
Effective planning of future research was also affected by the uncertainty of
timely release of funds. To avoid such situation, a long term Lommitment of
Government is necessary.
7. Research Management and Programming
7.1       To assist AARD in identifying research objectives, in research program
planning and in analyzing achievements, periodic independent reviews were con-
ducted under the two (NAR I-'I) Bank-supported projects by the International
Service for National Agriculture Research (ISNAR) and Joint AARD-consultant
expert teams, covering a wide range of commodity research programs and support
services. During the past seven years, 11 reviews of 25 of AARD's units were
conducted, involving both national and foreign scientists and covering research
programs and activities in horticulture, secondary crops, fisheries, agro-
economics, industrial crops, data processing and statistics, information
services, and organization and management of AARD. The reviews were carried out
to analyze past performance and on-going and proposed activities, in order to
identify means of strengthening the research programs both internally and
through external support. Reforms proposed by these reviews pertaining to
organization and management, programming and planning, research evaluation,
budgeting, staff development, financial management, and research communication
are now being implemented under the ARM project.
7.2       A detailed Research Master Plan (RMP) for food crops was prepared
under the NAR II project. This exercise provided: (a) a methodology for the
preparation of RMP for other commodities; and (b) training to selected staffing
AARD in preparation of a RMP. Other RMPs for otter commodities and systems
research are now in the process of being prepared. In addition, the
installation of a MIS was initiated to assist in the development of an effec-
tive data base and a system for its continued updating information related to
program, human, financial, and physical research resources, for use in research
management decisions. The HIS is still in its early stages and needs con-
siderable strengthening to be an effective tool in research priority setting and
judicious allocation of resources. Both the MRP process and MIS, while having
limited impact during the NAR II project itself, are being further developed
under the ARM project as integral part of AARD research pl mning and management
process, and will ensure the sustained use of the assets provided by the NAR II
project.
7.3       Risks: During appraisal, project risks were correctly identified.  To
avert the risk of uncertainty about what the research findings and benefit would
be, the project emphasized the development of human and physical resources
needed for greater efficiency in carrying out research. An early start in the
design of the required facilities (civil works) considerably reduced the risk of
project implementation delays. Moreover, the project went a long way in
introducing a multidisciplinary research team approach required for solving
farmers problems.



-6-
8.   Project Impact
8.1       Generally, it is too early to judge the impact of the NAR II project
on improving the quality and relevance of research. Many of the trained staff
have returned only recently and, similarly, physical facilities have been com-
pleted only in the last few years. In those cases where the effects of the
project are beginning to become evident, however, the following broad observa-
tions can be mades
8.2       Although impossible to quantify at this stage, the most notable impact
of NAR II is the increased numbers of well-trained, confident and generally more
motivated staff. Even among those who studied locally, the growing ability to
discuss technical aspects of their work in English is impressive. This has
improved substantially opportunities of communication with the international
research community with resultant effects on both the breadth and quality of
research. Even junior researchers publish important results of their research
more regularly and have greater opportunities to attend professional meetings to
present their work. The overall effect is a more productive and higher quality
research program, with results being obtained and disseminated more quickly.
8.3       National and regional guidelines for agricultural research in
Indonesia are stated in very general terms and researchers still tend to be
isolated from the users of research results and to operate 'within the research
community.' This reduces the attention given to problem-oriented research and
results in much research being directed to peer groups rather than user groups.
Although, increasingly, research is conducted within a farming-system or multi-
disciplinary context, the never generations of research workers still need to
acquire a better sense of the importance and relevance of their work in programs
contributing to overall national and local development. Young staff that are
technicaily well prepared but need additional training and guidance to assume a
greater role in the detailed planning and management of research projects.
8.4       Considerable differences exist in the effectiveness of different
research institutes, whether or not they were supported under NAR II, in respect
of relevance and quality of research, efficient use of facilities and staff, and
sense of direction. Factors contributing to these differences include:
(i) differences in institute management; (ii) appropriateness of past planning
in accordance with well defined goals; (iii) problems in synchronizing the rapid
development of staff and physical resources during the last decade; (iv) loca-
tion of the institute, historical evolution of the particular institute and
length of research 'tradition;" (v) involvement of end users in directing and
funding of research (e.g. the estate crop sector); (vi) differences in salaries
and conditions and availability of adequate funds for O&M of the physical plant;
and (vii) the research programs themselves.
8.5       It is generally not difficult to distinguish r search institutes or
units under vigorous, capable leadership from those where motivation or interest
is less. Apart from adequate funding, this is the most important factor
impacting on the effectiveneas with which resources are used at different
research establishments. At the older stations with long-established programs,
objectives as well as specific research activities are generally more focused,
and staff and facilities better utilized. Similarly, commodities which
historically have received greater emphasis in research, such as estate crops
and rice, have well-developed programs and are still the most strongly sup-



-7-
ported. It is the newly established facilities and programs established during
the NAR I and MAR II implementation period that still show the greatest
weaknesses and need special attention to raise their effectiveness.
8.6       In most of the estate crop research institutes where there has been a
long-standing tradition of research and continued leadership at senior levels,
the impact of NAR II is very significant. These research institutes are better
integrated with the sector they are serving and generally have less funding
problems. Conditions and salaries are better than those at institutes serving
other commodities. The result seems to be that at many of the Estate Crop
Research Institutes (ECRI) equipment and trained research staff are utilized
more efficiently than at research stations serving other commodities (mostly
funded by AMD).
8.7       As stated before, an important factor affecting the impact of the
project has been the lack of synchronization between the establishment and
provision of new facilities and equipment and the return of trained staff to
utilize them. Thus, it was observed at some institutes that staff trained under
MAR II did not have equipment to work with for which they have been trained,
while other equipment had been acquired for which there is no trained staff to
use them. Moreover, a large proportion of the more sophisticated equipment was
frequently out of use due to lack of service facilities and availability of
spare parts. Lack of adequate funding for O&M is, moreover, leading to
underutilization of facilities and staff and, in some cases, to rapid
deterioration of the new facilities.
9.   Project Sustainability
9.1       A critical mass of physical facilities and human resources have been
built up during the implementation of NAR I and NAR I1 projects. Due to the
firm commitment of GOI to pursue agricultural research, it is expected that the
project would maintain an acceptable level of net benefits throughout its
economic life. Improved research management (supported under the new project)
and steady supply of operating funds would ensure the benefits from this
project. These risks are being addressed through the on-going research
management project.
10. Bank Performance
10.1      The quality of preparation and appraisal was good and the project was
supervised regularly. However, due to frequent changes in the mission
composition, enough continuity in supervision could not be maintained, creating
some confusion. Bank staff contributed to the success of the project through
supportive working relationships and profescional advice. It was originally
envisaged in the SAR that IBRD would finance 602 and GOI 402 of the civil works
program. In 1988 however, GOI's budget constraints and the failure to secure
additional counterpart loan funds from an overseas source, resulted in GOI
requesting an increase in IBRD's share to ensure completion of the civil works
program as envisaged, and to enable continued operational funding of research
programs cross AARD. After a review IBRD agreed to disburse against remaining
eligible civil works at a rate of 91% from 1987188 onwards. This resulted in
IBRD's overall share--of funding for civil works under the project increasing to
approximately 672, and OI's to 332, and the civil works program being completed
as planned. The Bank has aiso hired local staff to uphold this quality of civil



work.  The Bank supervised closely, but was flexible in letting the borrower
choose training locations and administer the training program: and assisted in
revising some of the training targets.  This was necessary to 'correct for the
lack of attention given to preparing a more systematic plan for training at
appraisal. The Bank created a revolving fund (special account) of US$3.0
million with Bank Indonesia in February 1988 to speed up processing of dis-
bursement under the indirect payment procedure. Funding for O&M, lack of con-
tinuity of staff and the right skill mix required for efficient research
implementation, however, remain concerns which now are being addressed in the
ARM Project
11. Lessons Learned
(a) The PIU proved appropriate and adequate for implementing the project.
The PIU was directly under the control of the DG AARD.
(b) Training and technical assistance required some modification during
implementation. These components should have been more closely
examined at appraisal and a master plan for human resource development
should have been prepawed at the outset.
(c) Coordination between the establishment of laboratory facilities and
the availability of trained manpower to use these facilities and
equipment could have been greatly improved by better planning.
(d) Construction problems occurring due to the involvement of
inexperienced and underfinanced, small-scale local contractors could
have been mitigated through improved contractor's support and more
effective supervision.
(e) Inadequate or unreliable operating funds posed a major uncertainty
affecting continuity and ultimate results and costs of agricultural
research.
(f) With physical infrastructure having been substantially improved,
planning and management are becoming more important constraints in
agricultural research and therefore is a major focus of attention in
the ARM project. Perhaps more attention should have been given to
these aspects during the NAR II design stage.
12. Borrowers Performance
12.1      The Borrower implemented the project as per schedule.  Construction of
all physical facilities were originally scheduled for completion in four years.
This was extended to about 10 years because of insufficient local currency fund.
Some research locations proved to be unproductive as a result of poor site
selection. The overall performance in the trtining was satisfactory. There are
three major areas where the Borrower made significant advances in contributing
to a strengthened capacity for research implementation and management. These
include li) the conduct of the 11 research reviews; (ii) the preparation of
Research Master Plan for food crops; and (iii) the development of a Management
Information System. However, inadequate funding due to budgetary constraints
has led to underutilization of the new assets and staff. This shortfall in
development budget funds was partially offset by other donor funding, and con-



-9-
tinuing improvements are being introduced to correct identified gaps and weak-
nesses under the ARM project. With Bank and other donor assistance, the
Borrower has made remarkable progress in developing a research service, which
compares well with international standards.
PART II
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Implementation Phase
1.1        By virtually every appropriate measure the NAR II Project has been an
outstanding success. It has or will haves
-    been completed within schedule;
-    trained 55 more Ph.D's and 29 more Master's students than originally
planned;
-    completed 42Z more civil works construction at 33Z of the original
cost estimate;
-    developed a unique method of program review which has provided the
basis for the ARM project;
-    each year, except for the first, spent within an average of 122 of
the SAR annual estimate; and
-    cost only 95Z of the original SAR estimate;
These accomplishments have not been achieved without setbacks, problems, and
occasional dead-ends, nor have they been accomplished without the aid of factors
external to the project, such as the devaluation of the Indonesian Rupiah.
These contributing influences are discussed below under the appropriate head-
ings.
1.2        What remains, however, is an appraisal of a vdl-rounded and sus-
tainable project successfully implemented by AARD in cooperation with the World
Bank and upon which further agricultural research support may be safely and
firmly based.
2. Training
Training: The Borrowers Strengths and Weaknesses.
2.1        Accomplishments of the Borrower.  The overall performance of the
Borrower in training was particularly satisfactory.
2.2        The targets set in the NAR II SAR for degree tra4ing were achieved,
and three of the four categories were increased several times. For local degree
training, thv MAR II SAR targets were Dr. 50 and M.S. 450. The current targets



-10-
are Dr. 83 and M4S. 450. For overseas training the original targets were Ph.D.
70 and M.Sc 50. The current targets are Ph.D. 102 and M.Sc. 79. two additional
degree categories were added 51 and 502 for which the targets are 20 and 110
respectively (see following Chart).
2.3        In addition it should be remembered that there were carryover
candidates from MAR I who completed their training during NAR II. The respec-
tive numbers for this group in the local degree program are 50 Dr., 214 Ms., and
9 SI who successfully completed their programs under NAR II. For the overseas
degree training program there were 32 Ph.D. and 7 M.Sc. who successfully com-
pleted their programs under MAR II.
2.4        The targets for short term, non-degree training under the NAR II SAR
were 540 mm of local training and 150 mm of overseas training. These targets
were achieved, and subsequently increased to 690 mm of local non degree train-
ing, and 250.5 mm of overseas non degree training. The accomplishments to date
for local non degree training are 1,559.5 mm, and for overseas non degree train-
ing are 178.9.
2.5        The NAR II PIU also conducted English language training, primarily
designed for staff who were scheduled to enter degree training programs over-
seas, and the Dr. degree program locally. The targets for English language
training in the NAR II SAR are set in terms of US dollars, i.e., US$ 160,000.
This amount was increased to t:$220,224. Eleven formal language training
courses were conducted between september 20, 1982 and May 8, 1987, involving 315
staff members. The average increase in the Test of English Formal Language
(TOEFL) scores for the eleven groups was about 40 points. In addition, under
the auspices of the English program, a series of TOEFL pre tests were conducted,
each involving an average of 150 to 200 candidates to enable Research Institute
Directors to assess the current capabilities of their staff.
2.6        General Comments.  While the local training under the MAR II project
began in June 1980, the starting date for the overseas training component was
August 1982. A considerable number of both local and overseas training can-
didates began their training under NAR I funding and completed with NAR II
funds. No provision was made in NAR II to fund the NAR I carryover students.
NAR II was designed as a five year project to be completed over eight years in
order to permit training fellows who went to study post in the fifth year to
complete by the eighth year, that is within the framework of the project. How-
ever AARD has continued, with the Bank's approval, to send staff for both local
and overseas training so that there will be a likely carryover into the new ARM
project. Because of savings in other portions of the loan, it has been possible
under NAR II to permit the NAR I training fellows to complete using NAR II funds
without any serious damage to the overall ability to fund NAR II training
targets. In fact those targets have been increased several times.



- 11 -
Long Term Training
Ph.D/MSC. Program; Degrees Completed
Numbw of s9u1nto   Pw OCna Comltrob
120                              tO0
A.4 PhQD., Ovrseas
84
100 l                            80  5: PhD. Local
80                           84 | |   "   0 M8/M8a. Owrsee
87                     610  0). Mao. Local CX 1O)
4 - l40 |                l                 (gl amS    Target
Revised SAR Target
20-                  .20       ~~~~~~~Number Oomnsted
. X SL  EJ] E_ ] EL     =     w. Tat CWI
A      a             0 
Type of Program
Originda   R.vid    Nurbe  % Revied
SAX        Spled                Tarpt
Taret      Tart               Competed
Ph.D Onwea
Ph.D., Locl
M61M8CG. Oas N
MSC., Localf .+o*. . -- .:2;4:



- 12 -
2.7        As NAR II started, the Borrower was able to draw upon its past
experience withs
(i) the NAR I project;
(ii) similar experience with training in bilateral assistance from ADAB,
USAID, ODA, JICA, the Netherlands, etc.; and
(iii)  its experience with training from the International Agriculture
Research Center (IARC) especially Internatioanl Rice Research
Institute (IRRI).
2.8        It is most important to understand the total impact of that
experience.
(i) All prior training assistance, including assistance under NAR I,
focused upon a single or limited number of Research Institutes.
Therefore comprehensive AARD wide manpower planning was not an
important part of that experience.
(ii) The most qualified staff, without regard to discipline, were the
first to be sent for training during NAR I. It is ,hat group which
now comprises the majority of Echelon II and III level Directors.
When NAR II began, problems began to emerge in finding suitably qual-
ified candidates. The need to improve nomination and selection pro-
cedures increased.
2.9        English Lanauare Trainint.  The first problem to surface, even
during NAR I, was the need to improve English language ability for overseas
training candidates. (During NAR II the major Indonesian universities added a
requirement of a TOEFL score of 500 for all DR candidates). The experience of
NAR I was important, and the PIU of the Borrower, was able to continue the
successful English language training activity initiated earlier. But this con-
tinued to be done under an ad hoc arrangement, with teaching staff recruited
through the International Agriculture Development Service (IADS) (later Winrock)
on behalf'of the Borrower. In addition, training was available only at Bogor.
This sharply limited access for Research Institutes not based on Java.
2.10       A permanent capability to offer English language training both to
scientific, administrative and technician level staff was not developed. one
effort to do this was initiated by NAR II in conjunction with the USAID funded
AARP I project. Training locations would have been established at IKIP's and
similar institutions at several locations throughout Indonesia where AARD
Research Institutes and facilities were located. Funds for start up costs
(i.e., equipment, teaching materials, etc.) were available, as well as funds to
cover several years of program activity. Final approval from the Manpower
Development Committee was never secured.  The ARM project will begin this effort
again in order to qualify candidates for overseas training.
2.11       The process of nominations for English language training has t1.zen
that the Director of each Research Institute nominates a panel of candidates who
take a pre test examination in English. Those who score above a certain minimum
TOEFL score, become eligible to enter either the intermediate course (entry
level TOEFL 420) or the advanced course (entry level TOEFL 450). Not all of the



- 13 -
students enrolled in English language training were ultimately nominated by
their Directors for degree training programs, and of those nominated, not all
were selected as candidates for fellowships. Thus a substantial part of the
English language training had a marginal impact upon the degree training
program.
2.12       After several years, the Manpower Development Committee reviewed this
experience, and set minimum scores in English as a requirement for all overseas
training and for Dr. training within Indonesia. At the same time this decision
was taken, formal levels of Grade Point Average (GPA) for fellowship selection
were set.
2.23       Nomination and Selection.  Throughout all of NAR II, the overall
process of nomination and selection of local and overseas degree training can-
didates took place as follows. The Directors of all AARD units were requested
to forward to the Manpower Development committee nominations of candidates for
degree training, specifying the particulars of the desired program for each
nominee, and forwarding accompanying documentation (i.e., transcripts, letters
of evaluation, etc.). The Manpower Development Committee is not a structural
committee of AARD. Its members are nominated by the Director General. The
members tend to be persons selected on the basis of their structural positions
(Jabatan Struktural) as well as their research positions (Jabatan Fungsional).
The chairman of the Manpower Development committee is ex-officio the Secretary
of AARD. Its composition has altered over time. The support staff of the Com-
mittee have been drawn from the Personnel Division of the Secretariat throughout
the entire period. The committee, as a general procedure, reviewed the overall
number of fellowships available, and any special criteria which were to govern
the selection process. The screening of nomination files and compilation of a
preliminary list of nominees was the task of the staff of the Committee.
2.14       It is important to review these procedures in detail for it has a
bearing upon the later expectations by the Bank and the Borrower that the train-
ing process would be linked closely to overall research program priorities. As
matters now stand the staff of the Manpower Development Committee play a criti-
cal role in determining the shape of training nomination panels. Yet they are
far removed from the Information necessary to iudge the impact of this selection
process upon the proce*s of strengthening the multidisciplinary capabilities of
commodi.y and problem area oriented research teams at the Research Institute
level. Whether the Secretariat, and the CARP will be able to play an inter-
mediary role in this regard will be an important factor to assess as ARM is
being implemented.
2.15       One additional suggestion which has been made is to introduce the use
of tests in the selection process as an additional measure of ability. Tests
now exist in Bahasa Indonesia which are similar to the Graduate Record Examina-
tion, and the College Board Tests which are administered in English by the
Princeton Testing Service in the USA. The examinations now conducted in
Indonesia are administered by a special unit within the Directorate General of
Nigher Education, and are used for both selection and placement purposes on
USAID funded training programs.
2.16       Non-Degree Training.  For non-degree training the situation is even
more complex. At the outset of NAR II, in compliance with Bank requests, formal
plans were forwarded to the Bank for both local and overseas short term train-



14
ing. (Seet AARD NAR II Semi-Annual Progress Reports Nos. 1-12 for the
specifics of short term training). Two quite different approaches to short term
training were taken.
2.17       For non-degree training in country, the NAR II PIU took the initia-
tive, in cooperation with a number of AARD units and local universities in pre-
paring a group of short term training courses, which were then offered on an
annual basis for the remainder of NAR II. Each AARD Unit nominated par-
ticipants, and selection was carried out by the staff of the NAR II PrU, for the
approval of the Manpower Development Committee of EARD.
2.18       For overseas non-degree training, nominations were forwarded by the
Directors of AARD units to the Manpower Development Committee, and from it to
the PIU, which in turn requested MADS to assist in placement. Midway through
NAR 1I, BAPPENAS informed the AARD that it was placing certain restrictions upon
the use of overseas short term training. The most critical was that all such
training had to be for a;minimum of three months, and be offered as a formal
course taught on a repetitive basis. This created great hardship for AARD. One
example follows. A major problem in citrus production was the citrus vein
phlegm disease which infects Indonesian citrus production. Working with the
University of California at Riverside, with the efforts of the Technical
Assistance consultant in horticulture retained by AARD, a special program was
arranged for six nominees. Extended discussions between the PIU and the Univer-
sity of California indicated that the maximum length for the course would be
five weeks. The requisite skills could be imparted within that period, and the
University saw no point in tying up its resources for a longer period, since
they were in demand for other university courses. Efforts to persuade BAPPENAS
to relax the minimum three month time restriction (which was never provided to
AARD in written form) were of no avail. None of the staff was sent for training
at UC Riverside.
2.19       From that point onward, it proved impossible for AARD to secure
approval from Ministry of Planning (BARPENAS) for the use of any of the short
term training funds which were available for overseas training within the loan.
Since ARMP I contains similar funding, it will be important for the Borrower to
clarify in writing the extent to which the constr&ints imposed by BAPPENAS will
be relaxed. Current BAPPENAS regulations permit the use of soft loan funds for
short term training.
2.20       In evaluating the NAR II performance, attention has been drawn to the
continuing requests for mid-career training for scientists, i.e., post-doctoral,
short term assignments in research laboratories overseas, etc. Funds for this
purpose were included in NAR II, an initial set of candidates were nominated,
and placement efforts were initiated. The program did not receive the clearance
and approval of BAPPENAS. The Borrower recognizes that this matter will have to
be resolved before similar efforts are undertaken in ARMP I.
2.21       From the mid-point of MAR II onward, the Borrower has held several
programs, designated as *reentry programsO in which groups of the most recent
staff to complete their PhD/DR degree programs were brought together to discuss
the process of initiating meaningful research activity of importance to their
institutes. While the Borrower is pleased with the results of these reentry
programs, it recognizes that much more can and should be done. This is another



- 15 -
area where the Bank could usefully share experience derived from other similar
loan programs with the Borrower.
2.22       Duration of Degree Programs.  The experience of the Borrower with the
time required for staff to complete degree training both in overseas and local
programs indicates that the time allocated under MAR II was not sufficient in
almost all cases. For overseas training the time was: Ph.D. 3.33 years (40
months); M.Sc. 2.33 years (28 months). For local training the time was: Dr.
3.00 years (36 months); M.S. 2.50 years (30 months). The reasons why additional
time was required differ between the overseas and local degree training
programs, but in both cases the overall results were similar. The consequences
were different.
2.23       For students in the local degree training programs, when their eligi-
bility period expired, they were expected to return to their Research Institute,
and complete their degree program on their own time. This explains, in large
part, why the rate of completion in the local degree program was quite slow.
For students in overseas degree programs a return to home country prior to com-
pletion would have meant automatic termination of their programs in almost all
cases. Therefore it became necessary to make extensions in their training
periods. Because of the savings in other areas of NAR II it was possible to do
this to some extent. This may not be possible under ARM, and as such could pose
a serious problem. Since much of the overseas training is to be used for
difficult disciplines in which manpower is now scarce, the likelihood of delays
in the completion of degree training seem even greater.
Trainin: The Bank's Strengths and Weaknesses
2.24       An important positive feature of the loan agreement has been the
flexibility permitted to the Borrower, by the Bank with respect to the use of
loan funds for degree and non degree training. Among the most important
features are the following points.
2.25       Flexibility in Training Location.  Unlike most bilateral assistance
programs, the Borrower is not restricted with regard to the choice of training
location. Therefore the Borrower has been able to select the most suitable
location to match the needs and abilities of a training nominee. This has been
an important factor in contributing to the high rate of successful completion,
particularly in the overseas degree program.
2.26       Flexibility in Training Program Administration.  The Bank has per-
mitted the Borrower flexioility in determining both the composition of the
training support package for an individual candidate, and how that package can
be used. One important result has been the ability to have overseas Ph.D., and
local M.S. and Dr. candidates carry out their research in Indonesia on local
problems. This contributed to their effective reentry, as well as to the
ongoing research programs of their Research Institutes.
2.27       Willingness to Agree to Revisions in Training Targets.  The Bank has
been willing to agree to several upward revisions in the fellowship and training
targets for degree and non degree programs made possible by both direct
efficiencies in the use of funds allocated for training, and savings from other
portions of the loan.



- 16 -
2.28       Weakness of Manpower Planning Supervision.  The Bank obtained
assurances from the Borrower at negotiations that  ...annual training proposals,
agreeable to both parties, would be submitted to the Bank Group by December 31
each year starting in 1980...I  (SARIMAR-: para 4.08 p. 22; and, para 6.01(e)
p. 30). This applied to both degree and non degree training. The Borrower had
difficulties in preparing such manpower plans. This difficulty might have been
alleviated from the outset if the Bank had taken the steps discussed in the
following paragraphs.
2.29       Need to Share Bank Experience in Manpower Planning.  At the beginning
of the NAR U project it would have been helpful for the Bank to make available
to the Borrower information from other Bank supported projects, such as specimen
copies of acceptable manpower development plans, with explanation regarding the
preparation process involved. Such documents could have served as a guide for
the AARD and the PIU.
2.30       Need to Strengthen the Capability of Supervision Missions in Manpower
Planning. In one or more of the initial supervision Missions the Bank might
usefully have included a staff member or Bank consultant experienced in the
preparation of manpower development plans to discuss the process of their
preparation and then to review implementation progress. In retrospect, the
agreement secured between the Bank and the Borrower to recruit for six months
the services of a manpower planning specialist from August 1987 to February 1988
would have been much more beneficial if (a) it had taken place at the outset of
the project; and, (b) had been for a longer period based upon clear agreement
regarding the activity. A Bank staff member or consultant, as mentioned above,
could have played a useful role in formulating and contributing to the super-
vision of this activity.
2.31       Need to Improve the Tarnet Setting Process.  One additional feature
of the project (loan agreement) which had a negative effect upon the overall
impact of the training component, arises from a basic feature of the project
approach. Performance targets set out in the SARINAR TI (See Annex 3, Tables 5
& 6) reflect a mechanical, unrealistic pattern of resource use. Even though
this project was a follow on to NAR I, it was in important respects a new
project, with new staff, and new consultants. (See discussions elsewhere in the
PCR regarding project management). There will invariably be a learning period
following on these organizational and personnel changes by the project manage-
ment team to take care of adjustments in procedures, identification of can-
didates, and things such as language training. The division of Performance
targets into uniform units results in an initial judgment of poor performance,
when those targets are not met. This in turn creates a pressure to act on the
part of the Borrower whi.h works against the careful selection and review
processes required.
2.32       Performance in those components of projects involving training, can
be said to follow a geometric, rather than an arithmetic curve. Performance is
most intense in the final years. The value of the use of artificially induced
pressures on the Borrower, i.e., unrealistic target schedules to intensify per-
formance at the outset, is of questionable value, and possibly counter produc-
tive.
2.33       Changes in Bank Supervising Staff and Primary Supervisory
Responsibility. Each of the Bank staff who have had principal supervising



- 17 -
responsibility have brought a different focus to training supervision. It is
understood that there is an evolutionary, feed-back, mechanism involved whereby
the findings of one mission become inputs into deciding the constitution of the
next. This can, however, give an impression of discontinuity. Such an
impression might have been avoided bys
-    a clear statement of the focus of attention of each missi*n,
particularly; and
-    a distinction, where possible, among missions which were oriented to
quantitative evaluation of training numbers, those interested in
qualitative evaluation of content, and those which bsd a specific
commodity or regional focus.
While recognizing the staffing difficulties involved, it would have been of
considerable value to the Borrower had there been greater continuity in the
make-up of the supervisory missions.
Trainings Lessons Learned
2.34       Carryover.  The carryover of NAR I to NAR It placed a considerable
demand upon NAR II training funds. The Borrower understands that the potential
similar difficulty in the carryover between NAR II and ARMP has been resolved.
2.35       English Language Training.  The initial SAR targets for English
Language training were expanded and met, with an eventual total of 315 staff
members being trained. The Borrower feels, however, that there is room for
improvement in the cost effectiveness with which this was done and in the com-
position of the target population. Specifically, it is felt that:
-    a permanent training unit, or arrangement with an appropriate school,
within AARD to teach and upgrade English Language would be more cost
effective, flexible, and avoid delays in negotiations anad start-up
time than arrangements on a project by project basis, and;
-    attention should be given to two groups currently not targeted for
training: 1) technicians, maintenance personnel and other support
staff and, 2) staff needing refresher courses.
2.36       Many staff must deal with English in farm machinery and laboratory
equipment manuals, computer programs, contact with foreign scientists, and a
wide variety of other situations involving the need for English. The effective
conduct of literature searches by the large majority of the scientific staff who
received their training in Indonesia is also involved here. Maintaining English
skills by those who have already acquired that ability is also required.
2.37       The plan developed by NAR II and AARD staff might be a useful initial
basis for discussion.
2.38       Short ...'rm Training.  The usefulness of the in-country short term
training program has been generally acknowledged. One strong request which has
emerged with respect to ARM, is to sharply in^rease the training courses for
laboratory technicians, and support staff involved in all aspects of equipment



^ 18 _
installation and maintenance. Some work of this nature is now being done under
Dutch assistance at several locations in East Java and other Eastern locations.
2.39       An additional important suggestion which has emerged related to short
term training for technicians, is the need to move beyond establishing "entry
level courses." It is now time to consider designing courses which would permit
the stepwise improvement in the upgrading of skills, and therefore in the
courses offered for the entire range of technician and support staff level
training in non degree training programs in country. It may be appropriate to
consider retaining short term technical assistance to assist AARD in designing
such training programs.
2.40       Nomination and Selection.  The Borrower recognizes that the
nomination and selection process for both degree and non-degree training
conducted during UAR II needs to be strength0-ed and improved. In particular
the overall planning process for human resource development should benefit from
the experiences in the development of the Master Plan for Food Crops during NAR
II. Care must be taken to insure that, in the future, the targets for manpower
development are set in line with overall research objectives developed within
the Research Institutes.
2.41       In the future, the Borrower recognizes that there will continue to be
a bottom up and top down process. The difference will be that the bottom up
setting of specific nominations will take place at the Research Institute level,
and will be justified in terms of the potential contribution to future research
capability. This implies that they will be derived from the research objectives
of the institute. The top down function will be one of overall allocation of
potential training resources between the several broad research programs based
upon overall AARD assessments and will likely involve both the CARP and the
Secretariat, both of whom will share responsibilities in this area.
2.42       Motivation, Dedication and Reentry Program.  The Borrower sees a
continuing need to work on both specific aspects of reentry for its newly
completed degree candidates. Clearly it is important to develop a constructive
pattern of work habits and attitudes on the part of the younger returning
scientists.
2.43       It is also important that the career reward structure of AARD be such
that returning scientists will continue to feel they are making valuable and
recognized inputs into national agricultural research efforts.
2.44       While some obvious problems, such as salary levels, may in the short
run be difficult to solve, other aspects involving an improved personnel
management system hold out considerable promise. Work on the Master Plan for
Food Crops indicated that there was considerable scope for improvement in
upgrading job description and classifications, providing tiered levels of
categories, each with internal step wise promotion grades, particularly for the
non-scientist staff (i.e., the Jabatan Structural classifications for lower
Echelon staff) could have a marked improvement upon incentives. It is
recognized that this in turn should be linked to the opportunity for local short
term training, where skill enhancement is involved. Changes along these lines
have already been introduced in the National Library for Agricultural Sciences
(NLAS) for comunications and library personnel. The Borrower recognizes that



- 19 -
the issues of motivation and dedication extend beyond NAR II returnees and are
most important for the staff of AARD at all levels.
2.45       To identify lessons learned is one thing, to act upon them, another.
The ability to translate lessons learned into a program of action which is
capable of implementation is most important.  In this connection, the lessons
learned from NAR I, as presented in the NAR I Termination Report (pp.5-6) are
instructive:
"The intensified staff development program has been a major
accomplishment during the NAR I. ... In assessing the present status
of staffing and the future needs of the AARD it would seem desirable
to focus special attention on four requirements during NAR II.
'First, the identification of the disciplines that are still missing
or deficient in the staffing of multi-disciplinary teams for the
commodity research and other research programs of AARD.
"Second, there should be guidance to staff members newly returned
from their training to help them adjust from the academic environment
of the university to the applied research responsibility of their
research program. This, sometimes referred to as the 're entry'
problem, may justify assistance from short term research specialists
-- a category of technical assistance support that was greatly
underutilized in the NAR I.
'Third, more attention should be given to the training of technicians
or technical support staff. ...
"Fourth, the AARD should ... provide for classification, evaluation,
and promotion of research and support service staff of AARD. This is
of special importance in multidisciplinary research programs in which
usual procedures -- especially for promotion on merit -- do not fit.'
2.46       Each of these issues emerged again in the preparation of the Master
Plan for Food crops during the last phase of NAR II.
2.47       Sharing Bank Experience.  The Bank may wish to enhance cooperation
with the Borrower in the implementation of training. One way would be for the
Bank to share its experience in both completed and current projects where
training is involved. The Borrower understands that the Operations Evaluation
Division of the Bank regularly publishes reports for Bank use. (World Bank,
Directory of OED Reports, Operations Evaluation Department, October 1988). The
availability of such studies, and compilations of practical experience in other
projects would be of considerable value to the Borrower at the PIU level. At
tines where studies are made available, they are exchanged at much higher levels
and are not available for use at the operational level. Of the studies which do
exist, most are concerned with policy issues, rather than operational level
issues useful in project implementation.
2.48       Development of a Comprehensive Plan for Supervision Missions Jointly
by the Bank and the Borrower. A second way of strengthening Bank-Borrower
cooperation would be to formulate, prior to the outset of the project, a plan
for project supervision missions. Even within the constraints of manpower



- 20 -
limits and timing and the need for flexibility on the part of both the Bank and
Borrower, such a plan would provide for the periodic and systematic review of
all aspects of project performance. While the Borrower's efforts in Training
came to be judged favorably by the Bank, it is clear in retrospect, that
periodic focus upon more than numerical target attainment, which involved the
presence in a Supervision Mission of a Bank Training Spedialist, would have
strengthened overall performance even further.
2.49       Consistency in Bank Manpower Planning Supervision.  As noted
elsewhere in this PCR (i.e., Section 11.2 Project Preparation Performance in Pre
Implementation Phase) future projects seeking to provide training for national
agricultural research systems should have built in from the outset a clear
assessment of how human resource development, as a component of overall project
activity, will be utilized to strengthen the institution's capacity to conduct
research on priority problems. The NMAR II project, in retrospect, did not
address that issue until the very end. As a consequence, as training proceeded,
imbalances developed in human resource development.
2.50       The types of manpower development plans developed by the Borrower in
interaction with the Bank passed through several phases during the course of the
project.
(i) In the initial years the focus was mainly upon the numerical accuracy
of quantitative targets on an institute by institute basis.
(ii) To this there was next added a focus upon disciplines within and
across Research Institutes.
(iii)  Gradually, a concern for the ability to address specific commodity
problems, and the need for certain scarce skills was added.
(iv) Finally, there is now an awareness that for effective human resource
development to take place:
-    it must be part of an integrated planning and implementation
activity which commences with clear statements of research
priorities and objectives at the operational level within each
Research Institute;
-    it must carefully assess current human, physical, and financial
resource allocation in the light of those priority objectives;
-    through an iterative process which allows for the reallocation
of existing resources it must determine the human resource base
required to provide the capacity to conduct prioritized research
goals within an overall framework determined by the application
of resource constraints; and,
-    finally it must determine a phased, prioritized program for
implementing that human resource development scheme.
2.51       The last phase to profoundly different from what took place initially
in the NAR II project. Cooperation between the Bank and the' orrower,
particularly during the last phases of Supervision, helped to move human



- 21 -
resource development planning forward. Earlier discussions between the Bank and
the Borrower in this phase would have resulted in even greater efficiencies in
resource use, and a more advanced status of Borrower development.
2.52       Continued Flexibility in the Use if Loan Funds for Training.  There
is a continuing need for the admirable flexibility shown by the Bank in using
loan fuD:K3 for additional training in continuing project activity.
3. Technical Assistance.
Technical Assistancet The Borrower's Strenaths and Weaknesses
3.1        Accomplishments of the Borrower.  The targets for Technical
Assistance in the NAR II SAR are 576 mm (48 years) of long term technical
assistance, and 124 mm of short term technical assistance. Based upon estimates
of anticipated need these targets were adjusted at the time of the mid-term
review. The current targets are 547.68 mm of long term technical assistance and
250.5 mm of short term technical assistance.
3.2        The use of long term technical assistance to the end of the project
is projected at 552.45 mm, of which 324.52 are in the PIU, and 227.93 in other
units of AARD. The utilization of short term technical assistance has been for
two major purposes. One is for the conduct of the Research Reviews, the Review
of Reviews, and the LIP. This has involved a total of 39.66 mm. The other has
been for consultancies to specific units which has involved 125.43 mm as of June
1989. In addition 7.49 mm of consultancy services were utilized by Forestry
during the period it was attached to the AARD. The total utilization to date is
172.58, which leaves a balance available for continuation of work on the RMP and
other activities of 77.92 me.
3.3        As noted above in the discussion of performance during the pre-
implementation phase, the SAR for NAR II was far less precise in setting out the
assumptions for the planned use of technical assistance than the NAR I SAR. It
provides no statement by commodity or commodity group which integrates technical
assistance with the other components of the loan. It simply lists by name a
series of research programs for which consultants would be recruited. No draft
Terms of Reference (TOR) for consultants were set out. There was no discussion
of phasing or linkage. The sense of an overall guiding framework or strategy is
absent. The complexities which the Borrower faced in this massive institution
building task are not addressed. The implicit assumption was that by the time
NAR II began, AARD was expected to have accumulated sufficient experience to
proceed to utilize the substantially increased amounts of technical assistance
in NAR II without the structured interaction between the Bank and the Borrower
which characterized the KAR I SAR.
3.4        Overall during the implementation of MAR II the Borrower was able to
utilize the technical assistance provided in a timely and effective fashion.
This is reflected in the dozens of technical reports produced and utilized and,
above all, in the series of Review volumes. Even in those instances when last
minute adjustments and clarifications of purpose and Terms of Reference were
needed valuable inputs resulted.



- 22 -
3.S        Nonetheless, the Borrower recognizes that many problems arose.  Some
of these are discussed below.
3.6        Problems in Planning for Technical Assistance Use.  In reviewing the
performance in NAR II, it is clear that there was no overall plan for the use of
either long term or short term technical assistance. The Borrower acknowledges
its inability to provide to the Bank an annual plan for the use of short term
technical assistance, as requested by the Bank in the Aide Memoires of several
Supervision Missions. Ideally, each Research Institute should have prepared a
plan, based upon its overall research program, for the use of short term
technical assistance both fort (i) research program development; and, (ii)
specific research assignments. These would then have been integrated into an
overall, phased statement of requirements, resource constraints could then have
been applied, and a plan developed. This did not take place.
3.7        Writing TORe, Supervising Assiznments, and Making Eva'uations.  A
part of the inability to utilize technical assistance effectively is due to the
weakness of research management capacity at the Research Institute level. In
many cases the Directors of Research Institutes were recently returned PhD
students, who had not as yet acquired sufficient experience in research
management to undertake the necessary planning and programming activity.
Developing a request for assistance, and preparing a draft Terms of Reference
are skills that come only with experience and time.
3.8        In a few cases, the decision to secure consultancy services was made
at the Echelon I or II level, whereas the utilization depended upon a clear
understanding of purpose, and a capacity to administer, at the Echelon III or IV
level.
3.9        Defining the Consultant's Role.  There is one set of problems which
involve the Borrower, the consulting organization, and individual consultants.
A frequent remark by consultants is that while they feel they were recruited to
'do research" or 'carry out a program," that their counterparts primarily
request them to prepare position papers, draft correspondence, and a variety of
other non-research roles. At the core of this misunderstanding of roles is the
difference mentioned earlier between:
(i) the use of consultancy services for program development and
institution building purposes;
as opposed to
(ii) the use of consultants to participate in the conduct of specific
research projects.
3.10       Both in NAR II and several other projects, this issue emerges.  It is
further complicated by what is now recognized as inadequate communication
between the Borrower and the consultancy firm/management services organization.
Frequently, as a result of a lack of clear understanding, the person recruited
to a position is a young, competent researcher, with limited experience in
research management. The Director of the Research Institute to which the
consultant is assigned wishes the consultant to spend a subs -!tial portion of
time working with him (the Director) on what are research and program management
tasks. The young consultant, looking to his professional career, is anxious to



- 23 -
get on with research, keeping in mind the possibility of publishing papers based
upon the research undertaken during the assignment.
3.11       These conflicts in role expectation could have been avoided if there
had been greater clarity in communication between the Borrower and the
management services agency regarding the specific needs of the particular
Research Institute. These statements apply with particular validity to long
term technical assistance.
3.12       Problems in Evaluation of Consultant Performance.  Neither NAR I, NAR
II nor several other similar projects which the Borrower has undertaken have
provided a satisfactory answer to the problem of evaluation of the performance
of a consultant. This applies equally, albeit differently, to both long term
and short term technical assistance.
3.13       The short term technical assistance staff member is
characteristically assigned a specific task, within a given time frame, and
expected both to complete the task and produce a Consultancy Report upon the
completion of assignment. In the first instance the consultancy report is sent
to the management services agency, then transmitted to the Borrower, and
ultimately to the Bank. As the Tables in the Semi-Annual Progress Report of the
NAR II Project indicate a considerable number of short term technical assistance
personnel recruited under the NAR II have served two or more assignments. The
only mechanism for feed back between the user (the Director of the Research
Institute) and the supplier (the management services agency) is embodied in the
decision to recruit a given consultant again.
3.14       A formal procedural mechanism needs to be developed for evaluation,
with criteria to be used in that evaluation, to enable the Borrower to make a
systematic assessment of the quality of consultancy services provided. This is
most urgently needed during the process of implementation, rather than at the
completion of the project.
3.15       There are, admittedly, intangible, psychological factors involved.
Is the consultant sensitive and responsive to local customs and conditions? A
frequent test employed at the time of recruitment is to ask whether the
consultant has had prior successful service in Indonesia. For many areas of
professional competence to be recruited in ARM, such as biotechnology, there
have been relatively few consultants previously working in Indonesia. This may
constitute a problem.
3.16       Problems in Recruiting Indonesian Consultants.  One alternative to
the recruitment of expatriate consultants is the recruitment of local Indonesian
consultants in areas where they are available. The Borrower recognizes that the
most important barrier to the effective use of this alternative is the low
standard of billing rate provided to local consultants under current GOI
regulations. Both in NAR I and NAR II the difficulty of the PIU in recruiting
competent Indonesian civil engineers has been due to the much higher pay rate
available to them in the private sector.
3.17       In the absence of a previously agreed upon and accepted formula for
the evaluation of individual consultants' services we must refer to the Final
Reports submitted by each of the more than six dozen short and long term
technical assistance consultants in the NAR II project. Although subject to



_ 24 -
inadvertent oversights, the a priori assumption must be that their work was
acceptable and of professional value. Indeed, one of the strongest, if
unmeasurable, results of the Project may well be the interaction among
consultants, domestic or foreign, and members of the PIU, candidates for
training, and other individuals involved in the broad spectrum of project
activities.
Technical Assistances The Bank's Strengths and Weaknesses
3.18       Emphasis upon Formal Requirements.  The Bank, during the early and
middle phases of implementation, placed considerable emphasis in its supervision
activities, upon having the Borrower complete the formal requirements in the
loan agreement associated with technical assistance. This involved the timely
arrangement for a management consulting firm, submission of TOR's prior to
recruitment of consultants, receipt of reports for short term consultants upon
completion of assignment, and receipt of the research reviews prepared by the
special consultant teams recruited for this purpose.
3.19       Opportunity to Address the Borrower's Concerns.  In NAR II, the Bank
did not work with the Borrower in areas relating to TA, which the Borrower had
specifically declared as constituting areas of its own weakness, and of which
the Bank was directly aware. See: The World Bank, Strengthening Agricultural
Research and Experience, The World Bank, Washington, DCs Operations Evaluation
Division, The World Bank, September 1, 1983, Report No. 4684, Annex 8, Page 1.
3.20       Assistance in improving the utilization of TA on the Bank's part
might have included working with the Borrower on the development of an overall
plan regarding the utilization of technical assistance, particularly as it
related to areas of priority research concern through: (i) assignment of a
research management specialist who focused upon this issue to several of the
supervision missions; and (ii) sharing with the Borrower, specific examples from
Bank experience in other projects of the type of documents and processes
involved.
3.21       In retrospect, given the evaluation findings of NAR I, had the Bank
worked with the Borrower to:
(i) develop an overall plan for the utilization of technical assistance
to focus attention upon the need to strengthen the Borrower's
research management potential;
(ii) stressed this dimension in its review of the TORs for technical
assistance assignments; and
(iii)  shared relevant experience from other comparable Bank projects from
the outset of NAR II.
Substantially more progress might have been made in strengthening the Borrower's
research management capability. In the final analysis, however, the NAR II
experience has led directly to a project with that specific goal; ARMP I.



- 25 -
Technical Assistances Lessons Learned
3.22       Problem Technical Assistance.  The use of technical assistance
involves a paradox. The more developed a Research Institute is, the better able
it is to utilize technical assistance, but a central purpose of technical
assistance is precisely to bring it to that stage of more advanced development.
Among the issues confronted by the Borrower during NAR II were the following:
(i) problems in developing meaningful plans for the utilization of
technical assistance where inputs vere being made throughout the
entire Agency;
(ii) many of the Research Institute Directors were, and still are,
recently returned Ph.D.'s with increased scientific skills, but they
are sometimes still in the process of developing managerial skills in
the use of technical assistance personnel;
(iii)  problems in the preparation of TOR which anticipated services
required and were written in a manner that they could be used to
evaluate the performance of the consultant during and at the end of
assignment;
(iv) location of consultants who combined both experience, the required
level of professional competence, and humas relations skills; and
(v) problems in identifying appropriate counterparts to work with
consultants, particularly in adjusting this to plans for training of
staff in the same research area.
3.23       The Borrower has found no easy solution to these problems.  In
addition, experience during NAR II points up one important distinction in
planning for the use of technical assistance which received less attention in
NAR II than it did in NAR I. The distinction between research program advisors
and research specialists was dropped in NAR II. Experience has shown that at
times there is a tendency to use a specialist as a program advisor for special
purposes.  The transition to and from this role is not easy.
3.24       A major innovation in NAR II was to use technical assistance in the
preparation of the series of ten Research Reviews. The utilization of both
Indonesian and expatriate consultants on each of the ten Research Review teams,
and on the special "Review of Reviews" team proved highly successful. Detailed
assessments, in a relatively uniform format, were made available to the AARD for
work undertaken in each of the Echelon II units, and their subordinate units,
including the seven ECRI. As mentioned elsewhere, this unique mechanism
provided the basis for the formulation of the ARM Project.
3.25       The Borrower recognizes and appreciates the role played by ISNAR in
providing assistance in the organization of eight of the eleven activities
involved. The Borrower also recognizes that during ARM it is likely that a much
greater responsibility will rest with the staff of the Center for Agriculture
Research Planning (CARP) and the Secretariat in the implementation of the second
round of the Research Review process.



- 26 -
4. Civil Works: The Borrower's Strength and Weaknesses
4.1        Accomplishment of the Borrower.  Considerable accomplishments were
achieved in spite of some early weaknesses in parts of the construction industry
in Indonesia, the regulations of the government affecting the construction
industry, such as regionalizing the use of construction supervisors and contrac-
tors, and use of available materials in the region. These did not prevent the
completion of work at 34 locations costing an aggregate of $24.858 million
although the original SAR required only 24 locations for an estimated cost of
$37.13 million. In terms of percentage, the benefit derived was an increase of
41.67? more activities for an outlay of 33.0? less funds. The unspent amount
was reallocated to other categories of the credit/loan.
4.2        The civil works themselves, which accounted for 26.0? of the total
project cost, were implemented over a period of 11 years (early 1979 through
early 1990). They started about a year before the credit/loan agreement was
signed on May 16, 1980, and ended in January 1990. Funding of the early design
stage came from the NAR I Loan in the form of retroactive financing. This was a
milestone for the civil works program as it was able to start much earlier than
categories stated in the credit/loan. It should be noted that the civil works
program would have been completed much earlier had it not been for the 10 new
locations added to the original plan.
4.3        The civil works activities cover the design and construction of
buildings (laboratories, offices, screenhouses, service buildings, guest- and
staff-houses), site works (earthworks, roadworks, parking areas, drainage lines,
fence, bridge, culverts), utilities (electrical and water supplies, communica-
tion system, refrigeration and air-conditioning, fire and lig4mning protection
system) and the development of experimental farms and experimental ponds. The
completed activities are as follows:
Activities                   SAR            Additional           Total
Building area               78,948 s.m.        12,086 s.m.      91,034 s.m.
Experimental farm             659 ha             133 ha           792 ha
Experimental pond              3 ha                65 ha           68 ha
Total Cost                  $19.718 m          $5.14 m          $24.858 m (*)
(*) Includes NAR I shortfall of 610,000 dollars.
4.4        General Observations.  The construction industry in Indonesia has
improved gradually but markedly as it has gained increasing experience and been
able to incorporate recent technological advances. It should be noted that the
need for foreign experts in civil works projects is much less now than it was 10
years ago, when the NAR II civil works program began.
4.5        The NAR II implementation of its civil works program was quite
successful, as the above figures indicate. Because of this evident overall
success, the following comments focus more on some of the difficulties
encountered rather than\on the relatively problem-free elements.



2 7 -
4.6        The implementation of the NAR II civil works program resembles public
works projects in many respects. However, there are unique differences between
ordinary public works projects and the NAR II civil works activities. The
primary differences are in the unique requirements of agricultural research
construction such as the design and construction of laboratories, screenhouses,
hatcheries, animal buildings, experimental ponds for breeding, grow out and for
artemia salina, and experimental farms as well as all the necessary utilities to
support these facilities.
4.7        The unique requirement of this type of construction naturally created
hardships which sometimes resulted in a lower quality of work and delays during
the design, tendering and construction stages. The designers, construction
supervisors and contractors who had to implement these activities worked under
unfavorable conditions unusual even in the construction industry. This was
especially the case in remote areas where most of the supervisors and contrac-
tors were seasonally employed.
4.8        Problems Faced by the Borrower.  The implementation of the civil
works program involves the hiring of three different trades (consultants, con-
struction supervisors and contractors) as well as overseers of the program.
Other government agencies were actively involved in the monitoring and over all
supervision. Each of these groups had its own role in seeing that the program
becomes a reality.
4.9        The PIU had been given the authority to manag: the program, including
the coordination of the different agencies and trades. This proved to be a task
with a number of unforeseen problems. The major of these were:
(a) Construction Bud8et. Construction of all physical facilities was
originally scheduled for completion in four years. It was necessary
to extend this to about 10 years due to a shortage in the local
currency fund. The cumulative adverse effect of extending the period
becomes geometric, not only in the financial aspect, but also in
management and technical problems.
(b) Site Selection. In some cases, new areas for the establishment of
research stations or experimental ponds were selected with insuffi-
cient regard to technical requirements and/or proximity to areas in
which research results were to be applied. Particular examples of
inappropriate site selection are the Coastal Aquaculture-Pajarakan
site, which had technical problems, and the necessity to transfer
soil research and food crops to Sitiung where their results could be
applied nearby. rather than concentrating their research at Sumani,
Solok where they were originally established.
(c) Completion Delay of Construction Work. The PIU experienced difficul-
ties in getting almost all the contractors to finish the work on
time. While there was a penalty clause in the construction contract
for non-performance, implementing this clause can be very difficult
because to do so involves several adverse implications. These
include:



- 28 _
ti)   When the contractor still intends to finish the work in spite
of the delay, the penalty is only 5Z of that portion of the
work remaining. The prospect of losing such a small per-
centage of overall costs provides little incentive to the
contractor to complete work in the allotted time.
(ii)   If the P1U decides to terminate the s_4rvices of a contractor,
there is a problem of looking for additional budget to compen-
sate for the inflation cost, the problem of inventorying what
had been completed and what not, the problem of preparing
tender documents, problem of tendering, problem of orientation
and mobilization by the new contractor, and the problem of
time lost in undergoing through all these procedures. In
addition the PIU can not be sure the newly hired contractor
will perform his job adequately.
td) Selection and Performance of Local Design Consultant. The
engineering and architectural consultancy business in Indonesia has
mushroomed during the last few years. Most of these have con-
centrated on the design of buildings, highways, harbors, and even
airplanes. Although many consultants have obtained advanced training
throughout the world, Indonesia still lacks sufficient numbers of
technical people to meet the needs of the industry.
4.10       This was reflected in the NAR II project experience.  Some of the
consultants hired were not only new to the design profession but they also
lacked exposure to the requirements for designing such sophisticated works as
the scientific and technical structures needed for agricultural research.
4.11       In order to achieve and maintain respectable levels of quality it was
necessary to involve the PIU in assisting local consultants. This was par-
ticularly evident in technical aspects of the tendering process.
4.12       Technical Inputs for Design Works from Users.  The staff of the
Institutes, appropriately, primarily have been trained in agricultural research.
Experience in evaluating or interpreting tender documents was generally lacking.
At the beginning of the project this lack was evident in the difficulty
experienced by the various institutes in defining and articulating their needs.
As the project progressed improvement was evident, especially where there
existed a master plan for the specific location. The existence of such a plan
provided a base and a reference to which those preparing the tender documents
could turn.
4.13       As the design phase of the project progressed Institutes frequently
altered their requests. While this is to be expected in iterative planning it
can cause difficulties, delays, and unnecessary expense. Obviously final needs
must be determined prior to actual construction, as the finished building can
seldom be altered to meet new requests.
4.14       Selection and Performance of Construction Supervisor.  In the long
term the use of the regional consultants, as required by Goverrment regulation,
will ultimately benefit the region involved. In the immediate instance, how-
ever,-because of the national shortage of adequately trained people as outlined
above, this requirement had a negative impact on the NAR II civil works program.



- 29 -
4.15       As a general rule, Construction supervisors were hired by the con-
tractor, and consequently it was to the contractoi that they showed primary
allegiance. However, it is the Construction Supervisor's job to see that the
works are built as the Architect has designed and instructed they shall be
built. Further, it is their job to see that the contractor carries out all his
obligations under the contract for the construction. Th-e employee-employer
relationship between Supervisor and Contractor conwiderably weakens the effec-
tiveness of this position.
4.16       The PIU was aware of these problems.  At the beginning of the
project, the PIU had supplemented these procedures in order to follow up in
construction supervision. In some cases, the Construction Supervisors were
called up for briefings. In other cases, the PIU technical co-mittee members
visited the sites and had dialogues with the supervisors. The assistance
offered-improved the system of supervision but standards remained below a desir-
able level.
Civil Works: The Bank's Strengths & Weaknesses
4.17       Flexibility in Funding Ratio Allocation for Civil Works.  The devalu-
ation of the rupiah in 1983 and then in 1986 particularly affected the civil
works program because it had the largest local counterpart funding requirements
among the categories of the credit/loan agreement. The Bank, with its sen-
sitivity to the adverse situation affecting the economy of the country, reacted
immediately to the needs of the civil works program under the NAR II project.
4.18       Its flexibility in approving more funds deriving from the foreign
cuirrency allocation led to the approval of the different ratio allocations
during the life of the project. It started originally in 1980 when the
credit/loan was approved at 602 foreign currency and 402 local currency. Then
in 1983/1984 it became 8921112; 198411985 and 1985/1986 at 50X/502. In
1986/1987 it was 792121X while in 1987/1988 and onward it became 912/92 with the
Bank always absorbing the bigger share of the ratio allocation. (See accompany-
ing Chart and Table.) In the final analysis the percentage of funding for the
civil works category was:
SAR Appraisal                 Actual
Bank                      602                         722
GOI                       402                         282
4.19       Approval of Additional Locations.  A total of 34 locations dis-
tributed in four regions of the country were constructed under the NAR II civil
works program. Ten of these locations were added in the course of project
implementation. The primary reason for inclusions was the change in mandate of
affected institutes. The Bank viewed this as necessary for effective implemen-
tation of research programs.
4.20       Pattern of Civil Works Supervision.  During the 11-year period of
implementing the civil works program 14 W?rld Bank missions were held (through
September 1989).--Fortunately in twelve of the fourteen mission visits the



- 30 -
NAR II CIVIL WORKS
FUNDING RATIOS: BANK/GOI
Pu ces
100.                                         .     .  _
60                    .     X).     .         .  .       ...
40
20
0
1960 1981 1962 1963 1964 196  I9601967 I        196896  IM9
YEAR
m SAM  3M                    m _
-=E SAMUS APUAMA         -o   ft UL  AffIMI
1) ronal ?undUng Ratio Approved
HAR U FUNDING RATIOS
CWU WORKS
BNKIGOI
Ra  ()                 SAN  _glag
Fidl                   ask        8s  COa
You
190*                    60       40        60       40
1981                    60       40        60       40
19_                     60       40        60       40
19in4                   39       11        so       40
1_0M           tso               so        60       40
l 9                     so0      so        Go       40
1968                    79       21                 40
19678                   91        9        C0       40
1                       91        9        Go       40
1imO                    t         g        s910     40
*Yr 01   Fqun   Fbd A       _Ppv4d



_ 31 -
officer for civil works activtties remained the same. This officer was gener-
ally understanding and, because of his technical expertise, sympathetic to the
problems encountered in project implementation. He was, in addition, familiar
with the details of the Government of Indonesia regulations regarding bidding,
construction, and supervision which must be adhered to by the Department of
Public Works. Comments regarding civil works made by missions in which this
officer was included were of particular help.
Civil Works: Lessons Learned
4.21       Construction Budget.  While recognizing that negotiation and schedul-
ing problems would be formidable, it is highly desirable that projects be
allowed one year lead time from project approval and funding to the beginning of
implementation. During initial negotiations it is also highly desirable that an
overall plan of budget allocation be approved by the authorities concerned and
that the plan be adhered to. The plan should be devised in connection with
other relevant loan categories such as procurement of equipment and supplies and
the training program.
4.22       Site Selection.  The main considerations in site selection are
physical site characteristics and land procurement. When the property is owned
by AARD or other agencies of the government physical aspects should be thorough-
ly evaluated as a first priority. Site investigation should include testing of
all samples required. If these are satisfactory, a more detailed survey such as
obtaining topography and/or hydrography of the area should be undertaken.
Simultaneously carrying out preliminary physical evaluations and survey works
should be carefully avoided, as this can lead to a waste of funds if the former
are found inconclusive or unsatisfactory.
4.23       Where the property is privately owned, the intent to purchase should
be issued to the owner specifying the terms and conditions subject to the ful-
fillment of two major factors, namely: (a) certificate of ownership and deline-
ation of boundaries should be settled and certified by the departments con-
cerned; and (b) the technical requirements of the user are met. Payment for the
property should only be made after these two conditions are fulfilled.
4.24       A sufficient lead time should be given to acquiring the property so
as to not adversely effect the timely preparation of the tender documents.
4.25       Rewards and Penalties in Construction Contracts.  Current GOI regula-
tions do not have a provision for rewarding a contractor for work finished ahead
of schedule; there exist only penalty provisions for delayed completion.
Because contractors receive all but 5Z of their fee in advance they have little
or no financial incentive to complete work on time or sometimes, indeed, to
complete it at all. This is a part of a much broader issue regarding civil
works construction within Indonesia.
4.26       Selection of Local Design Consultants.  Several factors enter into
the selection of consultants; one is whether they are being considered for a
long term engagement or for short term work only. Both should, of cdurse, be
chosen on merit.
4.27       It is recommended that the following procedures be followed in future
selections:



_ 32 -
(a) Require the company to provide samples of tender documents (drawings,
technical and general specifications, tender bulletins) prepared
previously for other, similar, projects.
(b) Consider (a) qualification of technical staff, and, (b) experience of
the firm on similar projects. The capability of the technical staff
specifically responsible for handling the project is more important
than considering the capability of all the staff members in the
company in general.
(c) Determine the availability of qualified and sufficient manpower to
implement the work through completion.
4.28       On periodic site inspection and other related work by design
consultants, both the PIU and the consultant should define clearly the duties
and responsibilities involved, and these definitions should be incorporated in
the contract agreement. Such obligations are spelled out in the Cipta Rarya
standards. Incorporating them in the contract would minimize misunderstanding
or misinterpretation in project execution.
4.29       Insufficient Data from Users and Use of Short Term PIU Consultants.
To compensate for the relative inexperience in the preparation of tender docu-
ments on the part of both the users and the local consultants, master plans
should be prepared for all locations. The PIU consultants should assist in
their preparation from the beginning through completion.
4.30       There are specific phases during the design stage when the PIU con-
sultants are needed most. These critical phases should be fully identified by
both the users and the locally appointed consultants concerned. The final
decision should be made by the users because local consultants, based on NAR II
experience, may lack the sophistication and experience necessary to determine
objectively their own areas of weakness or inability.
4.31       Generally, the phases during which assistance is needed most are:
(a) preparation of schematic design (most important for experimental pcnd and
layout of laboratories), (b) preliwinary design stage, and (c) final design
stage. An agreed period required for each phase should be thoroughly considered
and this depends upon the capability of the local consultants.
4.32       On selective areas where the degree of complexity is unusually great,
the PIU consultant should assist in the actual design of the physical facili-
ties.
4.33       Selection and Performance of Construction Supervisor.  When local
supervisors are available they should be recruited on merit and experience,
given a comprehensive Project Manual of their duties, and provided with adequate
backup supervisory help through frequent site visits by PIU or PU personnel.
4.34       Instructions given to the contractor, either technical or administra-
tive, should be through the supervisors. Bypassing them in this activity will
result in a loss of respect and this, in turn, will demoralize the supervisors.
This can eventually result in the loss of desire to effectively implement the
contract documents.



- 33 -
4.35       The PIU should, however, monitor and control the presence as well as
the performance of the supervisors and the field supervisors assigned to a site
location. The users can play an active role in this regard, especially when the
project location is nearby. When this is done, however, it is necessary that
the users be briefed on the extent and limitation of their authority, and the
PIU technical committee should provide advice to them on this issue.
5. Procurement
Procurement: The Borrower's Strengths and Weaknesses
5.1        Accomplishment of the Borrower.  Overall procurement of equipment
considerably exceeded the targets set in the NAR II SAR. The actual realization
of procurement of equipment was US$15,349,000 (151X of SAR) compared with SAR
estimate of US$10,170,000.
5.2        Prior to the NAR II project AARD was extremely short of scientific
and other equipment. In general, such equipment as they had could be divided
into three groups: (a) a small quantity of equipment procured during the pre-
second world War, most of which is now inoperable and for which spare parts are
not available; (b) some equipment procured individually by each of the research
units during the period of 1950-1970, some of which is still in operation but
most of which is inoperable and without available spare parts; and (c) equipment
procured after the year 1970 funded under bilateral aid programs and NAR I,
which is now still in operation.
5.3        Following the NAR II SAR, the project was to provide an extensive
range of equipment including optical equipment and balances, centrifuges, foliar
and soil analysis equipment, heating and cooling equipment, mixers, physiologi-
cal and pathology equipment, and glassware. Other equipment included tractors
and implements for experimental farms and service buildings: jacks, drills,
etc., for repair and maintenance of vehicles and equipment, and furniture for
newly constructed or rehabilitated office with total estimated budget of
US$10,170,000. The project also provided vehicles to be distributed amongst
most of the centers and institutes with an estimated budget of US$1,170,000.
5.4        The achievement in procurement of equipment has been:  (1) laboratory
equipment with total cost of US$9.453 million, has been distributed and
installed in 14 research units (center, research institute, research station,
experimental farm/pond): (2) farm equipment with total cost of US$1.230 million,
has been distributed and installed in 14 research units; (3) furniture with
total cost of US$2.069 millioL. has been distributed to 25 research units; (4)
scientific journals, publications and computers with total cost of US$2.597
million, have been distributed to 30 research units; and (5) 95 units of
vehicles with total cost of US$562,000 have been distributed to 50 research
units.
5.5        During the implementation of the project there has been one long term
procurement specialist and four short term specialists in laboratory equipment,
field and fasm equipment, and instrumentation, to assist in compiling a list of
laboratory and farm equipment to be procured by AARD.



_ 34 -
5.6        The implementation of the procurement of equipment phase in NAR II
has been a success from the point of view of target achievement and project
administration. Laboratory and other equipment acquired under NAR II is cur-
rently being used intensively in the appropriate units. Nonetheless, there are
ways in which the procurement process can be improved in the future.
5.7        Procurement of Laboratory Equipment.  In a project which simul-
taneously involves advanced training, procurement of research equipment, and on-
going research there are a number of built in problems. Those who are away for
training cannot be present when equipment is ordered and their needs upon
returning to post may not be suited to the new equipment. Those left behind to
do the ordering may be too junior or inexperienced to perform adequately and
they may resort to acquiring equipment suitable to only their relatively simple
level of research. While some slippage in this process seems inevitable there
are a number of steps which should be taken to assure that it is kept to a mini-
mum.
(a) The first and most important step in procurement of laboratory equip-
ment is the preparation of technical specifications by each research
unit and sometimes even by each discipline within a research unit;
(b)  Intormation and up to date catalogs must be available which will
improve the accuracy of the preparation of the technical
specifications; and
(c) If necessary a procurement specialist should be consulted about
procedures and availability of equipment.
5.8        Adequate time must be allowed to consult with staff currently and
potentially involved even if they are temporarily posted abroad.
5.9        Two other problems must also be mentioneds
(a) In some laboratories there are no laboratory manuals giving detailed
instructions on analytical techniques, reference standards to check
the accuracy of determination, and operational effectiveness programs
for supporting research activities.
(b) Most laboratories are unable to obtain needed spare parts,
chemicalsireagents. A routine system of equipment maintenance and
service does not exist because of inadequate funds for maintenance
and service.
5.10       Procurement of Farm Equipment.  In some cases the preparation of
technical specifications for farm equipment needed by research units did not
include a requirement for justification of the request. This justification
should be required of the farm manager and researcher and should be coordinated
with suggestions by others for the preparation of detailed research programs and
budgets.
5.11       The problems for the farm equipment which has been procured ares
(a) the lack of an effective maintenance system, (b) insufficient knowledge of
farm equipment capabilities, (c) limitations and suitability for station needs



- 35 -
and, (d) an ineffective managem-s_t program. There is no phased replacement
program for farm equipment assets each year.
5.12       Procurement of Scientific Journals.  There are several ways in which
scientific journal procurement can be arranged: ti) procurement through the
project, where the project invites firm to bid. If the firm is in the country
it is easier to monitor. Administrative provisions are required even if tender-
ing is not done and only one firm is directly appointed. lii) Procurement
through an overseas book jobber. Their prices are sometimes lower, but there
are disadvantages. Jobbers tend not to follow instructions closely, and to
continue subscriptions even when an order to discontinue has been issued. Over-
all control and monitoring is difficult. (iii) Procurement through a
combination of local and overseas firms. This is less desirable since it is
both more costly and requires more administration. (d) The NLAS handles the
subscriptions itself directly with the publisher. The prices will be much
cheaper, but there will be more work than in NAR II which involved three
dealers. The NLAS now subscribes to over 700 scientific journals.
Procurement:  The Bank's Strengths and Weaknesses
5.13       Flexibility in Using Additional Funds for Procurement of Equipment.
As a consequence of additional newly completed buildings under NAR II, the
project needed more equipment for those additional buildings. The loan budget
in the SAR was not sufficient to cover the additional procurement of equipment.
The Bank has been willing to agree to additional procurement of equipment with
the use of funds saved from other portions of the loan.
5.14       Need to Strengthen the Capability of Equipment Procurement.  In
projects in which a significant proportion of the budget is allocated to equip-
ment procurement, consideration should be given to obtaining the services of a
professional in the field. In the long run this will save both time and money
and probably provide a more satisfactory result.
Procurement: Lesson Learned
5.15       Procurement of Laboratory Equipment.  Careful scheduling is required
to assure that those who will actually be utilizing the equipment are involved
in its procurement. A system of staggered or rolling procurement tranches
should be considered whenever feasible. This would allow equipment needed
immediately by one cohort of scientists to be procured, while postponing other
acquisitions until the potential uses and users are determined.
5.16       Other factors must also be considered; the mandate for its use in the
research program; availability of supporting requirements (constant electrical
power, running water); knowledge of specific requirements for operating main-
taining and servicing the instruments; intended use of all ordered accessories
and ability to fully utilize the instrument to its maximum capacity. A proced-
ure for acquiring and keeping a running inventory of spare parts should also be
put into place.
5.17       Adequate funds for maintenance and service of the newly installed
laboratory equipment should be provided by both Borrower and the Bank. Schedul-
ing of this funding should be carefully integrated into the timing of the train-
ing program.



- 36 -
5.18       Procurement of Parm Eguinment.  The procurement of farm equipment is
subject to the same considerations as given above. Justification for its
acquisition should be assured by those who request it and it should be acquired
within the framework of the overall mandate of the unit ordering it. As with
laboratory equipment, the availability of current manuals, spare parts, main-
tenance schedules, and support services should be considered during the procure-
ment process.
5.19       Procurement of Scientific Journals.  Most likely alternative in ARMP
is to have the project continue to procure scientific journals as in NAR II with
special attention to journal subscriptions which must be processed with suffi-
cient lead time. Subscriptions must be processed a year before. In the current
system the process is centralized within the PIU with the approval of NLAS.
6. Project Management
Proiect Managements The Borrower's Strengths and Weaknesses
6.1        Accomplishment of the Borrower.  Basic approaches of the Borrower in
project management have been laid down during the implementation of the project.
6.2        Strengthening the structure of the NAR II-PIU organization was the
first step to be taken. At the beginning of the implementation, the structure
of the PXU organization consisted of ' sectionss Programming & Monitoring,
Procurement of Equipment & Vehicles, Civil Works Activities, Training & Techni-
cal Assistance, and Finance & Accounting as stated in the NAR II SAR, April 4,
1980 Chart C.3. In accordance with the growth and complexity of the scope of
activities of the Training & Technical Assistance section, this section was
split into Domestic Training and Overseas Training and Technical Assistance
Sections. An InternallGeneral Affairs Section has been added to the PIU struc-
ture for overseeing the increasing number of administrative matters.
6.3        The keys to successful Project performance seem to have as much to do
with factors and relationships internal to the organization as well as those
which are external. Internal actions done during the implementation of the
project include: (a) recruitment of young and dynamic key project officers who
can accept new ideas and are easily trained; (b) short term or on the job train-
ing for key project officers in administrative as well as in financial aspects;
(c) improved capacity to understand objectives and targets of the project, all
rules, regulations, guidelines and procedures for Bank funded project; (d) more
responsibility for operations given to each key project officer, so that they
have flexibility for making quick decisions and takinb independent actions in
response to unexpected and changing conditions; (e) established two way flow of
information to the Director of PIU and back; (f) creating a cooperative climate
and interpersonal relationships among key project officers and project staffs;
and (g) having one project office for the whole project staffs and create a
conducive climate for working activities.
6.4        Du-ing the same period, additional external activities undertaken
during the im1jlementation of the project, includeds (a) close communication
with consultant Winrock International for daily project management; (b) com-
munication w4th other unitslinstitutes within AARD for securing technical inputs



- 37 _
as users; and (c) commnication with the World Bank, BAPPEMAS, Directorate
General of Budgeting, Office of Treasurer, Bank Indonesia and other agencies for
administrative and financial matters.
6.5        The Borrower realizes that the various changes in policies and finan-
cial aspects or other unanticipated external conditions influenced the achieve-
ment of the project. During the implementation of the project, there have been
2 rupiah devaluations which had a negative Impact on the activities of the
project, especially on civil works activities. The dei.rease of the oil prices
influenced the availability of the rupiah budget needed by the project, creating
a shortage of funds, and delaying the activities of the project.
Proiect Managements The Bank's Strengths and Weaknesses
6.6        Although the Bank is not directly involved in Project Management, the
nature of the interaction in this area between the Bank and the Borrower is
implicitly discussed in the Research Management section below.
Project Managements Lessons Learned
6.7        Similarly with lessons learned, the following section provides a
source of implicit information, particularly in "Research Managements Lessons
Learned".
7. Research Manatement
Easearch Management: The Borrower's Strengths and Weaknesses.
7.1        Accomplishment of the Borrower.  There are three major areas where
the Borrower has made significant -4. tces in contributing to a strengthened
capacity for research management. These include:
(a) The conduct of ten research reviews and a summary review of these
reviews which evaluate all aspects of the Borrower's performance.
This activity was wholly funded under NAR II, and benefited from
technical assistance support provided by ISNAR.
(b) The preparation of a RMP for Food Crops. This activity was designed
to provide: (a) a methodology for the preparation of a RMP; (b) to
train selected AARD staff in the preparation of a RMP and (c) to
prepare a preliminary plan for a part of AARD. This activity was
entirely funded under NAR II.
(c) The development of a MIS to assist in the development of an effective
data base and a system for its continuing updating, capable of
providing necessary information of human, financial, and physical
resources to be used by research managers in monitoring and decision
making. The major contribution to this activity comes from the
United States Agency for International Development (USAID) funds, but
the NAR II projedt has contributed funds for: (a) equipment;
(b) technical assistance; and (c) short term training.



- 38 -
7.2        Lack of Budget for Research Operations.  The Borrower recognizes that
a major problem during NAR II was the cutback in operational research funds
which took place for several years. This occurred at a time when substantial
numbers of staff trained in PhDIDR and MSclMS programs were returning to their
Research Institutes. The inability to provide adequate funds to meet these
increased needs greatly limited the Borrower's ability to Improve the process of
research program development.
7.3        It is anticipated that the amount of funds for operational research
costs will increase in the future, and that a portion of that increase will come
from ARM.
7.4        Weaknesses in Research Management During NAR II.  At those points
where problems arose in the implementation of the NAR II project, a contributing
factor was almost always the weakness in research management capability. As has
been noted elsewhere the design of the NAR II project was much more complex than
that of NAR I and assumed a marked increase in research management capability.
One important observation which has been made concerns two distinct concepts.
The first is good academic achievement. The second is leadership and management
skills. It has been emphasized that within AARD there has been a tendency to
feel that the first, good academic achievement, implied the second, leadership
and management skills. It is now recognized that this is not so. The skills
required to be a good research manager are very different.
7.5        Another distinction involving research management which emerged
clearly during the preparation of the Master Plan for Food Crops involves the
distinction between structural (administrative or organizational) and functional
(research) positions. This is now recognized to have important implications for
both research programming and the development of national commodity programs.
Commodity and problem area research programs extend across several Research
Institutes, and in some cases (such as farming systems) across several Research
Coordinating Centers. The linkages between: (a) the national commodity program
coordinator; (b) the Research Institute Directors; (c) the heads of the TOP
(Tata Operational) units in the RCC's; (iv) the Secretariat; and (d) the CARP
which will be established shortly require careful consideration. It is
anticipated that work on the MIS, which was partially supported by NAR II funds
(i.e., technical assistance, short term training, and equipment) will play an
important role in strengthening these linkages and improving the capacity for
research programming.
7.6        The Research Master Plan and the Management Information System.  The
Borrower recognizes that these two important activities are complementary, and
mutually supporting. The RMP, which started initially in Food Crops, is to be a
rolling research plan, and as such will require updating at periodic intervals.
The MIS will be an important source of data for plan preparation and updating.
Both are required for successful research management to take place. The CARP
and the Secretariat will play an important part in both activities. Experience
gained during the initial phase of the MRP has indicated the wisdom of proceed-
ing on the basis of an entire Research Coordinating Center (Pusat). There are
many challenges which remain. Among the most important of these is the develop-
ment of effective arrangements where research programs involve matters such as
farming systems, transmigration, upland agriculture, etc.



- 39 -
7.7        The Research Reviews.  The Borrower recognizes the importance of the
ten Research Reviews, and the Review of Reviews, conducted during the NAR II
project. Discussions with respect to lessons learned have focused upon the need
to strengthen the effective involvement of a larger number of staff at each
Research Institute in this process. Suggestions were directed to increasing the
length of time of the reviews, particularly the time spent at each institute,
and the opportunity for broader participation in the discussion and review
process. Some suggestions have focused upon the constructive opportunities for
interaction with regard to the priority setting process within and across com-
modity and problem area research. Suggestions have also been made that the next
round of Research Reviews during ARMP I should pay greater attention to the
aspect of technology trausfer, and to the linkages to industry and export.
Reseatch Management: The Bank's Strengths and Weaknesses
7.8        The Bank's Strengths and Weaknesses in research management are
brought out in the following section on "Lessons Learned".
Research Management: Lessons Learned
7.9        Research Training and Research Management.  Perhaps the strongest
lesson to be derived from the NAR II experience is that even a project with its
major emphasis on research training, technical assistance, and civil works will,
of necessity, find itself involved in issues of research management.   The posi-
tive response of NAR II to this issue was the development of the Research Review
mechanism. This mechanism, of important but limited use during the implementa-
tion of NAR II itself, provided for the knowledgeable and rapid design of the
ARM follow-up project targeted specifically at the research management issues
identified.
7.10       Both Borrower and the Bank showed considerable responsiveness to
these Reviews; the Borrower in allowing and assisting in such in-depth analysis
of current practices, and the Bank in its supportive role in following through
with the ARK proposal.
8. Finance
Finance: The Borrower's Strengths and Weaknesses
8.1        Accomplishments of the Borrower.  From a general point of view the
performance of the Borrower in carrying out its financial responsibilities was
satisfactory notwithstanding major adverse economic conditions that prevailed
throughout most of the life of NAR II. The successful completion of the project
can not be fully appreciated without mentioning the difficult and, at the same
time, hostile events that marked its execution.
8.2        During its implementation the project underwent very difficult times
brought about by a whole range of economic problems, notably the world-wide
recession of the early 1980's followed in the mid-80's by declining revenues
from oil exports upon which the Indonesian Government was so heavily dependent.
Laboring under the strains of these unforeseezi events the GOI found it necessary
to devalue the Indonesian Rupiah currency twice, the first of whtch came on
March 30, 1983 and again on September 12, 1986. These very important decisions



_ 40 -
were taken as the most reasonable and probably the only logical alternative to
increase revenues in Rupiah terms to allow the GOI to equate the shrinking
income from oil due to depressed crude prices.
8.3        In those hard, critical periods most development projects, including
NAR II, were subjected to budgetary constraints. As a result, sharply declining
budgets in the ensuing fiscal years largely limited AARD's potential ability to
accomplish a lot more specifically in expenditure items involving full and
counterpart fundings by the Borrower. While all these were happening the GOI
began to concentrate on urgent and more important measures that would create an
improved climate for investments in the hope this would eventually bring about
increased exports of non-oil commodities while sustaining current level of
revenues from the vitally important oil sector. This strategy followed by a
series of deregulation measures in the industrial, trading, commerce, banking,
and services sectors has begun to pay off with substantially increased revenues
from non-oil commodity exports.
8.4        Also, new tax regulations in the form of real property and value
added taxes were enacted and an all-out effort to intensify tax collection have
positively contributed to revenues. Very recently the prices of crude oil have
markedly improved and if the present economic coneLtions persist the project is
not expected to encounter any major impediments t) its completion in 1990 as
scheduled.
8.5        The Borrower should be given special credit for its resiliency in the
midst of economic adversities - its ability to find logical, timely, and often
correct answers to both short and long-term problems.
8.6        This, of course, is not to say that the project was without weak-
nesses from which lessons could be learned. To begin with NAR II practically
took off with a new PIU administrative staff when the NAR I group was eventually
transferred to the Research Institute for Estate Crops, Bogor at the conclusion
of NAR 1. This transition required time for the new staff to go through the
learning process of administering such a sizable project as NAR II.
8.7        As discussed in the civil works chapter of this report the difficulty
faced by the Borrower to appropriate its own funds for the civil works program
unnecessarily prolonged its completion from four (SAR estimate) to nine years.
Another problem is that substantial investments in buildings and equipment have
not been matched by adequate funds for their proper maintenance and operation.
If this condition were allowed to continue the expected useful life of these
expensive capital outlays would be pitifully shortened. In the short-term over-
seas training category, a large amount of funds have remained unused due to
stiff regulations restricting their use for training of less than a minimum of
three months whereas many training courses useful to AARD are for four to eight
weeks at most. Rigorous requirements for procurement of equipment must be thor-
oughly reviewed and streamlined, where necessary, to shorten processing time.
These are but a few selected examples of weaknesses in the system, however, it
must be appreciated that most, if not all, could well have been the effects of
the economic difficulties resulting from the problems of prolonged recession and
declining oil revenues that occurred almost one after the other during implemen-
tation.



- 41 -
8.8        It is noteworthy that despite tremendous problems the PIU has been
able to contain the total project cost at YYS$96.52 million which is below the
SAR estimate of US$101.52 million (see Appendix 6) with an estimated final util-
ization of the loan proceeds at US$64.47 million of the available creditlloan
amount of US$65.00 (see Table 7). A comparison of annual cumulative dis-
bursements of the loan between SAR estimates and actual withdrawals is presented
in Table 3.
Finance: Bank's Strengths and Weaknesses
8.9        One of the many positive aspects of the NAR II project is that it
will be completed before the closing date of the loan on June 30, 1990, an
improvement over the preceding NAR I which not only ran out of funds but also
required an extension of time for completion.
8.10       One of the major strengths of the project during its implementation
has been the existence of a very good working relationship between Bank and
Borrower. This was demonstrated by prompt, cooperative, and ready willingness
of both parties to communicate and jointly solve problems when they arose.
8.11       The Bank, in particular, was very helpful in quickly responding to
the call of the Borrower for a reasonable reduction of counterpart funding
responsibility when it became apparent that the latter could no longer cope with
its obligation to provide 40Z of the civil works program. The Bank's flexibil-
ity in this regard ensured continuity of all construction work and enabled the
project to complete the civil works program within the life of the project not-
withstanding a longer time frame than that proposed in the staff appraisal
report. Likewise, this partnership enabled the parties to amend the Credit/Loan
to reallocate proceeds of the loan as both parties saw fit. A final demonstra-
tion of cooperation was the creation of a US$3,000,000 revolving fund with Bank
Indonesia (BI) in February 1988 to speed up processing of disbursements under
the indirect payment procedure. In the absence of such a positive working
atmosphere it is doubtful that a successful completion of the project would have
been possible under the difficult circumstances this project has undergone.
Finance: Lessons Learned
8.12       In retrospect the lessons that could be drawn from these experiences
indicate the extreme necessity of continuing the fine Bank/Borrower relationship
that now exists for implementing the ARM Project. It will also be of great
benefit to the new ARM Project that the core staff of PIU, with enough
experience gained from NAR II, be retained to support the next project.



- 42 -
IMPACT OF THE NAR II PROJECT
1.         In para. 2.1. Objectives of the NAR II Project, and in Part II, Per-
formance During Pre-Implementation Phase, attention has been drawn to the broad
based institution building nature of the NAR II Project. There were inputs from
NAR II to the Secretariat, the two Centers (NLAS and CARP), the two Research
Centers (CAER and CSR), the five Research Coordinating Centers (RCCFC, RCCHC,
RCCIC, RCCAS, RCCFI), the sixteen Research Institutes under these coordinating
centers, and the seven Research Institutes for Estate Crops. In all they
comprise a total of thirty three Echelon II and III institutions. Inputs to the
twenty three Research Institutes included inputs to selected sub Research
Institutes, as well as experimental farms and ponds.
2.         For all units which were assisted, the support involved some combina-
tion of civil works, procurement, training, or technical assistance. In making
an initial classification of the impact of NAR II upon the enhancement of
institutional capacity, the Borrower has found it useful to classify these units
into three broad groupings, depending upon the extent and variety of assistance
received.  This classification is given below.
(a) Institutes substantially supported by the NAR II project.
(This group involves major civil works activity, and substantial
inputs in each of the other categories of the loan).
Research Institute for Food Crops, Malang
Research Institute for Horticultural Crops, Solok
Research Institute for Industrial Crops, Malang
Research Institute for Industrial Crops, Manado
Research Institute for Coastal Aquiculture, Maros
(b) Institutes with an important input from the MAR II project.
(This group involves less substantial civil works and/or contribution
from the other major categories of the loan).
Secretariat
Center for Agro Economic Research
Research Institute for Food Crops, Sukamandi
Research Institute for Veterinary Science, Bogor
Research Institute for Industrial Crops, Bogor
Research Institute for Estate Crops, Sungai Putih
Research Institute for Estate Crops, Jember
(c) Other Institutes with an input from the NAR II project.
(This group generally received assistance under two or more categor-
ies of the loan program).
National Library for Agricultural Sciences
Center for Soil Research
Center for Agricultural Data Processing
Research Institute for Food Crops, Bogor
Research Institute for Food Crops, Sukarami



- 43 -
Research Institute for Food Crops, Maros
Research Institute for Food Crops, Banjarmasin
Research Institute for Horticultural Crops, Lembang
Research Institute for Animal Production, Ciawi
Research Institute for Fresh Water Fisheries, Jakarta
Research Institute for Estate Crops, Medan
Research Institute for Estate Crops, Sembawa
Research Institute for Estate Crops, Bogor
Research Institute for Estate Crops, Gambung
Research Institute for Estate Crops, Pasuruan
3.         From the point of view of the Borrower, the MAR II project involved
broad based assistance to the institution building process taking place in the
AARD. It is important to recognize the inputs from the MAR II project (and
earlier NAR I project) were part of a larger process of institutional develop-
ment involving support from a wide variety of donors. As of June 1989, non-
Bank assistance to AARD has been in the amount of US$200.56 million. Appendix 1
gives a breakdown of the support from non-Bank lending and grant making institu-
tions by major groups of AARD units. The grant making and lending institutions
involved are listed, along with a brief project title, the duration, and the
amount involved.
4.         Virtually all units within AARD which received assistance under the
MAR It institution building project, also received assistance from one or more
other external sources. In addition (but not listed in Appendix 1) there were a
number of collaborative support efforts involving both public and private sector
institutions within Indonesia.
5.         The Borrower views all of these inputs as contributions to its over-
all capacity building and research effort. It is neither feasible nor desirable
to attempt to attribute a given research output to a specific loan or grant
input. This is particularly true where institution building has been undertaken
as a primary goal, as in the case of the NAR II project.
6.         Nonetheless, it is possible to identify research gains and improve-
ments to which the NAR II project has contributed as one of many inputs. By
commodity area these would include, but are not limited to:
Industrial Crops; varietal improvement and formulation of fertilizer
recommendations for coconut, pepper, citronella, and cotton; land
suitability mapping for coconut and improved post-harvest technology
for copra and pepper; potentials for inter-cropping of cotton as well
as tobacco; and disease control for pepper and clove production.
Horticulture; improvement of propagation techniques of citrus, apple,
durian, mangosteen, duku, and rambutan; pest and disease identifica-
tion control for banana; increased information dissemination through
workshops, publications, and field days.
Food Crops; development and release of high yielding vari3ties (HYV)
of rice for upper elevations and irrigated and swamp areas as well;
HYV rice was also developed specifically for certain transmigration
areas of Sumatra; development of HYV of maize, soybean, mungbean, and
peanut; identification and development of pest and disease resistant



- 44 -
varieties of rice and palawija crops; improved use of irrigation
water systems; and increased diffusion of research results through
publications, demonstrations, and field days. AARD helped Indonesia
achieve self-sufficiency in rice in 1984 and NAR II contributed to
this accomplishment as well.
Other; Inputs from NAR II activities have also added to developments
in animal feed, particularly the use of soybean cake; post-harvest
technology in various areas, including rice, palawija, and industrial
crops; and socioeconomic analysis of agricultural conditions. It
must again be emphasized, however, these have been joint efforts
involving funds from a variety of sources over a significant period
of time. The eventual impact of NAR II funding will be both deliber-
ate in its pace and difficult or impossible in its measurement.
7.         The accomplishments of AARD during the period of NAR II and a list of
serial publications produced will be found in the following references:
AARD                         "5 Years of Agricultural Research (1981-
1986); Its Contribution to Agricultural
Development in Indonesia'
Department Pertanian:        'Organisasi dan Data Kepegawain,
Badan Penelitian dan         Sarana!Prasarana, Serta Anggaran
Pengembangan Pertanian       Badan Penelitian dan Pengembangan"
(see pps. 51-54 for list of periodic
literature)
8.         The impact of the satisfactorily-managed NAR II civil works program
was of utmost importance to the overall program of AARD. Completing the physi-
cal facilities within the creditlloan period was a positive factor considering
that the program covers all the commodities spread in four regions of the
country. Specifically, the civil works activities of the NAR II covered about
352 of all research institutes built during the same period, 402
for research stations and another 40S for experimental farms/ponds.
9.         However, there were specific problems encountered in its implementa-
tion which is normal in the construction industry. The PIU had little control
as designers, supervisors and contractors were relatively new in implementing
scientific research physical facilities. Of course, the delayed completion of
these research facilities affected the time table of the researchers in research
program implementation. Nevertheless, a few months delay would not affect much,
the fact that to obtain a breakthrough in research sometimes takes ten to
fifteen years before a variety is released for adaptation.
CONCLUDING REMARKS
10.        Each of the sections of the report above contain a number of points,
particularly in the lessons learned section, which have particular relevance to
the implementation of the Agricultural Research Management Project. However the



_ 45 -
Borrower would like to highlight a set of those racommendations, some of which
require special attention in the near future.
11.        Continuing Bank Flexibility.  The Borrower wishes to acknowledge the
strong cooperation of the Bank in adopting a flexible position on the matter of
adjustments made in the project during the course of implementation, and in the
funding components involved. This flexibility has played a most constructive
role in enabling the Borrower, with the cooperation of the Bank to attain the
degree of success achieved in the implementation of the NAR II project. The
continued flexibility of the Bank during the forthcoming project would be very
much appreciated.
12.        Sharing the Bank's Experience in Other Projects.  At several points
in the lessons learned sections above, the attention of the Bank has been drawn
to the value which would be derived from the Bank making available its
experience from other similar projects designed to strengthen national agricul-
tural research systems. The Borrower looks forward to discussing this matter
with the Bank with a view to developing mechanisms for making this type of
activity possible. It would clearly have a strong positive impact.
13.        Pre-Implementation Meetings for Project Supervision Planning.  One of
the most important lessons learned in evaluating the performance of the NAR II
project concerns the important benefits which might follow the establishment of
an effective dialogue between the Bank and the Borrower on matters pertaining to
the implementation of the project prior to the commencement of implementation.
The Borrower strongly recommends the holding of one or more pre-implementation
meetings between representatives of the Bank (probably the project Task
Manager), and the Borrower (probably the Director of PIU.  If possible repre-
sentatives of the consulting firms involved should be associated with those
meetings. The purpose of such meetings would be to develop a mutually agreed
plan or framework for the overall supervision of the project. Among the
important topics to be considered would be the development of the schedule for
supervision missions; the topics to be covered in each of the supervision
missions; the composition of the supervision mission teams; and the pattern of
review of the activities scheduled under the loan agreement.
14.        These commitments would be subject to revision as experience in
implementation warranted. But they would provide a structure of expectations,
as well as assurances of systematic coverage, which would be of considerable
benefit to the Borrower.
15.        The Composition of Supervision Missions.  Suggestions for improved
liaison with supervision missions have been mentioned in previous sections.
Recognizing that each mission has a feed-back function for the composition of
the next, it is nevertheless felt that increased communication and discussion of
specific mission purpose and composition, as far in advance as possible, would
eliminate a sense of discontinuity sometimes felt by the Borrower. It would
also have been of great assistance if staff specialists in either procurement or
training, to mention two other areas of importance in the project, could have
accompanied one or more such mission.
16.        The principal supervision responsibility of the NAR II project at
IBRD Resident Staff Indonesia (RSI) and IBED, Washington (i.e., desk officer or
task manager) has involved more than one half dozen persons during the course of



- 46 -
the project. There is a need for assuring continuity in emphasis, and technical
assessments. The periodic attachment of the same consultant, for a given topic,
at routine intervals during the course of the entire loan period might be
helpful, where this is possible. This would also provide for the systematic
assessment of progress on that particular topic, i.e., civil works, procurement,
training, technical assistance (for research management and for research), etc.
This is also linked to the suggestion for developing an overall plan for super-
vision at the pre-implementation stage.
17.        Bank Involvement in the Borrower's Research Review.  The Borrower
recognizes the constructive and appropriate role which the Bank can play in
commenting upon research activity underway, particularly where Bank assistance
is involved. Of concern to the Borrower is how to assure that such involvement
by the Bank takes place under circumstances which are mutually beneficial and
which maximize constructive potential. In the view of the Borrower, the most
appropriate forum for discussion of research activities during the NAR II
project was during the course of the ten research reviews and the review of
reviews. While it is recognized that these Reviews eventually served as a basis
for the ARMP it would have been of value to have some more immediate reactions
at the time of submission.
18.        The Borrower feels that everyone would have profited had there been a
clearly defined distinction between Supervision Missions, on the one hand, and
Research Review Missions on the other. Given the brief time available, and the
large amount of material to be covered associated with the basic aspects of
project management &ad implementation, the Borrower feels that the supervision
mission should more closely focus on those issues of management and implementa-
tion, while the research activity of the various units involved might better be
reviewed during research review missions. While recognizing the difficulties of
a shortage of funding, time, and manpower for these reviews it is nonetheless
felt that a more comprehensive picture would result from the clearer distinction
of mission purpose suggested.
19.        In conclusion, the marked flexibility of the Bank on virtually all
fronts during NAR II implementation, particularly during times of fiscal change,
calls for reiterated commendation, as does the ability of the Borrower to make
appropriate adjustments and modifications during the course of a long, innova-
tive and complicated project.



- 47 -
PART XII - STATSTCAL ANNEX
Table Is RELATED BANK LOAN AND,/OR CREDIT
Year
Loan/Credit Title                 Purpose                      Apprval - Status          Comments
AgrTc. Reeerch A Extonsion   -  Strengthen production oriented       1976     Completod   PCR completed 5/88,
research program for rice,                               end audited 6/84.
secondary food crops, high
land vegetable and rubber.
Trans III                     - To develop technology for            I98S    Completed    Completed June 30,
farming systems in support of                            I98?;
transimgration specifically In                           PCR prepared by the
the area of food crops and                               Doe;rtment of
coconut, oil palm and rubber                             Tri*nsmigration.
estates In North Sulawest,
South Sumatera and Jambi.
Swas III                      - Agricultural researeh in the         1964     Ongoln       Loan closing date
framework of not only                                    June 199.
supporting the development of
tidal and swampy areas but
also the transmigration
progroms In South Sunater and
South KelImantan.
UACP                          - To develop technology In the         19ss    Ongoing       Loan closing date
framework of supporting                                  March I92.
agricultural development
through farming system
research, soil conservation in
upper water sheds.
WTASP                         - Research In cotton and farming       I986     Ongoing      Loan closing date
systems for dry lands in arid                            June 1992.
areas of NTB and NTT.
Agric. Research Manageeont    - Support AARD In better               1989     Ongoing      Loan effective
planning, Implem.ntation and                             July a  1989;
mnagement of national                                    Loan ciosing date
research system.                                         June 1995.



48
Table 2: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Date             Date              Date
Item                       Planned           Revised          Actual
Identification
tIssuvs Paper)                       08179               -              08/79
Preparation/Preappraisal              11/78              -               11178
Appraisal Mission                     06/79              -               07179
Loan/Credit Negotiations              02180              -               02180
Board Approval                        05/80              -               05180
Loan/Credit Signature                 05/80              -               05/80
Loan/Credit Effectiveness             07/80              -               07180
Loan/Credit Completion Date           12/89              -              12/89
Loan/Credit Closing Date             0'690 -                            n6ils



- 49 _
Table 3s NAR II CUMULATIVE LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
(Ss$ Million)
Fiscal Year      SAR      Actual   Actual as I of      Actual as
Estimate               SAR Yearly     Cumulative t
Estimate         of Loan
1981-82         1.30        0.51       39.232             0.78Z
1982-83         4.50        4.12       91.56Z             6.342
1983-84        14.50       16.78      115.72?            25.822
1984-85        27.00       24.57        91.00?           37.80Z
1985-86        39.50       31.86       80.66Z            49.022
1986-87        49.50       39.43        79.66t           60.66S
1987-88        57.50       48.85       84.96?            75.152
1988-89        62.00       57.11       92.112            86.86?
1989-90 la     65.00       64.47        99.18?           99.18?
ia  1990 Final Estimate.
Date of Final Disbursement: June 30, 1990.



- 50 -
Table 4: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Indicators          Appraisal Estimate    Actual (PCR Estimate)
----------- (In U.S.$ Million) ------------
Civil Works                        37.13                     24.88
Vehicles                            1.17                      0.56
Equipment                          10.17                     15.35
Training and Technical
Assistance                       30.74                     31.79
incremental Operating
Cost                             16.89                     23.49
Unallocated                         5.42 La                   0.46 Lb
Total Project Cost              101.5296.53
la Total project cost was revised to U.S.$96.516 M by an
amendment to Loan/Credit on May 24, 19789.
lb Retroactive financing for architectural design.



Table st PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Project Coetn (in USS milion)
An2rai  I Eettote        Reylsed Estimate .  /             Actual
-   e 8n               oro                        Foriogn
Local   Exchane            Local  exchango            LoCal exchange
iten                  costa    costs   Total   costs   coats   Total    Costa   coats   Total
1. Civil worko               21.68   15.47    87.18   24.86   0.00    24.86   24.80   0.00    24.86
2. Vehicles                   0.2?    0.90       1.17    0.66   0.00       0.66    0.60   0.00       0.65
8. Equlipmnt                   .20    6.97    10.17    8.84   12.01       15.86     8.84  12.01    16.35
4. Tratning and
technical assistance       11.26    19.46    80.74    0.76   22.08    81.79    9.76  22.08    81.79
S. Tncremental operation
coat                       15.98    0.91    16.69   28.49   0.00    28.49   23.40   0.00    28.49
S. Unallocated                2.89    8.08       5.42    0 00   0.46       0.48    Q.00   0.48       0.48
Total Protect             52.76   48.74    101.52   f       84.50     S        62.01  a.60    9.651
Peroent of total          61.99%  46.01%  100.00%  64.25% 85.75x  100.00%  84.25% 85.76X  100.00
/a Revised by an amendment to the Loan/Credit on May 24, 1969.
B. ProJect Finanecng
Planned
Loan/Credit
Agreeament         Revised                   Final
USS mlillton)     (US$ miliIon)     X      (UJS$Million)     S
:BRD/IDA expenditures
categories                         65.000             65.000      100.0       64.486      99.2
Co-fineancns institutions                  (None)
Other external sources                     (None)
Domestic (01)                         85.520             82.051       90.2       82.051      90.2
Total                       !W 5.0                71T                   W 9.617     w:u-
C. Allocation of Bank Loan
Crtg                    Revised                      Actual
(US$ -000) ---
Civil Works                   22,280                   22,260                       22,260
Equipment                      8,880                    0,a80                        8,880
TA A Studies                  80,740                   80,740                       80,740
Unsllocated                    t8.50                    3.e60                       _.a50
65,000                   66,000                       6,0QO



- 62 -
Table 6: KEY INWICA'TRS
% Completion
Total              As of SeDt   80, 1889   rS=eisn Date
targot    Unit    Appr i gI        tua       ppra sal  curront
Activity                                                    .ti.mte                estimate    SPN
Construetion/Rehab7 I ltatioo /
Offices and Laboratories Lb
1.  Forest Reearch, Bogor (LPH)                     800      sq.m       100          100         7/84      11/aS
2.  Forest Product Reearch, Bogor (LPHH)            800      sq.m       100          100         7/84      11/83
8.  Industrial Crops, Bogor (LPTI)                5,320      sq.m       100          100         7/84       2/89
4.  Industrial Crops, Mapanget (LPTI)             8,970      sq.m       100           100        7/84       5/86
S.  Industrial Crops, Malang (LPTI)               4,650      sq.m       100           100        7/84       4/89
6.  Animal Health, Bogor (LPPH) jj                3,100      sq..       100           100        7/84       2/89
7. Fish Technology, Jakarta (LPTP)                  810      sq.m       100           100        7/84       6/88
8.  Fish Technology, Ambon (LPTP)                 2,180      sq..       100           100        7/84       8/86
9.  tnland Fisheries, Gondol (LPPD)               8,640      sq.m       100           100        7/84       0/89
10. Inland Fisheries, Maros (LPPD)                2,720      sq.m       100          100         7/84       9/89
11. Food Crops, Malang (LP8)                      6,680      sq.m       100          100         7/84       8/88
12. Estate Crops, Kaliwining (BPP)                7,060      sq.m       100          100         7/84       4/88
18. Food Crops, Drestagi (LP8)                    1,280      sq.m       100          100         7/94       9/88
14. Food Crops, Palu (LP8)                          870      sq.m       100          100         7/84       8/86
15. Food Crops, Solok (LP8)                       1,280      sq.m       100          100         7/84       4/8S
18. Animal Husbandry, Sungel Put7h (LP2)          2,640      sq.m       100          100         7/84       2/84
17. Inland Fisheries, PoJarakan (LPPD) /d           850      sq.m      1t            lQ0         7/84       6/89
18. Inland Fisheries, Cibinong (LPPD) /r            280      sq..       100            _-                      -
19. Industrial Crops, Kayuwatu (LPTI)               100      sq.m       100          100         7/84       8/89
20. Industrial Crops, Pandu (LUTI)                  870      sq.m       100          100         7/84       4/88
21. Industrial Crops, Natar (LPTI)                1,100      sq.m       100          100         7/84      11/88
22. Industrial Crops, KimD Atas (IPTI)              870      sq.m       100          100         7/84       4/88
28. Estate Crops, Sub.er Asin (BPP)                 670      sq.m       100          100         7/94       7/88
24. Soil Research, Maros (LPTI)                     620      sq.m       100          100         7/84       6/88
25. Soil Research, Buktt Tinggi (LPTI) Lj           620      sq.m       100          100         7/84       2/87



Table 6
Page 2
T  Cempletlon
Total              As to Sat. 80  1989             ut       t
target     Unit     ppralsaI      c        Aeppr la I urrent
Activity                                                   ostiuate                estimate    SPN
Guest and Staff House.
1. Begor (LPH)                                      570      sq.m       100          100            -       5/85
2. Beor (LPHH)                                      670      sq.m       100           100           -       5/84
8. Bgor tLPTI)                                    2,420      sq.m       100           100           -       2/89
4.  Mapanset (LPTI)                                 642      sq..       100           100           -       S/86
S.  Malang (LPTI)                                 1,64       sq..       100           100           -       1/87
6. Boor (LPHH)                                    1,876      sq.m       100           100           -       0/88
7.  K(llwning (MPP)                              2,192      sq.m       100           100           -       1/87
S.  Brostagl (U8)                                   400      eq..       100           100           -       0/82
9.  Polo (LP8)                                      284      sq..       100           100           -       8/86
10. Selek (LP8)                                     810      sq.m       100           100           -       2/87
11. Sungal Putih (LP2)                            1,926      sq..       100          100            -       2/84
12. Pajarakan (LPPD)                                282      sq.m       100          100            -       8/89
13, Cibinong (LPPD) /c                            1,710      eq..       100           100           -          -
14. Kayuwatu (LPTI)                               8,060      sq.m       100          100            -       8/89
1'. Pandu (LPTR)                                    042      sq.m       100          100            -       4/88
16. Rotor (LPTI)                                    644      eq-        100          100            -       9/86
17. Kia, Atas (LPTI)                                284      sq..       100          100            -       4/88
Is. Sumber Asia (3PP)                               884      sq.m       100           100           -       7/88
19. Mares (LPTI)                                    400      sq.m       100          100            -       5/80
20. Bukit Tiaggi (LPTI) If                          600      sq.0       100          100            -       2/87
/ cludes site development.,
includes service building Pn1arakan's
Approved added area of 888 e tor large ruminant.
7dIn lleu of Benom because of proxlmlty to Gondol Inland Flsherles.
Cancel led dye to land acquisition problem.
a Ne  changed to Food Crope, Solok.
.,~~~~~



Table 6
-  Completion
Total              As of $ct. so  1989        S=Ietton DOte
target     Unit    Appraisal      ctual    Appraiaai  current
Activity                                                   estimate                estimate    SPN
Farm Oeveloement (EM2rimentol Fame/Ponds)
(a) Loeations Under SAR
1. Animal Husbandry, SeT Putih                       82      ha         100          100   1902/1988        9/84
2. Food Crops, Palu                                  15      ha         100          100   1982/1983        8/86
8. Industrial Crops, Kayuwatu                         0      ha         100          100   1962/1088        3/88
4.  Food Crops, Brastagl                             81      ha         100          100   1982/1988        5/8B
S.  Food Crops, Solok                                20      ha         100          100   1982/1988        1/S8
6.  Industrial Crops,  alansg                        14      he         100          100   1982/1988       12/88
7.  Estato Crops, Kallwining                        150      ha         100          100   1982/1983        4/88
8. Industrial Crops, Nbtar                           65      ha         100          100   1982/1988        9/88
9. Industrial Crops, Mapanget                        4S      ha         100          100   1982/1988        4/88
10. Indtgstrial Crops, Pandu                         90      ha         100          100   1982/1088        4/88
11. Industrial Crops, Kina Atas                     68       ha         100          100   1902/1983        4/88
12. Food Crops, Kendal Payak                         28      ha         100          100   1082/1088        8/88
18. Coastal Aquaculture, Pajarakan la                 a      ha         100          100   1982/1988        9/89
14. Estato Crops, Sumber Asln                       s8       ha         100          100   1982/1988        7/88
(b) Additional Locations
1. Horticulture, Margahsyu                           20      ha         10           100            -       8/81
2.  Coastal Aqueculture, Merana lb                   45      ha         100          100            -       9/89
8.  Coastal Aquaculture, Negare                      20      ha         100          100            -       9/89
4. Horticulture, Solok Le                           100      ha          15           80            -       3/90
S.  Food Crops, Pasar Miring - Medan /d              18      ha         100          100            -       9/88
La  The development of 40 hectares experimental pond at Pajarakan as reported In the 6th Semi-Annual Progress
Report has been reduced to about 6 hectares due to poor soll condition and insufficlent frehwater supply,
It was further reduced to 8 ha solely for the outdoor experimental culture of the brine shrimp, atroias
Saline.
/b Marano was selected as site for Coastal Aquaculture In lieu of Maros as lndicated In the World Bank's SAR
because of the change In mandate.
Ic Proposal was made by both World Bank/RSI and 00G to lnelude the budget of the remaning 90 hectares In
flscel year 1980/1989.
L  Newly added location for brown hopper research.



Table 8
- 66 -
X Completlon
Total             As of See! .0  1989   r=ietlon Date
target    Unlt   Appralsal        au,l    Appra Ial   Current
Activity                                                 estimate                estimate   SPN
Additional Locations for buildings at Central Facility Area /a
(Locations not under SAR)
1. Food Crops, Sukamadi                           812      sq.m       100          100           -       3/82
2. Horticulture, Solok lb                       10,705     sq.m        15           s0           -       3/90
8. Coastal Aquaculture, Mbrana                  1,272      sq.m       100          100           -       9/89
4. Coaetal Aquiculture, Ngapra                    824      sq.m       100          100           -       9/89
6. Coastal Aquaculture, Dojoneara                 280      sq..       100          100           -       8/89
o. Secretariat, Jakarta                          1,000     sq.m       100          100           -      11/88
Additional Locations for Ouest House end Staff Houses e
(Loatilons not under SAR)
1. Estate Crops, Sungst Putib                    1,800     sq.m       100          100           -      11/82
2. Coastal Aquaculture, Morana                    700      sq.m       100          100           -       9/89
3. Coastal Aquaculturs, Negara                    670      sq.m       100          100           -       68/9
4. Coastal Aquaculture, SoJonegara                800      sq..       100          100           -       8/89
S. Freshwater Fisheries, Jatiluhur                910      sq.m       100          100           -       3/88
io Includes offlcs, laboratorles, service buildings and screenhouses and sIte development work.
Proposal was made by both World Bank/RSI and 00! In September, 1987 to Include the budget for the remaining
activities In fiscal year 1988/19889.
/a Includs site development.



Table 0
Page 5
-6 -
X Complotion
Total              As of ;-Md. so. 1889         Comelotion Dao
target   Unlt   Appraisl   Actual             A rois lActial
Activity                                  estimate       No.           estimate
Tralnin
Lan Torm 
Locai (2.5 yra)               460       No.      100X       (409)   91S        1989    )
verseas (2.88 yr.)             S0       No.      1003        (74)   1493       1989    )
Ph.D
Local (8.0 yra)                 s0      No.      100X        (81)  162%        1989    ,)See Footnote /b
70      No.      1001i       (101)  1441       1989    )
S-1 - Lo"                        -      No.         0         (go     NA       1989
5-02 - Local                     -      No-         0        (1S5)    NA       1989
Short Term
Local                          540        i      1005S    (1,828)   8881       1989    )      1/10/l89 -
Overseas                       IS0       Mm      1003       (179)   1103       1989           3/81/89
Language Train1ng                100         1      1OO0           -   187X       1989           6/80/89
i   Actual Enroll meta *of 1/10/69                                                                        I
As of closing dste of the Loan to June g0, 10  the number of trainee who shall have completed (re-entered
to reserch centers/institutes and those who w I be absorbed by ARM I Project areas follows:
Completed (Re-entered)   Conttnuing through
as of 018S0190         ARM I Project
Long Term
M.Sc - Locl                              406                     8
Overswea                           70                     6
Ph.D - LoCAI                              72                     9
Overseas                           91                    10
Consultant Seritic
Lon Term                         576        NM      1001              97.11       6/89              68/90
Short Term                       124        Wm      l001              74.51       6/89             10/89
ClvlI Works Architecture, Design
and Supervlilon                   100       X                          100X       6/85              8/90
Procurement
Vehlles
Jeerp                             8o       No.      l00X               l001       8/84              8/86
Light truck                      o80       No.      1001               1001       8/84              3/8e
Heavy trucks                       S       No.      100X               100a       8/U4              8/86
Selontific Equipment                100       X                          1001       6/866             8/90
Tractors                            80       No.      1001               1003       6/89              8/88
Service Equipment                  100        X        O11                0.0X      6/86              3/90
Office Furniture and Equipment     100        X       1001               100x       6/85              8/90



- 57 -
Table 7? STUDIES
The following Reviews, in conjunction with the Semi-Annual Progress Reports,
respond to the SAR purpose of *Reporting' as given on page 27 of that document.
In addition these reviews answer items b. and j. under "AGREEMENTS REACHED AND
RECOKKENDATIONS' on page 30-31.
Studies:
1.   Horticultural Review
2.   Palawija Review
3.   Fisheries Review
4.  CAER-CADP Review
(Center for Agro-Econ,mic Research/Center for Agricultural Data Processing)
5.   Industrial Crops Review
Sa. Cotton Review (Supplement to Industrial Crops Review)
6.  NLAS Review
(National Library for Agricultural Sciences)
7.  Estate Crops Review
8.   Management Systems Review
9.  Animal Science Review
10. Soil Research Review
11. Review of the AARD Research Reviews
Status: All Reviews are completed.
Comments: This use of major sectoral reviews of on-going activities was devised
as a unique project management and imp-lementation tool by the NAR II project
staff. The Review of Reviews proved of great use, as outlined below, and was
also an innovative device created in NAR II.
Impact of Study: These documents provided the fundamental base for the
preparation of the Agricultural Research Management (ARM) Project. They
therefore not only provided guidance and information during the implementation
of NAR II but collectively they served to isolate and identify areas for future
assistance.
l.



- 68 -
Table 8: STATUS OF COMPLIANCE WITH MAJOR COVENANTS
Current
Agreement     Type of   Cur St    cu? St                                    Covenant Status
Section       Cov fant  Date       Code    Dscridtion of Covenant            Descriptlon
Loan
Art. 8.02      A.3       09/80/07       1    Employ consultant              Complied
organization to *sist in
Part. C and 0 of project by
8/31/t1.
Aet. 8.08     8.8        09/80/07       2    Director PIU post              Compiled.
continuously filled by
qualified and experienced
person.
Art. 8.04     A.1.8      09/80/67       2    Required to Increase AARD      Compiled.
prmanont research staff by
not lesw than 10% por year
from 1981 through 1989.
Art. a.0_(A)   8.2       09/80/67       2    Once every two yeare,          Compiled.
Independent special ate to
review reserch progrms.
Review to cover research
prograom and management of
the five newly established
central research Institutes
and the soils and the
agrooconomic centers.
Art. 8.06(A)  A.1.A      09/80/87       8    Maintain advisory committee   Compiled.
,on agriculture reserch for
t-ranmigrtiton.  Comittee
to annually review ongoing
and planned reserch on
tranmigration and establish
pirtiles for such
reserch.
Art. 8.07     B.1        09/80/6?       2    List of equlpment for next    Compiled.
project year to be prepared
and agreed to by Bank. To
be supplied 12/81 beginning
12/81/61.
Art. 8.09     B.1        09/80/87       2    Annual training prgrm to    Complied.
be submitted 12/I Ibeginnin
12/81/80.



- 59 _
Table S IIISSIONS
Speciali-        Portor.
prStao of      llonth/    No. of       Diey       ation          rating       Typo of
project cycle    yar        prsono   In tleld  Ropreset            status 4b   problem Ic
APR              06/79         7          26      Resarch
Manpower
Llvestock
Forestry
Fishertie
Food Crops
Civil Works
Negotiations     02/80
Effective_es     07/80
Supervision      09/80         2           5      Agric. Irrtg.        l/1 /
Egr.
04/61         2          7       Agric. Civ.         1/1.        L
11/62         a        n/4      Agric. (2)           1/2         U
Procurement
08/8          8        nOS       Agric.              2/2         F/M
Reserch
Procurement
11/s8        8.        n/a      Agric. Tree          2/2         F/M
Crops
Procuremsnt
04/84         4        n/s       Agric. Reserch      2/2          F/M
Tre Crop
Procurement
06/86       n/         n/a       n/a                 2/1          F/M
06/86         2        n/A       Agrlc.              2           F/U
Procuremnt
Supervision      00/87         2         n0/      Agric.               8           F/M
Procurement
97/U8         2          9       Agric.              2           F/M
Procur_met
12/68         B          9      Sr.: AF nlc.         2           F/M
Sr. Fn. Ana l
- -         Procurement
07/89         2         16       Sr. Agatc. (2)      2           F/M
b Project supervised from the RSI ftild office on a continuing basis.
Key to status.  1 * no problem; 2 a minor problem; 8 a major problem.
tKy to problem.        fnancial; U a magerlal
'~~~~.



- 60 -
Table 10: USE OF BANK RESOURCES
Planned /a    Revised /a    Actual
_----------_ Staffweeks -------------
Preappraisal                                                     75.4
Appraisal                                                        61.9
Negotiations                                                      8.2
Supervision                                                     117.3
Other                                                            14.8
Total                                                      278.5
la Not Available
.              , ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~-



PAe l.f x
- 61 -
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARC MANAGEMENT PROJECT-I
Non-Sank Externtl Support for AARD Since Its Formation
Locatieon/Project             Duration           Donor             Grant/       158 Imll ton
Loan
Upland Agriculture Conservation
Project                               198S-1991         USA/USAID              L            0.71
Indonesia National FertilIzer-
Efficiency Program                   1982-1988         ADAS/Australla         a            1.99
Soil Investigation for Land           1974-1980          Belgium               a            0.90
Rozoning (ATA-10S
Land Resources with Emphasis on       1979-1983         FAO/UNDP               a            2.14
Outer Island
Land Capability for Appraisal         1972-1976         FAO/UNDP               0            1.21
Soil Research                         1974-1978         Holland                a            0.40
Resoarch Program For Acid-
Sulphate Soil                         19S7-1990         Holland                a            4.78
Direct Applicable Soil Reserch        1974-1976         Holland                a            0.43
FOOD CROPS
Agricultural Research               197S-1982         USA                    G            2.17
Regional Rice Research              1972-1982         USA                    G            1.14
Sumatera Agricultural Research      1978-1983         USA                    G            2.W0
Sumatera Agricultural Reserach      1987-1984         USA                    L            7.00
Hybrid Rice Project                 19S2-1987         USA                    0            0. 5
Improved Grain Legume Production
by Enhance Nitrogen Fixation       1984-19S8         USA/BOSTID             0            0.16
Grain Handling and Storage          1977-1979         Australia/ASEAN        a            0.14
Peanut Improvement In Indonesia    1986-1988          Australia/ACIAR        0            0.P9
Phosporus and Sulfur Efficiency
In Tropical Cropping System       1985-1988          Australia/ACIAR       a             0.03
Pigeon Pea Improvemont              1986-1988         Australia/ACIAR        a            0.01
Economic Appraisal of Altornative
Price Policies for Expanding
the Production of Rice and
Secondary Food Crops In Indonesia 1988-1988          Australie/ACIAR        0            0.18
Development of Cultivar and Pro-
duction Systems for Early Ma-
turing of Piveon Pea               198B-1988         Australia/ACIAR        G            0.31
Strengthening Agricultural
Research or Increasing Food-
Production                         1971-1978         Holland                o            1.04
Ecological Research Rico/Soybean/
Corn                               1974-1977         Holland                0            1.08



DA ndlxl1
page 2 of 6
- 62 -
Location/Project              Dueatlon          Donor             Grant/      US$ million
Loan
AARD (General)
Appiled Agricultural Research       1980-1988         USA                 a          6,86
Applied Agricultural Resarch        1980-1988         USA                 L         12,69
Applied Agricultural Reearch
Project                             1987-1992         USA                 a          7,26
L          6,81
Agrocosystem Nework (Phase f)      1984-1988         Ford Foundation     a          0,11
Agrocoeystem Network (Phase SS)    1986-1907         Ford Foundation     a          0,27
Agrlcultural A Rural Sector
Support Project (ARSSP)            1987-1900         USA                 a         3u,00
Cap?
Agricultural Development Planning
and Administration (agro data
processing)                        197t-1989         USA                 L          0,90
NLAS
Establishment of an Indonesia
Journal                           19088-1986        AustralIa/ACIAR     a          0,26
CAER
Study on Agricultural Infra-
structure Improvment in I. mle
Countries                         1987-1988         FAO/UNDP            a          O,O7
0,07
SOILS
Benchmark Soils                     1977-198S         USA                 a          0,77
Tropsol I Project                   1982-1986         USA                 a          C,44



Avoondix I
rose a of 6
Locatton/Proj-et              Duration           Donor             Grant/       US* million
Loan
Strengthening the Yalang Research
Institute for Food Crops (Phase I,
UI, 1II)                            1981-1987         Hol land            Q            8,80
Phase IV                             1987-1989         Holland              a           0,27
Legume Cultivar Solection for Con-
dition After Low Land Rice and
Acld Sotl                           1984-1987         Canada/IORC          a           0,18
Crop Livestock System Research       1985-1988         Canada/IDRC         a            0,28
Root Crop Improvement                1987-1989         Canad*/IDRC         a            0,10
Joint Food Crops Research Program   1971-1978          Japan               a            1,48
Strengthening Legumes in Relating-
to Cropping Pattern Research        1978-1988         Japan               a            2,82
The Strengthening Pioneering
Reserch for Pa amija Crop Pro-
duction                             1985-1990         Japan/JICA          a            6,05
Drying System for Farmer Group       1988-1986         EEC                  a           0,10
Research on Legumes, Roots and
Tuber In the Humid Tropics of
Asia and Pacific                    1980-1985         ESCAP               a            8,16
Farming System Development In Asia  1984-1988          FA0/UNDP            a            1,81
83,8i-
HORTICULTURE
Ecological Research on Horti-
culture                             1974-1978         Holland             a            0,85
Strengthening of Research and Deve-
lopment on Lowland Vegetable       1987-1992          Holland             a            1,89
Tropical Agronomy for Potato
(SAPPRAD)                          1982-1987          Australia           a           0,28
The Use of Calcium to Inhibit
Ripening and Senescence of Fruit
and Vegetable                       1988-1988         Australia/ACIAR     a            0,28
Tissue Culture for Virus-Free
Potato                              1982-1987         USA                 C            0O15
Cucumber Mozaic Virus-Free
Potato                              1987-1989         USA               0,16



Pogo 4 of 8
-64-
Lo"tion/Project                Duration          Donor              Orant/      USS million
Loan
Reserch and Developmnt and Cit-
rus Rehabilltatlon                  1988-1991         FA0/UNDP             C            0,99
Feasibility *tudle for Seed
Potato Production                   1980-1981         UK                   G            0,15
4,64
ANIMALS
ProJect for AnimlI Reserch and
Developmnt                          1974-198          Australia                        4,51
Animal D0s"es Reserch Institute   1980-19865           Australia 1                      2,77
Forage Reserch Projet                1982-1987         Australia                        8,8
The Investigation of the Etiology
and EpDdemiologY of UCF In Indone-
sia and Australia                   19614-197         Australlo/ACIAR      a           0,25
Animal Disose Rsearch institute
(Phase  I)                         1986-1990          Austra ll           a            7,72
Multi Purpoe Shrub Legumes for
Infertile Soil in The Tropics       1986-1988         Australia/ACIAR      a           0,05
The Estabilhment of Improved
Methods for the Diagnosis and
Control of Livestock Disase In
South East AIsi Using the
the Enyme Linked Immunosorbent
Asay                                1986-1988         Australis/ACIAR      0           0,88
Evaluation of Different BuffaIo
Genotypes for Draught, M"t and
Milk Production                     1986-1908         Australls/ACIAR      a           0,28
Southeast Asia-Pacific Forage
Resarch end Development             1988-1966         Austra ll/ACIAR      a           0,17
Multidlicipitnary Studl of
Draught Animal Power Systems in
Southeaste Asia                     1966-1988         Austra la/ACIAR      a           0,72
Small Ruminant R a 0                 1980-1984         USA                  a           2,50
Strenothening of Animal Disease
Reerenceo, Laboratory and Library  1981-1966          UK                   0           1,60



ApgD wsx I
Page  of 8
Location/Project              Duration           Donor             Grant/       US$ mli Ion
Lean
ESTATE CROPS
Assistsence to the Reserch
Institute for Estate Crops          1970-1980         Australia           a            0,06
Preliminary Studies on Bacterial
Wilt In Southeast Asia              1985-1988         Australia/ACIAR      a           0,09
The Research and Sub Station for
Tea and Chinchons                   1978-1901         Holland              a           1,80
Upgrading of Rubber Consumption
Research Facillties                 1980-1988         Holland              a           0,07
Rubber and Oil P.lm Research         1972-19tt         FAO/UNDP             0           0,20
Improvement of Research Facilities
for Rubber Technology               1980-1988         Japan/Asean         a            0,06
Improvement *nd Development Rubber
Quality Produced by Smaliholder
and Rubber Produce Manufacture    lss-1988           France               a           7,72
Biology and Control of Imperate
In Cropping System                 1985-1988          UK/ODA              a            0,82
10,81
INDUSTRIAL CROPS
Coconut Roeeorch Improveent          1978-1083         FAO/UNDP             a           0,25
Development of Integrated Cotton
Pest Control Programme              198/1989          FAO/UNDP             0           0,77
Popper Reserch and Development
In Lampung                        1t81-1986           Holland             0            0 27
Clove Disease Project (I, rl)        1975-1988         UK/ODA               a           0,67
Clove Dlseas Project (Phase nI)   1987-1900            UK/ODA              0            0 4A
2,42
FISHERIES
Post Harvest Fish Research           1977-1979         UK                   a           0,21
Mariculturo Research and Deve-
lopment                            1979-1981          Japan               0           8,88
Research on Fish Parasite            1976-1978         Canada               a           0.18
Inland Fisheries                     1981-1984         Canada/IDRC         a            0,84
Fish Parasite (Phase II)             1988-1986         Canada/IDRC          0           0,20
Meollusc Culture                     1986-1988         CAnada/IDRC          a           0,14



pAndix, I
Peg B of e
_G -
Location/Projot              Duralton          %nor               Orant/      US$ mtIilon
Loan
Car  bnotlc         Ja190-1988                        Cnada/RC K                        0,11
F 0 Drying In Eo                    1984-1987         Australla/ACIAR      0            0,06
Fishoris R_srh and DCe-
lop.n1;                            1080-101          USA                 e             8,32
TOTAL                                                                                  200,68s



