Document of                   FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2776-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
April 17, 1980
I  This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of  |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00        = Rupiahs (Rp) 625
Rp 100         =  US$0.16
Rp 1 million  =  US$1,600
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                    -  39.37 inches
1 kilometer (km)                -  0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (sq m)      -  0.386 square miles
1 hectare (ha)                  -  2.47 acres
1 cubic meter (cu m)            -  35.31 cubic feet
1 liter (1)                     -  0.264 gallons (USA)
1 kilogram (kg)                 -  2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)              -  2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
AETE      -  Agency for (Agricultural) Education, Training and Extension
AARD      -  Agency for Agricultural Research and Development
AVRDC     - Asian Vegetable Research and Development Center
CRIA      -  Central Research Institute for Agriculture
DG        -  Directorate-General
DGLS      -  Directorate-General of Livestock Services
DIP       -  Project Implementation Budget
FAO       -  Food and Agriculture Organization
GOI       -  Government of Indlonesia
IADS      -  International Agricultural Development Service
IDA       -  International Development Agency
IRRI      -  International Rice Research Institute
MOA        - Ministry of Agriculture
PIU       -  Project Implementation Unit
P3f       -  Center for Animal Research and Development
PPS       -  Extension Subject Matter Specialist
Repelita  -  Five-Year Plan
RSMS      - Research Subject Matter Specialist
UNDP      -  United Nations Development Program
USAID     -  United States Agency for International Development
INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFHC.1L~ 7%J'SE  N
INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Loan, Credit, and Project Summary
Borrower:              Republic of Indonesia
Amount:                $35 million loan, $30 million credit
Terms:                 Bank loan for 20 years including 5 years of grace with
interest at 8.25% per annum. IDA credit on standard
IDA terms.
Project Description:  The project's objectives are to expand and strengthen
Indonesia's agricultural research institutions. The
proposed project would assist research in subsectors
not included in the Agricultural Research and
Extension Project (Loan 1179-IND): food crops, live-
stock, fisheries, forestry, estate crops other than
rubber, and industrial crops. In particular, the
project would include substantial technical assistance;
training at MSc and PhD levels in Indonesia and abroad;
and physical development of research centers and
institutes. Risks regarding the orientation and
applicability of the agricultural research assisted
under this project would be mitigated by research review
procedures and linkages with agricultural extension
services, ensuring that the research would be
production-oriented and responsive to farmers' needs.
Estimated Cost:                                      Local    Foreign    Total
…- ($ million)
Civil works                    15.2      12.4       27.6
Vehicles                        0.2       0.7        0.9
Equipment                       0.7       6.5        7.2
Training and technical
assistance                    6.1      13.9       20.0
Incremental operating
costs                         9.6       0.7       10.2
Total base cost           31.8      34.2       66.0
Physical contingencies           1.7      2.2        4.0
Price contingencies            19.3      12.2       31.5
Total project costs       52.8      48.7      101.5
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients-only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Financing Plan:                        Local    Foreign    Total
------ ($ million) ------
Bank/IDA             17.2       47.8       65.0
Government           35.6        0.9       36.5
Total          52.8       48.7      101.5
Estimated
Disbursements:
Bank/IDA FY         1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989
Annual               1.3   3.2  1.0.0  12.5  12.5  10.0   8.0   4.5   3.0
Cumulative           1.3   4.5  1.4.5  27.0  39.5  49.5  57.5  62.0  65.0
Staff Appraisal
Report:           No. 2805-IND, dated April 4, 1980.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT AND
THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN AND DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan and development credit to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent
of $35 million and $30 million, respectively, to help finance a National
Agricultural Research Project. The Loan would have a term of 20 years,
including five years of grace, with interest at 8.25% per annum; the
Development Credit would be on standard IDA terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social
Progress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND, dated February 20, 1979),
was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979. An updating
country economic memorandum, "Indonesia: Long-Run Development and Short-Run
Adjustment" (No. 2788-IND, dated February 20, 1980) was recently distributed
to the Executive Directors.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is an archipelago nation of more than
13,000 islands covering a land area in excess of two million sq km. With
a population estimated at the end of 1979 to be 140 million people, it is the
world's fifth most populous nation. The population density exceeds 650
persons per sq km in Java, where 65% of the population live, but averages less
than 30 persons per sq km in the rest of the country. Over 82% of the
population live in rural areas and although agriculture only accounts for
slightly over 30% of GDP, about 62% of total employment is still found in the
agricultural sector. GDP per capita is estimated at about $370.
4.        Over the last thirteen years, Indonesia's economic, social and
institutional development has surpassed that of most other heavily populated
poor countries. Although the new government in 1966 inherited a severely
dislocated and bankrupt economy, it rapidly brought hyperinflation under
control, established full convertability of the currency and regained the
confidence of western creditors. During the First Development Plan period,
Repelita I (1969/70 to 1973!74), a major rehabilitation of the neglected
infrastructure was initiated, the investment rate was doubled to 18% of GDP
and an average real GDP growth rate of over 9% per annum was achieved. During
Repelita II (1974/75 to 1978/79), economic activity was fueled by a dramatic
increase in foreign exchange resources resulting from the world commodity
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Fifteenth
Irrigation Project (No. P-2718-IND), circulated under cover of
IDA/R80-36, dated February 28, 1980, and approved by the Executive
Directors on March 18, 1980.



- 2 -
boom, the quadrupling of oil prices and expanded public and private foreign
capital inflows.  Net oil exports increased from $640 million in 1973 to
$4.0 billion /L in 1978, which enabled real Government expenditure to increase
by 20% annually and encouraged a 7% average annual GDP growth rate. Not all
sectors have shared in this growth. In particular, the performance of
nonextractive exports, with some exceptions, such as coffee and palm oil, has
been disappointing; rubber exports, for example, have stagnated since 1971,
and manufactured exports are only now giving any indication of sustained
growth. In addition, there has been little evidence, despite increased
foreign exchange resources, that the post-oil future of the economy has been
assured through a broad-based expansion of the industrial sector.
Social Developments
5.        While there is general agreement that overall growth in the economy
- an annual rate of almost 8% over ten years /2 - has been impressive, views
diverge on the degree to which the poor have shared in this increased income.
The National Household Surveys for 1970 and 1976 indicate that while overall
income disparities almost certainly widened between those two dates, there was
nevertheless a considerable improvement in the consumption of all income
groups, with real consumption expenditure of the bottom 40% of the population
probably increasing at between 3.5% and 5.5% annually. Growth in per capita
income was generally higher in Java than in the Other Islands and higher in
urban than in rural areas.
6.        Employment growth has been rapid in the 1970s (an average of 4.7%
p.a. between 1971 and 1976, compared with a total population growth of 2%).
However, it is likely that there has been a slight increase in the level of
open unemployment due to a greater rate of growth of working age population
than of total population and to increased participation rates (50% in
September 1971, 55% in October 1976). Most (54%) of the increased employment
during this period was absorbed in nonagricultural activities, resulting in a
decline in the share of agricultural employment from 66% to 62%. Within the
nonagricultural sector, employment increases largely resulted in proliferating
small-scale enterprises in the manufacturing and service sectors, where
productivity is generally extremely low.
7.        Government-sponsored programs deserve at least part of the credit
for many of the major advances of the last decade.  In particular, the B1IAS
and INMAS rice intensification schemes and the Government public works
(INPRES) programs have demonstrated the Government's capacity to marshal
resources in pursuit of its social goals. Between 1971/72 and 1976/77 real
expenditures increased at an annual average rate of 37% on Health and Family
Planning, 45% on Education, and 31% on Housing and Water Supply, resulting in
/1 Includes Liquified Natural Gas ($225 million).
/2 Gross Domestic Income grew even faster; about 9.5% p.a. - due to improve-
ments in terms of trade.



- 3 -
the rapid development of social infrastructure. For example, Indonesia's
health centers, which totalled 1,058 in 1969, were increased to 4,029 by
1977; between 1973 and 1978, 31,000 primary schools were constructed and
primary school enrollment was expected to reach 85% in 1979, up from 60% in
1974. Perhaps the most significant achievement of the First and Second
Development Plans has been the success of the National Family Planning
Program, established in 1970, in reducing the overall population growth rate
to 2%. Fertility rates have fallen by almost 20% on Java and Bali, where
almost 30% of married women in the reproductive age group are practicing
modern methods of contraception.
8.        Despite these advances, however, the magnitude of the poverty prob-
lem, the lack of food security, and the inadequacy of basic public services
remain overwhelming. In 1976, an estimated 50 million people, over one third
of Indonesia's total population, spent less than $90 a year (at 1976 prices
and exchange rate) and a large proportion of the labor force was seriously
underemployed in both rural and urban areas. Moreover, the continued pre-
valence of numerous debilitating diseases, which often stem directly from
nutritional deficiencies and unsanitary living conditions, results in
extremely low life expectancy at birth and a very high mortality rate.
Life expectancy at birth in Indonesia is only 48 years (most recent estimate)
compared with 60 years in the Philippines and 67 years in Malaysia. For the
same countries, infant mortality rates are respectively 126, 65 and 35 per
thousand. Every year in Indonesia approximately 600,000 infants less than
one year old die. These statistics reflect both low incomes and the under-
lying inadequacy of basic public services. Over 100 million Indonesians
remain without access to safe water or sanitary excreta disposal; there are
only 6 physicians and 6 nurses per 100,000 of the population; and almost 40%
of the adult population are illiterate.
Development Strategy in the Nonoil Economy
9.        The rehabilitation of infrastructure which has made possible the
impressive growth rate over the last decade and which has underpinned past
development policy must now give way to a new strategy as the task of
rehabilitation is now essentially completed. The Government has recognized
this in preparing the Third Development Plan, Repelita III (1979/80 to
1983/84). Three primary goals have been specified: a more equitable
distribution of the benefits of growth, a high growth rate, and national
stability. A high priority must now be given to the industrial sector
since neither agriculture nor services can be expected to absorb the
large projected increases in the labor force (1.4 million p.a. up to the
year 2000) and simultaneously ensure rising real wage rates.
10.       The prospects for an outward-looking labor-intensive industrial
development have been improved by some of the policy actions taken in recent
months. The most dramatic of these was the devaluation of the rupiah from
Rp 415 to Rp 625 per US dollar on November 15, 1978. Its purpose was to
reverse some of the adverse relative price changes in the economy that had



- 4 -
occurred earlier in the decade and thus to encourage a shift of resources
away from the nontraded goods sector towards labor-intensive import substi-
tution and export industries. In support of the aims of Repelita III and
the devaluation, the Government has also simplified the investment licensing
process and exporting procedures and introduced a system of export certifi-
cates - tax rebates - to encourage exporters. A new corporation tax law
was promulgated in March 1979 providing greater incentives to entrepreneurs,
particularly those in smaller-scale ventures and those using the services
of a public accountant. On the monetary side a start has been made in
making the commercial banking system more responsive to the needs of small-
scale enterprises.
11.       A detailed industrial desvelopment strategy has not yet been articu-
lated, although the Repelita III document acknowledges that private invest-
ment will be relied upon as the primary means of industrial job creation.
Despite the improvements outlined above, it is not yet clear that private
entrepreneurs will be able or willing to invest sufficiently in those
sectors most conducive to job creation and income growth. In particular
there are two issues that require urgent attention. First, although some
improvements have been made, many entrepreneurs still complain about cumber-
some administrative procedures and controls associated with the highly
centralized government bureaucracy. Second, the high level of effective
protection, which has increased over the last year, may encourage the
misallocation of scarce capital and managerial resources. Indonesia's
potential for manufactured exports is considerable but it is unlikely that
these exports will ever provide the stimulus to growth that has been enjoyed
by other smaller East Asian countries. In the medium term it is more likely
that Indonesia's "engine of growth" will be its own large domestic market.
However, it is important that barriers to trade be reduced in order to
provide appropriate market signals and to encourage those sectors in which
a genuine comparative advantage exists. The formal tariff structure is
probably less significant than thes high administrative costs and delays
associated with importing.  The imnportant improvements made in exporting
procedures over the last year have demonstrated that rapid changes can be
made in this area. Similar advanzes on the import side would improve resource
allocation by reducing the proliferation of domestic industries that have
little prospect of ever attaining international competitiveness.  In many
countries devaluation has been accompanied by a rationalization of the tariff
structure. Although this has not yet occurred in Indonesia, the recent
increases in oil revenues have, by substantially increasing foreign exchange
reserves, provided an additional opportunity.
Short-Run Stability and Long-Run Development
12.       Medium-term prospects for the balance of payments and the Govern-
ment budget have improved fundamenltally in recent months. Three factors -
the devaluation, an improvement in the nonoil terms of trade, and the oil
price rise - have been responsible. The effect of the devaluation on the
external accounts is still not clear although there is some evidence of signi-
ficant supply-side response in some sectors. The improvement in the balance



of payments that followed immediately after November 1978 was due less to
the devaluation than to favorable developments in the world prices of
primary commodites./l As a result, Indonesia achieved an external surplus
of over $700 million in 1978/79. Most important, however, has been the
increase in the export price of crude oil to $32 a barrel by January 1980.
This is expected to generate additional oil and LNG export earnings of
$3.1 billion in 1979/80. Budget revenues have also benefitted from these
developments. Since over half of the Government's revenues were denominated
in foreign exchange, an immediate effect of the devaluation was to dramatic-
ally increase budgetary revenues in terms of rupiah. As a result of the oil
price increases, budget revenues from oil and LNG are predicted to rise from
$3.7 billion in 1978/79 to $8.9 billion in 1979/80.
13.       These favorable developments, while clearly presenting a valuable
opportunity to undertake development programs and stimulate private indus-
trial enterprise, may also present serious problems of short-run price and
monetary stability. This potential conflict could be seen, for example,
in the measures taken by the Government to ameliorate the inflationary
effects of the devaluation, which, while successful in keeping prices under
control, sometimes tended to counteract the desired effects of the devalu-
ation. Notable here was the tight control exerted over private sector
credit creation which may have limited investment in those export sectors
that the devaluation was designed to encourage. In addition, the increased
foreign exchange revenue presents potentially difficult problems of monetary
management. The manner in which Indonesia increases its capacity to absorb
imports effectively will be a primary determinant of Indonesia's future
growth prospects.
Domestic Resource Mobilization and External Capital Flows
14.       In the immediate future, the availability of foreign exchange will
not be a constraint on development due to both the increase in export revenues
and the consequent improvement in creditworthiness. (In 1979 Indonesia's
debt-service ratio has fallen from 18% to 16%.)/2 In the medium and long
run, however, the situation is less clear, due to uncertainty about how
quickly Indonesia will be able to absorb its sudden increase in wealth, and
because projections of future export revenues remain highly speculative. It
is therefore important that increased efforts be made to mobilize domestic
financial resources. The Government's concern with this issue is demonstrated
by its stated intention of eliminating budget subsidies on consumer goods. To
this end, domestic prices of all oil products were increased by an average of
about 40% in April and May 1979, although the budget savings have since been
nullified by increases in international prices. There is considerable scope
for improving the nonoil tax base, which accounts for less than 45% of total
/1 The nonoil terms of trade improved by 42% between October 1978 and
July 1979.
/2 Ratio of debt service payments to commodity export earnings, with oil
and gas on a net basis.



- 6 -
revenues. For example, taxes on personal and business incomes amount to only
3% of GNP, and taxes on consumption, 2.5% of GNP.  Expanding the tax base,
eliminating loopholes, and improving administration, are the obvious means of
securing a larger and more equitable tax burden. The mobilization of private
sector financial resource is hindered at present by the absence of attractive
long-term financial instruments, but the Government's encouragement of the
fledgling Jakarta Stock Exchange will hopefully result in an important source
of domestic funds in the medium term.
15.       The Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia (IGGI) remains the princi-
pal source of external capital, including Official Development Assistance
(ODA) to the country. Total ODA (bilateral and multilateral) commitments in
1977/78 (including grants) amounted to about $1.4 billion; the IGGI (includ-
ing the Bank Group and Asian Deve:Lopment Bank) accounted for over 90% of this.
The Bank's 1979 basic economic report on Indonesia recommended that total
ODA reach at least $1.93 billion in 1979/80, of which at least 70% should be
on concessional and semiconcessional terms. At the meeting of the IGGI in
April 1979 the indication of probable commitments in 1979/80 made by bilateral
and multilateral IGGI members amounted to about this level; the meeting there-
fore concluded that the Bank's recommendations would be approximately met.
The Bank's recent economic memorandum on Indonesia recommends $2.1 billion
ODA for 1980/81. In real terms this is about equal to last year's level.
PART II - BANK tOUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA /1
16.       As of February 29, 1980, Indonesia had received 45 IDA credits
totalling $814.8 million, and 45 13ank loans amounting to $2,575.0 million.
IFC investments totalled $62.2 mi:Llion. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1977
was about 8%, and the share of debt service about 1.8%.  By the end of 1978,
these ratios are estimated to have increased to around 8.3% and 3%, respect-
ively.  Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC invest-
ments as of February 29, 1980, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
17.       During Repelita I, and in line with the objectives of this First
Plan, a high proportion of Bank Group lending was directed toward the reha-
bilitation of deteriorated infrastructure and production facilities, meeting
the critical shortage of skilled nanpower, and technical assistance needed
for pre-investment studies and project execution. As the focus of the Govern-
ment's policy shifted during RepeLita II towards expansion of productive capa-
city in the agriculture, transportlation and power sectors, as well as improve-
ment in the quality and delivery of basic public services, the thrust of our
lending changed to focus on these objectives. Given the critical importance
of agriculture (including transmipration) for employment, food security
and exports, over one third of Bank Group-supported projects have been in
this sector. In addition, loans and credits have been extended to virtually
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Fifteenth
Irrigation Project (No. P-2718-IND), circulated under cover of
IDA/R80-36, dated February 28, 1980, and approved by the Executive
Directors on March 18, 1980.



- 7 -
all other sectors of the economy, including fertilizer production and distri-
bution, transportation, education, urban development, water supply, rural
development, nutrition, industrial development financing (including small
industry development), power, telecommunications, population and technical
assistance.
18.       Indonesia is currently in the process of implementing its Third
Five-Year Plan, Repelita III. As noted in Part I above, this document, while
stressing the need for continued high growth and stability, departs from
previous Plans by placing special emphasis on income distribution and poverty
alleviation. This focus, which is fully in line with the conclusions of the
Basic Economic Report, in turn requires greater attention to employment
generation and improvements in basic public services. While the Government's
agricultural programs are expected to generate significant employment oppor-
tunities, the long-term solution to Indonesia's employment problem is prima-
rily dependent on the articulation and implementation of a coherent labor-
intensive industrialization strategy. To support this effort the Bank Group
plans to expand significantly its hitherto modest involvement in this sector.
As part of this initiative, an operation designed to support several indus-
trial DFCs through an umbrella institution (most probably Bank Indonesia) is
at an advanced stage of preparation, and projects to support export process-
ing zones, wood processing and to further expand Bank assistance to small-
scale enterprise are at various stages of identification and preparation. A
comprehensive program of economic work in the industrial sector is being
initiated to provide the necessary understandings and backup for this
expanded operation.
19.       Outside industry, no major shifts in the balance of Bank Group
lending are expected. Given the importance of rice production, irrigation
will continue to absorb a substantial portion of Bank Group agricultural
lending; however, the Bank Group also plans to take further initiatives to
promote secondary food crops (para. 26 below). For example, this project,
as well as the recently approved Second Agriculture Extension and the proposed
Second Seeds projects, will give greater emphasis to these crops. Continued
support for the provision of basic services (population, education, health,
nutrition, urban development and water supply) as well as the traditional
sectors (power and transport) is also anticipated. Since it is clear that
the achievement of the Government's employment and equity objectives will
become increasingly dependent on the development of appropriate sectoral
policy packages and strategies, institutions, and staff development, it is
expected that the focus of the above operations will gradually broaden to a
subsector and sector approach.  The proposed sectoral approach is designed
to enable the Bank Group assistance to be responsive to these demands, and
to continue institution-building efforts in a broader context than has been
done hitherto.
20.       Although Indonesia's project implementation performance is generally
in line with the overall average for the Bank, both the Bank Group and the
Government have become increasingly concerned about the level of disburse-
ments, which has shown a declining trend in the past three years. While
some of this decline is accounted for by a shift in several sectors towards
"newer" type poverty-oriented projects, many of the problems appear to be



- 8 -
related to the Government's cumbersome budgetary, procurement and payment
procedures, including issuance of tender documents and opening of letters of
credit. These problems are further compounded by the severe shortages of
both managerial and technical manpower. A number of steps have been taken
by the Government and the Bank to address these issues. Several special
Bank missions have visited Indonesia to analyze the problems and make
recommendations for simplifying budgetary and financial procedures. The
Government and the Bank have also instituted formal and regular joint review
procedures to identify general and project-specific problems and work out
corrective measures. The first of these reviews was held in early March 1979
and a second, more comprehensive one, in June. In addition, a procurement
seminar (planned to be the first of a series) was held in Jakarta in
September 1979. As a consequence of these joint initiatives, over the past
few months the Government announced several measures to streamline the more
complex budgetary and financial procedures affecting project implementation.
Finally, to reduce initial project implementation difficulties, many
operations are now being presented for Board approval at a later stage in
the project cycle. It is still too early to assess the effect of these
steps on project implementation, but improvements are expected.
21.        From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through IDA.
Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following the commodity and oil
price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's subsequent lending has
been through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA lending being justified
primarily on poverty grounds - per capita GNP ($360 in 1978) is well below the
IDA cutoff of $625. Given Indonesia's much improved balance of payment posi-
tion, no further IDA lending is anticipated beyond the end of the current
fiscal year; however, due to the uncertainty of the effect of the recent oil
price increases on Indonesia's resource constraints, the issue of IDA lending
beyond the current fiscal year will be kept under regular review. In the
past, due to domestic resource constraints, the Bank has financed local
costs, particularly in high priority projects in the rural sector. However,
because of the increased availability of finance following the recent oil
price increases, financing of local costs will be progressively reduced and
will only be limited to occasions where it will make a significant contribu-
tion to the project.
22.        The proposed project, which is consistent with the strategy
discussed above, constitutes the eighth lending operation presented to the
Executive Directors this fiscal year, and would bring total lending to date
in FY80 to $466 million. Projects for education, population, seeds, small-
holder coconuts development and village development are expected to be ready
for presentation in the next sever al months.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL SECTOR
23.        Objectives.  The Government's major objectives for the agricul-
tural and rural sector are to: (a) create productive employment to raise
the incomes of the rural poor; (b) increase domestic food supply to keep
pace with rising demand; (c) expand agricultural exports, particularly of
smallholder tree crops; and (d) ensure productive, sustainable use of
Indonesia's land, water and other natural resources.



- 9 -
24.       Role and Performance.  Despite a 4% average annual growth of produc-
tion, agriculture's share of GDP has declined from 40% to 30% since 1968,
while its share of exports dropped from 45% to 33% due mainly to the markedly
increased value of oil exports. Nevertheless, the agricultural and rural
sector remains of overwhelming importance to the great majority of
Indonesians; nearly 80% of the population lives in rural areas, and agricul-
ture is the major source of income for about two-thirds of rural households
and one-tenth of urban households. Some 15.6 million smallholder families
produce subsistence and cash crops on 15.8 million ha, while 1,800 estates
occupying 2.2 million ha produce mainly rubber, sugar, tea, palm oil, and
tobacco.
25.       Employment.  Agriculture's share of total employment decreased
from 69% in 1961 to 64% in September 1971, while in 1976 it ranged between
66% in March and 60% in October./1 Nevertheless, agriculture remained by
far the largest single source (with 46%) of new employment during 1971-76.
Outside Java, employment prospects in agriculture appear quite promising,
given the sustained increases in the smallholder area, due to land and
irrigation development, including that under publicly sponsored and
spontaneous transmigration. In Java, rehabilitation of irrigation systems,
which generated significant employment in the last decade, should continue
to provide additional construction and farm work.
Food Crops
26.       Production Growth.  Given its limited manpower and financial
resources, the Government has concentrated on increasing the production of
rice, the preferred staple food of the great majority of Indonesians. Rice
production increased rapidly (4.5% p.a.) between 1968 and 1974, chiefly due to
irrigation rehabilitation and the provision to irrigated rice growers of fer-
tilizer and high-yielding variety seed, financed largely through the BIMAS
credit program. The growth rate slowed markedly to 1.7% p.a. over 1974-77, in
the wake of severe declines in fertilizer usage (due to restrictions on
private sector fertilizer trade), successive seasons of untimely rainfall, and
unprecedented attacks by pests and diseases, principally the brown plant
hopper and associated viruses. In 1978, a record rice harvest was achieved,
with better weather, improved and liberalized fertilizer distribution, and
nationwide government distribution of recently introduced pest-resistant
varieties. Over the past decade, output of secondary food crops (maize,
cassava, soybeans, peanuts, and sweet potatoes) grew more slowly, at an
average of only 1.6% p.a., composed of a 1.1% p.a. average decline in area
(much of this land shifting to irrigated rice) and a 2.7% p.a. increase in
yield.
/1 In 1976, shares were 63% in March and 57% in October in Java, and 72%
and 66%, respectively, elsewhere. The total drop in agricultural
employment from March to October was 6.7 million.  Precise estimation is
difficult due to the surveys' shifting definitions and seasonal timing.



- 10 -
27.        Demand-Supply Balance.  These gains in food output did not keep
pace with the 3.5-4.0% p.a. increase in demand due to rising population and
incomes.  Indonesia became the world's largest rice importer, with a record
import of 2.3 million tons in 1977, and about 1.3 million tons in 1978.
Simultaneously, wheat imports rose to 1.4 million tons in 1978, cassava
exports nearly disappeared, and soybean, maize, and coconut oil imports
began to grow. The report "Indonesia Supply Prospects for Major Food Crops"
(No. 2374-IND of March 3, 1979) concluded that even with expanded irrigation,
and improved technology, extension, credit and marketing, food production
growth would not exceed 3.5% p.a., leaving a basic food deficit up to at least
1990, with a rice deficit alone of 2-3 million tons.
28.        Tree Crops.  Tree crops occupy about a third of total cropped land
(coconuts and rubber account for 80% of this), and generate almost half of
total non-oil export revenue.  Smallholders cultivate 80% of the rubber area
and virtually all coconuts, coffee, cloves and pepper, whereas tea and oil
palm are grown primarily on estates. Despite recent higher world prices for
Indonesia's main tree crop products, only oil palm has shown sustained large
increases in production, due to investment programs by Government and private
estates. With the long immaturity of tree crops, static production levels are
a symptom of past low prices and neglect, especially inadequate research and
extension, and failure to replant with higher-yielding varieties.
29.        Efforts to revitalize the smallholder tree crop sector are
commencing on several fronts. One new approach, which is being supported by
four Bank-financed Nucleus Estaties and Smallholders (NES) projects, is for
government estates to plant and maintain rubber and oil palm on previously
undeveloped land for three years, using farmers selected to be settlers
(including local landless families and transmigrants) as employees, and
thereafter to supply the settlerS with inputs, extension, and processing
facilities. Other new plantings of tree crops are being included in
transmigration projects. While the NES approach has been mainly for new
settlers, the Government has also initiated national programs to assist
geographically concentrated groups of existing smallholders to plant rubber
or coconuts themselves, with fairly intensive support from Project Manage-
ment Units (PMUs). The Smallholder Rubber Development Project, approved by
the Board on February 19, 1980, *will support this program. Efforts to
design a low-cost system of tree crop planting with minimal demands on
management are also starting. Given the vast area of overaged and low-
yielding smallholder rubber and coconuts (smallholder rubber yields are half
those in Malaysia), the good market prospects for these crops, and the Other
Islands' land availability and natural comparative advantage in them, rapid
expansion of smallholder tree crops, using all suitable approaches, is a
high priority.
Area Development and TransmigratLon
30.        Java.  Tn 1978, about 35 million people lived in Java, at a density
approaching 650/sq km. The island, with 7% of Indonesia's land area, has
45% of the cropped area and 63% of the population.  Java generally has



- 11 -
higher fertility and better infrastructure than the Other Islands; however,
its cultivable land is almost fully utilized, and in some higher watersheds
cultivation already exceeds ecologically safe limits, contributing to
increasing erosion, downstream flooding, and siltation of ports, dams, and
irrigation canals. The Government is preparing watershed development and
integrated development projects to address this problem.
31.       Other Islands.  In the Other Islands, population density is
generally low and undeveloped land is available. The primary program for new
area development there, as well as for creating employment and settlement
nuclei for Javanese migrants, is transmigration. An organized transmigration
program is important for regional and natural resource development in the
Other Islands, production of food and export crops, and creation of employment
and decent living conditions for landless Javanese. Unfortunately, this
program has long been hampered by unrealistic expectations of its potential
for resolving Java's population problems and for stimulating large-scale
regional development, by overly ambitious targets, and by weak, uncoordinated
implementation. Confronted by management problems, the Government reorganized
the program in preparation for Repelita III, by transferring implementation
responsibility from the Directorate General of Transmigration to the line
agencies normally responsible for each sector. This measure needs to be
complemented by continued attention to technical and policy issues including:
(a) the suitability of the land for food crops; (b) the role of tree crops
and livestock; (c) appropriate target incomes and farm sizes; (d) the extent
of government assistance in finance, marketing and other services to
settlers; and (e) the role of spontaneous migration. The Second Transmigra-
tion Project (Loan 1707-IND and Credit 919-IND) is expected to address some
of these issues.
Bank Group Lending Strategy
32.       The Government and the Bank generally agree on overall objectives
and strategies for the rural sector. While views sometimes differ on the
relative emphasis to be given to different investments and on the technical
design cf some projects, such differences are not impeding Bank Group
operations generally and are usually resolved by further analysis and
dialogue. Since the first of 15 irrigation projects was approved in 1968,
the Bank Group's agricultural lending has rapidly expanded to include estate
and smallholder tree crops, fertilizer production and distribution, sugar,
livestock, fisheries, research, extension, training, seeds, transmigration,
and resource survey and mapping. The OPD's Sector Operations Review of Bank
Group agricultural lending in Indonesia (Report No. 2166, dated August 9,
1978) concluded that despite deficiencies in some projects, the Bank Group's
portfolio in Indonesian agriculture was "of overall good quality and likely
to contribute substantially to increased production." Within the context of
the Government's agricultural objectives and priorities, as outlined in
Repelita III, future Bank Group lending is expected to focus on four issues:
(a) The production of secondary crops. To develop the considerable agronomic
potential of these crops in Indonesia, the Bank Group has embarked on a major
effort designed to encourage the Government in giving high priority to this



- 12 -
subsector. This is being reflected in the Bank Group's economic and sector
work program and the lending program in particular, through the second phase
projects for agricultural research, extension (Cr. 996-IND, approved on
March 18, 1980) and seeds; (b) A diversified irrigation program to intensify
rice cropping on Java and to extend water management to the Other Islands.
In this subsector the Bank Group will pay special attention to institutional
improvements to increase the Government's capacity to undertake a greater
variety and volume of work and to engage in meaningful sectoral planning;
(c) Smallholder tree crop planting programs. Here the Bank Group plans to
provide substantial technical support through future NES projects, to
strengthen Government institutions so that eventually a subsector lending
approach for NES may become feasible. In view of the established small-
holder tree crop production (80-90% of total area under tree crops), the
Bank is actively pursuing ways to develop coherent support programs for
these traditional producers. In addition to the Smallholder Rubber
Development Project, approved by the Executive Directors on February 19,
1980, even lower cost approaches are being explored; (d) Area development
and transmigration. The focus of Bank Group efforts here will be, first, to
support and closely monitor the complex projects, and, second, eventually to
shift the focus of transmigration away from fairly narrow resettlement
schemes and to place it in the broader context of development of the Other
Islands. Bank assistance to agriculture projects has been and will continue
to be complemented by extensive sector work. Analyses of employment and
income distribution, irrigation, agriculture support services and food crop
production have been completed, and reviews of the rubber subsector,
transmigration program, secondary food crops, land tenure systems and supply
and demand for technical and managerial manpower for agriculture are now
under way.
33.       The Bank Group's assistance to agricultural research is part of
its increased overall attention to agricultural support services, as
reflected in the Review of the Support Services for Food Crop Production
(Report No. 2060a-IND dated December 11, 1978), the National Agricultural
Extension II Project, approved by the Executive Directors on March 18, 1980,
and the preappraisal of a Seeds II Project. Improved agricultural research
should support productivity in all subsectors and the development of
appropriate agriculture for area development and transmigration (para. 37).
Evolution of Agricultural Research in Indonesia
34.       Until 1974, most agricultural research was conducted by institutes
under the five Directorates General (DGs) of the Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA): Food Crops, Estate Crops, Forestry, Fisheries and Livestock Services.
In addition, the Agricultural Quarantine Center and the Central Library of
Agriculture and Biology, in Bogor, West Java, provided services to all the
DGs. With the establishment of the Agency for Agricultural Research and
Development (AARD) in 1974, all the research institutes and centers, except
for the Agro-Economic Survey and the Center for Animal Research and
Development, were brought under it. In 1979, the entire MOA organizational



- 13 -
structure was reviewed. The number of commodity institutes had grown to 24
and research support centers, to 5. Because the control span of the AARD
Head was becoming rather extensive, the Government established five Central
Research Institutes (Food Crops, Fisheries, Animal Husbandry, Forestry, and
Industrial Crops) and six Support Centers (Soils, Agro-economic, Statistics
and Agro-data Processing, Quarantine, Central Library, and a new Programming
and Monitoring Center). Due to the unique historical development of the
research institutes for estate crops,/l these are under a small Board of
Management, chaired by the AARD Head. Only the directors of these Central
Research Institutes and the support centers will report directly to AARD.
This new organizational structure should prevent duplication of research
efforts and help AARD to coordinate agriculture research more effectively.
35.       The Agricultural Research and Extension Project (Loan 1179-IND)
was largely unaffected by the organizational problems noted above because of
its relatively narrow focus. However, it is currently experiencing about a
12-month delay, largely due to the fact that AARD, though established in
1974, became operational with its own budget only in 1976. Further, the
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was initially weak, and its director was
only part-time. However, the appointment of International Agricultural
Development (IADS) consultants in 1977 and a full-time PIU director in 1978
has greatly improved project implementation. Resultant improvements in
infrastructure development, the return of local and overseas students,
increased staffing of the research institutes, and the appointment of
consultants have intensified the research activities under the project.
Progress is now satisfactory and should improve further with the reorgani-
zation and strengthening of the PIU under the proposed project (para. 40).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Formulation
36.       The project was identified jointly by the Government and a Bank
mission led by Sir John Crawford in 1977, and a preparation report was
completed by AARD in February 1978. The project was appraised in June/July
1979. A Staff Appraisal Report, No. 2805-IND, dated April 4, 1980 is
being distributed separately. Supplementary project data are provided in
Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington, from March 26-31, 1980.
The Indonesian delegation was led by Mr. Sadikin S.W., Head of the Agency
for Agricultural Research and Development, Ministry of Agriculture.
ObJectives and General Description
37.       Agricultural research in Indonesia so far has emphasized food
crops, the main objective of the first and second five-year plans. A
balanced research program covering the other subsectors is needed to
/1 These were established initially by the estates themselves, were funded
until recently by an export cess, and pay higher salaries than the other
research institutes.



- 14 -
develop appropriate farming systemas for small farmers andl increase their
productivity and incomes. The expansion of agricultural research to all
subsectors, as called for in RepeLita III, can only be achieved if the
commodity research institutes and support centers are expanded and strength-
ened with substantive technical assistance. For rice, secondary food crops,
highland vegetables, and rubber, assistance is being provided under the
Agricultural Research and Extension Project (Loan 1179-IND) hereinafter
referred to as Research I. The proposed project would assist the remaining
subsectors (fruits, lowland vegetables, livestock, fisheries, forestry,
estate crops other than rubber, and industrial crops), and would strengthen
the overall institutional framework for agricultural research. It would
complement the Agricultural Extension II Project, the Smallholder Rubber
Development Project, the proposed Smallholder Coconut Development Project,
and the proposed Seeds II Project, and enable agricultural research to keep
in step with the overall agricultural development program. Research
undertaken by all of the institutes under AARD's purview would also be
applicable to the development of appropriate support packages for transmi-
gration. An Advisory Committee on Agricultural Research for transmigration
has been established and will annually review ongoing and planned research
related to transmigration, and set priorities for such research. The annual
report of AARD, which will reflect the results of the annual review of
agricultural research for transmigration, will be furnished to the Bank
Group and the more detailed five-year rolling plan and annual agricultural
research plan to support transmigration will also be made available (Section
3.06 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
38.       The proposed project would help to provide the consultancy, training
and physical facilities to support research in the new areas detailed in the
previous paragraph and to enable the recent AARD reorganization (para. 34
above) to be implemented successfully. The project would include:
(a) physical development of existing research centers and institutes,
and 3 new fishery research institutes through:
(i) construction of research buildings and staff housing;
(ii) experimental farm/site improvement and expansion;
(iii) provision of scientific, workshop and office equipment,
and vehicles; and
(b)  48 man-years of long-term and 11 man-years of short-term technical
assistance in a wide range of research activities;
(c)  training for 70 PhD and 50 MSc candidates overseas, and 50 PhD
and 450 MSc candidates at Indonesian universities; and
(d)  incremental operating expenses associated with (a) to (c) above.



- 15 -
39.       The project aims to meet AARD's most pressing needs.  In some
cases, this would require training, technical assistance, civil works and
equipment, all for the same research program. For other programs, only one
or two of these inputs are needed. Project expenditure would be for indus-
trial crops (24%), fisheries (21%), food crops (18%), estate crops (13%),
livestock (10%), forestry (5%), soils research (2%), the library (1%), and
training for other subsectors (6%). Project cost estimates are based on
detailed calculations of the civil works, equipment, training and technical
assistance needed. Experience with research projects has shown, however, the
importance of maintaining maximum flexibility, as each advance in research
may change the priorities. Accordingly, the detailed specification of
equipment, training and technical assistance would be worked out by AARD
annually, subject to Bank Group approval.
40.       AARD would implement the project.  AARD's Project Implementation
Unit is responsible for the preparation of foreign-assisted programs,
including the planning of their training components, and physical activities
relating to the implementation of AARD's development budget. This is an
expansion of the PIU's original role, when it was established in 1975 to
administer activities under the Bank-financed Research I project. Its
functions will not extend to reviewing, implementing, or monitoring the
content of research programs. The PIU's increased responsibilities will be
reflected in the formation of separate units for its four main activities
(equipment and vehicle procurement, construction and site development,
finance and accounting, and training and technical assistance) and for
programming and budgeting. The Head of the PIU and a full-time PIU
secretary/administrator have already been selected. The post of PIU
director would be continuously filled by a qualified and experienced person
(Section 3.03 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Civil Works
41.       Research laboratories, offices, and administrative and support
buildings would be constructed for seven existing research centers and
institutes, three new fisheries institutes, and ten stations and farms.
Existing facilities in the institutes for forest research, forest products
research, estate crops and the industrial crops experimental farm would be
rehabilitated; staff housing would be built; and guest houses, stores, and
other buildings, constructed. Experimental research farms would be
established or extended at 12 locations. Contractors would prepare sites,
including clearing, leveling, drainage and irrigation (as needed), internal
roads and fencing. Four local consultants prepared site plans, schematic
designs and cost estimates of civil works.
42.       Consultants would be engaged to prepare detailed designs and final
tender documents of the proposed research facilities. Architects' fees are
estimated at about $2.7 million, based on fees approved under the Research
I Project. Approximately $400,000 has been included to cover costs of a



- 16 -
farm development consultant and c,ther planning assistance. Initial design
work was undertaken by consultants financed under Research I.
Training and Technical Assistance
43.        Training under the project would be a continuation of that financed
under Research I and would begin when Research I funds for this component
have been fully utilized. In accordance with the lessons learned from
Research I and other Bank Group research projects, the training and
technical assistance components would be implemented over eight years. This
is to assure sustained financial support for trainees who leave in project
years 4 and 5, for up to 3 years' training abroad, and to allow 3-year
consultancies to begin when needed in years 4 and 5.
44.        Training under the proposed project would include 70 PhD and 50 MSc
candidates overseas and 50 PhD and 450 MSc candidates at Indonesian univer-
sities. Funds would also be provided for 90 local fellowships with an
average period of six months. Additionally, 75 fellowships would be provided
for an average period of two months to enable research staff to present
scientific papers at conferences, seminars and workshops abroad. A list of
conferences, seminars and workshops, and the proposed participants would be
prepared by AARD a year in advance for government approval. A language
program would also be introduced for nominees for overseas training. Annual
training proposals would be submitted to the Bank Group for approval by
December 31 of each year of the project, starting in 1980 (Section 3.08 of
the draft Development Credit Agreesment). The project training component is
based on an expected 10% p.a. expansion rate in AARD research staff, as
agreed with the Government (Section 3.04 of the Draft Development Credit
Agreement). This has been the rate since 1974 and is considered to be the
maximum rate achievable in the next decade.
45.        The technical assistance under the proposed project would
complement the Research I project and bilateral programs. The consultants
would participate in research planning and organization, undertake specific
research activities, provide continuity for key research programs while AARD
staff are undergoing training, and give on-the-job training to local
scientists. About 48 man-years oi- long-term specialists would be provided
under the project, which would include an administrator/project specialist,
and a finance and procurement specialist for the PIU, for five years and
three years, respectively, and a scientific communications specialist in
AARD headquarters. The remaining consultants would assist in estate and
industrial crops, forestry, agriculture, livestock, food crops and soils
programs. Approximately 124 man-rmonths of short-term technical assistance
would be provided to the six commodity research programs, five support
centers and AARD headquarters. The short-term specialists would include
eminent scientists to advise on specific issues or problems and participate in
biannual research program reviews to ensure that research is problem- and
production-oriented and benefitting from research in other countries (Section
3.05 of the draft Development Creclit Agreement). Based on recent contracts in
Indonesia for similar services with international firms, the estimated base



- 17 -
cost of long-term specialists (primarily salaries, overseas allowances,
housing, domestic travel, education, and shipping costs) would be about
$7,000/manmonth. For short-term specialists, the base cost would be about
$8,600/manmonth. As under Research I, a firm would be engaged to assist AARD
in administering this large program and the recruitment of specialists. A
consultant organization would be employed by March 31, 1981, with experience
and qualifications and on terms and conditions mutually acceptable to the
Government and the Bank Group, to assist AARD in administering the training
and technical assistance components under the project (Section 3.02 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
Vehicles, Scientific and Other Equipment
46.       The project would provide 60 four-wheel drive vehicles, 30 light
trucks and 5 heavy trucks. The fourwheel drive vehicles would be used by
research staff; trucks would be used primarily to transport field inputs and
equipment, field assistants and labor. As AARD is extremely short of
scientific and other equipment, the project would provide an extensive range
of equipment, including optical equipment and balances, centrifuges and foliar
and soil analysis equipment. Other equipment would include 30 tractors,
jacks, drills, for repair and maintenance of vehicles and equipment; and
office furniture. AARD would prepare a list of equipment acceptable to the
Bank Group not later than December 31 in each year, for the subsequent
financial year beginning December 31, 1981 (Section 3.07 of the Development
Credit Agreement).
Project Cost
47.       Total project cost, including contingencies, is estimated at about
$102 million, of which 48% would be foreign exchange. The capital inputs for
buildings and site development comprise 42% of total base cost; equipment
and vehicles 1.3%; training, technical assistance and services 30%; and
incremental salaries and inputs 15%. Estimated costs for civil works are
based on preliminary designs; for equipment, on data from other research
projects; and for training and technical assistance, on actual costs under
Research I. Estimates are based on January 1980 prices. A physical
contingency of 10% has been applied for civil works, 15% for equipment and
supplies, and nothing for training, technical assistance or operating costs.
Expected price increases over the implementation period total about 48% of
the base cost estimate.
Financing
48.       The proposed loan of $35 million and credit of $30 million would
finance 65% of total project costs (less the cost of vehicles under reserved
procurement) and would cover the full foreign exchange costs ($48.7 million),
excepting the foreign exchange cost of vehicles provided by the Government
($0.9 million) and local costs ($17.2 million). The Government would also
provide the remaining $36.5 million from annual budget appropriations.
Retroactive financing of about $1.3 million for architects' preparation of
Bank Group approved designs and tender documents is included.



- 18 -
Procurement
49.       Contracts for civil works estimated to exceed $1.0 million total-
ling approximately $15 million, would be awarded on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding (ICB), in accordance with Bank Group Guide-
lines. Contracts for the construction of ten stations and farms (totalling
$5.0 million) which are small, simple in scope and scattered and not easily
grouped in large procurement packages, and so would not be of interest to
international contractors, would be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally, in accordance with the Government's procedures
which are satisfactory to the Bank Group. All research, farm and office
equipment ($7.3 million), except an electron microscope (ICB), would consist
of specialized or small items for which local after sales service is
extremely important. As these would be widely scattered and purchased at
intervals over the project period, and since contracts for these items are
estimated to cost less than $100,000, they would be procured on the basis of
local competitive bidding in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Bank and Association. All vehicles ($0.88 million) would also be procured
locally and financed entirely by the Government. Local contracting proced-
ures have been reviewed by the Bank Group and, with the following assurances
are acceptable to the Bank Group: (a) the PIU would prepare, by July 1,
1980, standard civil works contract documents which, after approval by the
Bank Group, would be used for all project civil works; (b) bids would be
evaluated in accordance with Bank Group guidelines; (c) for civil works and
equipment/materials exceeding $0.5 million and $100,000 respectively,
documents would be submitted to the Bank Group for review before tender and
award; and (d) to avoid late construction starts, bids would be received and
processed without waiting for the project implementation budget (DIP) to be
signed; however, contract award and execution would be deferred until after
DIP approval (para. C(2) of Schedule III to the Development Credit
Agreement). There are numerous local contractors capable of executing the
required works.
Disbursement
50.       Disbursements would cover 100% of total expenditures for both
local and foreign training and 100% for local and foreign consultants over
an 8-year implementation period. All other categories would be disbursed
over five years. For civil works, disbursements would be 60% of total cost.
For equipment, supplies, machinery and furniture, disbursements would be
at the rate of 100% of foreign expenditures of directly imported goods, 95%
of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured equipment, and 65% of locally
procured imported equipment. Retroactive financing of about $1.3 million
would be provided for architects' lpreparation of Bank Group approved designs
and tender documents after November 1, 1979 (para. 4 of Schedule 1 to the
draft Development Credit Agreement), and would be reimbursed against
statements of expenditures.



- 19 -
Accounts and Audits
51.       Annual project financial statements and the accounts of AARD
related to the project would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank Group; these audited accounts and the audit report would be sent to
the Bank Group within six months after the end of each fiscal year.
Benefits and Justification
52.       The proposed project would enable the Government to broaden and
deepen its research effort, and to maintain its recent 10% p.a. growth rate
of research staff and expenditure. This would eventually raise Indonesia's
relative resource allocation to agricultural research to the level of other
Asian countries, and increase AARD's capability in providing the support
needed to meet the development objectives of the agricultural sector.
53.       The resultant agricultural growth would increase smallholder
incomes, food availability and foreign exchange earnings, which are all
critically important to economic development and welfare in Indonesia.
Research areas already yielding results include rice varieties resistant to
brown planthopper and associated viruses, early-maturing downy mildew
resistant corn, and cultural practices for tree crops. The research on
cropping systems for upland rainfed areas of Southern Sumatera has provided
the basis for land settlement patterns in the Government's transmigration
program in Sumatera and elsewhere.
54.       As in other Bank Group-assisted agricultural research projects, no
attempt has been made to quantify the economic rate of return, ex ante, due
to: (a) inherent uncertainties regarding the timing and value of research
findings; (b) difficulties in dividing potential benefits between research and
complementary investments; (c) uncertainty in assessing the value of negative
research results, which frequently benefit subsequent research; and (d) the
analytic inseparability of benefits due to this project, which will assist the
entire research program, from those due to other aspects of Indonesia's total
agricultural research effort.
55.       Ex post evaluations, however, have almost always shown high returns
from research.  In Latin America during the late 1960s the economic rates of
return for research on maize, sugarcane, wheat and cotton ranged between 35%
and 90%. A study of the green revolution in India estimated that the rate
of return from research was 72%. Estimated economic rates of return for
developing countries average 42% for applied research and 60% for scientific
research related to agriculture.
Risks
56.       As with all research projects, there is considerable uncertainty
about what the research findings and hence the benefits would be. This can
only be reduced by ensuring, as the project seeks to do, that the necessary
human and physical resources to carry out sound research programs are



- 20 -
developed and brought together. Efforts to reduce the risk of delay in the
proposed project include an early start in the design of facilities (prelim-
inary designs for the civil works have been completed), and arrangements to
help ensure that the procurement is not held up by delays in the budgetary
process. Delay is much less likely for the proposed project than under
Research I (para. 35) as this project would build on the experience and
expertise gained under the previous project and would benefit from the
strengthening of the PIU.
57.       Inadequate linkages between research and extension services could
be a major impediment to the transfer of information to farmers and the
feedback of farmers' problems to researchers. To deal with this problem,
linkages between AARD, the Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and
Extension (AAETE) and the Directorates General in the Ministry of Agricul-
ture would be strengthened under both this project and National Agricultural
Extension II Project recently approved. Further, the research review
process under this project would help ensure that multidisciplinary research
teams focus on practical problems and are responsive to farmers' needs.
Environmental Effects
58.       Research programs would be designed to develop technologies which
safeguard the delicate balance of the agro-ecosystems and minimize health
hazards.  Sound integrated pest management practices will be developed for
major pests and diseases. Farming system research programs will investigate
methods of soil management which will ensure the productivity of tropical
soils and pay particular attention to conservation of soil, water and
wildlife. Special emphasis would be given to environmental impact in
transmigration areas.
PART V - LEGAL. INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       The draft Loan and Credit Agreements between the Republic of
Indonesia and the Bank and the Association respectively, the Report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for
under Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special
conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
60.       1 am satisfied that the proposed loan and credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the Association, respectively.



- 21 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
61.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan and credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
April 17, 1980
Washington, D.C.



- 22-                                                       ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5 pages
'ND0IA - SOCSAL (17DLCATOU DATA SUES
OIKsiA                     REFEPRENC  GROUPS fADUSTED ATAGIS
LAND ARLA (THOUSAND 30. x1.)                                                 - MOST IZCU? S?TLMASZ)
ITTA.L          2027.1                                                   SAXS        SalE    NEXT 81CG
MCrICULTDRL      292.9                                54DST RCE.T      CNDRAPUIC   3iCO8        INCOME
1960  LI    1970 / *STI#ASZ  b       U7GION !c  GROUP j      GROUP 't
NS? P?HI CAPITA (US5)                 80.0        140.0     360.0           528.9      209.6       467.5
DIUGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KLOCGMS O  COAL IqnVALUT)        129.0       120.0     218.0            371.1       83.8       262.1
POPUrAT7ZO AUND ITTAL STATISTICS
FOrVL.Imo,  UD-nt   mn.LIoss)       94.7        117,6     135.9
3154  POPULATION (PUCT  01 TOTAL) 14.6           17.1     1I.4             27.4       16.2        24.6
POPULATION PROJn1O!s
Po?fToIOL  O TRYU  2000 (I.LO0S)                      207.0
STAIIO Y PO?PULATrON (N3LIOES)                          357.0
VWAR S'iDoDuA  POPULAIlO iS U&CMD                     2145
POPULAIOU DENSITS
?Q SQ. Of.                        47.0        5.0       66.0            154.8       49.4        45.3
PE  SQ. EL. AGRICU?URAL LAUD    337.0        419.0     456.0            566.7      252.0       149.0
POPLAriOn AGE SSocDCS (PuC?CT)
0-14 TrS.                         40.8        64.0      41.0             41.3       43.1        45.2
15-64 TIS.                         56.1        51 5      56.0             54.9       53.2        51.9
65 TRS. AD ABOVE                    3.1         2.5       3.0              3.3        3.0         2.a
POPULATION GROWl RATE (?EgCEUT)
iuTAL                              2.1         2.2       2.0              2.4        2.4         2. 7
UA                                  ..         3.7       3.3              4.3        ..6         4.3
CRCDC SIETH RArE (PU TrOUSAND)      *7.0         43.0      37.0            30.2       42.4        39.4
C1RDC DEATH RATE (PUt TROUSAMD)     23.0         18.0      16.0             8.3       15.9         11.7
GROSS REPRODUCT1ON LATE              2.8          3.2       2.4             2.1        2.9        2L7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..       181.1    2213.0
USERS  PZRCENT 0  1LED   )W)    ..            0.2       19.0            34.1       12.2        13.2
FOOD AND 8TRITION
INDEX OI FOOD PRODUCTION
PQ CAPITA (1969-71-100            96. 5      100.0    105.0             106.2       98.2        99.6
PUL CPITA SUPPLY 0O
CALORIDS (PUcE 0T oF
atECRLNTS)                      39.0        91.0      96.0            104.1       93.3        94.7
PRTEINS (CRANS PE  DAT)           43.0        43.0      43.8            .57.4       52.1        54.3
0 WHICH ANLMAL AND PULSE        15.0/2      14.0       16.6           16.9        13.6        17.4
CHILD (AGIES 1-_) !0ITALTY LATZ     32.0         22.0      19.0             4.8       lS.5        11..
SEAL7E
UTE EXICTANCT A 373 (SEALS)    41.0 a            6.0      48.0             61.1       49.3        54.7
INYANT 56ORTAL,TY LRATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..       126.0         .             46.6      '05.4        5,.1
ACCESS TO SAFE 'WATE (PUCET Of
?OPULATION)
TOSAL                                          1. 0      12.0            21.9       26. 3       34.4
21841J                              ..        IC.0      35. 0           S6.2        58. 5       57.3
RURAL                               ..         1.0       6.0             12.8       53.8        _1.'
ACCESS CO EACRETA D7SPOSAL (PRCET
OF 'OPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        12.0       15.0           .8.4        l6.0        40.8
lMilJA                              ..        50.0      60.0            65.0        75.1        '1.3
RC`2AL                              '-         4.a !.0                   14.7        3.5        27.'
?OPULAX'ON P?R ?SIC3L           S1000.0O   '6S3tl.0   16430.3           3790.5   .1396..       6799..
POFULATION PR 'IUFS.7Y0  ?EIILSON     ..      3010.0   4670.0            L107...    5552..      L522. 1
.OPU"ATION ?R HOSPITAIL 3ED
-O-AL                           l370.0      1670.0    1560.0           il3.3      1417.1       726.5
-'B3v>  1133 J        .           :03...     .97.3       :72.-
RURAL                                       189(0.3       ..           1120.3     2445.9      2404..
42M15110NS P'E  lOS?TAL 3E             .           .      22.4            '.9         '..         17-
3OUS712C
AVUAGE SIZ' OF 8OUSENOLD
TGTAL                              4.4         4.8                        5.2        5.3         5..
'1541                              4.9         3.3        ..              ..         S.9         5.1
URA.L                              4.3         ..7         .               .         5.4         5. 5
AVUAGI  25QL OF ?USONS P?  SCONL
lOSAL                               *.         1.0 3                       **
'SSAN                               ..         L.c        -.
RU7L9                               ''          .6         .. 
ACCESS -0 §'C-RICITT PC7C11?T
JF DWEILL:NGS)
CotAL.                              ..          ..        ..              ..        2..5       'd..
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



- 23 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5 pages
7I50Z:N4  - SOCTAL  SIC2OM   SATA SW?
n!D0H L                   MUMM  X.05s ( SZ  A S
ST ZRICT         uaA19c        ssco        mcoi
1960 /b     1970 A 25TSIR  'b    U30ON Ic   GOUP Id    GU? /a
3R3A1Y:       O=L                 67.0        75.0       82.0            97.9       63.3         82.7
MAU                  79.0        )0.0       86.0            96.7       79.1        S7.3
MALE                 55. 0       70.0       77.0            97.4       41.4        75.8
3ZClMas   TO=L                     4.0         15.0      20.0            42.2       16.7       2U.4
WAIX                 10.0        20.0      2U.0             46.7       =.          33.0
Pmai                  3.0        11.0       15.0            40.9       10.2        15.5
VOCAOUL ENROL. (:0O   3AMAI2Aa)  20.0            2.0       21.0            12.5        5.6          9.8
tnsx                              n39.0       29.0       30.0            32.5       41.0        34.1
sEC SZY                           14.0         13.0      IS.3            25.1       U.7         23.4
ILOLT  rfAC! ti   M==)              39.0         57.0      62.0            86.1       31.2         54.0
CZN5t!5011TO
PFEW-CM5 PU -mG5A
POPUL*1OM                          1.0         2.0        3.2             6.1        2.8         9.3
RAIDIO UZCZ0U ?a MUSAI
POIULAf=               -           7.0          ..       37.0            8.4        27.2        76.9
?I VWXIERS ?!Z TSO
POSUL N                             ..         0.7        2.0            22.4        2.4        13.5
E1SPAIU ('7ArLY O.GAL
2Sz1ST) CIS1M5210Y PER
MaGSAiD PO01LhXZO                     ..          ..       16.0            24.2        5.3        1.3
c'.7    LMAI A 5D         ?U Cum    ..            ..        0.a             3.6        1.1         L.5
t.AR !0CE
IAL I-U3CL FOt:a  (WSt)    34027.0           42209.0  51000.0
fxCAL  (PUCOW)                    27.9        31.0      30.5             36.7       24.8        25.2
AGR'C32L  (P!)                    74.8        66.3       80.1            54.6       69.4        62.7
.;wuSTIT (P23MXT)                  8.4         9.7      12.0             16.3       io.a        11.9
?ARTICM7AXON 3=  (P!YN)
=rA,L                               36.7        35.3       34.6            40.7       36.9        37.1
34.2        49.5      4S.6            49.9       52.4        464.
FAL                                  0.0        21.6       20.8            31.0       18.0        20.4
- Oc0IC 089  DEZlcT 2S0                1.2          L.3       1.1             1.1        1.2         1.4
2(coNRz DISTI1UTIXTOI
MMCW1? or 7VAT  -7C0m
REC'IV7D ST
uCUST 5   ? i    OfROp SMOLS        ..        33.7/h      ..             14.9         ..        15.'
3503s  20 ?eM33i? Or !      L0      .,         52.0        ..           468           ..        .S.2
LOWUT 20 ?1C3S:  7 MoutO     S      ..         6.8        ..              6.2         ..         6.3
IQwET 40 PtT 07 E0W8LDS             ..          7.37h      ..            16.8          -        16.3
?ovlTT -A.l    OZIOP
Z3tSTIATED ASSO   .'eRtT  SCC
LEVEL (US0 ?1 CAPITA)
SN                                  ..          ..      221.0           193.1       99.2       :41.3
?.AL                                *-*-                130.0           128.7       78.9       136.6
ES?O2IATZSD R.4T?V  POUTY 3CM
LEVEL (055 P? CAPtTA)
UXZN                                ..          ..    145.0             136.J       91.9       179.7
RU-AL                                                   98.0             96.8       54.S       103.7
-5 .LA7ED ?O  4120M 3110W A8SOLt
MOV:-Y _-NCOMM ' V (PM?!1
wvRBA"i                            ..           ..      9 .3            '2 . J     *4 . L       _. 3
IL                                              . .     65 s             c j        !3.',
45                -
'lot apoJic"aoi.
/a    rhe adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric zeans, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless othervise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year betwven 1959 and 1961;  for 1970, between 1969 and i971;
and for Most lacent Estimate, between 1974 and 1980. Poverty levels are estimated 1980 levels at 1980 pcrces.
/c    Eat A4ia S 'acific; /d Low Income ($280 or less per capita 1976); /o Lover .iiddle Income ($281-550 per zapita.
1976); /f 1961-63; 7j 1962 /h bncome r*cipients.
Most Recent  Satimct  of UNi? per capita and population is for 1978.
Deceber 31. 19-9



-24 -                                                                  ANMIE  I
Page 3 of' 5 pages
Moe  ihahtOe dot. If. dr.e  The  6oute  g UeSll  loadi   the seet .thovitchive  A.  elis ,It  b-ld else be note  th.t theY -W nt be imtn--
1T~.g  ogrh. bet-.  of the 1.k4 If et.md.sdi.ed drfind is..i aed I.eptc s uaxd by differ0itt OOcm1trise in -om-IMot    the data. Th. dotse.,setio,
..o ftj to d ...riho ord.rs If -V~It.d., loiastrs, s-J.motfa    eroa  n                             dirffe,. OSt-s    05tri.0..
~L~~Itld  P    -r4j,for each lodiontor sos pealati  -eighted &wwmtrio.es    ndd    the .st-   -Closs O.f the LdodiOtor ad the enet pphl.-td
W.to teh -    Oa.   Iopee,g           f all, inlot , o  CsPitol dcssd,u  Oil kpeters and of Idioator   of 00.50  to Oct.r sod Mr.t.
O0.pos.lI, 01000±0, Ioora Di.tribution en  Po-rety fo- other 0010,7 sr."  se  PnpsaltIOO-0ht5d gemtrio   s..  thoot                         I. euis. of the sotr_  0014. .00
the mast PoPolatrd b_ntry   gio.S     the  -o,.   fcot,i.s   e    h  idctr  ?sia. PenM colai It                       f datat W.  is   ftuIt.,tito              t he sne.ietd
to  -elAtiog en..   f In, Ind'       tr  osotel,s   vns   r    t                                           0MIWt0F& t V                Vh"a-vdO. 0POr
ihdicat;r Id   tiessan   the boahtry enda             m?Ooe £ 905.
LAND ARFIA (th-  -od sqm. Y.;                                                               does. tO         cine.   sreto o.lto1-tt]    o..sdn.
T~t      CotT.)..of.. n-e  o0.Mri.IAS isd   -re  sA itoed  -oter..                           MIeNr 0    M NIV0000,  ob.   n   u..   e7dh    ee.dsoel
&~iusi-0.0 r__ct _etisat. of qtri~t_ult l  _ee  ..O  t.Wrwily                       p-vt.g. of their r-peotit PnPo.itiboe.  E.ort. di.,.,.,  W imlod.
orye_etll' to, t,oqu, P.00t..,  -crit sod kitOhe  goods. or to                           the    leos  sOd di.pas.i, ottb or cithol  tretOSt, of 0t-  ourrto
lie  7 eLI,-.                                                                             sod  tost-eater by .ster-hr.-  xystee   or the us  of pit prIvte   s.  s.-olr
TiIL.t 'hilyiii     -ovroogthod - orld,1  lek Atla  (19176-8 hel);bshool atubeit inl
i96o, 1970, 5001i978 data.                                                                               r!El    Pr!   - fPV.l.tit   dittded by  o.6.r of Dretitine eel,
2E2IYZ Csenut'T'i    PER CAPITA -00.1 cOsoOtis of  -eeln   --ac                              Pou.icio   ge  est... B , ,- tt.]. ,-S.., rMte -  Popeltt.toa.se,
r.   .   ipt,Ptrlt,oturl  es nod bydro-, u.on.  so  CS..                               P-Iti.r~,  010.  b   hi  rsetienor  fheptlbdseelihe
Oheree  cicoriolty  ,o olops.s of .ool oqolelet pee 0p1t.; 1960,                      m      .)dA ao
1970, sod 1976 dct..                                                                        pObio .0d priest. geerl so  epetoilioedhboetpitcl end reh.ilit.tioe  ocIe. e
H..pit.l.e IIe  etshli.~tt5m  psretly  *tf f   by at least tee ohy si-in
POPU7.ATIOR AND VCTAL STATISTICS                                                              t.a1oesp-oidjee P,ihoip..y oustoddo] ta.  -o  not  -Inlded  R ~rt
Ctl.aWnmla.tioe. mid-Yos  (o.1l,li...  - t  of July 1;1960, 1,97t, sod                       hoepitele, bcvec, ittlod    h.e,lth sod Cedhol  -teetr. hoct pt.eetLy' et.rffd
f97dito.                                                                                  by I phy.hi.tm  (but by . -a.dle,   Oitt,to, aldef., etc..  "whi o fOrr
tlrhanPnpultiOe   per t. of totol) - Otio of -b0.  to tot.l yP.datLod;                 e-pothet  -nodtioe  sod P-lid. a hidted rsoge of f.dholf-ilitoee
Oltf r _t de t_c s  of _orb   crs  -W tf."t bp..sobil,ty of dab.                        Ad"I. sWSOIo.pp93.     70,,cukro  tdolseOee t  0r di csi.fr-n
-an   ooutri..; 1960, 1977, so1 1975 dtOn.                                                                        th  Io.. f bsdo.
70DI49Jo.. PalJtti...
?I.It~2  1.    _ 20)- Corr-t Popo.Itioe pro) sti..o Irs hbsed 0 
7byI Pop.illt).1cby  40 d0 ceos4 their ecrt.Lity sod fertlity                  AegeSoofdseid(eesprhueol)-ot.  10                                         edrra-
rtc.Ooetiocpssetrefr  otoJIty rat..  Iois                 f ter.,                  foshl  ocssso      ro    f nltoede00sor   iiglotr 
100-15.0eO       liT. eovevt-oy et hint iocr.osisg 00th I try.                          tho.i  fIn  -.0±0   A boarder or 10dge, -cY or  WyOc hetb  I.0010d   L. tho
pe, o.Pit   ico.1 1, sod f-.1. lif  . cpstanoy stobbltahi   It                          hooisehid for etIti.tto.-pross
77.5 Yon.. . he pers       ..tor r fo, !rlity rote alc  -s  tne level.               Alrer.   o0?o   osn"                on-ttl.ob.  o   lrl-dsee0.c
essuing d,01100 Ln f-rtility socordiog to  mr-  leve  WApd           0P pesnP,rouitra,ae   srloouidtcctb n.l.Ocloo
7 sily olsoehod porftoa-.. te-h 00-t,y 1. thee eseigeed o.* of the..                    r-peoth-ly.  DesIlligs eooluds ooa.-peo           t stroot-.c  ad -..ot -o 'oItrt
tics ooe_innt,0   of  -utLity sod  or-ility treed, for pv-letto-                     Access to1 qEltteMlty  (percet o    sloa)- total.  -b-hsn  Iod rota                 .7r 
SttoayP-P.,-..               tioncy popt.ti.ti   then Le 00 possI                   total, orb., sod rod  dsLliog   -epeotIrely.
.ite tho birth rate is eqa L00 the death rct., .5d ale  the ag.
_tioOOr.ei.. oonstst. T010 tO hsot-ve   0.1.' Ift-, Tcvtilityret.s           ELO0ZTION
00110to the r.plns.to le-e  oft.10t ot reprndstion rats, ohs                      A            -3j 1dto -404t   Ithos
_tIco geraOhon of    o rloc    .Itlf exacly.  The .ttioeary Powe-                                                 clsdfee    - Crce tota, sot. ed r.-i. on-cit
1.th0cc   o  vosCOo  th. oas  Isf the projot.d oh.rnte,sI t.bet  fal,ae aI.Y1.tt. th-rrylvl     p.cteetgee of r-petti- prisoy
ofte  oolto  0000yst20,ad the rec Pf decline of f.rtility                                echool-so   poeJboootoell  includs thildr.  aged  o-i yce,  o
rtcht   Lcseeo  icoi.y                                                                  sijootedgfo  diff.ro,-  lengths of pri-sy tdUtaObo;  or.  --t00r Ot
Ocar attlcearjOooclo ion1  rccohe   - The joe, oe  stati .. sy peio?ltice           -sivr.oi  Wd.oati.e ectoflet saY eo..d 100 pecoect 0oeorn  up
Pozo.Ictloe leolsity                                                 0.0000007~~~~~~~~--d     .ohOoi o oa.sl.sdf.l   Coottd  -   U-..o.cooO
- OI.     ld-yes  poplation per squar  kiloaste  (100 Oset-re) of                     cdusatin rsqutiRe  at.tNt Yfour!Wse   f anP-od pri.cry  fl-Fotlof..
tots] ot. 001                                                                                           gesr   7 noaioeal, or tenhrte.o    otutoofrppl
ocrto    Igrtoo.lt-IJ,lan   . Cepted s- shov  for .g,toult-rl mOd                       usuLly of 12 t  17      Ior f age; oorr..pceooc l4 eoe    c-et.liY
only.                                                              eoolu~~~~~~~~~- dsd.
FoultotM   otur-.  corteot) - Child-e (0-i4 ye-'), ouctig-sqm                       Votiocal -eoIa t Iprct ofotoey       osbce1:s.o.n    tlO
t5ooyers,  odrord  65Yos."-  sod ..ve) as Percetages of eiidy-ys                   t.0h.i-.1  -o tris,ortbrpor.ohtoert    dpeOtioro
pop,iltioe      0   91970, sd1977  tSn.                                                     depIrt_ests of s.oon _ar   n.Itit.tOn.
Foultongroh tite,  pcrtont- total - Ooe.U Orooth retes of tot,U aId-                    F.i.stl-tshO,rai-  rsy odeoTef- I                    totl e ot    -ftILfId it
jeer poal.tioo   to, 150.-tO,19C0-7, -   i9PO-77.ris s4   todritt   0000y fot rs of to rfir
youoitrtnhRO.t.       cet   -borSo - A0000,1 g,och retes of -bth..eodg  ec.
poultlt   Lo 190.,0 9, 5~t  too 1970-75.                                               Adgt4i.-4tq       -t,.Iylryvot) -Utodto  cduits  able t0re.           00Itln
74d. Birth otp.y7-.rthos.led         A -600..I 1100 births Per thoussd of .d-                 t5~iiaitoi7                i   PopuLa.tit aged 1.5 yost  sod0cr
YesrPoPoL.iattoo7I097T970  sod 1977dt..
_.0d, Death Rtot   oc.r th--so)  _ Oz.1 .dteche  wer 0000500d It oi.-r.-                COetbMflItO
po9~1a0lo: 160,  970, so-d1977 Osta..Posa,Cr    c  ttttoad                                                                tio.l.t1   -ssegreeoprisc   nt-r otr.
1,0   etdoOit I=  eAoev0.,   f0UgtoooSL01   c.                                        seting Cose tha  eiht Oret;cchd..h-..lsosbon. sod -1itary
,o her flra. r-LoprtOooti - p-rood if checopericoc   pror  age.                               il.
ep_orfoc fert ility rete-,  -eosly ti-vy-c  oorseecdiog 10 1960,                       .040-ciesle   huad oooitioc(  - A11 type  of ret  "rr  fr di,
1970. _od 19%                                                                               _cdasso0orc,   ulcprhoen ofcoite   otom   01050
F-milY Pl.0010   - Atocettr-  Aorsl 1th-usd.)  A-00..I custer of                            reoireco           trics  000 10 Y-st  00.0 restrtict of rs            s,ote  08i
tooeptor. of bioth-toot-1 d-icc.  0dcr au$05ofntional Tstlffect; data for reoent year  -eY tof he cep-.rbl. litr   .'   000t                                           0
ploctoo   pgr-os.                                                                         ehoilotd licce- g.
Family Fleosins    Jeore  ocroect o  tarried sose)- Pbr-eetago of   ,ind    TV;~ Poocnor  (nor 00.th- 0 douat             TVO  -i--to    for broed  -a  todtt.
otofttdhbei.   g   1-4ls.   b   e                  -hi -b-trontt   etosjbltprtos A-pt-iso.ccldes ti-.iinsdfC  rve -re-  -otot,
tosi    riod  -fno  le OsO   0  g-op,                                                 sd  n y-sr  oboe regitr.tion  of TV sets  a  icc  -ft
ofdaoly geea   noetneppt,dfnd   ssper iditil publicotL
I0d.0 of Food    dbt00010  Pt C.pit.  ~1969-71-100) -100d0 of per tCpi                      dootted pri-crily to  -OtodLr  g-raII  tee.  . :t   cocai.e.d ro Or0e1
e,ooos1, prooct,t  0  el  food, ttditi.s. PrIdtottto    ooio     . 00  000           i7 it errr    t  Lest I000 tif..ue--
coo sod .  :0 oslo .r ea  b.eie.  C.-dities  -oe  pri.ry  B000                   71icm 0..1 AttceOsoe ocr Ceeita o-r Yot- hidote03cr f :,0
t.`.  -Odeom-  it--d ;f zg-)0  tibh  -r  ditl. sod ...ntaitu trlect.                      -Id dolts  tho jeer, looloditoodioIn   to Or O-boj Ilcow. to_.0
It.o ..f0  sd fi-  -r  -otlooc.d   Ogr.na-  prt.tOocl   of0h  -tot y                 0010..
i~boed 00  ti-tod.  Otrgg  pdodoe riteb  -sirhts.t
Pe- ospit  I0,0o   at:o(oco f roturII _o)- Coeptod                                    LAoBOR32  FORCE
otogrequtoivt I0 'I? t foo_   ople  coclloie          I 00 . ontvy Pet .,oPit.                  FI7 -c - fo teh0-1000    - f-tctitLIy  btioo   p.roe.. ;ouoo    r
perto.  Ocl.00e  000:0  oopronOtesl  p-td-bi-t,  oporto  ..e.                     -ote d  -soepljyd 0000t -loding h..... -.O, OtodetO    t      f,.. 
ooot.nt:osogco  .0 obOfk.  Not 1.1p01100 occlude soisa  Tod,  -L.d,              :e.tootootriv-tre .000  -Wtlbl..
50.:010  'I0l0    ",Ifod pror.o.... b   d_d <.00....      'l_tr-hotion. OR,oiro-      F,a.ooo oet)_F- Fec   Lab.r  <ro  os.rb.etjge_f 0051lihor for-
ago md_ zoo   ilhtrbuo.on   ,fodu- i:.   r -     ell-t.1 o-% it pretb                   fLgsh,,,jfst      ao   ot   nato,ooOrtto.oofo-.o.   0
toou....   100.crtoiy    c.  00ost   lrotg                                                                                     I tta  -aborfote
lepite tt oop~y  f foot or toy. Oct ooppj, of fOod  -s 0010000                                                                     -detrt   is   o    opue   ottl   ae    ft-lr Licor fCre--  Pe--
atote.Ocqoirootto  or c1  toor:.o e;t bl:tOe   by USDA pro,ido for               octog.  of totaL  salt sd foa.rouIato   fciee   eptio
obtaino.Ibouoce i nO tr.. o  flotnlI orte ip-r dsp  -.  20 oral, of               1z6, 1970, sod 1975 Oat-   Thv...          t'sprooatltrts  ofoto
00:icl 00d 00is  p-oeo,  :ftoh 10 dRIm  ob,oold he .0i0.  prot,tn.                        enctnort-r  of tho ~upolotI.,o, sd lov9  Aletoo                     :,   sae
btcntsodardcur   onr  on  ono  75 dram   of total protcOius                         urn fr       i oio...  coI s
25oro  o   010  P-ittt  -e - _goea    for 00h00-1d. prep ..d 1,y PA0           -oel   eedcY Oct10 -  Rattio If poPtI.it-o  Order 15 cr0 tO  cr000, to,
00 00 TIrd  ori  Fod  .ure.                                                       the    o   oreItg  group of  5-I4 yes.-
70110  tics 1--totality  tato   ct 00.000.00 k-1toa  deaths por Othonnod     P.       lFiat   L                 toc   on  00  5.  sOd k100   - OcOloeby riolost
.010dro   --yt.  to00010o   hio ,                080  for 000201-5prs,  rloht b-20portent, poorest 20 perosct, and poonl4   otn
I~tflP 0000, Ore Ota Orrl P; frm  1fetbio                                         o   oooOl
104170                                                            82000CC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ....I h10d07
£000 tcoy t  tOtS  y.roI .  ,0,00  .100,01feor  of<Jo             stlnte TAbGsolRotePuoro00,2:1.0   c   ail.ob.cori
5.~~tr  f oge per toloosod tote O-trodo-                                      efOObR.1
Itoov  .  :ote:fln.    01, noo  ttr.1 oto ....h..coen  0f 001   hleio   otetytoca  lv -iIc00-01,  oftorae  er:0.0
iooonosaooono  Inte  0000 no  oot f,ooooOvctno  Orehole:,  p-ote          itth solt.nt  fo.trr higher loot oflt-ow  L. irho  Mra.-
tslnltnoO  oct10.no oOrOctsgeo oftOeIorescoti.toPItcboO              SoolsoOco  PIoato   000AbecOr    trt   003   001prOrO - "tatso
soori aeept I  fots71I  tadpe  boednot-rdpooroil.Ftrotf  oolt-n :05  sdrot I...                                                                        teloi  po
200 soere  fOtnooie Os  It 0t0100r00s  slog                                      _ttto  rotoeObl,
001cc  f  0000000.00  orl ,oooresonbl        Itos  010  ol
Otto. h  00000fe  ,001-rIIf  10  cunflodo -tot tac  topod                                                           Rowso  00bra   tt  >0,
b.1d 1. 1.1 h.- 1.                                                     -d~~~~~~~~~~~ooue 19791



- 25 -
AN,E' *
Page 4 o' 5 pages
ECOMIZ 'NDICA-ORS
CP.OSS NAI'ONAL ?RODUCT !N '978 Ia                   AiTlItALIL RATr OF GROWR (r'  constant orices)
USS Mm      ,         1960-65           1065-70           1971-7R
GNP at Market Prices            47,461  100.0          1.9                4.9               7.8
Gross Domestic Lnvestmenc    10,022   21.1             3.3               11.5              14.7
Gross National Saving            9,233   19.5          5.8                5.1              12.0
Current Account Balance         -1.155   -2.4
£xports of Goods, NFS           10,278   21.7          1.5                7.8               8.9
Imports of Goods, NFS            9,144   19.3          n.2               10.9              17.9
O=Ptr. LA3OR 7ORC_ AND
PROD;v: Lt=-Y " '976
Value Added       Labor Force /b    7 A- Per Worker
CSS MIn    '          Mln      I            USS      7
Agriculture                     11,624   31.1       35.3    62.6           329    49.7
Industrv                        12,672   33.9        4.7      8.3        2,696   407.3
Services                        13,043   35.0       13.4    23.8           973   147.0
Unallocated                          -    -          3.0      5.3
Total/Average                37.339  100.0       56.4   100.0           662   100.0
CENGRAL CCV ?"N51EN
(Ro billion)                              ' of GDP
1977/78   1978/79                          1977    1Q78
Current Receipts                  3,535      4,266                         18.9    19.6
Current Expenditure               2.149      2,744                         11.5    12.6
Current Surplus                   1,386      1,522                          7.4      7.0
Capital Expenditures              2,157      2,556                         11.5    11.7
External Assisrance (net)           738        987                          3.9      4.5
MONE, CREDIT and FKICES
!972    1973    1974    1975    197t         976    1978
(Million lp outstandi±n  end per=od)
Money and ouasi Money                    695      987   1,452   1.978   2,631   3,131  3,8n9
Bank Credit to Public Sector             129      153     209      990   1,051       883  1,_42
Bank Credit to Private Sector            524     932   1,186   1,376   1.737   2.017  2,605
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as 1 of GDP   15.2    14.6    13.5    15.6    17.0    16.7   17.5
General Price Index (1971 - 100)         106      139     196      234      280      311    336
Annual percertage changes in:
General Price Index                      6.4    31.1    41.0    19.6    19.7    11.0    8.1
Bank Credit to Public Sector          -14.0    16.6    36.6   373.7         6.2   -16.0   63.3
lank Credit to Private Sector          65.3    77.9    27.2    16.0    26.2    16.1   29.2
lNote:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
la  Exchange rate of Rp 415 - 0SS1 up to November 14, 1978, Rp 625 - OSSI, thereafter.
b  Total labor force; unemploved are allocated to sector of their normal occunatton.
"Unallocsted" consists wainlv of unemoloyed workers seeking their first job.
Not applicable
East Asia & Pac:fic lrozrans
January 20. 190o



-  26
Page S of 5 pSee
.ED  ?AY 177 S AND CA?77A1  7=37S
3ALASNC  OF ?AVE-NTS                          1976      1977     1978        iCFr2NDISE   -rR-S
(Average 1975-7a)             USS Mlnm 
1.  Exports:                               6.573    7,952    7,989
(a)  Oil asd '-'IC (net)            3,710    4,445    4,010          Oil, and LING (nec)              4,053        54.1
(b)  Noncil                         2,863    3,507    3, 979         :.'=ber                             986       13.1
2.  Irports (intcl. nor '.7M)             -6,557   - ,777  -8,129           Rubber                              653        S.7
(a)  Icports                       -6,167   -7,241  -7,543           Coffee                              488        6.5
(b)  NFS (nec)                       -490      -536       586        ?al: Oil                            190        2.5
3.  Resource balauce                          -84       175    -140         Tin                                 253        3.4
-   7accor services                          -718     -865  -1,015          Manufactures                        261        3.3
(a)  Interest pubilc debc /a    -314           -436      -499        All rthers                          619        8.2
(b)  Other (net)                     -404      -429     -;16
5.  3alance on current account              -802    -690  -1,155                  To-al                      7.505      170.3
6.  Direct foreign iavestrent                 287      285       271
7.  Capital grants                            100      100       100
d.  Public M 6 L. loan  'a                                                 t1TrT9AL DEST - 'tece=r 31. 1998
(a)  Disbursemaent                  2,334    1,955    1,627                                              Qiswjrsed   -.d1b rsec
(b)  Amortization                    -457      -825     -969                                                     -SS =ri_cc          - -
(c)  !Net 4isbursements             1,897    1,130        658
3.   Jti'-er cap;cal (net)                   -481    -174        834        Total  xternal Public Debt            12,983        5, 794     13,'
10.  Change 'r reserves
(- increase)                       -1,001      -651     -708
1-.  77ec official reserves                  1,557    2,208    2,916         DEST SEVTCR'E   A7                             1976      1977    'O7-
8eservea tn nontths of L=pOrts +  1N5S         2.8       3.4      4.3        PubLtc debt service as : of erpor:s    [1.7              15.9      18.-
DA7I 07 -'C.:ANGE                                                            I'3RD/IDA  _"D'G  rFebr ara   29. '983) 'fOSS -1--
Augusc 197l thrcueq 'Tovenber 14. 1978
Outstanding & Disbursed                            S09.-86      524.--
US51.00  -  Rp, 415                                                     Undisbursed                                       1,765.14      290.35
RD 1,000 -  USS2.41                                                     Ouctsanding  ncl. Thndisbursed                    2,575.00      314.o0
z-=c ':cvember '1, 1973
:;5;.00  -  R.p 625
1R! O -  *SS1.60
'a  Sased sn :3RD external debt data.
Ease Asia and Pacific ?rzgrams
March 21, 1980



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 24 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP.OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of February 29, 1980)
US$ million
Loan!                                                              Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                              (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                       Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
Two Loans and twenty-three Credits fully disbursed        98.00  313.10        -
259     1971   Tea                                               15.00        0.40
300     1972   Population                                        13.20        1.96
318     1972   Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation                  8.50        0.27
319     1972   Fourth Agricultural Estates                       11.00        1.85
355     1973   Beef Cattle Development                            3.60        0.02
358     1973   North Sumatra Smallholder Development              5.00        0.80
387     1973   Third Education                                   13.50        4.25
399     1973   West Java Thermal Power                           46.00        3.04
400     1973   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea                 7.80        5.38
405     1973   Sugar Industry Rehabilitation                     50.00        0.47
428     1974   Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate                     16.50        9.20
451     1974   Fourth Technical Assistance           ,            5.00        1.34
479     1974   Bali Tourisn                                      16.00        8.08
480     1974   Fisheries Credit                                   6.50        1.41
514     1975   Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension                    30.00       19.09
785     1978   Small Enterprise Development Project              40.00       20.85
827     1978   Rural Credit                                      30.00       29.45
869     1979   Polytechnic                                       49.00       48.42
898     1979   Fifth Technical Assistance                        10.00        9.97
919     1979   Transmigration II                                 67.00       67.00
946     1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                      12.00       12.00
984     1980   Smallholder Rubber Development/a
Project                                          45.00       45.00
1040     1975   Jakarta Urban Development                25.00                 1.78
1049     1975   Five Cities Water Supply                  14.50                4.60
1089     1975   Second Fertilizer Expansion             115.00                0.08
1100     1975   Sixth Irrigation                         65.00               40.67
1127     1975   Fourth Power                             41.00                 2.02
1139     1976   Fertilizer Distribution                  68.00                0.83
1179     1976   Agricultural Research & Extension        21.50                15.30
1197     1976   National Resource Survey & Mapping        13.00                7.24
1236     1976   Fourth Highway                           130.00              86.31
/a Not yet effective.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 24 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
1237    1976   Fourth Education                           37.00                28.28
1250    1976   Second Shipping                            54.00                36.04
1254    1976   Third Fertilizer Expansion                 70.00                 7.71
1259    1976   Fifth Power                                90.00                42.72
1267    1976   National Food Crops Extension              22.00                11.41
1268    1976   Seventh Irrigation                         33.00                17.29
1318    1977   Transmigration and Rural Develpment    30.00                    19.23
1336    1977   Second Urban Development                   52.50                13.11
1337    1977   Tanjung Priok Port                         32.00                19.12
1363    1977   Second Private Development Finance
Co. of Indonesia (PDFCI-II)             15.00                 6.48
1365    1977   Sixth Power                               116.00                61.72
1373    1977   Nutrition Development                      13.00                11.81
1433    1977   Teacher Training-Fifth Education           19.00                16.20
1434    1977   Eighth Irrigation                          63.00                55.92
1435    1977   Ninth Irrigation                           35.00                26.48
1437    1977   Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO I1I)  40.00                    10.74
1472    1977   Second Population                          24.50                21.14
1486    1978   Non-Formal Education                       15.00                12.29
1499    1978   Nucleus Estates and-Smallholders I         65.00                55.00
1513    1978   Seventh Power                             109.00               104.98
S009    1978   Bukit Asam Coal Mining and
Transport Engineering                   10.00                 3.85
1578    1978   Tenth Irrigation                          140.00               134.57
1579    1988   Eleventh Irrigationi                       31.00                27.38
1604    1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders II    65.00                    64.72
1645    1979   Twelfth Irrigation                         77.00                74.01
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                    54.00                54.00
1691    1979   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control          50.00                49.74
(Thirteenth Irrigation)
1692    1979   Second Agricultural Training               42.00                41.50
1696    1979   Fifth Highway                             130.00               128.97
1703    1979   Fourth BAPINDO                             50.00                50.00
1707    1979   Transmigration II                          90.00                90.00
1708    1979   Eighth Power                              175.00               175.00
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                        36.00                36.00
1751    1980   Nucleus Estates and
Smallholders III                        99.00                98.88



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 24 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                               Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                               (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
Total                                         2.S75.00  814.80   2,055.39
of which has been repaid                       37.13    0.41
Total now outstanding                         2,537.87  814.39
Amount sold                            28.24               0.00
of which has been repaid           -14.77      13.47
Total now held by Bank and IDA /              2,524.40  814.39
Total undisbursed                             1,765.14  290.25   2,055.39
/a Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 24 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of February 29, 1980)
Fiscal                                Type of            Loan    Equity    Total
year          Obligor               business            --- (US$ million) ----
1971   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement              10.6       2.5       13.1
1971   P.T. Unitex                  Textiles             2.5       0.8        3.3
1971   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles               2.0       0.5        2.5
1971   P.T. Kabel Indonesia         Cable                2.8       0.4        3.2
1972   P.-T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles            4.5       1.5        6.0
1973   P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism               11.0         -       11.0
1973   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement               5.4       0.7        6.1
1974   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles               2.0       0.3        2.3
1974   P.T. Monsanto Pan            Electronics          0.9         -        0.9
1974   P.T. PDFCI                   Devel. Fin. Co.        -       0.5        0.5
1974   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles             2.4       0.6        3.0
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement               5.0       1.5        6.5
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement                 -       1.1        1.1
1977   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles            0.3         -        0.3
1977   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles             1.4       0.1        1.5
1979   P.T. Daralon                 Textiles             0.9         -        0.9
Total                                               51.7      10.5       62.2
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                 33.4       2.1       35.5
Total held by IFC                                   18.3       8.4       26.7
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)          -         -          -



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 24 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Page No.
Agriculture
Irrigation (Cr. 514, Ln. 1100, 1268, 1434, 1435, 1578,                     6-7
1579, 1645 and 1691)
Other Agriculture Production (Cr. 259, 319, 355, 358, 400,                 8-10
405, 480,
Ln. 1318, 1499, 1604, 1707                10-11
and 1751)
Agriculture Support Services (Ln. 1179 and 1267)                          11-12
Rural Development (Cr. 946)                                                12
Agro-Business and Credit (Cr. 785 and 827)                                    12
Education (Cr. 387, 869, Ln. 1237, 1433, 1486 and 1692)                      13-14
Energy (Cr. 399, 1127, 1259, 1365, 1513 and 1708)                            15-16
Industrial Development and Finance
Fertilizer Production (Ln. 1089 and 1254)                                  16
Industrial Estates (Cr. 428)                                               17
Development Finance Companies (Ln. 1363, 1437 and 1703)                     17
Coal Mining (Ln. S-9)                                                      18
Population and Nutrition
Population (Cr. 300 and Ln. 1472)                                          18
Nutrition (Ln. 1373)                                                       19
Technical Assistance (Cr. 451, 898 and Ln. 1197)                            19-20
Transportation
Fertilizer Distribution (Ln. 1139)                                         20
Highways (Ln. 1236 and 1696)                                              20-21
Marine Transport (Ln. 1250)                                                21
Ports (Ln. 1337)                                                           22
Tourism (Cr. 479)                                                            22
Urban Development (Ln. 1040, 1336 and 1653)                                  23
Water Supply (Ln. 1049 and 1709)                                             24
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.-



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 24 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Credit No. 514 Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension: US$30 Million Credit of
October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Initial organizational difficulties and late awarding of the first
construction contract have caused a delay of about 2 years in the project
schedule. The first construction activity started in February 1977 and
contracts for over 70% of the project works have been let. Based on bid
prices for the first contract and revised quantity estimates on the basis of
detailed design, total project cost is now estimated to be about 140% over
the appraisal estimate and the project is currently expected to be completed
by December 1982.
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  US$65 Million Loan of April 10, 1975;
Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Good progress has been made on the rehabilitation works, but con-
struction of new works is behind schedule because of delays in preparing
contract documents. The two largest contracts have still not been let.
Substantial cost overruns are anticipated due to unavoidable major changes
in the design of the Sampean Baru dam and unit price increases in other
components. These will be verified as bids are received for the major
contracts.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation:  US$33 Million Loan of June 4. 1976;
Effective Date: September 21. 1976; Closing Date:
December 31. 1981.
Construction is underway in the North Sadang and tertiary develop-
ment areas, and studies being funded under the project are expected to be
completed shortly. The mapping progam is progressing satisfactorily.
Disbursements are ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation:  US$63 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
The project is being implemented satisfactorily, although disburse-
ments are currently about 80% behind the appraisal estimate largely due to



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 24 pages
delays in the Madiun rehabilitation and Ciujung drainage components, 'and
partly due to late payment to contractors. Disbursements are eKpected to
improve in succeeding semesters because of increased activity in these
components.
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation:  US$35 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date:  July 7, 1977; Closing Date:  December 31,
1981.
While delays have arisen due to inadequate mapping in the Sungai
Dareh-Sitiung area, the project is ahead of schedule and progressing
satisfactorily. Disbursements are ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1578   Tenth Irrigation:  US$140 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
Delay in implementation of the project components is about 12
months. Some delays have occurred in awarding contracts and the construction
program will have to be accelerated to achieve the completion target. Pro-
gress of studies of dams and irrigation subprojects is behind schedule due
to the late awarding of contracts for aerial mapping for the Kali Progo, Way
Seputih and Way Sekampung areas. Progress on studies at Dumoga and Gumbasa
has been satisfactory. The staff of the PIBD, the Executive Body for Major
Irrigation Projects with World Bank Assistance, will have to-be strengthened
in order to cope with the increased construction program from FY80/81 onwards.
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation:  US$31 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
A smooth start has been made on some components but two components
are behind schedule due to unforeseen technical problems and delays in
drawing up tender documents.
Loan No. 1645   Twelfth Irrigation:  USS77 Million Loan of December 29, 1978.
Effective Date: May 10, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
Consultant contracts are being finalized and a smooth start to
project implementation is being made.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 24 pages
Loan No. 1691   Lower Cimanuk Bas.in Flood Control:  US$51 Million Loan of
May 7, 1979; Effective Date: October 16, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31. 1984.
This loan became effecttive last October and the initial progress is
satisfactory.
Other Agriculture Production
Credit No. 259 Tea: US$15 Million Credit of June 24, 1971; Effective
Date: September 17, 1971; Closing Date: August 31, 1980.
Nearly all the targets set at appraisal have been achieved one year
ahead of project completion, but factory capacity still has to be expanded
to take account of the increased production which exceeds appraisal estimates
by about 6,000 tons, or 30%. Financial, technical and managerial performance
has been excellent. Inflation and additional construction and equipment
costs increased project costs by aLbout 17% above appraisal estimate, but the
economic rate of return is good ard is expected to be over 20%.  The closing
date has been extended to August 31, 1980, in order to make payment for goods
ordered but not delivered by the previous closing date.
Credit No. 319 Fourth Agricultural Estates: US$11 Million Credit of
June 28. 1972: Effective Date: January 30, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The planting program was completed in 1976 at 6,924 ha of rubber
and 5,052 ha of oil palm. By 1981 all areas should be mature and construction
completed at the Bekri Mill, Panjang bulk installation and Way Berulu crumb
rubber factory. Rubber production for 1978 was 10,986 tons (3% above target)
and oil palm was 29,159 tons (35% below target). The drought of 1976/77 and
a severe caterpillar attack in 1977 contributed to this drop.
Credit No. 355 Beef Cattle Development: US$3.6 Million Credit of
January 31, 1973; Effective Date: May 30, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980.
The PT Bina Mulya Ternak Corporation (PTBMT) is now managed by
Indonesian staff with satisfactory technical capability.  Development of ranch
infrastructure and fencing has been completed, but pastures on both Sulawesi
ranches remain understocked. Fertility levels of cattle are low and as yet no
satisfactory solution has been found to improve the situation. A three-year
pasture and grazing research program with Australian bilateral assistance
started in early 1979 and it is expected that, inter alia, the cause for low
fertility may also be determined in 1980 or 1981. Purchases of domestic stock
in 1979 enabled PTBMT to partially utilize its surplus grazing capacity and
improve its finances. The budget for 1980 has been approved and sufficient
funds are available to meet investment and operating expenditures in 1980 and
up to project completion, about mid-1980. The recording system in PTBMT is
satisfactory; there are no specific disbursement problems.



- 35 -
ANNEv ITI
Page 9 of 24 pages
Credit NTo. 358  North Sumatra Smallholder Development:  TTSS5 Million Credit
of February 14. 1973; Effective Date:  August 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The 9,000 ha planting program under the project is now completed.
Rubber and oil palm continue to show very satisfactory growth with the
1974/75 plantings of rubber and oil palm coming into production. Control of
weeding and general maintenance standards will require close supervision up
to 1982/83 when all plantings reach maturity.
Credit No. 400 Smallholder and Private Estate Tea: USS7.8 Million Credit
of June 22, 1973; Effective Date:  November 30, 1973;
Closing Date March 31, 1982
The project provides credit through Bank Rakyat Indonesia and
extension advice through a Project Management Unit for improvement of
Indonesian smallholder and private estate tea.  Of 13,200 ha, 60% was to be
rehabilitated and 40% replanted. Participants have preferred more costly
replanting and the objective has therefore been changed to 10,500 ha, and
the proportions reversed. Production will not be adversely affected since
replanting yields are higher. Costs are now estimated to exceed appraisal
estimates by about 60% since replanting is more expensive and costs have
risen sharply because of inflation. Disbursements are behind appraisal
estimates for the same reasons.  The project has made a significant impact
on the private sector of the Indonesian tea industry.  The project training
program is especially noteworthy having now involved more than 9,000
smallholders through practical village training schemes.
Credit No. 405 Sugar Industry Pehabilitation: IJS$50 Million Credit of
June 26, 1973; Effective Date: April 22, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The two rehabilitated factories and the one newly constructed are
operating satisfactorily, except for problems with instru-mentation and
shortage of spares, which are being tackled. Cane areas have been expanded,
but field development to increase yield and sugar content, particularly on
factory rented cane land, has not received sufficient attention.  Although
cane farmers' yields come close to appraisal forecasts, further improvements
are possible. Largely due to uneven supply and poor quality of cane, finan-
cial results of PTP XV and PTP XXI/XXII are poor, though the latter is
improving. The solution is to improve cane productivity and quality and total
factory cane supply and to implement a cost reduction program, including
amalgamation of uneconomic units. The Government is encouraging a switch to
farmers' cane on a much greater scale than foreseen at appraisal, with
consequent dislocation of cane supply. Sugar is a favorable smallholder crop
in rainfed and less well irrigated land, especially in East Java, but inten-
sive research on rainfed cane varieties, intercropping and upland soil



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 24 pages
fertility is needed to encourage farmer interest and maintain cane supply.
The Pasuruan Sugar Experiment Station has been slow to carry out this
research.
Credit No. 480 Fisheries Credit: US$6.5 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: January 8, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1980
Initial delays have put the project about 18 months behind schedule.
The marinre fishing complex at Ambon is completed, making a promising start
with twenty fishing boats operating, ten by the Government's skipjack tuna
enterprise and ten by a cooperative; two 100 gross ton catcher/carriers have
been ordered.  The quality of fislhpond lending by Bank Rakyat Indonesia
suffered early deficiencies, but is now completed; results are patchy and
arrears excessive in some areas.  Coverage is much less than appraisal fore-
cast (31% of farmers, 60% of area) and details not yet available, but infla-
tion and the inability of smaller owners to participate are probablv the
reasons.
Loan No. 1318   Transmigration and Rural Development:  US$30 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Settlement and construction are lagging about a year behind
appraisal estimates, partly because of the initial delay in project effec-
tiveness and weak project organization and management. Nonetheless, 1,300
migrant families have been settled at Baturaja and are successfully growing
food crops. Initial incomes are satisfactory in spite of inadequate
fertilizer supplies and poor seed supply, although one third to one half
originates from construction and rubber planting.  These incomes are sub-
stantially above incomes the transmigrants received in Java. As evidence
of the relative attraction of the Baturaja community, 485 spontaneous
settlers have already been attracl:ed to the site.  In the existing settled
area at Way Abung, there has been little improvement in incomes because
fertilizers are not available on site and delayed road construction limits
marketing of cash crops.  Experience to date highlights the need for
improving project management and (msuring that agricultural support services
and input supply systems are in place as settlement proceeds.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estates and Smallholder I:  US$65 Million Loan
of November 18, 1977; Effective Date: January 2, 1978;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1982
The project's overall physical progress has been generally good
but unequal. While in some areas the planting program substantially exceeded
the target, in others it remained behind schedule, but recently, energetic
measures have been taken to make up for the delays. Housing, roads and
village development is behind schedule but preparations are under way which
should accelerate implementation in the forthcoming months.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 24 pages
Loan No. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder II:  US$65 Million Loan of
July 12. 1978: Effective Date: September 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The planting program is almost on schedule, but housing, roads and
village development is behind. The appointment of new project manager and
support staff from local authorities have helped speed up implementation.
The management of PTP IV, the local authorities and the Directorate General
of Estates have agreed to the Bank's recommendation that preparations for
the construction of settlers' houses should start immediately and that the
upgrading.and staffing of the Sungai Tiga Extension and training Center in
Jambi should be implemented. The preparation of work programs and budgets
for 1980 should be ready on time, in order to avoid delays in budgeting and
releasing of Government funds.
Loan No. 1751   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders III:  US$99 Million
Loan of August 13, 1979: Effective Date: November 12. 1979;
Closing Date: December 31. 1986
This project became effective in November 1979 and initial progress
is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1707   Transmigration II:  US$157 Million Loan and Credit of
(Cr. No. 919)   June 1, 1979: Effective Date:  October 4. 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Some project sites previously identified have been found only par-
tially suitable, and are now being resurveyed. However, final design for
all the project sites are expected to be available by mid-1980 and contracts
let before the end of the year.
Agriculture Support Services
Loan No. 1179   Agricultural Research and Extension I:  US$21.5 Million
Loan of December 19, 1975: Effective Date: February 23,
1976; Closing Date: December 31. 1981
There has been overall progress in all spheres of activities.
Under the Agency for Agricultural Research and Development (AARD) civil work
have been started at Sungei Putih, Sembawa (rubber), Pangragajian, Margahayu,
Baruajak (highland vegetables) and Sukamandi (Phase I, rice and palawija
crops). The research programs are now better defined and more purposeful
and several new varieties are expected to be released shortly. All of the
ten Agricultural Information Centers were inaugurated on September 24, 1979.
Although disbursements are still lagging behind appraisal estimates, they
are expected to pick up shortly.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 24 pages
Loan No. 1267   National Food Crops Extension; USS22 Million Loan of
June 4, 1976: Effective Date: September 21. 1976;
Closing Date: June 30. 1982
Good progress is being made in the field and, despite organiza-
tional difficulties, an effective extension service is being created.
Appointments of extension staff are ahead of schedule and the project
directorate has been strengthened by the appointment of three additional
Assisant Directors. Civil works have been resumed and the training program
has started. Disbursement is lagging in every category due to prefinancing
difficulties and delays in submission of withdrawal applications with support-
ing documentation for equipment and furniture.  The new procedure for pre-
financing outlined by the Finance Ministry last year is expected to help
solve the problem and speed up project implementation and disbursement.
Rural Development
Credit No. 946 Yogyakarta Rura:L Development: US$12 Million Credit of
August 13, 1979; Effective Date: December 5, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31. 1987
This project became effective in December 1979.
AGRO-E,USINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785 Small Enterprise Development: US$40 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Bank Indonesia (BI) is making good progress in revising lending
procedures and establishing new lending approaches to serve the medium-term
credit needs of small entrepreneurs. Training of BI and handling bank staff
is progressing and preparation for studies is on schedule, as is sublending
to small enterprises.
Credit No. 827 Rural Credit: US$30 Million Credit of June 23. 1978;
Effective Date: November 3, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 smallholders,
primarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock, and technical assis-
tance to Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) for program development, training,
credit procedures and accounting and management information systems. Due
primarily to delays in obtaining project consultancy, the project is about
nine months behind schedule.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 24 pages
EDUCATION
Credit No. 387  Third Education:  US$13.5 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: August 29, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31. 1981
The project finances the production and distribution of 138 million
primary school textbooks in four subjects, and related in-service training
for 350,000 primary school teachers and 2,800 supervisory personnel. About
90 million project books have been printed and 3,800 tutors and administra-
tors and about 400,000 teachers (114% of the project target) have received
training nationwide. Despite the remarkable quantitative achievements,
problems of maaagement, distribution, technology and pedagogy make the project
less effective than it could be. The training program, although on schedule
and making good progress, is out of phase with book production, which is
almost one year behind schedule due to delays in paper procurement. Textbooks
and teacher manuals would benefit from better design, organization and illus-
trations, and their content is limited by the national curricula. In response
to Association proposals, the Government has started a major review of the
project to focus on its relation to other ongoing Government textbook programs
and overall future needs for production of instructional materials.
Credit No. 869 Polytechnic: US$49 Million Credit of December 29. 1978;
Ef fective Date:  May 11, 1979; Closing Date:  June 30, 1985
The project is designed to help the Government meet the demand for
engineering technicians and trained accountants. It will introduce a new
system (polytechnics) for training technicians at the diploma level by estab-
lishing a Technician Educatioa Development Center and six polytechnics, four
Accountancy Development Centers, and technical assistance for implementation
and related studies.  The project implementation unit has been established and
staffed, and implementation of the technician components (84% of project cost)
is proceeding on schedule: contracts for architectural and technical
assistaace services have been signed; sites have been acquired; and sketch
plans have been completed. Implementation of the accountancy components (16%
of project cost) of the project is six months behind schedule primarily due to
inadequate coordination and control among the several agencies involved in
implementation.
Loan No. 1237   Fourth Education:  US$37 Million Loan of April 15. 1976;
Effective Date: June 17, 1976: Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Initially, all three subprojects - under the Ministry of Education
(M40E), Ministry of Manpower (MOM), and National Institute of Administration
(LAN) respectively - suffered a ten-month delay due to late signing of the
Funds-in-Trust (FIT) Agreements with the UN Agencies providing technical



- 40 -
ANNELX II
Page 14 of 24 pages
assistance, as well as contracts with the consultant architects. Further
delays have occurred in the tendering and awarding of civil works contracts
for the Manpower and LAN components. Overall, the project is about 1-1/2
years behind schedule. About 80% of civil works, 50% of furniture, and
100% of technical assistance have been contracted. Implementation of the
technical assistance programs of all subprojects is in line with the FIT
Agreements. Overall, the Ministry of Education and LAN components are going
well, but the Ministry of Manpower has had difficulty in managing its
diverse program of establishing 17 training centers. Delayed implem-entation
may require postponement of the Closing Date by about six months.
Loan No. 1433   Teacher Training:  USS19 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project finances the development of primary and secondary
teacher training. The implementation of the project closely follows the
appraisal schedule, with minor delays. The 40 key educators have returned
from a five-month overseas fellowship program and the training of a further
110 educators has been completed. The team has now started training of 7,0Cn0
teachers, the development of learning materials and curricula revisions.
Phase I of a three-phase civil works program is 70% completed and Phase II
will begin shortly.  Minor problems with book and furniture procurement, site
acquisition, and disbursements for civil works are being resolved.
Loan No. 1486   Non-Formal Educal-ion:  TTS815 Million Loan of
September 14, 1977,- Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
The project aims at strengthening the nonformal education programs
of the Department of Education in seven provinces. Overall progress in
project implementation is good. All positions in the project unit are filled
and key staff of the provincial centers have been appointed.  Total delays in
civil works and equipment procurement is now about 10 months. Staff
training, learning materials development, and evaluation activities are
progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1692   Second Agricultural Training:  IJSS42 Mlillion Loan of M1av 7,
1979; Effective Date: July 31, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project constitutes the second phase of the (overnment's long-
term strategy to improve the quality and supply of middle level agricultural
manpower through construction, provision of furniture and eouipment for
agricultural development schools and in-service training centers, and



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 24 pages
technical assistance for improvement of curricula, educational planning, and
evaluation. Implementation is generally on schedule, and no major problems
have been encountered to date.
ENERGY
Credit No. 399 West Java Thermal Power: US$46 Million Credit of June 22,
1973: Effective Date: August 28, 1973: Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Project implementation was initially delayed due to the necessity
of making additional financing arrangements to meet much higher costs of
equipment resulting from rapid inflation in 1974/75. However, implementation
thereafter progressed smoothly. Both 100 MW generating units have been
synchronized with the grid and are now operating satisfactorily. Consultants
are expected to issue final acceptance of the plant shortly to enable dis-
bursements to be completed before the closing date.
Loan No. 1127   Fourth Power:  US$41 Million Loan of June 17, 1975;
Effective Date: October 23. 1975: Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
The third 100 MW unit at Muara Karang was commissioned in August
1979 meeting the appraisal target.  Disbursements are expected to be com-
pleted by mid 1980 as forecast.
Loan No. 1259   Fifth Power:  US$90 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: September 20, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1981
All equipment required for the project has been ordered in three
lots within the cost estimate.  By end 1980 about 90% of the disbursement
would be complete.  However, construction work lags behind schedule.  While
there has been good progress on construction of 20 kV cables, installation
of the associated substations is well behind schedule. This is due to
problems of acquisition of land which the Government has been requested to
assist in solving.
Loan No. 1365   Sixth Power:  US$116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date:  June 6, 1977: Closing Date:  December 31,
1982
Implementation of the project, consisting of 2 x 200 MW steam
generating units at Muara Karang has been retarded, inter-alia, due to a
misalignment in the center line and consequent delays by the consultant in
finding appropirate solutions.  Currently, a delay of about four months is
estimated in the commissioning date for Unit 4 and about 2 months for Unit
5.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 24 pages
Loan No. 1513   Seventh Power:  US$109 Million Loan of February 3, 1978;
Effective Date:  June 30, 1978; Closing Date:  December 31,
1983
All contracts, except for general construction and steel work have
been awarded at highly competitive costs. A reduction in foreign costs of
about US$28.3 million is presently expected. Delays in award of contracts
for civil works caused by introduction of new procedures for such contract
awards by the Government have resulted in a three-month delay in the tight
construction program. It will delay commissioning of the 200 MW generating
set is now expected in August 1982.
Loan No. 1708   Eighth Power:  US$175 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: November 5, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31. 1984
Project implementatioa is on schedule so far. Bids for turbine
generator and auxiliary equipmenit were evaluated and a letter of intent for
the contract was issued in January 1980 as scheduled.  Bids for steam gener-
ator and auxiliary equipnent are under evaluation.
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Fertilizer Production
Loan No. 1089   Second Fertilizer Expansion:  US$115 Million Loan of
February 28, 1975; Effective Date:  April 29, 1975;
Closing Date: August 31, 1980
The project (PUSRI III) was commissioned April 9, 1977, one month
ahead of schedule. During the eight months of operation in 1977, the
project operated at 66% capacity utilization, which increased sharply to
about 92% in 1978 with the overcoming of initial technical problems.
The project is not expected to show a cost overrun.
Loan No. 1254   Third Fertilizer Expansion:  US$70 Million Loan of May 20,
1976; Effective Date:  August 15, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project (PUSRI IV) was commissioned on November 26, 1977,
about four months ahead of schedule. During 1978, PUSRI IV produced nearly
470,000 tons of urea, reflecting a capacity utilization of 83% in the first
year of operation. Some auxiliary facilities are planned to be expanded in
1980. The project is not expected to show a cost overrun.



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 24 pages
LnausLr.ld.a
Credit No. 428 Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate: US$16.5 Million Credit of
September 14, 1973: Effective Date:  November 13. 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate is now scheduled for completion
in 1982. Of 400 ha of raw land now earmaked for acquisition, 331 ha had
been purchased as of early 1979. 127 ha of the 270 ha of developed land
reserved-for factory use has been sold to 107 firms, with full capacity
employment estimated at around 22,000. Slack sales and difficulties in
land acquisition have reduced the amount of land planned for sale from 337 ha
to 270 ha. Operations are profitable with a cash surplus and bank deposits
of Rp 2,389 million over the past three years to the project owners, the
Municipal Government of Jakarta and the Government of Indonesia. The project
is projected to remain profitable.
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1363   Second PDFCI:  US$15 Million Loan of January 28, 1977;
Effective Date: April 21, 1977; Closing Date: June 30. 1981
The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1437   Third BAPINDO:  US$40.0 Mlillion Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: September 23. 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981
The project is being implemented satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1703   Fourth BAPINDO:  US$50 Million Loan of June 1. 1979;
Effective Date: September 25. 1979; Closing Date:
September 30. 1983
This loan became effective last September and progress is satis-
factory.



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 18 of 24 pages
Coal Mining
Loan S-9          Bukit Asam Coal Mining and Transport Engineering:
US$10 Million Loan of May 19, 1978;  Effective Date:
December 22, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project consists of identifying and engineering much of an
optimum mining and transportation system to mine about 3.0 million tons per
year and ship about 2.5 million tons per year of coal to a power station which
is under construction at Suralaya in West Java.  The project has experienced
some initial delays but is now progressing satisfactorily.
POPU-LATION AND NUTRITION
Population
Credit No. 300  Population:  US$13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Date: November 2, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The performance of the Indonesian national family planning program
has improved markedly. Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily,
except for delays in the completion of the three buildings still under
construction. The delays are attributable to contractual-problems
associated with increases in the prices of building materials and oil.
Contractors consider the recent Government increases on contract costs to be
unacceptable because the revised costs are insufficient to offset losses on
existing contracts.  The buildings, which were scheduled to be completed in
September 1979, will now be completed in April 1980.  The Government's
proposals for utilization of savings under the project have already been
agreed upon by both the Association and the United Nations Fund for
Population Activities and implementation of the activities is expected to
start shortly.
Loan No. 1472   Second Population:  US$24.5 Million Loan of JuLy 6, 1977;
Ef fective Date:  August 4, 1977;  Closing Date:  April 30,
1983
The implementation of the second population project is proceeding
satisfactorily.  Despite the slowdown in construction associated with
increases in the prices of build:fng materials and gasoline, project buildings
are expected to be completed on schedule. Population education and training
components are also making steady progress. Procurement of furniture and
equipment is underway. However, the contraceptive raw materials study and



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 19 of 24 pages
the community incentive scheme are behind schedule. The combined effect of
delays in construction and in starting the two research studies has been a
slackening of disbursements. The rate of disbursement has been slow but is
expected to accelerate as buildings currently under construction are
completed-and withdrawal applications made.
Nutrition
Loan No. .1373   Nutrition Development:  US$13.0 Million Loan of March 14,
1977: Effective Date: March 31. 1977; Closing Date:
March 31. 1982
Initial progress under the project is satisfactory. The Nutrition
Intervention Pilot Project, the anemia control and home gardens components,
as well as the fellowships program, are proceeding with minor delays. The
Nutrition Academy has increased its student enrollment from 100 to 160, and
48 graduates are expected this year, compared with 25 prior to project start.
Construction of the Nutrition Academy was completed in February 1979. The
Food Technology Development Center is about 50% completed, and the Center
for Research and Development in Nutrition about 63%. While monitoring and
evaluation units for each component have been operational for six months the
central monitoring and evaluation unit of the Project Secretariat is just
starting to be staffed. A mission which recently-visited-Indonesia is
preparing a Mid-Term Evaluation Report. The Executive Directors will soon
be informed of the results.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 451 Fourth Technical Assistance: US$5 Million Credit of
January 2. 1974: Effective Date: February 15. 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Progress under the project is satisfactory. The Closing Date has
been postponed by one year.
Credit No. 898 Fifth Technical Assistance: US$10 Million Credit of Mav 7,
1979: Effective Date: September 5. 1979; Closing Date:
March 31. 1984
This credit became effective in September 1979 and progress is
satisfactory.



- 46 -
ANNEX II
Page 20 of 24 pages
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping:  US$13 Million Loan
of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The BAKOSURTANAL complex at Cibinong is now structurally completed,
and most of the cartographic, photographic processing, and printing equipment
required to produce maps has arrived and is being installed. Resource evalu-
ation activities, including the compilation of data for Southern Sumatra and
a study for the Directorate-General of Estates of coconut lands to be
replanted in Sulawesi and Lombok, are also proceeding in the new complex.
Recruitment and training of new staff, particularly junior operatives, has
accelerated. The new photography financed under the Canadian parallel
project will shortly be available, by which time BAKOSURTANAL hopes to have
installed color photo processing equipment and to have fully trained
specialized teams of operatives in the various map production fields.
TRANSPORTATION
Fertilizer Distribution
Loan No. 1139   Fertilizer Distribution:  US$68 Million Loan of July 10,
1975; Effective Date: August 28. 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project has been substantially completed at a cost 20% below
the appraisal estimate. Work on the five original port depots is completed
and the sixth depot, which was approved by the Bank in 1977 as an extension
financed from project savings, is nearing completion. All four ships,
including the additional ship approved in 1977 and paid for from project
savings, have been delivered and 52 of 58 inland storage depots are
completed. All the ships, port depots and storage depots are operating.
Shipping operations have not been as cost effective as they could be, due
to some extent to existing large stocks of fertilizer requiring ships to be
used for longer distances for exports. Costs have also been increased
because of delays in ship turnaround time caused by the need to clear
customs on inter-island voyages and the cumbersome procedures involved.
These matters were taken up with PUSRI and improvements are expected.
Highways
Loan No. 1236   Fourth Highway:  US$130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 13. 1976; Closing Date:
December 31. 1980
All key activities in the implementation schedule agreed with the
Government are completed but with delays of about one year. Construction of



ANNEX II
Page 21 of 24 pages
1,200 km are under way and a last retendered contract of 45 km is about to
start. Some problems and delays in executing roads prevailed for contracts
started in 1976; delays were also encountered in awards of contracts
scheduled for 1977. The 1978 devaluation also contributed to a slower
apparent rate of disbursement as cost adjustments to rupiah construction
contracts-had to be and still are being made. While remedial measures taken
in 1978/79 (and others planned) have improved the rate of physical progress
and disbursements, project completion is still forecast at 15-18 months
beyond the loan's present closing date. Project costs in US$ are likely to
be within appraisal estimates but rupiah costs are up significantly due to
devaluation.
Loan No. 1696   Fifth Highway:  US$130 Million Loan of June 1. 1979:
Effective Date: August 28, 1979: Closing Date:
December 31. 1984
Delays have been encountered in awarding contracts for about
500 km of road works which were tendered in mid-1979, somewhat behind the
implementation schedule. The 300 km balance of road works is now scheduled
for tendering in May 1980, nearly 10 months behind the schedule. Preparation
of development programs for eight provincial public works departments (DPUPs)
has also fallen behind, and other project components closely linked to, or
forming integral parts of, the DPUP programs, such as procurement of road
maintenance equipment and construction of major support works, are now about
one year behind schedule. Delays have occurred also in appointing consul-
tants, but these delays are less serious.
Marine Transport
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping:  US$54 Million Loan of May 20. 1976;
Effective Date: October 8. 1976: Closing Date:
December 31. 1980
Although the delay in the appointment of a number of consultants had
caused a slow start to the project and slowed project implementation and dis-
bursements, progress has now been made in making effective consultant
contracts for sea transport planning (ISTS Team); for improving maritime
training (IMCO project); and for extending the contract for financial and
technical advisers to P.T. PANN, the project entity. Progress has also been
made by the new management of PANN and of the state shipping company, PELNI,
in their new roles and very encouraging financial results have been achieved
by applying cash control as proposed by consultants financed by the Bank. It
is likely though that only about 40% of the loan will be disbursed by the
December 31, 1980 closing date. Some of the major problems facing PANN in
acquiring and leasing ships are: (a) the effect of the 50% devaluation of
rupiah in November 1978; (b) continued overtonnage in the fleet; and (c) the



- 48 -
ANNEX II
Page 22 of 24 pages
reluctance of the Government in undertaking a ship scrapping program and in
enforcing its safety and ship cLassification regulations. It is anticipated
that the scope of the loan will be broadened to include other than general
cargo inter-island ships and that an extension of the present closing date
will be requested.
Ports
Loan No. 1337   Tanjung Priok Pcort Project:  US$32 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 3, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Slow progress on the construction of Government-financed works has
delayed construction of the first component, but progress is being made. The
first construction contract for Basin III back up facilities is progressing
slowly due to the impact of the rupiah devaluation. The regional berths
component has likewise been affected although a contract for the new works
had been awarded since December 1977. These delays will probably postpone
overall completion of the project to mid-1981 but it is too early to
estimate the full effect of delays on project cost. The Closing Date has
been extended by two years from December 31, 1979.
TOURISM
Credit No. 479  Bali Tourism:  US$16.0 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
Construction of major infrastructure and related facilities for
the Nusa Dua tourism estate is under way and scheduled for completion in
mid-1980; construction of the hotel training school has been completed. The
completion of project components outside the estate (i.e. roads) is scheduled
for December 1981. Visitor traffic to Bali has been growing; it rose by 8%
in 1977 to 286,000 visitors and by a further 13% in 1978 to 328,000; the
trend continued in 1979 but the increase in the number of foreign visitors
has been modest due to re-emerging air access difficulties, particularly by
foreign carriers to Bali. Three potential hotel projects for Nusa Dua are
under consideration; however, while no final commitment has yet been made.
Construction of a first hotel at Nusa Dua is expected to start in 1980 for
completion by mid-1983.



- 49 -
ANNEX II
Page 23 of 24 pages
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1040   Jakarta Urban Development:  US$25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1974: Effective Date: January 15, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31.,1980
The kampung improvement part of the project has been completed.
Some 2,08Q ha have been upgraded, compared with the original plan of 1,980 ha.
The Klender sites and services component is about 98% complete. Of the total,
6,872 lots have been allocated to date, about 6,500 lots having been occupied.
The entire 7,250 units are expected to be available this year. The closing
date was recently extended by nine months due to delay in completion of the
project.
Loan No. 1336   Second Urban Development:  US$52.5 Million Loan of
November 4. 1976; Effective Date: March 28. 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project consists of provision of basic sanitary facilities
including footpaths, drainage, water supply and human waste disposal to about
3,000 ha of densely populated areas in Jakarta and 374 ha in Surabaya.
Community health workers are to be trained under a pilot program in both
cities.  Upgrading costs for the first two-year program have been within the
appraisal estimates. About 3,435 ha of kampungs in Jakarta and 441 ha of
kampungs in Surabaya have been covered so far, benefitting a total
population of about 1.4 million.  About 180 community health workers in
Jakarta and 45 in Surabaya have been trained and are working in the
kampungs.  Land acquisition problems still continue to cause some delays in
completing the requisite number of health facilities and the closing date was
recently extended.
Loan No. 1653   Third Urban Development:  US$54 Million Loan of January 31,
1979: Effective Date: September 26. 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The project provides basic infrastructural facilities including
roads, footpaths, water supply, and sanitation to impoverished, low-income
kampungs (neighborhoods) in the cities of Jakarta (750 ha), Surabaya (580 ha),
Ujung Pandang (375 ha), Semerang (310 ha) and Surakarta (170 ha), benefitting
a total population of about 2.25 million. A comprehensive solid waste
management program is also included in Jakarta and Surabaya, together with a
drainage program in Surabaya. About 775 community health workers are to be
trained in the above two cities to work in the improved kampungs. The pro-
ject is at an early stage of implementation.



- 50 -
ANNEX II
Page 24 of 24 pages
WATER SUPPLY
Loan No. 1049   Five Cities Water Supply:  US$14.5 Million Loan
of October 31, 1.974; Effective Date: May 21. 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Due to administrative and managerial problems the project is now
running 24 months behind schedule and the closing date has been extended by
eighteen months. .ll equipment supply and all major civil works contracts,
with the exception of pipe laying contracts (delayed because of slow
procurement of pipe), are under execution. A cost overrun of about 30%,
caused by increases in local costs due to project delays and devaluation, is
expected. The reorganization of the Directorate of Sanitary Engineering has
been completed, and the establishment and development of local water
enterprises is proceeding satisfactorily. Also, disbursements are expected to
accelerate now that contracts are signed and equipment and supplies are being
delivered.
Loan No. 1709   Second Water Supplv:  US$36 Million Loan of June 1. 1979;
Effective Date: February 29, 1980; Closing Date: December
31, 1984
This loan has just been declared effective.



- 51 -                              ANNEX III
Page 1
INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project               : 18 months
(b)  Project prepared by                         : Government of Indonesia
(c)  Date of first presentation to Bank/IDA   :January 1977
Date of first Bank/IDA mission to
consider project                         :December 1977
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission   :June 1979
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations          :March 31, 1980
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness               :August 1980
Section II: Special Bank/IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The Borrower would furnish the Bank Group the annual report of
AARD (para. 37).
(b) Annual training program proposals would be submitted to the
Bank Group for approval by December 31, of each year of the
project, starting in 1980 (para. 44).
(c)  The research staff of AARD would be increased by not less than
10% per year from 1981 through 1989 (para. 44).
(d) In each commodity for which research is assisted under the
project, research would be reviewed bi-annually by independent
specialists (para. 45).



ANNEX III
- 52 -                            Page 2
(e) A consultant organization acceptable to the Bank Group
would be employed by March 31, 1981, to assist AARD in adminis-
tering the training and technical assistance components under the
project (para. 45).
(f)  AARD would prepare a list of equipment acceptable to the Bank
Group not later than December 31 in each year, for the subse-
quent financial year beginning December 31, 1981 (para. 46).
(g)  Bids for the research farms and office equipment would be received
and processed without waiting for the project implementation budget
(DIP) to be signed (para. 49).



I BRC, 11429R
THAILANR                                                                                                                                                                              INDONESIA
A h                        >                                                                                                                                                                   NA   N L  GRiCULTNAL RlEkRCH kojEct
v                                                                                                                                                                                                 t  e              d ii'm
PHILIPPJNESV                               Proikt esoarcli Ce,)ters Ina ttvt i, 8'fatio" ch   a
7
PROJEcr                   PWIECT
qh, 0         spq            BRQIT       ,                                                                       11 , ;--          N   Nl'iI
0i,
0.                A   .-o A INF-I
'M
9",
7
MAi4Y5 I Am'
- :   p      iI         i  I
SWIGAPOE
U                                                                                                     HE&4                      c                              a  n
j A4h
gn-' vmg'm;"
-dd
r
22
osi
aiz,
TI
?                                                                                                                                AIb
1-                                                 
"No
%F-AA
MRTT'L                                          .JAKARTAA,.                                                                                                      5 o n  o'g
RM IALIIL
01
oc
4. W,
..T omkwo--
Soo
po
//Moe
a,       4O  500  Wd          80
up                           Ip.



