Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2805-IND
INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
April 4, 1980
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00        m Rupiahs (Rp) 625
Rp 100         = US$0.16
Rp 1 million  -  US$1,600
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                    -  39.37 inches
1 kilometer (km)               -  0,62 miles
1 square kilometer (sq m)      -  0,.386 square miles
1 hectare (ha)                 -  2,.47 acres
1 cubic meter (cu m)           -  3'5.31 cubic feet
1 liter (1)                    -  0.,264 gallons (USA)
1 kilogram (kg)                -  2.,2 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)             -  2,205 pounds
INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR.
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
AAETE        -    Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and Extension
AARD          -    Agency for Agricultural Research and Development
AVRDC        -    Asian Vegetable Research and Development Center
CRIA         -    Central Research Institute for Agriculture
DG           -    Directorate-General
DGLS         -    Directorate-General of Livestock Services
DIP          -    Project Implementation Budget
FAO          -    Food and Agriculture Organization
GOI          -    Government of Indonesia
IADS         -    International Agricultural Development Service
IDA          -    International Development Agency
IRRI         -    International Rice Research Institute
MIOA         -    Ministry of Agriculture
NAR          -    National Agricultural Research
PIU          -    Project Implementation Unit
P3T          -    Center for Animal Research and Development
PPS          -    Extension Subject Matter Specialist
Repelita     -    Five Year Plan
RSMS         -    Research Subject Matter Specialist
UNDP         -    United Nations Development Program
USAID        -    United States Agency for International Development
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IN1DONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTUPAL RESEARCH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
1.  PROJECT AND  SECTOR BAC AGROUND .      D..  .  .  ......     .................  1
Project Background  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
Sector Objectives .    .. ......   . .  .       .  .  .  .  .    ...........  1
Role and Performance  ...  .  .  .     .  .  ...    ...................... I
Food Crops  . . . .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ................  .  .  .  .  .   .    2
Tree Crops  ..............  .  .  .  .  .               .  .  .  .  .   .    3
Livestock ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .....   ......  4
Fisheries . . . . .  ...... ............ ............. .............. ......    4
Forestry  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    5
Area Development and Transmigration . . . . . . . . . . . . .    5
Role of Government .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
Bank Lending Strategy ...  .    ........  .  .  .  .         .  .  .   .    6
2.  AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROGRAU2   IN INDONESIA  . . . . . . . . . .       7
Pre-1974 Organizational Structure . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          7
Agency for Agricultural Research and Development (AARD) . .            7
1979 Reorganization of AARD....... ...  8
Research Monitoring, Review and Coordination    . . . . . . .    9
Research-Extension Linkage  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
Research by Subsector.                             .        .....  12
Research Centers .  . . . . . .     .  .... . .  . . . .   15
Transmigration  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
Fundi:Lg of Agricultural Research  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   17
3.  THE AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION (NAR I) PROJECT . . . .   17
4.  THE PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    .   119
Genaral Description . ..  .      .  .  .    ... ..        a.........  19
Teailed Features . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   22
Gos: Estimates .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   24
E'inancing   . . . . . .a . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   26
Procurement . . .......   ......... 26
Disbursements . . . . ......  ........ 27
c.::r~s and Au-dits          ......... . .   27
,  . . * .  . . .  . .  . . .  . . .  . .  .   27
5.  BPENFI TS  JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   28
-n_s   d Justification. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   28
-k:                 . .-  . . . 7     .                 . . ; . . .   29
Envirof-zmintal Effects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   30



Page No.
6.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  . . . . . . . . . . . .      30
LIST OF TABLES IN MAIN REPORT
Table 2.1: Summary of AARD Research Institutes, Their
Location and Major Programs . . . . . . . . . . .     10
Table 4.1:  Summary of Base Cost for Project Components . . .
by Major Programs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     21
Table 4.2:  Project Cost Summary  . .    .. . . . . . . . .       25
ANNEXES
1.  AARD Staff and Budget:
Table 1:  Permanent Research Staff of AARD . . . . . . . . .      32
Table 2:  Distribution of Scientists in AARD by Discipline
and Research Institute . . . . . . . . . . . . .     33
Table 3:  List of Research Personnel Under Honorary
Status - AARD .  ....... .                           34
Table 4:  Projected Growth of Senior Research Staff  . . . .      35
Table 5:  Summary of AARD Budget 1974/75 to 1979/80  . .          36
Table 6:  Budget for AARD - 1979/80  . . . . . . . . . .  .   .   37
2.  List of Existing Research Institutes and
Centers   .   .  .   .  .   .   .  .   .   .  .   .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  .   .   .  .   .  38
3.  Project Cost, Phasing and Disbursements
Table 1:  Development Implementation Schedule  . . . . . .        39
Table 2:  Physical Accommodations and Estimate
of Civil Works Cost  . . . . . . . . . . . . .       40
Table 31:  Project Capital Cost . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     41
Table 4:  Summary of Base Costs for Estimated Training and
Technical Assistance . . . . . . . . . . . . .       42
Table 5:  Summary of Expected Long-Term Training Program .        43
Table 6:  Estimated Phasing of Training and Technical
Assistance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     44
Table 7:  Estimated Phasing of Long-Term Technical
Assistance ... .  .  .  .  . ...  .  .  .  .    . . . .     .  45
Table 8:  Summary of Expected Allocatio:n of Technical
Assistance to Major AARD Programs  . . . . . . .     46
Table 9:  Estimated Schedule of Disbursiements  . . . . . .       47
Table 10:  Phasing Estimated Expenditures . . . . . . . . . .     48
Table 11:  Proposed Allocation of Credit/Loan Proceeds  . .       49
4. Comparative Key Indicators of Research Sectors
in  Asia  in  1975  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .    .  .  .  .  .  .  50
5.  Selected Data and Documents in Project F:Lle . . . . . . . . .    51



- iii -
Page No
CHARTS
C.1  Organization of the Ministry of Agriculture (20817) . . . . . .       53
C.2 Proposed Organizational Structure for Agency
for Agricultural Research and Development (AARD) (20769). . .       54
C.3 Proposed Organizational Structure for Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) of AARD (20768) . . . . . . . . . .       55
MAP
IBRD - 11429R: Indonesia, National Agricultural Research -
Project Research Centers, Institutes,
Stations and Farms



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I                                            I



INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
1. PROJECT AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
Project Background
1.01      The Government of Indonesia (GOI) has requested Bank and IDA
assistance in financing the National Agricultural Research (NAR II) Project.
The proposed project would complement the ongoing Agricultural Research and
Extension Project (Loan 1179-IND, hereinafter called National Agricultural
Research I, NAR I) by:
(a)  developing and expanding research programs for estate and industrial
crops, livestock, fisheries, fruit, lowland vegetables, and forestry
(commodities not supported under NAR I); and
(b)  strengthening the Agency for Agricultural Research and Development
(AARD) through increased staffing, short- and long-term overseas
and local training, and technical assistance.
1.02      The project components were identified jointly by GOI and a Bank
mission led by Sir John Crawford in 1977. A preparation report was completed
by AARD in February 1978. A preappraisal mission reviewed the proposals in
December 1978, and agreed with AARD on further project preparation. This
report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of Messrs.
W.P. Ting, J. Fransen, J.W. van Holst Pellekaan (Bank Group), and J. Burley,
A.W. Etheredge, S.K. Ng and V.D. Singh (consultants) which visited Indonesia
in June/July 1979.
Sector Objectives
1.03      The Government's major objectives for the agricultural and rural
sector are to: (a) create productive employment to raise the incomes of the
rural poor; (b) increase domestic food supply to keep pace with rising
demand; (c) expand agricultural exports, particularly of smallholder
tree crops; and (d) ensure productive, sustainable use of Indonesia's land,
water and other natural resources.
Role and Performance
1.04      Despite a 4% average annual growth of production, agriculture's
share of GDP has declined from 40% to 31% since 1968, while its share of
exports dropped from 45% to 33% due mainly to the markedly increased
value of oil exports. Nevertheless, the agricultural and rural sector
remains of overwhelming importance to the great majority of Indonesians;
nearly 80% of the population lives in rural areas, and agriculture is the
major source of income for about two-thirds of rural households and



-2-
one-tenth of urban households.  Some 15.6 million smallholder families
produce subsistence and cash crops on 15.8 million ha, while 1,800 estates
occupying 2.2 million ha produce miainly rubber, sugar, tea, palm oil, and
tobacco.
1.05      Emtployment.  Agriculture's share of total employment decreased
from 69% in 1961 to 64% in September 1971, 47iile in 1976 it ranged between
66% in March and 60% in October./I  NevertheLess, agriculture remained by
far the largest single source (with 46%) of new employment during 1971-76.
Outside Java, employment prospects in agricuLture appear quite promising,
given the sustained increases in the smallholder area, due to land and
irrigation development, including that under publicly sponsored and
spontaneous transmigration. In Java, rehabi:Litation of irrigation systems,
which generated significant employment in the last decade, should continue
to provide additional construction and farm work.
Food Crops
1.06      Production Growth.  Given its limited manpower and financial
resources, GOI has concentrated on increasingr the production of rice, the
preferred staple food of the great majority of Indonesians. Rice production
increased rapidly (4.5% p.a.) between 1968 and 1974, chiefly due to irri-
gation rehabilitation and the provision to irrigated rice growers of fer-
tilizer and high-yielding variety seed, financed largely through the BIMAS
credit program. The growth rate slowed markedly to 1.7% p.a. over 1974-77,
in the wake of severe declines in fertilizer usage (due to restrictions on
private sector fertilizer trade), successive seasons of untimely rainfall,
and unprecedented attacks by pests and diseases, principally the brown plant
hopper and associated viruses.  In 1978, a record rice harvest was achieved,
with better weather, improved and liberalized fertilizer distribution, and
nationwide government distribution of recently introduced pest-resistant
varieties. Over the past decade, output of secondary food crops (maize,
cassava, soybeans, peanuts, and sweet potatoes) grew more slowly, at an
average of only 1.6% p.a., composed of a 1.1% p.a. average decline in area
(much of this land shifting to irrigated rice) and a 2.7% p.a. increase in
yield.
1.07      Demand-Supply Balance.  These gains in food output did not keep
pace with the 3.5-4.0% p.a. increase in demand due to rising population and
incomes.  Indonesia became the world's largest rice importer, with a record
/1 In 1976, shares were 63% in March and 57% in October in Java, and 72%
and 66%, respectively, elsewhere. The total drop in agricultural
employment from March to October was 6.7 million.  Precise estimation is
difficull due to the surveys' shifting definitions and seasonal timing.



import of 2.3 million tons in 1977, and about 1.3 million tons in 1978.
Simultaneously, wheat imports rose to 1.4 million tons in 1978, cassava
exports nearly disappeared, and soybean, maize, and coconut oil imports
began to grow.  The report, "Indonesia-Supply Prospects for Major Food
Crops" (No. 9374-IND of March 3, 1979) concluded that even with expanded
irrigation, and improved technology, extension, credit and marketing, food
production growth would not exceed 3.5% p.a., leaving a basic food deficit
up to at least 1990, with an annual rice deficit alone of 2-3 million tons.
1.08       Future Strategy.  To keep rice imports at some reasonable fraction
of the world rice trade, and to prevent a widening food production-consumption
gap, productivity and area of both rice and secondary food crops must be
increased. In Java, rice-cropping intensity could be raised through water
storage projects and by exploiting groundwater. Rice yields and cropping
intensity can also be increased by constructing tertiary irrigation and
drainage systems, and improving support services. In the Other Islands there
is potential for new irrigation systems, including tidal and swamp land
development. Despite the scarcity of high-yielding tropical varieties of
secondary food crops, yields of existing varieties could be increased substan-
tially by improved husbandry, including use of fertilizer and insecticides.
GOI is giving increasing attention to marketing, credit, seeds and research
aimed at varietal improvement for secondary crops. Bank assistance for these
efforts is planned.
Tree Crops
1.09      Tree crops occupy about a third of total cropped land (coconuts
and rubber account for 80% of this), and generate almost half of total
non-oil export revenue. Smallholders cultivate 80% of the rubber area and
virtually all coconuts, coffee, cloves and pepper, whereas tea and oil palm
are grown primarily on estates. Despite recent higher world prices for
Indonesia's main tree crop products, only oil palm has shown sustained
large increases in production, due to investment programs by Government and
private estates.  Despite the long immaturity period of tree crops, static
production levels are a symptom of past low prices and neglect, especially
inadequate research and extension, and failure to replant with
higher-yielding varieties.
1.10      Smallholder Development.  Efforts to revitalize the smallholder
tree crop sector are commencing on several fronts. One new approach, which
is being supported by three Bank-financed Nucleus Estates and Smallholders
(NES) projects, is for government estates to plant and maintain rubber and
oil palm on previously undeveloped land for three years, using farmers
selected to be settlers (including local landless families and trans-
migrants) as employees, and thereafter to supply the settlers with inputs,
extension, and processing facilities. Other new plantings of tree crops are
being included in transmigration projects. While the NES approach has been
mainly for new settlers, GOI has also initiated national programs to assist



-4-
geographically concentrated groups of existing smallholders to plant rubber
or coconuts themselves, with fairly intensive support from Project Management
Units (PMUs).  Efforts to design a low-cost system of tree crop planting
with minimal demands on manLagement are also starting.  Given the vast area
of overaged and low-yielding smallholder rubber and coconuts (smallholder
rubber  7ields cre half those in Malaysia), the good market prospects for
these crops, and the Other Islands' land availability and natural comparative
advantage in them, rapid expansion of smallhoLder tree crops, using all suit-
able approaches, is a high priority. As theste programs will place a heavy
demand on technical and managerial personnel, major staff recruitment and
training efforts will be required.
Livestock
1.11      There are about 7.0 million cattle, 2.8 million buffaloes and 10.0
million goats and sheep in Indonesia; 99% are owned by smallholders. The
livestock population is small for a country of Indonesia's size. Java and
Madura have 60% of Indonesia's cattle and 45% of the buffaloes. Livestock
are a source of draught power, food and manure, and a major capital asset.
Nearly all female cattle and buffaloes (about 1.9 million pair), are used
for draught.  The number of ruminants has been decreasing due to:  (a) the
slaughter of bulls and bullocks which had become redundant as a result of
mechanized transport; and (b) the temptation for farmers to sell even pro-
ductive females for slaughter because of rapidly rising meat prices. The
high internal demand for meat is also reducing the number of goats and sheep;
the indigenous pig and poultry populations havTe remained relatively constant,
although thae number of imported chickens has increased significantly.
1.12      Government institutional support of livestock development is weak.
Under the technical direction of the Directorate General of Livestock
Servi-ces (DGLS), small provincial livestock services (headed by Inspectors)
'R.- sDcnsible for development and extension work, mainly with smallholders.
.nlati-ve-,77 smail number of technicians and technical assistants, with few
suppG t fa'cAi:ies ancd vehicles, are stationed at the district, subdistrict
-n  vill53ge levels.  Shortage of long-term credit is another major
conswraint to the better integration of ruminants into smallholder
7 11 7
Altnosugh Indonesia has substantial rnarine resources, its fisheries
-is nDt well developed.  A large subsistence fisheries industry
1b-,,u_- 250X003 boats) along the coasts using t:raditional boats and gear, has
.flly -f not excessively exploited areas near fishing villages.
of the boats are motorized, compared to only 5% in 1973-74.  The
s_-,all ~cowmercial marine sector, wnich accounts for about 10% of total catch,
rOinated by joint ventures with foreign (chiefly Japanese) companies,
;ip3aClly ir trawling for shr4mp, Indonesia's main fisheries export.  Six
.-: :r=1 all externally assisted, fish for tuna and other species,



but have generally been losing money. Production from brackish and freshwater
fishponds, though only 10% of total output, has been growing by about 8% p.a.,
compared to 5.5% p.a. for marine fishing and 0% for inland fish catching.
Total fish production in 1978 was estimated at 1.6 million tons of which an
estimated 70% came from marine fisheries. Fish contribute 65% of Indonesia's
animal protein; however, fish consumption in Indonesia is only about 11 kg per
capita per annum, far below the 30 kg per capita in Malaysia and the
Philippines. About one million people are engaged in the subsector.
Forestry
1.14      Out of 122 million ha of forest land, some 55 million ha, chiefly in
Kalimantan (29 million ha) and Sumatera (16 million ha) are of commercial
value. Some 670 logging concessions have been awarded, covering 28 million
ha; slightly more than half of these concessions are active. In addition to
the natural forests, plantations cover 2.5 million ha, of which 1.6 million ha
were established since 1972, by afforestation or reforestation.  Timber pro-
duction and exports have increased rapidly due largely to foreign investment
and to favorable world prices. Production of logs and sawn timber over
1972-77 increased from 16.9 million cu m to 23 million cu m, and from 0.8 mil-
lion cu m to 1.8 million cu m respectively, while log exports rose from
13.8 million cu m to 18 million cu m and sawn timber exports from 0.1 million
cu m to 0.7 million cu m. Preliminary 1978 data show export earnings of the
subsector exceeded $700 million, accounting for nearly 10% of all exports and
second only to oil. Teak, the main plantation hardwood, yielded only about
45,000 cu m per year in 1965-71, but production reached 625,000 cu m in 1976.
Other forestry products include firewood (500,000 cu m), charcoal (38,000
tons), rattan (54,000 tons), damar resin (5.6 tons), and pine turpentine
(155,000 tons). While the performance of the forestry sector has been
impressive, extractive efficiency, wood processing and reafforestation
programs need improvement.
Area Development and Transmigration
1.15      Java.  In 1978, about 85 million people lived in Java, at a density
approaching 650/sq km. The island, with 7% of Indonesia's land area, has
45% of the cropped area and 63% of the population. Java generally has
higher fertility and better infrastructure than the Other Islands; however,
its cultivable land is almost fully utilized, and in some higher watersheds
cultivation already exceeds ecologically safe limits, contributing to
increasing erosion, downstream flooding, and siltation of ports, dams, and
irrigation canals. GOI is preparing watershed development and integrated
development projects to address this problem.
1.16      Other Islands.  In the Other Islands, population density is
generally low and undeveloped land is available. The primary program for new
area development there, as well as for creating employment and settlement
nuclei for Javanese migrants, is transmigration. An organized transmigration



- 6 -
program is important for regional and natural resource development in the
Other Islands, production of food and export crops, and creation of
employment and decent living conditions for landless Javanese. Unfortunately,
this program has long been hampered by unrealistic expectations of its
potential for resolving Java's population problems and for stimulating
large-scale regional development, by overly ambitious targets, and by weak,
uncoordinated implementation. Confronted by mEnagement problems, GOI
reorganized the program in preparation for Repelita III, by transferring
implementation responsibility from the Directorate General of Transmigration
to the line agesncies normally responsible for E!ach sector. This measure
needs to be complemented by continued attention. to technical and policy
issues including: (a) the suitability of the land for food crops; (b) the
role of tree crops and livestock; (c) appropriate target incomes and farm
sizes; (d) the extent of government assistance to financial, marketing and
other services for settlers; and (e) the role of spontaneous migration. The
Second Transmigration Project (Loan 1707-IND and Credit 919-IND) is expected
to address some of these issues.
Role of Government
1.17      While the private sector should be encouraged to expand its role in
agricultural input supply, marketing, and processing, Government bears the
major responsibility for infrastructure, resource conservation, and other
services. Despite marked improvements over the past decade, overly
centralized procedures, weak regional planning, and technical and managerial
manpower constraints have impeded agricultural and rural development planning
and implementation. GOI's concern for area development has also increased the
need to strengthen provincial and local planning capabilities. Future
programs responsive to GOI's stated objectives will necessarily be complex,
requiring closely coordinated programs of agricultural research, extension,
input supply, credit, land development, transport, pricing policies and
marketing. GOI must therefore continue to strengthen its key rural
development institutions, particularly through the education, recruitment,
training, and retention of technical manpower.
Bank Lending Strategy
1.18      GOI and the Bank generally agree on overall objectives and strate-
gies for the rural sector. W4hile views sometimes differ on the relative
emphasis to be given to different investments, and on the technical design of
some projects, such differences are not impeding Bank Group operations
generally and are usually resolved by further analysis and dialogue.
1.19      Projects.  Since the first of 15 irrigation projects was approved
in 1968, the Bank Group's agricultural lending has rapidly expanded to
include estate and smallholder tree crops, fertilizer production and
distribution, sugar, livestock, fisheries, research, extension, training,
seeds, transmigration, and resource survey and inapping. The Operations



- 7 -
Evaluation Department's Sector Operations Review of Bank Group agricultural
lending in Indonesia (Report No. 2166, dated August 9, 1978) concluded that
despite deficiencies in some projects, the Bank's portfolio in Indonesian
agriculture wri> "of overall good quality and likely to contribute substan-
tially to increased production." Within the context of GOI's agricultural
objectives and priorities, as outlined in Repelita III, future Bank lending
is expected to focus on:
(a)  a diversified irrigation, flood protection, drainage and
swamp reclamation program to intensify rice cropping
on Java and to extend water management in the Other Islands;
(b)  support services, including second phase projects for agricultural
research, extension and seeds;
(c)  smallholder tree crop planting programs; and
(d)  area development projects aimed at (i) watershed management to
conserve soil and ensure long-term productivity in the densely
populated areas of Java; (ii) integrated rural development of poor
areas on Java; and (iii) transmigration.
1.20      Sector Work.  These projects have been and will continue to be
complemented by extensive sector work. Analyses of employment and income
distribution, irrigation, agricultural support services, and food crop
production have improved the Bank's understanding of the sector's needs and
of GOI's policies. Reviews of the rubber subsector, the transmigration
program, secondary food crops, land tenure and the supply and requirements of
technical and managerial manpower for agriculture are now underway.
2. AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROGRAM IN INDONESIA /
Pre-1974 Organizational Structure
2.01      Until 1974, most agricultural research was conducted by institutes
under the five technical Directorates General (DGs) of the Ministry of Agri-
culture:  Food Crops, Estate Crops, Forestry, Fisheries and Livestock
Services. Several of the institutes had regional as well as commodity
responsibilities, a reflection of Indonesia's diverse agroclimatic condi-
tions. In addition, the Agricultural Quarantine Center and the Central
Library of Agriculture and Biology, in Bogor, West Java, provided support
services to all the DGs.
Agency for Agricultural Research and Development (AARD)
2.02      In 1974, AARD was formed directly under the Minister of Agriculture
as the central agricultural research agency. Except for the Agro-Economic
/1 This report does not cover universities and the private sector where
agricultural research is also undertaken,



- 8 -
Sur-ey and the 2enter for Animal Research and Development, all the research
institutes and 2enters were brought under it.  The Director of each institute
or center reports to the AARD Head and is responsible for proposing and
implementing research programs and preparing the budget for his institute
or center. The AARD Head is assisted by a secretariat. Although the indi-
vidual institutes/centers still retain considerable autonomy, AARD is grad-
ually increasing its role in supervising and coc,rdinating their activities.
2.03      At present, AARD has research 24 institutes and 5 centers (soils;
agroeconomic; statistics and agro-data processirg; quarantine; and central
library> The institutes operate 99 experimental stations and farms
throughout Indonesia.  At present there are about 2,340 professionals and
research assistants (see Annex 1, Tables 1 and 2) and 3,300 support staff.
In addition to the permanent government employees, some 1,219 scientists and
support staff work for AARD on an "honorarium" status, sometimes under
short-term, but usually under long-term contracts (Annex 1, Table 3). In
effect AARD has at present about 870 scientists with PhD, MSc or equivalent
degree,/l 390 with BSc or equivalent degree, and 2,300 with various types of
high school of equivalent qualifications. The projected growth of senior
research staff over the next 8 years, (PhD and N[Sc) is about 622 for the
project and 595 for other AARD staff (Annex 1, Table 4).
1979 ReoSranization of AARD
2.04      In 1979, the entire MOA organizational structure was reviewed.
The ntmber of research institutes and centers reporting directly to
the AAURD Head had grown to 29, due to upgrading of regional branches into
full institutes. Because the control span of the AARD Head was becoming
rather extensive, GOI, by Presidential Decree No. 47 of September 29, 1979,
established five Central Research Institutes [(Food Crops; Fisheries; Animal
Husbandry; Forestry; and Industrial Crops) and one new research center
(Programming ancd Monitoring)]. Because of the unique historical development
of the research institutes for estate crops,|2 they are under a Board of
Management, chaired by the AARD Head.  Only the directors of these Central
ReSearch Institutes, plus those of the research centers, will report
directly to the AAPD Head (see Chart C.2). The Central Research Institutes'
directors, assisted by small secretariats, will coordinate the work of their
constituent inst:itutes, to avoid duplication and promote complementarity of
research, and assistance required from the research centers. The
secretariat at SARD headquarters will also be strengthened through the
upgrading of existing staff. The 18 commodity research institutes under the
5 respective Cerntral Research Institutes have been established, and the
/i  The Insinjur (Ir) degree is for this purpose rated as being equivalent
to the MSc c.egree.
/2 These were established initially by the estates themselves, were funded
until recently by an export cess, and pay higher salaries than the other
research institutes.



- 9 -
directors of the 5 Central Research Institutes have been appointed. The
location and major research programs of the research institutes are shown in
Table 2.1.
2.05      Project Implementation Unit (PIU) of AARD.  In 1975, a PITU was
formed within AARD to administer the construction program and equipment
procurement and to coordinate the training, fellowship and technical assist-
ance programs under NAR I. The PIU is not involved in reviewing,
implementing or monitoring research programs. In addition to a director and
staff appointed from within AARD, the PIU is assisted by three consultants
(on finance, training and procurement).
2.06      The PIU is responsible for the preparation of foreign aid
programs, including the planning of their training components; the proposed
project and physical activities relating to the implementation of the
development budget. The increased PIU responsibility would be reflected by
the formation of separate units for its four main activities (equipment and
vehicle procurement, construction and site development, finance and
accounting, and training and technical assistance), plus a program and
monitoring unit. A full time PIU secretary/administrator has been
appointed, in addition to the PIU director. The PIU director has been
selected and formally appointed. An assurance has been obtained at
negotiations that the position of PIU director would be continuously filled
by a qualified and experienced person.
Research Monitoring, Review and Coordination
2.07      The Agricultural Research Board, established under NAR I, is
chaired by the Minister and comprises the five Directors General and the
Heads of AARD and the Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and
Extension (AAETE).  It is responsible for research policy, funding, and
coordination of research programs, and reviews and revises annually the
five-year National Agricultural Research Program. AARD also meets annually
with each DG individually on specific research programs and research support
for extension activities.
2.08      Under NAR I, scientists from outside AARD, including international
research centers, have participated in annual program reviews of the rice,
rubber and highland vegetable programs. Assurances have been obtained that
AARD would undertake biennial reviews by independent specialists, of the
research programs and management of the five newly established central
research institutes and the soils and agro-economic centers. In addition,
periodic reviews will include detailed reports by specialists on selected
research topics. On completion, the reviews would be furnished to the Bank
Group. The program reviews are initiated by directors of each of the five
Central Research Institutes, the two centers or the AARD Head (as chairman
of the Board of Management for estate crop institutes). These reviews would
focus on technical issues, to ensure that research was development and
production-oriented and benefits from research findings of international
research centers and other countries.



- 10 -
Table 2.1:  AARD RESEARCH INSTITUTES, THEIR LOCATION AND tAJOR PROGRAM1S
Central Research Institute/Research institute           Major commodities researched
A. Food Crops Central Research Institute
FCRI /a  Sukarami, Sumatera                    Rice, palawija, vegetables
FCRI     Bogor, W. Java                        Rice, palawija
FCRI     Lembang, W. Java                      Vegetables
FCRI     Sukanandi, W. Java                    Rice, palawija
FCRI     M4alang, E. Java                      Palawija, rice, fruits,
vegetables
FCRI     Banjarmasin, S. Kalimantan            Rice
FCRI     Maros, S. Sulawesi                    Rice, palawija, vegetables
B. Estate Crops Research Institute (under Board of Management)
ECRI /b  Bogor, W. Java                        Rubber, rubber technology
ECRI     Medan, N. Sumatera                    Oil palm
ECRI     Jember, E. Java                       Coffee, cocoa
Rubber Research Institute, Sungai Putih,
N. Sumatera                                      Rubber
Rubber Research Institute, Sembawa,
S. Sumatera                                      Rubber
Tea Research Institute, Gambung, W. Java           Tea and chinchona
C. Industrial Crops Central Research Institute
ICRI /c  Malang, E. Java                       Tobacco, fiber crops
ICRI     Bogor, W. Java                        Coconuts
ICRI     Mapanget, N. Sulawesi (Manado)        Coconuts, cloves
ICRI     Tanjungkarang, Lampung                Pepper, cloves
D. Animal Husbandry Central Research Institute
Animal Husbandry Research Institute, Bogor,
W. Java                                          Animal Husbandry
Animal Health Research Institute, Bogor,
W. Java                                          Animal Health
E. Forestry Central Research Institute
Forest Research Institute, Bogor, W. Java           Forest
Forest Products Research Institute, Bogor,
W. Java                                          Forest Products
F. Fisheries Central Research Institute
Fish Techno:Logy Research Institute, Jakarta       Fish Technology
Marine Fisheries Research Institute, Jakarta    Marine Fisheries
Inland Fisheries Research Institute, Bogor         Inland Fisheries
/a FCRI - Food Crops Research Institute.
/b ECRI - Estat-e Crops Research Institute.
/c ICRI - Industrial Crops Research Institute.



- 11 -
2.09      In addition to the external reviews, local research advisory
committees, comprising about 10 members, have been established for several
commodity programs, and would be set up for other research programs under
the project (see s2ra. 2.33).  Representatives of extension agencies,
universities and other government organizations concerned with the development
and adoption of new technology would be invited to serve on these committees,
thus contributing to the planning and evaluation of AARD's research programs.
The committees, chaired by the program director/leader (a nonstructural title
within AARD) would meet at least twice a year and would ensure that the
research was responsive to Indonesia's needs.
2.10      Agricultural activities in the provinces are coordinated by one of
the Inspectors for Agriculture (Kakanwil). The Kakanwil is appointed by the
Minister of Agriculture, and is usually the head of the most important
provincial agricultural service (foodcrops, livestock, etc.). In some
provinces, agricultural advisory committees have been set up under the
Governor/Kakanwil, comprising representatives from AARD, extension services,
universities, Provincial Planning Boards (BAPPEDAs) and other agencies.
Research-Extension Linkage
2.11      In response to the need for close linkages with extension agencies,
AARD has recently established a communications unit, responsible for: (a)
providing technical assistance to training courses for extension workers; (b)
technical meetings; (c) seminars; and (d) publication of technical bulletins
and papers on all aspects of agricultural production. Research subject matter
specialists (RSMSs) have been appointed to compile, package and translate
research results and technology into meaningful terms for use by extension
subject matter specialists (PPSs). RSMSs maintain close contact with PPSs and
ensure a two way flow of information between research and extension.
2.12      To further strengthen the linkages, PPSs belonging to the five
DGs have access to selected research institutes, stations and farms as home
bases. PPSs have the opportunity to interact directly, with multidisciplinary
research teams working at the research institutes and stations. At the same
time researchers are also able to contribute to problem solving in the field
and to assist the provincial agricultural services in carrying out
verification trials.
2.13      The technical committees established under the National Food Crops
Extension Project (Loan 1267-IND) would be expanded and strengthened under
Extension II, recently appraised by IDA.  Representatives from AARD, AAETE
universities and the DGs would serve on the five regional technical committees
and one national technical committee. The committees would coordinate the
technical support programs, workshops and training activities for extension
workers at the national and provincial level.



- 12 -
Research bySubsector
2.14      During Repelita I and II, agricultural research was focussed
primarily on wet rice, rubber and oil palm. Under Repelita III, increasing
attention is being given to secondary food crops, upland rice,
mixed-cropping patterns, intercropping of coconuts and rubber, forestry,
liivestock, fisheries, processing of agricultural products and agro-economics.
In addition, priority is being given to location-specific problems of
different soil and climatic conditions, especially for food crops, instead
of trying to develop varieties and practices suitable for all Indonesia.
2.15      Food Crops.  The main center of food crops research has long been
the Central Research Institute for Agriculture (CRIA) at Bogor. A new CRIA
station at Sukamandi, West Java, established under the Seeds Project (Credit
246-IND), was originally intended to become the national center for rice
and palawija crop research. Now, however, it, eUlong with other CRIA sub-
stations at Sukarami (West Sumatera), Banjarmarsin (South Kalimantan),
Malang (E. Java) and Maros (South Sulawesi), and CRIA Bogor, are separate
institutes serv:ing the regional needs for food crop research. The change
was brought about by a redefinition of the role and function of the stations
and is reflected in the reorganization of AARD.
2.16      The main focus has been breeding of locally-adapted varieties of
high yielding ri'ce, using genetic material supplied by the International
Rice Research Institute (IRRI) in the Philippines and other international
and national research centers, with attention to earlier maturity and pest
and disease resistance. Distribution of varieties resistant to brown plant-
hopper has sharply curtailed crop losses. Research on upland rice, which
has hitherto been meager, is to be expanded sharply using germplasm
material from IRRI and other sources for varietal improvement. In addition
to rice, research is ongoing or planned for corn, soybean, groundnut,
mungbean and sweet potato. Development of impro'ved varieties of secondary
food crops is essential to meet Indonesia's food deficit; germplasm collec-
tions of these crops would be widened. The materials would be assessed for
incorporation into the cropping systems program. Research on pest and
disease control and fertilizer usage are also important for raising the very
low yields.
2.17      Horticulture.  Research on fruits and vegetables has been carried
out by the Horticultural Research Institute, headquartered at Pasar Minggu,
Jakarta, but with much of the field work done out: of Malang, East Java.
Under Research I, an institute near Lembang, West: Java, is being developed as
the main center for highland vegetable research. Integrated pest management
is a top priority. Superior strains of vegetables with resistance to pests
and diseases, as well as other desirable traits, are being introduced from the
Asian Vegetable 'Research and Development Center (AVRDC) for testing.
Identification of promising selections of local f'ruits, and development of
improved fruit propagation techniques will continue. Citrus rootstock trials
are to be carried out to identify rootstocks tolerant to the major virus
diseases.



- 13 -
2.18      Estate Crops.  The Estate Crops Research Institutes at Medan (BPPM)
and Bogor (BPPB) L/ have concentrated on improving productivity of rubber, oil
palm, coffee and cocoa through varietal improvement and better fertilizer and
crop production practices. Because they were funded by an es ort cess, BPPM
and BPPB have generally had more independence than other research institutes.
Under NAR I, a new Rubber Research Institute is being built at Sungai Putih,
North Sumatera, which was to absorb the rubber section of bot1. these insti-
tutes. In addition, a branch of BPPB at Sembawa, South Sumatera is being
developed as a separate Rubber Research Institute catering to the needs of
smallholders. It would carry out trials on intercropping rubber and on
suitable planting densities and improved processing techniques for small-
holders. BPPM would then concentrate on increasing oil palm productivity,
while BPPB would work largely on rubber processing technology and some aspects
of research on rubber cultivation. The respective roles of Sungal Putih,
Sembawa and Bogor are being reviewed by AARD and the Minister of Agriculture.
2.19      A BPPB branch at Jember has concentrated mainly on cocoa and
coffee. A program to upgrade current local selections with high yielding
Forasteros, Upper Amazon and Trinitario cocoa would be undertaken to boost
yield without sacrificing quality. Integrated control measures would also
be developed for the cocoa pod moth which is causing serious losses in
Maluku and West Java. Coffee research would focus on increasing Robusta
yields through varietal improvement and better cultural practices, including
shade management, fertilization and plant protection. Tea and cinchona
research are being expanded by a small institute at Gambung, West Java.
2.20      Industrial Crops.  Research on industrial crops (perennial crops not
grown on estates in Indonesia - coconuts, spices, tobacco, fiber crops and
essential oils) is carried out at Bogor (coconuts, cloves and essential oils),
Tanjungkarang, Lampung (pepper and cloves), Mapanget, North Sulawesi (coconuts
and cloves), and Malang, East Java (tobacco and fiber crops). Comparative
trials will be carried out between local (Nias crossed with local talls) and
exotic (Malaysian dwarfs crossed with West African talls) hybrid coconuts as
part of a major national coconut development program (for which a Coconut
Development Project has recently been appraised). Further research on these
new hybrids (fertilizer usage, pest and disease control, planting technique,
etc.) is critical to the success of that program and will be included in this
project. The Germplasm collection would be enlarged with the introduction of
promising talls and dwarfs. A program of hybridization, including selected
local talls with pollen of exotic talls, will also be carried out. Inter-
cropping trials would be undertaken in young coconut replant as well as mature
areas.  Tobacco, spices and fiber crops research emphasize pest and disease
management, varietal improvement, cultural practices and processing (tobacco
leaf curing, etc.).
2.21      Livestock.  Research at the Animal Health Research Institute, Bogor,
would be directed at developing integrated control programs for improved local
or introduced breeds in the crop-based production systems. It is responsible
/1 BPPM - Balai Penelitian Perkebunan Medan/Bogor.



- 14 -
for developing vaccines for control of animal diseases and would serve as a
national reference center for all econonically important animal diseases in
Indonesia.
2.22      The Animal Husbandry Research Instit:ute works primarily on improv-
ing livestock productivity. So far, its focus has been mainly on artificial
insemination. During Repelita III, more attertion would be given to small
ruminants, increasing fertility rates and reducing early mortality among
existing cattle and buffalo breeds, to raising milk yields, and to improving
the performance and breeds of cattle, pigs, and chickens, all of which have
low growth rat:es. It would also concentrate on the introduction of
livestock into tree crop-based agriculture, improving pastures and making
better use of various local food by-products as feed. These two livestock
research institutes under AARD have lacked facilities and experienced
researchers; this would be remedied under the proposed project.
2.23      The Center for Animal Research and Development (P3T) at Ciawi,
near Bogor, under the DGLS (para. 2.02) carries out nutritional research
with poultry, ducks, cattle, buffalo, sheep and goats with bilateral
Australian assistance. It was established in 1974, to strengthen and
complement livestock research in the two other research institutes.
Incorporation of P3T into AARD may be considered after the present project
with Australia terminates in 1984.
2.24      Fisheries.  The Marine Fisheries Research Institute at Jakarta
studies marine resources, fishing methods (craft and gear use), mariculture
and socioeconomics. It has two field stations: at Semarang (Central Java)
for demersal fisheries resource survey, and at Serang (West Java) for
mariculture, including a small laboratory for marine biological studies and
marine culture at Ancol (Jakarta). The Fish Technology Research Institute
in Jakarta can only carry out small-scale studies, and has no facilities
outside Jakarta. Proposed studies cover fish processing, preservation, use
of by-products, packaging, and feed for prawn and fish culture. The Inland
Fisheries Research Institute, Bogor, experiments on fresh and brackishwater
fish culture, shell-fish farming and fry production. It has a small field
laboratory at Jatiluhur for work on man-made reservoirs and a freshwater
prawn hatchery at Pasar Minggu, Jakarta.
2.25      Forestry.  The Forest Research Institute (FRI) at Bogor nominally
has three branch stations, but only one (at Wanariset, E. Kalimantan) has
any facilities (500 ha of natural forest, three houses and a large green-
house), and it has very few staff and no operating budget. In addition,
there are 14 experimental areas composed lar-el y of species/provenance trial
plots.  Emphasis is on problem-oriented researcl on the ecology, production
and regeneration of the natural forest, and on afforestation/reforestation
of critical lands. FRI's research program under Repelita III includes
botanical exploration, silviculture and forest rnanagement, choice of species
and tree improvement for plantations and agrisiLviculture (particularly



- 15 -
choice of multiple-use species in transmigration areas), studies of the
effect of forest type and management on soil, water and other environmental
factors, forest protection, wildlife management, sericulture and apiculture.
2.26      The Forest Products Research Institute (FPRI) has concentrated on
the identification of woods, characterization of species with respect to end
use, wood processing and preservation, extraction, and forest economics.
Future research and development activities would emphasize support to
transmigration areas in settlement preparation, construction and development.
Research would also be carried out on logging systems, waste control and use,
rural energy production, and wood-based homes. There is need for better
coordination and integration of FRI and FPRI research activities, particularly
in botanical/anatomical studies, forest inventory, control and management of
natural forest, and deforestation/reforestation in transmigration areas.
Research Centers
2.27      Soil Research.  The Soil Research Center is primarily responsible
for resource inventory. It is actively assisting the transmigration program
(para. 2.34) in the inventory, classification, mapping and evaluation of
soil and land resources for agricultural use. It also assists the Head of
AARD in guiding and coordinating soil fertility and productivity research
programs carried out by the individual research institutes. Shortage of
equipment and trained manpower has limited its ability to respond to demands
placed on it by other government agencies.
2.28      Agro-Economics.  Research on agro-economics is carried out by
the Agro-Economic Research Center, established in 1975 (under AARD) but not
fully operational until 1978, and the Agro-Economic Survey, which operates
on a contract basis, under its own Board, chaired by the Planning Bureau IHead
of the 21inistry of Agriculture. The Research Center has a staff of-20 and
has so far concentrated on analyzing secondary data. Proposed research
activities include agricultural development strategies, production
constraints at the farm level, optimum resource utilization, analyses of the
implications of various price and marketing policies for agricultural
commodities, organization of input supply and analysis of credit policies.
The Agro-Economic Survey has done mainly survey work under contracts from
external donors; it is presently involved in project monitoring and evalua-
tion of Bank-financed irrigation projects. In general, however, inadequate
agricultural economics research has been a major weakness in formulating
effective agricultural policies.
2.29      Statistics and Agro-Data Processing.  This center links data
collectors and information users, and assists the Head of AARD in research
management through the processing, storage and retrieval of information in
a research inventory. It also provides for statistical consultation and
coordination, and support of data collection, processing and analysis
systems for all the research institutes. It will be responsible for manage-
ment of a comprehensive computer system, designed to serve the entire
21inistry of Agriculture, to be financed by USAID.



- 16
2.30      Agricultural Quarantine. While this is a regulatory rather than
research function, it enables AARD to control the introduction, processing
and evaluatior. of gEr.mplasum anid.         s t L   so    'for the various research and
development programs.
2.31      Central LibraryLo f_Agr. iuure arid Biology.  The Central Library:
(a) serves as a national agricultural library; (b) coordinates the research
institutes' own collections; (c) serves as the main center for information
exchange between libraries both at the national and international level, in
particular with international agricu:Ltural research centers; and (d) pub-
lishes scientific journals, bulletins, reports and other research materials.
2.32      A Programming and Monitorinag Center is being established under the
recent AARD reorganization, to prepare and manage the annual operating and
development budgets for all AARD unitss, and to monitor expenditures.
A director has been appointed to head the new center.
Transmigratiort
2.33      Research in support of the transmigration program has been carried
out by the Soil Research Center, CRIA, Bogor, and local universities. In
general the research undertaken is location specific and problem-oriented.
There is, however, duplication of research efforts, and transfer of
technology to farmers is weak. At negotiations, an assurance has been
obtained that an advisory committee on agricultural research for
transmigration, comprising officials from the Ministry of Public Works, the
DG Transmigration, the DG Food Crops, the DG Estate Crops, Agraria,
universities and AARD shall be maintained to: (a) review ongoing and
planned research related to transmigration; and (b) establish priorities for
research in support of transmigration,
2.34      The trans-migration research program would be coordinated by the
Soil Research Centers  The main research activities would be:  (a) locating
suitable areas for transmigration; and (b) developing appropriate farming
systems.  The formerr would involve preoaration of general and detailed
resource inventories, through aerial photography and sample ground surveys.
Responsibilities for these rests -w.7ith the Soil Research Center with support
from BAKOSURTA.NAL./I  Field experiment; s to develop appropriate farming
systems for upland and swa ip areas would be carried out at about ten sites
to be selected in Sumatera, Kalimarntan1 and Sulawesi, with research inputs
from institutes in all subsectors.  In support of these experiments, the
Soil Research Center would conduct soil fertility pot trials, on soils from
potential trarsmigr.-tlon areao - a, its 14aros and Padang laboratories.
71  BAMOSURTANAL - iadan Kor.dinasi Survey Tanai Nasional - National Coordina-
ting Agency for Surveys and (appinrng



Funding of Agricultural Research
2.35      GOI has provided AARD with significant yearly budget increases
since 1974/75 (Annex 1, Table 5). In 1979/80 the allocation for research
(excluding bilateral assistance) was approximately Rp 17 billion (US$27
million) (see Annex 1, Table 6), about 5% of the Ministry of Agriculture
budget. In real terms, GOI expenditure on agricultural research has grown
by over 5% p.a. since 1975/76./i llowever, it represents only about
0.2% of agricultural GDP, which is about average for low income countries.
2.36      At present 9 foreign donors are assisting 16 research programs,
which are being implemented by 9 of the AARD research institutes, 3 Govern-
ment estate research centers and 3 universities. The contributions by
bilateral donors for agricultural research since 1970 have totalled
approximately US$25 million, and were for rice (USAID, Japan and Netherlands);
rubber and oil palm (Republic of Germany); coconut (FAO/UNDP); clove (U.K.);
animal bacterial and viral diseases, and animal husbandry research
(Australia, Belgium); grain handling and storage (Australia); fisheries (U.K.,
Canada, Federal Republic of Germany, Japan); tea (Netherlands); and plant
production and horticulture (Netherlands).
2.37      AARD total expenditure during the 5-year period 1979/80 - 1983/84
is estimated at Rp 140 billion (US$225 million), excluding bilateral assist-
ance. GOI contributions during this period are estimated at Rp 125 billion
(US$200 million), the remaining funds being provided by the Bank Group under
Research I (a portion of US$21.5 million) and this project (US$48 million).
3. THE AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT (NAR I)
3.01      NAR I was approved in December 1975.  It was restricted to four
principal commodity groups, taking into account the absorptive capacity of the
recently-formed AARD, the shortage of qualified and experienced research
staff, and the need to concentrate on the most important programs. The
project, with a total cost of $47 million and loan amount of $21.5 million, is
aimed at: (a) strengthening production-oriented research for rice, secondary
food crops, highland vegetables and rubber; and (b) improving agricultural
extension information. The project provides for 89 long-term and 44
short-term training fellowships for Indonesian scientists both locally and
abroad, and 62 man-years of foreign specialists (56 years for research and 6
years for management and administration) on short- and long-term assignments.
Construction and equipment for 4 new research centers, and one national and
nine regional agricultural information centers, are also included.
/1 The 1974/75 budget provided only a very small amount for AARD and is
therefore inappropriate to use as a base.



- 18 -
3.02      National research centers are being cdeveloped for rubber at Sungai
Putih and Sembawa; rice and secondary crops at Sukamandi; and highland vege-
tables at Lembang.  ihe centers are located in the main production areas of
particular crops. Agreements were reached with GOI at appraisal that the
Estate Crops Research Institute, Miedan, the CerLtral Research Institute for
Agriculture, Bogor, and the Horticultural Research Institute, Pasar Minggu
would be responsible for the research programs for rubber, rice and secondary
crops, and highland vegetables respectively.  On completion of the facilities,
the new centers would be ranked equivalent to existing institutes. The scope
and function of the centers remain as agreed at appraisal and development of
the facilities are in progress.  However, there! has been a shift in the status
of the centers, resulting from the reorganization of AARD (para. 2.04).
3.03      The International Agricultural Development Services (IADS) has a
comprehensive contract to provide support for project implementation, includ-
ing management advice, provision of program, research and procuremnent special-
ists, management of the training program, financial management, and assistance
with organizing and conducting workshops for research planning and review.
Six specialists (260 man-months) on the management and planning of technical
assistance and training, as well as aspects of project implementation and
procurement, have provided good support for the program. Two more specialists
(44 man-months3 are planned for the rice program, 2 for secondary crops (40
nan-months), 3 each for rubber and vegetable (144 man-months) and 2 agro-
economists (48 man-months), through December 1981.  Short-term specialists
have already been identified for specific problems and program reviews.
3.04      AARD was formally established in 1974.  It involved a major reor-
ganization of research responsibilities within the Ministry of Agriculture,
and the orderly transfer of responsibility to AARD with minimum disruption
to ongoing research. As a result AARD only became operational with its own
budget in 1976. Furthermore the PIU was initially weak, as its director was
only part-time. These factors led to delay in: (a) appointment of IADS to
recruit research specialists; (b) recruitment of architects for detailed
designs and supervision of construction of research centers; (c) selection
of suitably qualified AARD candidates who could be spared from important
research needs, and their placement in overseas universities. Disbursements
are currently approximately 18 months behind schedule. It is possible that
completion date would be 12 months behind schedule. The construction delays,
lack of laboratory and field equipment, and shortage of experienced staff at
regional stations have retarded all research programs except for rice.
3q05      The appointment of IADS consultants for the PIU and a full-time
PIU Director (July 1978) has facilitated project implementation. The design
of all civil works has been completed, contracts let and equipment purchases
are underway. The ongoing AARD research programs developed for rice,
secondary crops, highland vegetables and rubber are well conceived, but the
research centers remain short of trained and experienced staff, equipment
and miaterials. With the improved progress of the infrastructure
development, the return of local and overseas students, increased staffing
and the appointment of consu:Ltants, the research activities will be inten-
sified. Project progress is now satisfactory and should improve further
w:Lth the reorganization and strengthening of the PIU proposed under NAR II.



- 19 -
3.06      The rice varietal improvement program under the project has made
progress in the development of disease and insect resistant varieties.
Promising lines with combined resistance to brown planthopper, tungro virus,
bacterial disease and gall midge are now available. Varieties are also being
developed for ,J iiid and swamp conditions as well as cold tolerance.  Research
on secondary crops is aimed at developing varieties with desired characteris-
tics for different ecosystems, and for the cropping system program. A number
of improved varieties of secondary crops have been released, including a corn
variety (H6) resistant to downy mildew, two cassava varieties (Adira I and II)
resistant to mites and bacterial blight, a high yielding sweet potato (Daya)
resistant to weevil and two disease-resistant tomato cultivars. Experiments
are in progress on breeding, tapping, intercropping, fertilization, pest
control, and processing of rubber to serve both estates and smallholders.
Attention is given to potatoes, tomatoes, cabbages, peppers, beans, onions,
green leafy vegetables and carrots in AARD's vegetable research program.
Selections have been identified which are high yielding and resistant!
tolerant to diseases and insect pests.
4. THE PROJECT
General Description
4.01      The rapid expansion and broadening of agricultural research, as
called for in Repelita III can only be achieved if the concerned institutions
are expanded and strengthened and receive substantial technical assistance.
For rice, secondary food crops, highland vegetables, and rubber, assistance is
being provided under NAR I. The proposed project would assist the remaining
subsectors (fruits, lowland vegetables, livestock, fisheries, forestry, estate
crops other than rubber, and industrial crops), and would strengthen the
overall institutional framework for agricultural research to ensure the
success of NAR I. It would complement the Agricultural Extension II Project,
the Smallholder Rubber Development Project, the proposed Smallholder Coconut
Development Project, and the proposed Seeds II Project, which, either receive
or are proposed, for Bank-Group assistance, and enable agricultural research
to keep in step with the overall agricultural development program. Project
components were selected so as not to overlap with bilateral aid programs.
4.02      The proposed project would help provide the consultancy, training
and physical facilities to assist the recent AARD reorganization to be
implemented successfully. The project would include:
(a)  overseas and local training for AARD staff;
(b)  48 man-years of long-term and 11 man-years of short-term technical
assistance in a wide range of research activities;
(c)  physical development of existing research centers and institutes,
and 3 new fishery research institutes through:



- 20 -
(i)  construction of research buildings and staff housing;
(ii)  experimental farm/site improvement and expansion;
(iii)  provision of scientific, workshop and office equipment,
and vehicles; and
(d) incremental operating expenses associated with (a) to (c) above.
4.03       Training under the project would be a continuation of that financed
under NAR I. It would therefore begin around September 1981 (the start of
the scholastic year) when funds under NAR I for this component will have
been fully utilized. The technical assistance i-or AARD headquarters would
also be a continuation of NAR I, and would start: around the end of 1981.
Other consultancy would not be needed until the new facilities were ready,
and would therefore begin around 1983. In accordance with the lessons
learned from NAR I and other Bank-Group assisted research projects,/l the
training and technical assistance components would be implemented over eight
years (1981/82-1988/89). This is necessary so that trainees who left in
project years 4 and 5, for up to 3 years' training abroad, would be assured
of financial support throughout, and to allow 3-year consultancy assignments
to begin when needed in years 4 and 5 after physical facilities are completed.
Preliminary designs for the new research facilities and other buildings have
already been prepared, and detailed design work is beginning. Tender docu-
ments are expected to be ready around January 1981, and tendering to take
place from April 1981, with construction starting around August 1981. Con-
struction and procurement of equipment would be over five years, 1981/82-
1985/86 (see implementation schedule in Annex 3, Table 1).
4.04       The project aims to meet AARD's most pressing needs.  In some cases,
this would requ:ire training, technical assistance, civil works and equipment,
all for the same research program. For other programs, only one or two of
these inputs are needed. Project expenditure would be for industrial crops
(24%), fisheries (21%), food crops (18%), estate crops (13%), livestock (10%),
forestry (5%), soils research (2%), the library (1%), and training for other
subsectors (6%). Project cost estimates are based on actual calculations of
the civil works, equipment, training and technical assistance needed, and have
been agreed with AARD. Experience with research projects has shown, however,
the importance of maintaining maximum flexibility, as each advance in research
may change the priorities. Accordingly, the detailed specification of equip-
ment, training and technical assistance would be prepared by AARD annually
(see paras. 4.07 and 4.08). Summary of project components, location and cost
is shown in Table 4.1.
/1 The World Bank and Agricultural Research Syst:em in Developing Countries
(draft Bank policy paper); and Agricultural Research in Spain -
internal Bank memorandum of November 2, 1979.



Table 4.1: SUMMARY OF BASE COSTS FOR PROJECT COMPONENTS BY MAJOR PROGRAMS
Training, TA and
Civil works                           Equipment                            Architects/Consultants
Location of works                       Farm & site               Farm &                                la  Technical   Architects/   Total
Commodity and       Institutes/  Stations/    Construction  development  Vehicles  workshop  Office  Scientific  Training  assistance  consultants   cost
other program         centers      farms        ----------------------------------------- ($ million) ----------------------------------- -----
Food crops          Malang        Brastagi           4.09          0.89         0.17       0.20      0.14       0.57         2.71       0.97       0.56         10.30
Solok
Palu
Estate crops        Jember/Kali  Sumber Asin         2.82          0.46         0.11       0.10      0.06       0.55         1.92       0.64       0.37          7.03
Wining
Medan
Industrial crops   Fialang        Natar              7.56          1.01         0.29       0.30      0.25       1.03         1.87       0.32       0.96         13.59
Bogor         Kayuwatu
Mapanget      Pandui
Kima Atas
Animal health       Bogor                            1.24          0.09         0.05       0.01      0.04       0.34      }          }
}  1.01   }  0.97        0.28          5.38
Animal husbanidry                 Sei Putih          0.87          0.27         0.06       0.05      0.02       0.08      1          }
Forest research }
Forest product  }  Bogor              -              0.42          0.04         0.06       0.02      0.03       0.30         1.27       0.64       0.05          2.83
research
Fish technology    Jakarta                           1.17          0.07         0.06       0.06      0.10       1.14      }          }
Ambon                                                                                                }          }
}  0.90   }  0.64        0.81         11.56
Inland fisheries   Gondol         Benoa              3.25          2.69         0.04       0.06      0.07       0.50      }          }
Bogor
(Cibinong)
Maros
Library                                                 -             -         0.01          -      0.16       0.62         /c            -       /c            0.79
Soils research      Bogor         Maros              0.60          0.04         0.03          -         -       0.46        LS          /c            -          1.13
Padanig
Other /b                                                -             -            -          -         -          -         2.11       0.97       0.07          3.15
Subtotal                                      22.02           5.56         0.88      0.80      0.87       5.59        11.79        9,15       3.10         55.76
Incremental operating costs                                                                                                                                     10.20
Project Base Cost                                                                                                                                          65.96
La Inicluding language training.
/b Includes all other trainiing.
/c Included in "Other".



- 22 -
Detailed Features
4.05      Civil Works.  Research laboratories, offices, and administrative
and support buildings would be constructed for seven existing research
centers/institutes, three new fisheries institutes to be established in
South Sulawesi, Maluku and Bali, and ten stations and farms.  Existing
facilities in the institutes for research on forests, forest products and
estate crops, and the industrial crops experimental farm would be
rehabilitated under the project. Housing would be constructed for some 400
existing and new staff, following government standards, and guest houses,
mosques, stores, garages, and screenhouses would also be built.
Experimental research farms would be established or extended at 12 locations
based on AARD survey team findings. Contractors would prepare sites,
including clearing, leveling, drainage and irrigation (as needed), internal
roads and fencing. Four local consultants prepared site plans, schematic
designs and cost estimates of civil works (see Annex 3, Tables 2 and 3),
based on surveys of each research site which reflect proposed research
programs and staffing needs..
4.06      Vehicles.  The project would provide 60 four--wheel drive vehicles,
30 light trucks and 5 heavy trucks, to be distributed amongst most of the
centers/institutes (excluding those provided for under NAR I).  The four-wheel
drive vehicles would be used by research staff for field visits; trucks would
be used to transport field inputs, field assistants and labor, etc.
w4.07      Scientific and Other Equipment.  Except for limited assistance
provided under bilateral aid programs and NAR 1, AARD is extremely short of
scientific and other equipment. The project would provide an extensive range
of equipment including optical equipment and balances, centrifuges, foliar and
soil analysis equipment, heating and cooling eqjuipment, mixers, physiological
and pathology equipment, and glassware. Other equipment would include: 30
tractors and attachments for experimental farm<;' land preparation; jacks,
drills, etc., for repair and maintenance of vehicles and equipment; and
furniture for the newly constructed or rehabil:tated offices (Annex 3, Table
3). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that AARD would prepare and
submit a detailed equipment list for the project, acceptable to GOI and the
Bank Group, not later than December 31 in each year beginning December 31,
1981.
4.08      Training.  The NAR I training component has been revised to
provide for 25 PhD and 30 MSc fellowships at overseas universities and approx-
imately 4 PhD and 30 MSc at local universities, Training under the proposed
project would include: (a) 70 PhD and 50 MSc candidates overseas and 50 PhD
and 450 UISc candidates at Indonesian universities (expected phasing is shown
in Annex 3, Table 5 and 6 and a summary of base costs in Annex 3, Table 4);
(b) 90 fellowships of an average period of six months for local short
courses for professional staff and for technical and management training for
supporting staff; (c) 75 fellowships of an average period of two months, to
support research staff for presentation of scientific papers at conferences,
seminars and workshops abroad; a list of conferences, etc. and the proposed
participants will be prepared by AARD a year in advance for government



- 23 -
approval; and (d) a language program for nominees for overseas training.
Assurances were obtained that annual training proposals, agreeable to both
parties, would be submitted to the Bank Group by December 31 each year,
starting in 1980.
4.09      Staffing.  AARD total staff has increased by approximately 10% p.a.
since 1974; taking into account the likely availability of suitably qualified
candidates, this is considered the maximum rate that could be achieved during
the next decade, and would suffice to meet the requirements of the National
Agricultural Research Program. The project training component is based on
this expansion rate. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that permanent
research AARD staff would be increased by 10% annually over the project period
of 8 years.
4.10      Technical Assistance.  The technical assistance under the proposed
project would complement NAR I and bilateral programs. The consultants
would participate in research planning and organization, undertake specific
research activities, provide continuity for key research programs while AARD
staff are undergoing training, and give on-the-job training to local
scientists.
4.11      About 48 man-years of long-term specialists would be provided under
the project, which includes an administrator/project specialist and a
finance and procurement specialist for PIU, for five years and three years
respectively, as continuation from NAR I, and a scientific communications
specialist in AARD headquarters. The remainder would work in the various
technical institutes/centers. The main research programs assisted would be in
estate and industrial crops, forestry, aquaculture, livestock, food crops and
soils. The consultants would include technologists/chemists, breeder/
geneticists, botanists, production economists, agronomists and forest and pest
management specialists (Annex 3, Table 7). In addition, bilateral assistance
is being considered for the animal health research program.
4.12      Approximately 124 man-months of short-term technical assistance
would be provided to the six commodity research programs, five support centers
and AARD headquarters. The short-term specialists, whose assignments would
range from a few weeks to several months, would include eminent scientists to
advise on specific issues or problems and participate on a regular basis in
research program reviews (see para. 2.08). Phasing and allocation of
short-term technical assistance are shown in Annex 3, Tables 6 and 8
respectively.
4.13      Based on recent contracts in Indonesia for similar services with
international firms, the estimated base cost of long-term specialists
(salaries, overseas allowances, housing, other overheads) would be about
$7,000/man-month. For short-term specialists, the base cost would be about
$8,600 man-month. As under NAR I (para. 3.03), to help ensure smooth
administration of the large training program and recruitment of short and
long-term specialists, a firm would be engaged to assist AARD to arrange for



- 24 -
these services. An assurance has been obtaine& at negotiations that a
consultant organization with experience and qualifications and on terms and
conditions mutually acceptable to GOI and the lBank Group would be engaged by
March 31, i981, to asslst AARD i-n administering the training and technical
assistance components under the project.  Their contract would spell out the
terms of reference and necessary quallfications of the individual consultants.
4.14       Consultants' and Architects' Fees.  General designs of buildings
submitted by the four local consultants financed under Research I are
satisfactory. Consultants would be engaged to prepare detailed designs and
final tender documents of the proposed research facilities. Architects' fees
are estimated at about $3.1 million, based on GOI-approved rates of 4.75% of
construction costs and land development for preparation of preliminary
drawings and tender documents, plus an additional 3.5% for supervision. This
includes costs for a farm development consultant and other planning
assistance. Retroactive financing of about $1.3 million for costs of
architects' preparation of Bank Group approved designs and tender documents
would be provided for expend:Ltures after November 1, 1979.
4.15       Incremental Operating Costs.  The project cost includes incremental
operating costs during 1981/82-1985/86 resulting from the project investment.
For 1979/80, the estimated total operating costs for AARD research units which
are being assiEted under this project are about Rp 6.7 billion ($10.8
million), of which about 35% is salaries (the remainder being fertilizer,
seeds, other materials, travel, maintenance and miscellaneous). Based on the
estimated ratic between existing investment and staffing of these units, and
the project investment and projected staff growth in them, incremental
operating costs (in real terms) are expected to grow fom 5% of the base
operating costs in 1981/82 to 40% in 1985/86 (anad reach 50% thereafter).
Annual figures are in Annex 3, Table 10. The QOI will finance all incremental
operating costs during the project period.
Cost Estimates
4.16       Total project cost, including contingencies, is estimated at about
Rp 63 billion ($102 million) of which 48% would be foreign exchange. Detailed
cost estimates are irn Table 4.2. The capital inputs for buildings and site
development comprise 42% of total base cost (wh-ch include minor local taxes);
equipment 11% and vehicles 1.3%; training, technical assistance and services
30%; and incremental salaries and inputs 15%. Estimated costs for civil works
are based on preliminary designs (para. 4.05); for equipment on data from
other research projects; and for training and technical assistance on actual
costs under NAR I.
4.1,-      Estimates are based on January 1980 prices.  A physical contin-
gency of 10% has been applied for civil works, 15% for equipment and
supplies, and nothing for training, technical assistance or operating costs.
Expected price increases over the implementatior. period total about 48% of
the base cost estinate assnmi.g the following calendar year inflation rates.



- 25 -
Table 4.2: PROJECT COST SUMHARY
Share of
project
Foreign      base
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total   exchange    cost
Item                                     (Rp billions)  (- -       US$ millions) --        (Z)         (%)
I. Civil Works
1. Construction                  7.57    6.19   13.76  12.11    9.90    22.02          45
2. Site & farm development       1.91    1.57    3.48   3.06    2.51         5.56      45
Subtotal                  9.48    7.76   17.24  15.17   12.41    27.58          45           42
II. Vehicles                        0.11    0.44    0.55   0.18    0.70         0.88       80           1
TII. Equipment                       0.46    4.08    4.54   0.73    6.53          7.26      90          11
IV. Training & Technical
Assistance
1. Training
a.  Long-term                 2.72    3.49    6.21   4.34    5.59         9.93      56
b.  Short-term                0.59    0.47    1.06   0.95    0.75         1.70      44
2. Language                      0.10    -        0.10   0.16    -           0.16       -
3. Technical assistance          0.16    3.06    3.22   0.26    4.89         5.15      95
4. Architects & consultant
fees                       0.29    1.65    1.94   0.46    2.64          3.10      85
Subtotal                  3.86    8.67   12.53   6.17   13.87    20.04          69           30
V. Incremental Operating Cost
1. Salaries & wages              2.27    -        2.27   3.64    -           3.64       -
2. Other                         3.69    0.41    4.10   5.91    0.65         6.56      10
Subtotal                  5.96    0.41    6.37   9.55    0.65    10.20            6          15
Project Base Cost        19.87   21.36   41.23  31.80   34.16    65.96          52          100
VI. Contingencies
1. Physical /a                   1.03    1.46    2.49   1.65    2.34         3.98      59
2. Price                        12.08    7.65   19.73  19.33   12.25    31.58          39
Stibtotal                13.11    9.11   22.22  20.98   14.59    35.56          41
Total Project Cost       32.98   30.47   63.45  52.78   48.74   101.52           48
/a  10% of civil works and station development + 15% of vehicles and equipment.



- 26 -
Annual Inflation Rate (L
Type of expenditure        1980   1981  1982-85  1986-90
Local                      15      15       10        10
Foreign                     9       8        7         6
Financing
4.18      The proposed IDA credit of $30 million and loan of $35 million
would finance 65% of total project costs (less costs of vehicles) and would
cover the full foreign exchange costs ($48.7 million), excepting the foreign
exchange costs of vehicles provided by GOI ($0.9 million), and $17.2 million
of local costs. GOI would provide the remaining $36.5 million from annual
budget appropriations. Retroactive financing of about $1.3 million for
architects' preparation of Bank Group approved designs and tender documents
is included (see para. 4.14).  Project financing up to 65% of total cost was
Bank Group policy in the agricultural sector on country grounds at the time
of appraisal.  This excludes vehicles provided by GOI under reserved
procurement.
Procurement
4.19      Contracts for civil works estimated to exceed $1.0 million, total-
ling approximately $15 million, would be awarded on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding (ICB), in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines.
Contracts for the construction of the ten stations and farms ($5.0 million),
which are small, simple in scope and scattered would not be of interest to
international contractors and would be awarded on the basis of local compe-
titive bidding. All research, farm and office equipment (US$7.3 million),
except an electron microscope (ICB), would consist of specialized or small
items for which local after sales service is ext:remely important. As they
would be widely scattered and purchased at intervals over the project
period, and since contracts for these items are estimated to cost less than
$100,000, they would be procured on the basis of local competitive bidding.
Technical assistance ($5.2 million) would be contracted through one or more
foreign consultancy organizations approved by the Bank Group (para. 4.13).
All vehicles ($0.88 million) would be procured locally and financed entirely
by the Government because of a ban on importation. Local contracting
procedures have been reviewed by the Bank Group and, with the following
assurances obtained at negotiations, are acceptable to the Bank Group: (a)
the PIU would prepare, by July 1, 1980, standard civil works contract
documents which, after approval by the Bank Group, would be used for all
project civil works; (b) bids would be evaluated in accordance with Bank
Group Guidelines; (c) for civil works and equipment/materials exceeding
US$0.5 million and US$100,000, respectively, documents would be submitted to



- 27 -
the Bank Group for review before tender and award; and (d) to avoid late
construction starts, bids would be received and processed without waiting for
the project implementation budget (DIP) to be signed; however, contract --ard
and execution would be deferred until after DIP approval. There are numerous
local contractors capable of executing the required works.
Disbursements
4.20      Disbursements would cover 100% of total expenditures for both local
and foreign training and local and foreign consultants, over an 8-year
implementation period (para. 4.03). All other categories would be disbursed
over five years. For civil works disbursements would be 60% of total cost.
For equipment, supplies, machinery and furniture, disbursements would be 100%
of foreign expenditures of directly imported goods, 95% of the ex-factory cost
of locally manufactured equipment, and 65% of locally procured imported equip-
ment. Retroactive financing of about $1.3 million (para. 4.18) would be pro-
vided for expenditures after November 1, 1979, and will be reimbursed against
work performed. The estimated schedules of disbursements and expenditures,
and the proposed allocation of the loan/credit proceeds are in Annex 3, Tables
9, 10 and 11 respectively.
Accounts and Audits
4.21      During negotiations assurances would be sought that AARD would:
(a) maintain separate accounts for the project;
(b) have those accounts audited by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank Group; and
(c) submit audited project financial statements, together with the
auditors comments, to the Bank Group within six months of the
close of each fiscal year.
Reporting
4.22      To assist AARD and the Bank Group in supervising, evaluating and
implementing the project, AARD would furnish half-yearly progress reports to
the Bank Group. The report would contain a progress evaluation on all major
project components for the reporting period and an expected schedule of key
events for the following 12 months. The report would include information on
physical progress, financial accounting, and comments on any personnel or
other constraints to progress. In addition, assurances have been obtained
during negotiations that AARD would furnish to the Bank Group the annual
report of AARD containing, inter alia, results of the annual review on
agricultural research for transmigration. Other AARD research reports giving
details of the progress of the research programs would be made available to
the Bank Group. Within six months of completion of the project, AARD
will submit to the Bank Group a project completion report.



- 28 -
5. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Benefits and Justification
5.01      Agricultural growth will increase smallholder incomes, food avail-
ability and foreign exchange earnings, which are all critically important to
economic development and welfare in Indonesia.  In the closely settled areas
of Java and parts of the Other Islands the primary need is to raise cropping
intensity and yields; in extensive areas of the Other Islands, it is to deve-
lop stable and profitable forms of agricultural land use. Among the research
areas which have already yielded results are breeding of rice varieties
resistant to brown planthopper and the associated viruses, of early-maturing
downy mildew resistant corn, and cultural practices for tree crops. The
research on cropping systems for upland rainfed areas of Southern Sumatera
has provided the basis for land settlement patterns in GOI's transmigration
program in Sumatera and elsewhere. Investments in research have also con-
tributed to the growing pool of experienced local agricultural expertise.
5.02      Quantification of resources required to achieve research objectives
is highly speculative. Although Indonesia can and often has benefitted fron
the research findings in other countries or international research centers
(e.g. IRRI, AVRDC), experience has shown the importance of in-country research
to adapt the findings to local conditions. This is especially important in a
country as ecologically and economically diverse as Indonesia. Indonesia
ranks behind countries such as Thailand, the Philippines, and lIalaysia
in terms of agricultural research scientists and expenditures in relation to
agricultural population or gross agricultural domestic product (Annex 4).
The proposed project would enable GOI to broaden and deepen its research
effort, and to maintain its recent 10% p.a. growth rate of research staff and
expenditure. This would eventually raise Indonesia's relative resource
allocation to agricultural research to the levelL of other Asian countries,
and increases AARD's capability in providing the support needed to meet the
development objectives of the agricultural sector.
5.03      As in other Bank Group assisted agricultural research projects, no
attempt has been made to quantify the economic rate of return, ex ante, due
to:
(a)  inherent uncertainties regarding the timing and value of research
findings, and the timing and extent of adoption of research
findings by farmers;
(b)  difficulties in dividing potential benefits between research and
complementary investments (e.g., irrigation, extension, training);
(c)  the problem of assessing the value of negative research results,
which add to the pool of knowledge and frequently benefit subsequent
research efforts; and
(d)  the fact that the proposed project, especially in its manpower
development, institution-building aspects, would only be part of
the larger research effort without analytically separable benefits.



- 29 -
5.04      Ex post evaluations, however, have almost always shown high returns
from research.  In Latin America during the late 1960s the economic rates of
return for research on maize, sugarcane, wheat and cotton is reported to
have ranged between 35% and 90%./1 A study of the green revolution in
India /2 gave a rate of return to research of 72%. Estimated economic rates
of return for developing countries average 42% for applied research and 60%
for scientific research related to agriculture./3
Risks
5.05      As with all research projects, there is considerable uncertainty
about what the research findings and hence the benefits would be. This can
only be reduced by ensuring, as the project seeks to do, that the necessary
human and physical resources to carry out research are developed and brought
together.
5.06      As noted in Chapter 3, NAR I is about 18 months behind schedule in
terms of disbursements due to various factors. Efforts to reduce the risk
of delay in the proposed project include an early start in the design of
facilities (preliminary designs for the civil works have been completed),
and arrangements to help ensure that procurement is not held up by budgetary
delays (para. 4.19). Delay is less likely for the proposed project as it
would build on the experience and expertise gained under NAR I, and the
strengthening of the PIU.
5.07      Linkages between research and extension services are not fully
effective in many countries (resulting in part from interagency rivalries),
and Indonesia is no exception. This is a major impediment to the transfer
of information to farmers and to the feedback of farmers' problems to
researchers. To deal with this problem, linkages between AARD, AAETE and DGs
would be strengthened under both this project and Extension II. Research
subject matter specialists will interact closely with PPSs at all levels to
ensure a two way flow of information. In addition, the research review
process would help ensure that multidisciplinary research teams focus on
practical problems and are responsive to farmers' needs.
5.08      Finally, there is always danger that the economic environment within
which farmers operate, together with a shortage of improved inputs, may dis-
courage farmers from adopting technologies made available by research work.
/1  Arndt, T.M., D.G. Dalrymple and V.1-7. Ruttan (eds.), Resource Allocation
and Productivity in National and International Agricultural Research,
University of Minnesota Press, 1977.
/2  Kahlon, A.S., Cost-Benefit Analysis of Agricultural Research Projects
Punjab Agricultural University, 1977.
/3  Evenson, R.E. and Yoav Kislev, Agricultural Research and Productivity,
New Haven and London, Yale University Press, 1975



GOI has recently expanded price support programs for secondary food crops and
is moving, wLth Bank Group assistance in some cases, to improve the delivery
of support services to farmers.
Environmenta.L Effects
5.09      Research programs would be designed to develop technologies which
safeguard the delicate balance of the agro-ecosystems, and at the same time
minimize health hazards. Sound integrated pest management practices will
be developed for major pests and diseases. Farming system research programs
will investigate methods of soil management which will ensure the produc-
tivity of tropical soils, including the effect of mulching on runoff and soil
loss, and the application of minimum tillage to production systems. The soil
and forest research programs would pay particular attention to conservation of
soil, water and wildlife. Special emphasis would also be given to the
environmental impact of land development in transmigration areas.
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      At negotiations, assurances were obt:ained from GOI that:
(a)  the position of PIU director would be continuously filled by a
qualified and experienced person (para. 2.06);
(b)  AARD would undertake biennial reviews by independent specialists of
the research programs and management of the five newly established
central research institutes and the soils and agro-economic
centers; periodic reviews will include detailed reports by
specialists on selected research topics and on completion the
reviews would be furnished to the Bank Group (para. 2.08);
(c)  an advisory committee on agricultural research for transmigration,
comprising officials from the Ministry of Public Works, the DG
Transmigration, the DG Food Crops, the DG Estate Crops, Agraria,
universities and AARD shall be maintained to: (i) review ongoing
and planned research related to transmigration; and (ii) establish
priorities for research in support of transmigration (para. 2.33);
(d)  AARI) would prepare and submit a detailed equipment list for the
project, acceptable to GOI and the Bank Group, not later than
December 31 in each year beginning December 31, 1981 (4.07);
(e)  annual training proposals, agreeable to both parties, would be
submitted to the Bank Group by December 31 each year starting in
1980 (para. 4.08);



- 31 -
(f)  permanent AARD research staff would be increased by 10% annually
over the project period of 8 years (para. 4.09);
(g)  a consultant organization with experience and qualifications and on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank Group would be engaged
by March 31, 1981 to assist AARD in administering the training and
technical assistance components under the project (para. 4.13);
(h)  the PIU would prepare, by July 1, 1980, standard civil works
contract documents which, after approval by the Bank Group, would
be used for all project civil works; bids would be evaluated in
accordance to Bank Group Guidelines, for civil works and equip-
ment/materials exceeding US$0.5 million and US$100,000, respec-
tively, documents would be submitted to the Bank Group for review
before tender and award; and to avoid late construction starts,
bids would be received and processed without waiting for the
project implementation budget (DIP) to be signed; however, contract
award and execution would be deferred until after DIP approval
(para. 4.19);
(i)  AARD would maintain separate accounts for the project; the
accounts to be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank Group; and submit statements together with auditors' comments
to the Bank Group within six months of the close of each fiscal
year (para. 4.21); and
(j)  AARD would furnish to the Bank Group the annual report of AARD
containing, inter alia, results of the annual review on agricul-
tural research for transmigration; other AARD research reports
giving details of the progress of the research programs would
be made available to the Bank Group; and within six months
of completion of the project, AARD will submit to the Bank Group
a project completion report (para. 4.22).
6.02      With the above assurances, the project would be suitable for a
Bank loan of US$35 million, with a 20-year maturity including a grace period
of 5 years, and an IDA credit of US$30 million, on standard IDA terms. The
Borrower would be the Republic of Indonesia.



- 32-                                  ANNEX 1
Table 1
INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Permanent Research Staff of AARD
(July 1979)
Ir/Drh         Res.
Research institute, center or office             PhD  MS  Drs/Dra  BS   Asst.  Total
AARD Headquarters/Secretariat                     -    -      14       5     37      57
Food Crops
Central Research Institute for Agriculture  9    E    147          65    286    515
Horticulture Research Institute                 2    3      61     41    140    247
Subtotal                                   11   11    208    106    426    762
Estate Crops
Estate Crop Research Institute (Bogor)          3    3      38     21      87    152
Estate Crop Research Institute (Medan)          1    -      36      8      92    137
Tea and Chincona Research Institute             1    1      14       8     66      90
Subtotal                                    5    4      88      37    245    379
Industrial Crop,
Industrial Crop Research Institute             -    7      40      32    143    222
Animal Health/Husbandry
Animal Health Research Institute                1    -      26      4      39     70
Animal Husbandry Research Institute             1    3      40      5      42      91
Subtotal                                    2    3      66       9      81    161
Forestry and Forest Products
Forest Product Research Institute               -    4      38     19      47    108
Forest Research Institute                       2    2      27     10      27     68
Subtotal                                    2    6      65      29      74    176
Fisheries
Fishery Technology Research Institute           -    -      13      9      15      37
Inland Fishery Research Institute               -    3      29     10      51     93
Marine Fishery Research Institute               1    2      23       7     28      61
Subtotal                                    1    5      65      26     94    191
Support Centers
Agricultural Quarantine Center                  -    -       8     19    140    167
Agro-Economic Research Center                   2    -      16     10       -      28
Central Library                                 I    -       4     16      35      56
Statistics and Agro-Data Center                 1    -      30      3       4      38
Soil Research Center                            2    7      22     16      60    107
Subtotal                                    6    7      80      64    239    396
Total                                       27   44    626    308  1,339  2,344
Source: Agency for Agricultural Research and Development.



INDIONES IA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURA1. RESEARCi1 PROJECT
Distribution of Scientists in AARD bv Discipline and Research Inatitote  /a
(July 1979)
Induhstrial  Animial Health/  Forestry/Forest
Food Crops           Estate Crops               crops       H_LshandL              Products                   Fisheries
Discipline                              CRIA      HRI    ECRI    ECRT    TCRI             ICRT       ANRI    AIIRI       FPRI       FRI       FTRI      IFRI     MFR1      SRC      TOTAL
(Bogor)  (Medan)
Agronomist                                l11      34       14         13       8          93          -         -          -          -        -         -         -         4       277
Biologist                                  10        3       -          -       -           -          2         -         17        IW          _        8        24         3         77
Breeder                                    31      26       12          8       3          19          -        15          -          -        -          I        -         -        115
Entomologist                               27        6       4          7       2           4          -         -          _          _         _        -         2         -         52
Pathologist                                11        9       7          5       2           5          8         -          -          -         -        3         1         -         51
Physiologist                               13        2       3          3       2           -          -         -          _          _         _        2         -         -         25
Soil Scientist                              7        -      11          8       3           -          -         -          -          -         -        -         -        53         82
Microbiologist                              -        1       2          -       -           -          -         -          -          -         3        -9
Bacteriologist                              _        _       _          _          _                   4         _          _          _                                                 4
Technologist                                B       29      23         14       1          11          -         7         19          -        1S        -         _         _        127
Agro-Economist                             14        7       4          5       -          18          -         9          -          -         3         2        3         _         65
Climatologist                               1        -       -          -       -           -          -         -                               -        -         -                    I
Weed Scientist                              -        -       4          2       -           -          -         -          _          _         _         _        _         _          6
Agricultural Engineer                       3        -       -          -       -            8         -         -          _          _         _         _        _         _11
Biometrician/Statiatician                   4        1       -          3       -            3         -         -          -          -         I        _          1        3         16
Chemtst                                     4        -       I                 i 11         -          _         _          _          _         I         I        _         8         27
Biochemist                                  -        -       -          2       -           -          -         -          -          -         -        -         -         6          8
Forest Utilizatton Specialist               -       -        -          -       -           -          -         -         20                                                 -         20       w
Forest Management Specialist                -        -       -          -       -           -          -         -         19          -         -        -         -         -         19
Animal Production Specialist                -        -       -          -        -                     -        10          -          -         -         -        -         -         10
Nutritioniat                                -        -       -          -       -            -         -        16          _          _         _         2        -         -         18
Veterinary Surgeon                          -        -       -          -       -           -          4         -          -          -         -         -        -         -          4
Mycologist                                  -        _ -                -       -            -          2        -          _          _         _         _        _         _           2
Parasitologist                              -        -
Silviculture                                -        -       -          -       -           -          -         -          -         21         -        -         -         -         21
Forest Influence                            -        -       -    -         -               -          -         -          -                                                           14 -  -      14
Forest Protection                           -        -       -          -                                                             In                                                t o -    10
Forest Mensuration & Evaluation             -        -       -          -       -           -          -         -          -          9         -         -        -         -          9
Sericulture                                 -        -       _          -       _           _          _         -          _         14                                                I t , -  14
Fisheries Management Specialist             -        -       _          _       _           -          _         -          _          -         _        12       15         _         27
Oceanografist                             .            _  _  _          _       _           _          _                                                             3                    3
Quality Control & Development               -        -       _          _       _           _          _         _          _          -         4         _        -         _          4
Forest Engineering                                                                                                         14          -         -                                      14
Forest Exploitation                         -        -       _          _       _            _         _         -          9          -         -                  -                    9
Total                               244      118      85         71      32         161         20        57         98         78        27        31       49        80      1 151
la Table to be revised before green cover.
Source:  Agency for Agricultural Research and Development, July  1979.
Key to acronyms:
CRIA - Central Research Institute for Agriculture
HRI  - Horticultural Research Institute
ECRI - Estate Crops Research  Institute
TCRI - Tea and Chinchona Research Institute
ICRI - Industrial Crops Research Institute
ADRI - Animal Diseases Research  Institute
AIIRI - Animal Health Research Institute
FPRI - Forest Products Research  Institute
PFI  - Forest Research Institute
FTRI - Fisheries Technology Research Institute
IFRI - Inland Fisheries Research  lnstitute
MFRI - Marine Fisheries Research  Inutitute
SRC  - Soils Research Center



- 34 -                               ANNEX I
Table 3
INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURLAL RESEARCH PROJECT
List of Research Personnel Under Honorary Status - AARD
(July 31, 1979)
Honcrary status
M.Sc.            /b
Research institute, center or office              Ph.D /a  (Ir.)  B.Sc.  SLTA  Total
AARD Headquarters                                    _         _      _
Food Crops
Central Research Institute for Agriculture         -        95    25    414       534
Horticulture Research Institute                    -        19      9     39       67
Subtotal                                      -      114    34    453       601
Zstate Crops
Estate Crop Research Institute (Bogor)             -         9     8      49       66
Estate Crop Research Institute (Medan)             -         -     -       -        -
Tea and Chinchona Research Institute               -         -      -      -        -
Subtotal                                     -         9      8      49      66
Industrial Croo
Industrial Crop Research Institute                 -         9     9    149       167
Animal Health/Husbandrv
Animal Health Research Institute                   -         2      1      6        9
Animal Husbandry Research Institute                -         5      -     26       31
Subtotal                                      -         7     1      32       40
Forestry and Forest Products
Forest Product Research Institute                  -         5      2     14       21
Forest Research Institute                          -         6     7      64       77
Subtotal                                      -        11     9      78      98
Fisheries
Fishery Technology Research Institute              -         2     -       4        6
Inland Fishery Resarch Institute                   -         6     5      42       53
Marine Fishery Research Institute                  -         3     -      21       24
Subtotal                                     -        11      5      67      83
Support Centers
Quarantine Center                                  -         -    10       -       10
Central Library                                    -         3      2     11       16
Soil Research Center                               -        13      1    124      138
Subtotal                                     -         16    13    135      164
Total                                         -       177    79    963   1,219
/a Not full tirne.
/b Sekolah Lanjutan Tingkat Atas (High School).
Source: Agency for Agricultural Research and Developmenit.



- 35 -
ANNEX I
Table 4
INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Proiected Growth of Senior Research Staff
Total at end
Item                       Present         Additional /a        of 8 years /b
Staff Related to Components
of National Agricultural
Research Proiect              Ph.D.  M.Sc./Ir.  Ph.D.  M.Sc./Ir.  Ph.D.  M.Sc./Ir.
AARD headquarters              -         1         -        -          -         1
Food crops                     1        37        20       75         21      112
Estate crops                   -         -        13       54        13        54
Industrial crops               -        44        16       45        16        89
Animal husbandry/health        1        28         7       15          8       43
Forestry                       2        63        12       40        14       103
Fisheries                      -        15         9       25          9       40
Research centers               4        25        16       54        20        79
Subtotal            8       213        93      308       101       521
Other AARD Staff
AARD headquarters              -         -         2       20          2       20
Food crops                    10       155        10       35        20       190
Estate crops                   5        82         6       33        11       115
Industrial crops               -         1         6      25          6        26
Animal husbandry/health         1       18         8       10          9       28
Forestry                       -         -         -       20          -       20
Fisheries                      1        38         -       15          1       53
Research centers               2        58         -       34          2       92
Subtotal           19       352        32      192        51       544
Total AARD Staff
AARD headquarters              -         1         2       20          2       21
Food crops                    11       192        30      110        41       302
Estate crops                   5        82        19       87        24       169
Industrial crops               -        45        22       70        22       115
Animal husbandry/health        2        46        15       25        17        71
Forestry                       2        63        12       60        14       123
Fisheries                      1        53         9      40         10        93
Research centers               6        83        16       88        22       171
Total              27       565       125     500         152    1,065
/a  Projected output from training program; numbers for the project are based
on information provided to the mission; numbers for other AARD staff are
based on the difference between the total training program and project
requirements.
/b  Present plus additional staff from training program.  Assumes that retire-
ments and resignations are compensated by recruitment of additional senior
staff.



- 36 -
ANNEX 1
Table 5
INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Summary of AARD Budget - 1974/75 to 1979/80 /a
Routine    Development                  Routine    Development
Year     budget        budget        Total       budget        budget        Total
------- (Rp million) ----                 (Rp million, 1979 prices) --
1974/75 /b      -         1,935        1,935             -        3,721        3,721
1975/76     1,664         5,919        7,583        2,869        10,205       13,074
1976/77     1,999,        8,904       10,903        3,029        13,491       16,520
1977/78     2,664         9,992       12,656        3,600        13,503       17,103
1978/79     3,274        10,985       14,259        4,042        13,562       17,604
1979/80     3,644        13,015       16,659        3,644        13,015       16,659
/a Indonesian fiscal year - April 1 to March 30.
/b Part of year only.
Source: Agency for Agricultural Research and Development.



-37-                                ANNEX I
Table 6
INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Budget for kARD - 1979,'80
(Rp million)
Development    Routine    Total
Research institute, center or office                 budget        budget      budget
A.A1D Headquarters                                    1,273           321       1,594
Food Crops
Central Research Institute for Agriculture          2,571           783       3,354
Horticulture Research Institute                       436           386         822
Subtotal                                        3,007          1,169       4,176
Estate Crops
Estate Crop Research Institute (Bogor)                701             -         701
Estate Crop Research Institute (Jember)               245             -         245
Tea and Chincona Research Institute (Gambung)         780             -         780
Estate Crop Research Institute (Sembawa)              178             -         178
Estate Crop Research Institute (Medan)                727             -         727
Subtotal                                        2,631              -       2,631
Industrial Crops
Industrial Crop Research Institute                    855           522       1,377
Animal Health/Husbandry
Animal Husbandry Research institute                   353           175         528
Animal Health                                         451           155         606
Center for Animal Research and Development            500             -         500
Subtotal                                        1,304            330      1,634
Forestry and Forest Products
Forest Research Institute                             326           168         494
Forest Product Research Institute                     403           179         582
Subtotal                                           729          347        1,076
Fisheries
Inland Fishery Institute                              463           150         613
Marine Fishery Institute                              527           132         659
Fishery Technology Institute                          171            56         227
Subtotal                                        1,161            338       1,499
Support Centers
Agricultural Quarantine Center                        125           341         466
Agro-Economic Research Center                          92             -          92
Central Library                                       230           129         359
Statistics and Agro-Data Center                       327             -         327
Planning Activities                                    32             _          32
Resources Conservation                                 75             -          75
Soil Research Center                                  504           146         650
Transmigration Research                               670             -         670
Subtotal                                        2,055           616       2,671
Total                                           13,015         3,643      16,658
Source: Agency for Agricultural Research and Development.



- 38 -                                ANNEX 2
INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCE PROJECT
List of Existing Research Institutes and Centers
Institutes /a                                        Location
1.  Central Research Institute for Agriculture               Bogor
2.  Food Crops Research Institute                            Baniarmasin
3.  Food Crops Research Institute                            Maros
4.  Food Crops Research Institute                            Sukamandi
5.  Food Crops Research Institute                             Sukarami
6.  Horticultural Research Institute                         Pasar Minggu
7.  Horticultural Research Institute                         Malang
8.  Vegetable Research Institute                             Lembang
9.  Industrial Crops Research Institute                      Bogor
10.  Industrial Crops Research Institute                      Malang
11.  Industrial Crops Research Institute                      Manado
12.  Inland Fisheries Research Institute                      Bogor
13.  Marine Fisheries Research Institute                      Jakarta
14.  Fish Technology Research Institute                       Jakarta
15.  Animal Husbandry Research Institute                      Bogor
16.  Animal Health Research Institute                         Bogor
17.  Forest Research Institute                                Bogor
18.  Forest Products Research Institute                       Bogor
19.  Estate Crops Research Institute                          Bogor
20.  Estate Crops Research Institute                          Jember
21.  Estate Crops Research Institute                          Medan
22.  Rubber Research Institute                                 Sungai Putih
23.  Rubber Research Institute                                Sembawa
24.  Tea and Cinchona Research Institute                      Gambung
Centers
1.  Soil Research. Center                                    Bogor
2.  Statistic and Agro-data Processing Center                Jakarta
3.  Plant Quarantine Center                                  Jakarta
4.  Agro-economic Research Center                            Bogor
5.  Central Library for Agriculture and Biology              Bogor
/a Those underlined are main institutes with branches at various locations.



39                                         ANNEX 3
Table 1
INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Development Implementation Schedule
_             I              I             I              I 1  
1979     I    1980          1981      I    1982     I    1983      I    1984     I     1985
I     I       I              I             I             I-             I            1
Project    I               I    PY-1     I    PY-2      I    PY-3     I    PY-4     j      PY-5
|Appraisal
I    1      ,            1.I II                              I              I              I
I Preliminaryl  I            Ix----Preparation of finall                j                             j
I Plans -------xl            I   I tender documents      I              I             I
I             I              II                                         I      I
Prequalification   I x I            Construction and
of bidders ------x I I I        site and farm development
Tendering period
I             I              _      I          I             I          I             I 
I             I             |              iBidding  Vehicle   I        I             I
I             I |           |periodl  delivery  I        I              I
I             I              1I                I                 I      I             I_ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _
I             I             I Preparation!         I                                  I
I             I | & approval I      I Farm & workshop equipment         I
of equip-  I        I          delivery                I
ment list  I        I                                   I
I             I             I              I       I     I                            I
I             I              I             |       |Bidding  Office furn. & equip.
1 .  T                              I |  |period      delivery          I
I         I              I             I       I      I                            L- 
I             I             |              I       I     I    Scientific equipment
I             I__. __| ______|I                 .      delivery         _
I             I              I             I             I              I             T 
I             I              I             I             I              I             I 
I         ~      ~I      I             lI                           l              l I



INDONES IA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Physical Accommodations and Estimate of Civil Works Cost
(Cost in US$ million - January 1980 prices)
Rehabili-
tation of                                               Shops,       Screen-
New          existing                                            stores, gar-  houses,
facility    facilities                Housing units                 ages, etc.  headhouses           Others       Total
Sq m    Cost  Sq n  Cost  Guest  Staff  Labor  Sq in  Cost  Sq m   Cost  Sq m  Cost   Sq m                   Cost   US$
Research Centers/Institutes
Forest Research                Bogor              -   -        700  0.12      -       6        -       570  0.07        -  -          -  -         100    0.02    0.21
Forest Products Research   Bogor                  -   -        800  0.14    -          6       -       570  0.07               -  -                  -    -         0.21
Industrial Crops            * Bogor           4,320    1.83       -  -        -      20      20    2,420  0.35        400  0.07    600  0.21         -    -         2.46
* Mapanget       2,970    1.27       -  -        -        3      12       642  0.10      400  0.07    600  0.21         -    -         1.65
Mlalang        3,650    1.54      -  -         1      16       4    1,564  0.20        400  0.07   600  0.21          -    -        2.02
Aniisal Hlealth                Bogor          1,800   0.76        -  -         1      10      16    1,376  0.25       400  0.07       -  -         900/c  0.16    1.24
Fish Technology                Jakarta          810   0.30        -  -        -       -        -         -  -           -  -          -  -           -    -         0.30
Ambon          1,470   0.62       -  -         1      10       -        900  0.13      400  0.07       -  -         280/a  0.05    0.87
Inland Fisheries               Condol         2,340    1.00       -  -        1      31        4    2,514  0.33       400  0.07       -  -         800/b  0.14    1.54
1iaros         1,620   0.68       -  -         1      19      10     1,890  0.26       400  0.07       -  -         700/b  0.12    1.13
Food Crops                   * I4alang        5,530   2.35        -  -        1      16        -     1,520  0.18      400  0.07   600  0.21        100     0.02    2.83
Estate Crops             /e * Kaliwining   3,650    1.54    800  0.14         1      18       12    2,192  0.27  1,600  0.27   600  0.21           400    0.07    2.50
IJedan             -   -          -  -         -       -       -             -           -  -          -  -           -    -        -
Experiimental Stations/Farms
Food Crops                     Brastagi         430   0.19       -  -         1       5       -        400  0.06      500  0.09   300  0.11          -    -        0.45
Palu             270   0.11       -  -         1       2       4       284  0.07      400  0.07    200  0.07          -    -        0.32
Solok            430   0.19       -  -         1       5       6       616  0.10      500  0.09    300  0.11          -    -        0.49
AnimAl R-TB-ndry               St Putih         340 0.14         -  -         -      i8      26     1,926  0.35       300  0.05       -  -       1,900/c  0.33    0.87
Inland Fisheries               Benoa            250   0.10       -  -         -       3       2        282  0.04      400  0.07       -  -         200     0.03    0.24
Cibinong           -   -          -  -         2      18/d     -     1,710  0.30       100  0.02       -  -         130    0.02    0.34
Industrial Crops               Kaytiwatu          -   -          -  -         -      34       8    3,068  0.40        100  0.02       -  -           -    -        0.42
Pandu            270   0.11       -  -         1       3      12       642  0.11      400  0.07   200  0.07           -    -        0.36
Natar              -   -        400  0.07      1       5       4        644  0.09      400  0.07    300  0.10         -    -        0.33
Kima Atas        270   0.11       -  -         1       2       4       284  0.07      400  0.07    200  0.07          -    -        0.32
Estate Crops                   Stimber Asin    270   0.11        -  -         1       2       4        334  0.07      400  0.07    200  0.07         -    -        0.32
Central Library                  Bogor               -   -          -  -        -        -       -         -  -           -  -          -  -            -    -        -
Soils Research to Support    Bogor                  -   -           -  -        -        -       -         -  -           -  -          -  -           -    -         -
Transmigration                 Haros            320   0.14       -  -         1       5       -        400  0.06        -  -        300  0.10        -    -        0.30
Padang           320   0.14       -  -         1       5       -       600  0.06         -  -        300  0.10        -    -        0.30
Total                                          -  13.23       -  0.47      -       -       -         -  3.99         -  1.52       -  1.85        -    0.96  22.02
(*) Location of Analytical Laboratories.
/a  Pilot plant, 150,000/sq m cost.
/b  700 sq m hatcheries.                                                                                                                                                      rD
/c  Aninal buildings.                                                      
/d Nine to be built in Bogor.
/e Analytical laboratories located at Jenber.



- 41 -
ANNEX 3
Table 3
INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Project Capital Cost,
(January 1980 US$ millions)
/C
Equipment
Farm &                Office
site      Farm/e    furni-   Scien-   Sub-                  Total
Civil    develop-  workshop   ture &   tific   total              /d  capital
works/a   ment/b    equip.    equip.   equip.  equip.  Vehicles    cost
Research Centers/Institutes
Forest Research              Bogor          0.21     0.02        0.01       0.02    0.04    0.07       0.03        0.33
Forest Products Research   Bogor            0.21      0.02       0.01       0.01    0.26    0.28       0.03        0.54
Industrial Crops          * Bogor           2.46     0.10        0.02       0.08    0.38    0.48       0.06        3.10
* Mapanget       1.65      0.19       0.06       0.05    0.29    0.40       0.06        2.30
Malang         2.02      0.09       0.05       0.05    0.24    0.34       0.08        2.53
Animal Health                Bogor          1.24      0.09       0.01       0.04    0.34    0.39       0.05        1.77
Fish Technology              Jakarta        0.30     0.03        0.01       0.05    0.69    0.75       0.02        1.10
Ambon          0.87     0.04        0.05       0.05    0.45    0.55       0.04        1.50
Inland Fisheries             Gondol         1.54     0.17           -          -        -       -         -        1.71
Maros          1.13      0.88       0.04       0.05    0.50    0.59       0.04        2.64
Food Crops                 * Malang         2.83     0.10        0.05       0.08    0.39    0.52       0.06        3.51
Estate Crops               * Kaliwining    2.50      0.30        0.05       0.05    0.44    0.54       0.08        3.42
Medan             -         -           -         -    0.05    0.05          -        0.05
Experimental Stations/Farms
Food Crops                   Brastagi       0.45     0.27        0.05       0.02    0.06    0.13       0.04        0.89
Palu           0.32      0.25       0.05       0.02    0.06    0.13       0.03        0.73
Solok          0.49     0.27        0.05       0.02    0.06    0.13       0.04        0.93
Animal Husbandry             Sei Putih      0.87      0.27       0.05       0.02    0.08    0.15       0.06        1.35
Inland Fisheries             Benoa          0.24     1.57           -          -        -       -         -        1.81
Cibinong       0.34      0.07       0.02       0.02        -    0.04         -        0.45
Industrial Crops             Kayuwatu       0.42     0.07        0.02       0.02        -    0.04         -        0.53
Pandu          0.36      0.16       0.05       0.02    0.06    0.13       0.03        0.68
Natar          0.33      0.25       0.05       0.02    0.06    0.13       0.03        0.74
Kima Atas      0.32      0.15       0.05       0.01        -    0.06      0.03        0.56
Estate Crops                 Sumber Asin   0.32       0.16       0.05       0.01    0.06    0.12       0.03        0.63
Central Library                Bogor             -         -           -      0.16    0.62    0.78       0.01        0.79
Soils Research to Support    Bogor               -         -           -         -    0.26    0.26       0.01        0.27
Transmigration               Maros          0.30      0.02          -          -    0.10    0.10       0.01        0.43
Padang         0.30      0.02           -         -    0.10    0.10       0.01        0.43
Total                                  22.02      5.56        0.80       0.87    5.59    7.26       0.88      35.72
(*) Location of Analytical Laboratories.
/a  Est. 45% foreign exchange.
/b  Est. 45% foreign exchange.
/c  Est. 90% foreign exchange.
/d Est. 80% foreign exchange.
/e Includes spare parts.



- 42 -                                 ANNEX 3
Table 4
INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Summary of Base Costs for Estimated Training and Technical Assistance
(January 1980 prices)
Unit       Total
Average        cost /a       cost
Item                                      Number   period            ($)       ($'000)
Training
(a) Long Term
M.Sc.
Local                          450    2.50 years    3,200/yr        3,600
Overseas                        50    2.33 years   13,000/yr        1,515
Subtotal                                                            5,115
Ph.D.
Local                           50    3.00 years    4,900/yr          735
Overseas                        70    3.33 years   17,500/yr        4,079
Subtotal                                                            4,814
(b) Short Term
Local                           90    6 months        1,750/mth       945
Overseas /b                     75    2 months        5,000/mth       750
Subtotal                                                            1,695
Total Training                                                         11,624
Technical Assistance
(a)  Long Term                           16    3.00 years   85,000/yr        4,080
(b)  Short Term                          62    2 mDnths        8,600/mth    1,066
Total Technical
Assistance                                                            5,146
Language Training                                                                 160
Total Training, Technical
Assistance & Language Training                                       16,930
/a Based on actual experience of AARD.
/b Includes participation in conferences, seminars and workshops abroad.



- 43 -                                         ANNEX 3
Table 5
INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Summary of Expected Long-Term Training ProAram
| ~ ~     ~ ~       ~ ~        ~~~ I  I  III              I         I          I
| 1981/82   1982/83 | 1983/84   1 1984/85 | 1985/86   1986/87 | 1987/88   1988/89 |
II                             I                    I          ~
Training Activities  i           i         i                                          I                    I
M.Sc.
Local               --i ---------------50                i          i                    i         i
----- --------------------60        I         I          I
--------------------------70
____----------------------80
-------------90-----------           1
_________00-----------1-   1
Overseas           ------------------------51           i          i                    I 1       i
I     I       I                 10------------------101  I  1
- ----------------------101
______-----------------101           I         I
--------------  -- _------10
l   l   l        l         t          |   1_________~~~----------------------51
Ph.D.               j          j         I          i         i          I          i         i          i
Local          i         i    i---------------------------     5    I         I          I
I         I          I   I                  -------------------------10   1  1  I
____-------------------------15   I
_-----------------------------20
Overseas            ---------------------------------101            j         I          j
I         I   I                     _--------------------------201  I  I
I         I          I   I__________-----------------------101            I         1
i         I          I         I   I                     _____-- - --------------------15i
I         I          I         I          I   I                     ____-- - -------------------151
i         I          I         I          I         I          I          I         I
Total Students Studying
M.Sc.  Local              50        110       180        210       240        270        190       100
Overseas            5        15         25         30        30         25        15          5
Subtotal           55       125        205       240        270        295       205        105
Ph.D.  Local               -          5        15         30        50         45         35        20
Overseas           10        30         40        55         60         40        30         15
Subtotal           10        35         55        85        110         85        65         35
Output of Students
(a) Individual Years
M.Sc.  Local                                   50         60        70         80         90       100
Overseas                                 5         10        10         10        10          5
Subtotal                                55        70         80        90        100        105
Ph.D.  Local                                    -          -         5         10         15        20
Overseas                                 -         10        20         10        15         15
Subtotal                                 -        10         25        20         30         35
(b) Cumulative
M.Sc.  Local                                   50        110        180       260        350       450
Overseas                                 5         15        25         35        45         50
Subtotal                                55       125        205       295        395       500
Ph.D.  Local                                    -          -          5        15         30        50
Overseas                                 -         10        30         40        55         70
Subtotal                                 -         10        35        55         85        120



- 44                                              ANNEX 3
Table 6
INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Estimated Phasing of Training and Technical Assistance
1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89   Total
TIME                ------------------------------  (man-mont:hs) ----------------------------------
1. Training
Long-term
Local          300      990      1,860    2,310    2,790    3,120    2,610    1,320   15,300
Overseas        90      360         650       830       870       710       490       200    4,200
Short-term
Local           65       67          68        68        68        68        68        68       540
Overseas         18      18          19        19        19        19        19        19       150
Subtotal    473   1,435        2.597    3,227    3,747    3,917    3,187         1,607   20,190
2. Technical Assistance
Long-term           6       60        120       162       120        72        24        12       576
Short-term         14       14         16        16        16        16        16        16       124
Subtotal      20       74        136       178       136        88        40        28       700
Total        493   1,509       2.733    3,405    3,883    4,005    3,227    1,635   20,890
COST                _______________________________ ($,000)  ------------------------------------
1. Training
Long-term
Local           80      268        513       654       8D7        899       745       369    4,335
Overseas       120      480        862    1,105    1,154          942       651       270    5,594
Short-term
Local          118      118         118       118       1L8       118       118       119       945
Overseas        93       93          93        93        93        95        95        95       750
Subtotal    411       959      1,586    1,970    2,132    2,054    1,609           853   11,624
2. Language Training  32         32         32        32         32        -          -        -       160
3. Technical Assistance
Long-term          43     425         850    1,147        850       510       170        85    4,080
Short-term        133     133         133       133       1:33      133       134       134    1,066
Subtotal    176       558        983    1,280        983       643       304       219    5,146
Total        619   1,549       2,601     3,282    3,197    2,697    1,913    1,072   16,930



INDON1SIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Estisated Phasing of L.ong-Term Technical Assistance
I          I          I          I          I l        I          I          |          |   Total    |
I 1981/82 I 1982/83 I 1983/84 I 1984/85 I 1985/86 | 1986/87 i 1987/88 | 1988/89 | man-years |
I                             1           j          f    I               ~ ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~I  I  . 1    Ij    ,Ij 
AARI) IHeadqtuarters                       i          I          I          I          I          I          I          I          I      8      |
Admintstration/program coordination                     -----------------------------------                                         
Flnance/procurement                                 - -------------------1------- -                                  1 - 
I.I                                                      I          I          I          I          I          I                I           I
| Food Crops                                 I                     I          I          I          I          I          I          I   2         |
Technologist/chemist                      I          I          I          I          I    -                1          1          1             1
Production economist                                                                    --------                        
|Estate and Induistrial Crops              I          I                     I          I          I          I |        |15 |
Breeder/geneticist                                              ---------1---------1---------
|Breeder/genieticist                                            I           -----------------                           
Agronomist                                                      I           -----------------                            
Pest management specialist                                                 1-----------------                           
Technologist/chemist                      I          I          I                     I     -----    1    1 1
Technologist/chemist                                                                  i          I     ----------- 
Production economist                           I          I                I         I           I -
I                                ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~      ~~I  I  I  I  i  I  I  I  I  II
Aninal Husbandry                           I                     I          I                     I          I           I |              3      I
Agronomist/forage                                                     -     -----------------                                       
I 1                                        I I                                                                                            6I  I  I  I  I  i  I  I
I Fi sieries                                 I          I          I          I          I          I          I                            6      I
| Aquiaculture                                                     I     --------------------                              
Technlology                                                                                 -- ----------------- 
Fo restry                                  I          I          I          I          I          I          I          I          |      6 
Forest botanist                                       ---------1------------------
Forest maniagement                                    ---------------------------                                       
Soil (Tranisigratton)                      1          1          I          I          I          I          I          I          |      3      t
Fertility                                                        --------- ---------1--------
Scienlific Communication                               ---------------------------------------------                                             I
48      I
I  I      I           I_ _,      I          I          I          I          I          I             i__ _



- 46                                 ANNEX 3
Table 8
INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Summary of Expected Allocation of Technical Assistance
to Major AARD Programs
Long-t:erm                    Short-term
Institute                                  specialists                    specialists
(man-yEars)                    (man-years)
AARD Headquarters                               8                              3.0
Food Crops                                      2                              2.0
Estate and Industrial Crops                    15                              2.3
Animal Husbandry                                3                              1.0
Fisheries                                       6                              1.0
Forestry                                        6                              1.0
Soils (Transmigration)                          3                                -
Scientific Communication                        5
Total                                     48                            10.3



-47-                              ANNEX 3
Table 9
INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                                 Cumulative
and Semester                                  disbursements
(US$ million)
FY81
Second                                          1.3 /a
FY82
First                                           2.8
Second                                          4.5
FY83
First                                           9.5
Second                                         14.5
FY84
First                                          20.5
Second                                         27.0
FY85
First                                          33.0
Second                                         39.5
FY86
First                                          44.5
Second                                         49.5
FY87
First                                          53.5
Second                                         57.5
FY88
First                                          60.0
Second                                         62.0
FY89
First                                          64.0
Second                                         65.0
/a Represents estimated retroactive financing of $1.3 million
for architects' preparation of designs and tender documents
(see paragraph 4.14 of text).



-48                                                    ANNEX 3
Table 10
INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PIIOJECT
Phasing of Estimated Expenditures
1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89              Total
Item                            -------------------------------(US$ million)----------------------------------
I. Civil Works
1. Construction & rehab.  2.65         8.36      8.36       2.65         -         -         -          -       22.02
2. Site & farm dev.          2.78      2.78          -         -         -         -          -         -        5.56
Subtotal             5.43    11.14        8.36      2.65                        _                       27.58
II. Vehicles                        -      0.17      0.71         -          -         -         -         -        0.88
III. Equipment                       -      0.06      2.14      4.56      0.50          -         -         -         7.26
IV. Training & Technical
Assistance
1. Training
a.  Long-term           0.20       0.75      1.38      1.76      1.97       1.84      1.39      0.64        9.93
b.  Short-term           0.21      0.21      0.21      0.21      0.21       0.21      0.22      0.22         1.70
2. Language                  0.03      0.03      0.04       0.03      0.03         -          -         -        0.16
3. Technical assistance   0.18         0.56      0.98       1.28      0.98      0.64      0.31      0.22         5.15
4. Architects & con-
sultant fees             1.54      0.67      0.51      0.30      0.08          -         -         -        3.10
Subtotal             2.16      2.22      3.12       3.58      3.27      2.69      1.92       1.08       20.04
V. Incremental Operating
Costs
1. Salaries & wages          0.19      0.38      0.58      0.96       1.53         -         -          -        3.64
2. Other                     0.34      0.69       1.03      1.72      2.78         -          -         -        6.56
Subtotal             0.53      1.07       1.61      2.68      4.31         -          -         -       10.20
Project Base Cost          8.12     14.66     15.94    13.47        8.08      2.69      1.92      1.08        65.96
VI. Contingencies
1.  Physical                 0.54      1.15      1.26      0.95       0.03         -         -          -        3.98
2.  Price                    1.59      4.88      6.96       7.29      5.82      2.05      1.80      1.19        31.58
Subtotal             2.13      6.03      8.22       8.24      5.90      2.05      1.80       1.19       35.56
Total Proiect Cost        10.25    20.69    24.16       21.71      13.98      4.74      3.72      2.27       101.52



- 49                                ANNEX 3
Table 11
INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of Credit/Loan Proceeds
Credit/
Cost          loan
Item                                         Total  Foreign   amount   Disbursement
---- (US$ million) ----         (M)
I. Civil Works
Construction and rehabilitation   22.02    9.91
Site and farm development            5.56    2.50
Expected price increases             9.55    3.06
Subtotal                       37.13   15.47      22.28        60
II.  Vehicles                                0.88    0.70
Expected price increases             0.29    0.20
Subtotal                        1.17    0.90       -            -
III.  Equipment                               7.26    6.53
Expected price increases             2.91    2.44
Subtotal                       10.17    8.97       8.33        /a
IV. Training and Technical Assistance
Training
(a)  Long-term                       9.93    5.59
(b)  Short-tern                      1.70    0.75
Language training                    0.16        -
Technical assistance                 5.15    4.89
Consultants and architects           3.10    2.64
Expected price increases            10.70    5.59
Subtotal                       30.74   19.46      30.74       100
V. Incremental Operating Costs
Salary and wages                     3.64        -
Other                                6.56    0.65
Expected price increases             6.69    0.26
Subtotal                       16.89    0.91          -         -
VI. Unallocated
Physical contingencies               3.98      2.33
Expected price increases             1.44      0.70
Subtotal                        5.42      3.03     3.65        67
Total Project                 101.52    48.74    65.00/b
/a  Disbursements would be 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported
equipment and materials; 95% of ex-factory costs for locally manufactured
equipment and materials; and 65% of total costs for locally procured
imported equipment and materials.
/b 64% of total cost, equivalent to 65% of total project cost net of reserve
procurement for vehicles (US$1.17 million)



INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Comparative Key Indicators of Research Sectors in Asia in 1f975
Agricultural   Number of       Research       Research            Research          Research
research      research    expenditures/   scientists/         expenditures      expenditures        Agricultural
Region/Country        expenditures   scientists  scientist/yr    million agri-         per capita          as X of            GDP as z
cultural         agricultural      agricultural        of total CDP
(US$'000)                   (US$'000)       population          population           GDP
ASIA                    100,000        10,210          9.80              16               0.153              0.16                  37
Low Income             86,803         8,949          9.70             14               0.138               0.15                  39
Bangladesh           12,500         1,555          8.04             25               0.199               0.31                  56
India                36,218         3,966          9.13             10               0.689              0.12                  43                      U
Indonesia            18,273         1,213         15.06             11               0.166               0.15                 32
Nepal                   690            94          7.34              8               0.059               0.07                 69
Philippines          22,340         2,000         11.17             91               1.018              0.51                  28
Sri Lanka             3,870           155         24.97             20               0.510              0.31                  36
Thailand              8,664           968          8.95             30               0.265               0.19                 31
High lfCoulC           i3,2zu         1,261         10.47             58               0.610               0.18                  26
Malaysia              8,467           313         27.05             51                1.380              0.32                  28
Korea (Republic)      4,740           948          5.00             61               0.306               0.10                 25
Source: Derived from supporting documents for Bank Agricultural Research Policy Paper.
.   .  o                                        t      4 .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



- 51 -                            ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Selected Data and Documents in Project File
A. General Reports and Studies Relating to the Agricultural Sector
A.1 World Bank, "Indonesia - Supply Prospects of Major Food Crops,"
Report No. 2374-IND, 1979.
A.2  World Bank, "Indonesia - Food Policy in Indonesia," 1978.
A.3 Government of Indonesia, "Repelita III - The Third Five-Year
Development Plan," English Translation, 1979.
A.4 Biro Pusat Statistik, "Statistical Yearbook of Indonesia," 1977.
A.5 Suprato Hs et al., "Cropping Systems Research in Transmigration
Areas, South Sumatera," 1978.
A.6 Directorate General of Forestry, "Country Report: Indonesia,"
Eighth World Forestry Congress, Jakarta, 1978.
A.7 Directorate General of Forestry, "Forestry in Indonesia, 1977,"
Eighth World Forestry Congress, Jakarta, 1978.
A.8 Sanusi Wiradinata et al., "Forestry in Indonesia," Fakultas
Kehutanan, IPB, in cooperation with USAID, Jakarta, 1979.
B. Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
B.1 AARD, "Supporting Material, Proposal for the Development and
Strengthening of the Agricultural Research Network in Indonesia to
Support National Development Goals," 1978.
B.2 P.T. Nizwar Data Management Division, "Development of Research
Scientists in the Agency for Agricultural Research and Development,
ARD, from 1978-1985," 1978.
B.3 AARD, Soil Research Institute, "Project Document, Land Resources
Evaluation with Emphasis on Outer Islands, INS/78/006," 1978.
B.4 AARD, "Forest Research and Forest Products Research, Research
Highlights," (unpublished), 1979.



- 52 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2
B.5 P.T. Encona, "Site Plans and Schematic Designs for AARD Facilities
for Food Crops," 1979.
B.6 Pan Asia, "Site Plans and Schematic Designs for Industrial Crops,"
1979.
B.7  PRW Architects, "Site Plans and Schematic Designs for Fisheries,"
1979.
B.8  Wiratman & Associates, "Site Plans and Schematic Designs for
Estate Crops, Animal Husbandry, Animal Health and Forestry," 1979.
B.9 World Bank, Indonesia - Agricultural Research and Extension Pro-
ject, Supervision Report, November 6, 1979.
C. Working Papers
C.1 National Agricultural Research Project: Major Crop Commodity
Groups Component, 1979.
C.2  National Agricultural Research Project:  Forest and Forest Products
Component, 1979.
C.3  National Agricultural Research Project:  Fisheries Component, 1979.
C.4  National Agricultural Research Project:  Animal Husbandry
Component, 1979.
C.5  National Agricultural Research Project:  Animal Disease Component,
1979.
C.6  National Agricultural Research Project:  Civil Works, Procurement
of Vehicles, Equipment and Project Capital Costing, 1979.



V~~~~~~~~ p
INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Organization of Ministry of Agriculture
LMINISTER
r  GENE RATEL                                                                 GENERAL
L                    | ~~~~~~EXPERT STAFF
PRO\A LCIAL
DIRECTORATE       AGENCYFOR          AGENCYFOR
DIRECTORATE       DIRECTORATE       DIRECTORATE       DIRECTORATE       GENERALFOR        AGRICULTURAL    AGRICULTURAL
GENERALFOR        GENERAL FOR       GENERALFOR        GENERAL FOR        LIVESTOCK          EDUCATION        RESEARCH &
FOOD CROPS       ESTATE CROPS        FORESTRY          FISHERIES         SERVICES          TRAINING &       DEVELOPMENT
EXTENSION
PROVINCIAL
REPRESENTATIVES
OF THE
MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE
WVorld Bank - 20817



INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Proposed Organizational Structure for Agency and Agricultural Research and Development (AARD)
F                                                             -| ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Project Implementation|
- -.                  -                    ., -I
--       -          -     -     -    --       -     -     -     -    -      --
CENTRAL RESEARCH          CERALALRESEARCH             CENTRAL RESEARCH           CENTRAL RESEARCH           CENTRAL RESEARCH
CENTER FOfR                  INSTITLTE                  INSTITUTE                  INSTITUTE                  INSTITUTE                  INSTITUTE             BOARD OF MANAGEMENT
PROGRAMMING AND_                   FOR                        FOR                        FOR                        FOR                         FOR                 FOR ESTATE CROPS
MONITORING                  FOOD CROPS                  FISHERIES              ANIMAL HUSBANDRY                FORESTRY               INDUSTRIAL CROPS
|    CENTER FOR              Researcl Irrtitutes   Hr Retaarch losrirres           ,Rsaare;institcts          Research Inetitctat         Research Institutes        Research Irstnttos
SOIL RESEARCH         I              _                                   j                                                  
CENTER FOR
AGRO-ECONOMIC
RESEARCH                             Patar-             Jakorta
_      Sckamandi         iEu|          Tcnlay                                                                             Manado |             Jemrber     Semowaw 
STATISTICS AND           Bne-         lmogSSa
AGRO-DATA PRO-            e                                                                                                                                       PEtid
CESSING CENTER
|            l     | ~~~~~~Martten   Malang||  aumi                                                                                                                                                    n
CENTRAL LIBRARY 
FOR AGRICULTURE
| AND BIOLOGY
AGRICULTURAL
| UARANTIN S
CENTER
Wortd Bank - 207B9
.~~~~~~~~
^  ,    ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Proposed Organizational Structure for Project Implementation Unit (PIU) of AARD
Director PIU/
Project Leader
Project Secretary
Offie fr           Oficefor Office for                     Office for                              Office for
Poffamice go             Procurement of               Building                  OFfinacefo                 Training
Programming                Equipment                 Construction                   and                        and
Monitoring                    and                       and                    Accounting                 Technical
MonitoringWVehicles  Site Development                                         Assistance
World Dank - 20768



*



IBR40114295
-      7                                                                                                                                                                          I/ 0114    '''O" 
~THAItA[OD                                                                                                                                                                      INDlItONESIAf035 
d A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1iL PNS./x                                                                                                             ATIONAL A~GRI(ULTUJRAL RESEARCH PROJE(;T 
z                                                                             !~~p PIN`F'~~~'000,  ,`/Project Reoeorch Centers t,flsitutes, stetkons, an d Forms
jC                    UNE                        N                                                  P......           P.5.CZ 0/O
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   0000 05UNTOAh00lj000CN1 /e  0/ 0045/0/
A/nI/OP/IA                                                                                                     es/n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~~~l NF 21L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k
(0/fl   ~                                                                     1                                                                   4                      0    foOf 0000 0000
>-o  oo~~~~~~4$H-                                                                         z                                                             0/TO~~~~~~&
1 W O/Mll~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~40E00000                                      A 000Ae0001/O0001Of/e  7100
Bo4O-~~~~~
t~~~~~~~09ff&0ef0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ -d
pd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-00~0000  f?fO00    0
ZJ  ~ ~             ~             ~            ~            ~1~~~~-Ak 5VIA ?2                             -     OfOOAtOdnleNC000100o.   RO,
'0AV                                                                                           Arfr,,jWESIn
~~~~~~~ '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~<~~~~.
OV~~~~~~~~~~Y                                                     ~opoo
SIGPR                                                                                               Oo   J en  e/
I                                                                      COP/f/A/MN ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 152~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~I1
Lb                                              F' I. 0? ,0..00,,                      02$[~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. 39   ~9. 4y~   6~  b, *7   j0
K!~~~LIMETtks~2
100'                                                                                                                   2/                                                 -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  .s



