LOAN NUMBER 1840 IND
Loan Agreement
(National Agricultural Research Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 16, 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1840 IND
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May /, 1980, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter
provided;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the International
Development Association (hereinafter called the Association)
to provide additional financial assistance towards the financing
of the Project and by the Development Credit Agreement of even
date herewith between the Borrower and the Association (herein-
after called the Development Credit Agreement) the Association is
agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to thirty million dollars ($30,000,000);
(C) the Borrower and the Bank intend, to the extent practi-
cable, that the pro:-eeds of the credit provided for in the
Development Credit Ag-eement be disbursed on account of expendi-
tures on the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the
Loan provided for in this Agreement are made; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).


﻿- 2 -
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions, in the Preamble to this Agreement and in the
Development Credit Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the term "Development Credit Agreement' mcans the
agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the
Association for the purpose of the Project, as such agreement may
be amended from time to time; and such term includes the General
Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, as made applicable to such
agreement, all agreements supplemental to the Development Credit
Agreement and all schedules to the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
thirty-five million dollars ($35,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreemt!nt, as such Schedule
may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower
and the Bank, for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement and to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1990,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.


﻿Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and one-fourth per cent (8.25%) per annum on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in the Schedule to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The provisions of Article III and Article IV
of the Development Credit Agreement are hereby incorporated into
this Agreement with the same force aad effect as if fully set
forth herein, provided that, all references to the Association
therein shall be deemed references to the Bank and all references
to the Credit Account therein shall be deemed references to the
Loan Account.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, special security from the member con-
cerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allo-
cation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien
shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no
cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower,
in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot


﻿be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and
at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public
assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any administrative subdivision
thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or operating for
the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such subdivision,
including gold and foreign exchange assets held by any institution
performing the functions of a central bank or exchange stabili-
zation fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, that the event described
in Section 5.01 of the Development Credit Agreement shall occur.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that the event specified in
Section 5.01 of the Development Credit Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness
of the Development Credit Agreement have been fulfilled, save
only the effectiveness of this Agreement.


﻿- 5 -
Section 6.02. The date July/6, 1980 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
c/o Director General for International
Monetary Affairs
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 4
Jakarta
Indonesia
Cable address:                    Telex:
MINISTRY FINANCE                 DJMLN   JKT 45799
Jakarta                          DITJMON JKT 46415
DEPKEU JKT 44319
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 6 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
beginning November 1, 1985
through   November 1, 1999                 1,165,000
On May 1, 2000                                  1,215,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 8 --
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                  1.25%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                         2.50%
More than six but not more
than eleven years
before maturity                                  4.55%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                            6.60%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years before maturity                            7.40%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                                  8.25%


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this   /e     day ofJ       , 198 lt.
FOR SECRETARY


