EcA-s REDIT NUMBER 1014 IND
Development Credit Agreement
(National Agricultural Research Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May      1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1014 IND
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May /, 1980, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the Bank to provide
additional assistance towards the financing of the Project and
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and
the Bank (hereinafter called the Loan Agreement) the Bank is
agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to thirty-five million dollars ($35,000,000)
(hereinafter called the Loan);
(C) the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in
this Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures on the
Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan provided
for in the Loan AgreeDant are made; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the


﻿- 2 -
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Bank for the purpose of
the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to time;
and such term includes the General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
as made applicable to such agreement, all agreements supplemental
to the Loan Agreement and all schedules to the Loan Agreement;
(b) "AARD" means the Agency for Agricultural Research
and Development in the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture estab-
lished and operating pursuant to Presidential Decrees Nos. 44 and
45 of 1974 and No. 47 of 1979; and
(c) "PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit established
in AARD pursuant to Section 3.01 (a) (i) of the Loan Agreement
(Agricultural Research and Extension Project) between the Borrower
and the Bank dated December 19, 1975 and therein referred to
as "PIU Research".
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to thirty million dollars ($30,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reason-able cost of goods and
services requi-ed for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
or the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿- 3 -
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June '0, 1990, or
such later date as the Association shall establish.    The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each January
15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 1990, and ending January 15,
2030, each installment to and including the installment payable on
January 15, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through AARD with due diligence and efficiency and in con-
formity with appropriate administrative, agricultural, engineer-
ing, research and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out Part C of the Project (Training) and in carrying out Part D
of the Project (Technical Assistance), the Borrower shall, not
later than March 31, 1981 or such other date as the Borrower
and the Association shall agree, employ a consultant organization
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Associa-
tion.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall ensure that the position
of Director of the PIU is continuously filled by a qualified
and experienced person.


﻿Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take all steps as shall
be required to increase the number of permanent research staff of
AARD by not less than 10% per year from 1981 through 1989.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall cause to be undertaken
at least once every two years reviews by independent specialists
of its research programs, which reviews shall cover the research
programs and management of the five newly-established central
research institutes and the soils and agro-economics centers.
In addition such reviews sh.1 include detailed reports by spe-
cialists on selected research topics as necessary.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish such reviews to the Asso-
ciation upon completion.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower has established, and shall
maintain, an Advisory Committee on Agricultural Research for
Transmigration, which Committee shall annually (i) review on-going
and planned research related to transmigration and (ii) establish
priorities for research in support of transmigration.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
annual report of AARD which report, inter alia, shall reflect the
results of the annual review on agricultural research for trans-
migration. Other AARD research reports shall be made available to
the Association upon request.
Section 3.07. In carrying out Part B of the Project, a
list of equipment acceptable to the Borrower and the Association
shall be prepared, not later than December 31 in each year begin-
ning December 31, 1981, setting forth the equipment required under
said Part of the Project for the Borrower's succeeding financial
year.
Section 3.08. In carrying out Part C o' the Project (Train-
ing), the Borrower shall not later than December 31 in each
year, furnish to the Associatiin for its approval a training
program to be carried out in the 12 month period starting February
1 of the following year, the first such program to be furnished to
the Association not later than December 31, 1980.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof


﻿- 5 -
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material mo6ifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association at regul,r intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and
rights in respect of land as shall be required for the construc-
tion and operation of the facilities included in the Project.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause AARD to maintain
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations and
financial condition of AARD including, without limitation to
the foregoing, separate accounts reflecting all expenditures
described in Category (3) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement on account of which withdrawals are requested
from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditures.
(b) The Borrower shall retain, or cause to be retained,
until one year after the Closing Date, all records (orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing the
expenditures on account of which withdrawals are requested from
the Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditures and
shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall cause AARD to: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (statements of resources and expenditures
and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accor-
dance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested including, without limitation to the foregoing, a
separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the expenditures
and records referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement as
to whether the proceeds withdrawn from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditures have been used for the purpose
for which they were provided; and (iii) furnish to the Association
such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of AARD and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified


﻿- 7 -
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that Presidential
Decree No. 45 of 1974 or Presidential Decree No. 47 of 1979
or Ministerial Decree No. 190/Kpts/Org/V/1975 of the Borrower's
Ministry of Agriculture shall have been suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and adversely
affect the carrying out of the Project, the efficient management
of AARD or the PIU, or the performance by the Borrower of its
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof namely, that the event specified
in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely,
that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement have been fulfilled, save only for the effectiveness of
this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date July Ik, 1980 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
4.01 of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-8-
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
c/o Director General for International
Monetary Affairs
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 4
Jakarta,
Indonesia
Cable address:                    Telex:
MINISTRY FINANCE                 DJMLN   JKT 45799
Jakarta                          DITJMON JKT 46415
DEPKEU JKT 44319
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By           $a&Q
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 9 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit and of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the
allocation of amounts of such proceeds to each Category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit and of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Eouivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil works                   22,280,000       60%
(2) Equipment, sup-                8,330,000
plies, machinery
and furniture
(a) imported                                  100% of foreign
directly                                 expenditures
(b) locally manu-                             95% of local-
factured                                 expenditures
(ex-factory)
(c) imported but                              65%
locally
procured
(3) Training and                  29,440,000       100%
consultants'
services
(4) Retroactive                    1,300,000       As specified
financing for                                 in relevant
Category (3)                                  category
(5) Unallocated                    3,5650,000
TOTAL         65,000,000


﻿- 10 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country cther than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the curre-.y of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank and the Association that no
procteev- of the Loan or Credit shall be disbursed on account of
payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower
on goods or services, or on the importation, man2facture, procure-
ment or supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such
taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of
the procueds of the Loan or the Credit decreases or increases, the
Bank or the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank and the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement except that withdrawals, in
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $1,300,000,
may be made in respect of Category (4) on account of payments made
for such expenditures before that date but after November 1,
1979. In addition, except as the Borrower, the Bank and the Asso-
ciation shall otherwise agree, and until all amounts of the
Credit shall have been withdrawn or committed, no withdrawals
shall be made from the Loan Account except under commitments
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or of
the Credit or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table
in paragraph 1 above, if the Bank or the Association has reason-
ably estimated that the amount of the Loan or of the Credit then
allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance the
agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the Bank


﻿- 11 -
or the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Categozy, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan or of the Credit, as the case may
be, which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Bank or the Association are not needed to meet
other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursemei:t percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further with-
drawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures
thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank or the Association shall have reasonably deter-
mined that the procurement of any item in any Category is incon-
sistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan or of the Credit and the Bank or the
Association may, without in any way restricting or limiting any
other right, power or remedy of the Bank or of the Association
under the Loan Agreement or the Development Credit Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan or of the
Credit as, in the Bank's or the Association's reasonable opinion,
represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise
have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan
or of the Credit.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to strengthen the Borrower's agri-
cultural research capability by improving the national develop-
ment-oriented agricultural researcl, programs of the Borrower for
the following groups of commodities: foodcrops, livestock, fisher-
ies, forestry, industrial and estate crops (other than rubber),
and through assistance to the Borrower's Research Institutes and
Centers carrying out such programs under AARD and to further
strengthen the institutional framework for agricultural research.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Civil Works
Construction (and rehabilitation) of office and farm build-
ings, laboratory facilities, staff housing and other support
buildings.
Part B:   Equipment and Vehicles
Procurement of scientific and laboratory equipment and
related materials, tractors and accessories for experimental
farms, workshop equipment for the operation and maintenance of
such equipment and vehicles and furniture.
Part C:   Training
The training of AARD staff, including about 70 PhD and 50
MSc overseas fellowships, about 50 PhD and 450 MSc local fellow-
ships; about 90 short-term local fellowships; about 75 short-term
overseas fellowships which include staff participation in con-
ferences, seminars and workshops; and language training programs
for staff selected for overseas training.
Part D:   Technical Assistance
About 48 man-years of technical assistance in research
planning and organization, specific research projects and on-the-
job training, and about 125 man-months of short-term technical
assistance on specific research problems and in research program
review.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1989.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.
International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the ba'sis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offerei in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 14 -
Indonesia may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Indonesia if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in Indonesia equal to
at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid ?rice of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered i,- such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it


﻿- 15 -
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works estimated to cost less than
$1,000,000 equivalent shall be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding locally advertised in accordance with the Borrower's
procedures for such contracts, provided that, (a) all such con-
tracts shall be awarded on the basis of standard tender and
contract documents furnished to the Association not later than
July 1, 1930 and with respect to which the Association shall have
notified the Borrower that it has no objections; and (b)   para-
graphs 3.1 through 3.8, and 3.10 and 3.11 of Part A of the Guide-
lines shall apply to bid opening and evaluation and to the award
of the contracts.
2.   Contracts for research, farm and office equipment which
cannot be grouped in packages estimated to cost $100,000 equiva-
lent or more may be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally in accordance with the Borrower's procedures
for such contracts. Invitation to bid on such contracts shall be
issued, and bids received and processed as soon as tender docu-
ments are completed, and such issuance and processing shall not be
delayed. until approval by the Borrower of the Project Implementa-
tion Budget of the executing agency.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for Jivil works estimated to
cost $500,000 equivalent or more, and with respect to all con-
tracts for goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications- in the
said documents or procedures as the Asnociation shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.


﻿- 16 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of         ,
19L.
FOR SECRETARY


