Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Repot No. P-4115-MAG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATrONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
ro THE EXEClITIVE DIRECTORS
nN A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
[N AN AMOUNT OF SDR 9.5 MILLION
TO ThFE DEMOCRATIC REPUlBLIC OF MAD)AGASCAR
FOR AN
ACCOUNTING AND MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
Jatnnarv 17, 198h
This documne.t has a restricted distributh mad ny be ued by recipients onuly in the perfomnnnce of
their offiei  dti. lbt coutemlf -y not ohrbwise be dwislsed witnhxt World Bank a.thorizatin.



DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Malagasy Franc (FMG)
USS 1.O       =       F4G 620
FMG  1U0       =        USS 0.16
SDR 1.00       =       USS 1.09319
USS l.UO       =       SDR 0.91475
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS AND .4CRONYMS
CCM       -   Central Tender Board (Commission Centrale des Marches)
CFC       -   Accounting Training Center (Centre de Formation en
ComptabilitE)
CIDA      -   Canadian International Development Agency
CPA       -   Certified Public Accountant
ILO       -   International Labour Organization
INPF      -   National Institute of Training and Development
(Institut National de Promotion-Formation)
ENSCA     -   National Institute of Accounting and -tanagement Sciences
(Insticut National des Sciences de la ComptabiLite et de
l'Administratinn d'Entreprises)
IMATEP    -   Malagasy Institute of Planning Techniques
(insticut Malgache des Techniques de Planification)
MCD       -   Ministry of Cooperation and Developmaent of France
(Ministere de Ia Coop4ration et du Developpement)
KINDRA    -   National Auditing Cnmpany
SFA       -   Special  Facilitv Eor Africa (IBRD)
Certificates and Degrees:
"Baccalaureat"   -   At the end of upper secondary studies.
*Licence"         -   After three vears of university studies.
-Maltrise         -   After four years of university studies.



(i)                 FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
MADAGASCAR
ACCOUNTING AND MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Democratic Republic of Madagascar
Executing Agencies:      The National Institute of Accounting and
Management (INSCA)
The Central Tender Board (CCM)
Amount:                  SDR9.5 million (US$10.3 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard IDA terms
Project Objectives:      The project would assist in the modernization and
improvement of the management and operation of
public and private enterprises and would support
the Government in the implementation of policies
geared to the revitalization of the economy. This
would be accomplished through: (a) the training
of highly qualified accountants, auditors and
managers; and (b) technical assistance and
training for those responsible for procurement
matters.
Project Description:     (a)  Establishment of the National Institute for
Accounting and Management (INSCA) including:
(i) adaptation and extension of facilities
for an enrollment of about 360 full time
students; (ii) specialist services for the
operation of the school; (iii) fellowships
for future Malagasy trainers and; (iv)
operational expenditures of the institution.
(b) Technical assistance to a unit to be
established and attached to the Central
Tender Board (CCM) which would be responsible
for procurement training and advising, and
making recommendations for the improvement of
procurement regulations and procedures.
Tbis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offwl duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
Benefits:                 Through the training of high level managers,
accountants and auditors and assistance for
improvement of procurement procedures and
practices, the project should lead to increased
efficiency of enterprises and ultimately of the
economy as a whole.
Risks:                    Because the INSCA represents a continuation and
expansion of an efficient on-going program and
because of the simple and straight-forward nature
of the procurement component, ao major risks are
foreseen.
US$ Million
Estimated Costs                           Local     Foreign      Total
(a)  INSCA [excl. T.A. in (c)l             2.69       5.59        8.28
(b)  Procurement Assistance                0.02       0.47        0.49
Total Base Costs                      2.71       6.06        8.77
Physical Contingencies                0.27       0.60        0.87
Price Contingencies                   0.82       1.'4        1.96
Total (a) + (b)                       3.80       7.80       11.60 1/
(c)  INSCA, T.A. Provided by MCD 2/         -          1.50       1.50
Total Project Cost                    3.80       9.30       13.10
- - --US$ Million-         -
Financing Plan                            Local     Foreign      Total
IDA                                   2.50       7.80       10.30
Government                            1.30        -          1.30
Sub-Total                             3.80       7.80       11.60 I/
Co-financing by MCD                    -         1.50        1.50
Total                                 3.80       9.30       13.10
1/ Of which 0.05 million taxes and duties.
2/ The Ministry of Cooperation and Development of France (MCD) will
provide about 25 man-years of expert services and 6 man-years of
fellowships abroad for INSCA, estimated at about US$1.5 million.



(iii)
Estimated Disbursements:                 US$ Million Equivalent
FY87 FY88 FY89 FY90 FY91 FY92 FY93
Annual        2.0    2.0   2.2   2.0   1.0   0.8   0.3
Cumulative    2.0    4.0   6.2   8.2   9.2  10.0  10.3
Economic Rate of Return:  not applicable.
Appraisal Report:         This is a combined President's and Appraisal
Report.
Map: IBRD 18951



(iv)
CONTENTS
Page No.
PART I      THE ECONOMY .........................................                 I
PART II    BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MADAGASCAR. ..............                    4
PART III   ACCOUNTING AND MANAGEMENT IN MADAGASCAR
Background ........          . ... ..        ......     ..      .    8
Training in Accounting and Management .................    10
Procurement Procedures and Practices              ......      ..   13
PART IV    THE PROPOSED PROJECT
Project Background ....... . .                                      14
Rationale for Bank Group Assistance           . . .                 14
Project Objectives                    . .                 ..15
Project Components                  ....                            15
Cost and Financing...                                               16
Implementation                      ....18
Administration                          ...   18
Procurement ....19....... 19
Disbursement...                                                     20
Reporting, Evaluation and Auditing             . . . .20
Benefits and Risks                 ....21
PART V  RECOMMENDATION .21
ANNEXES
Annex I    Madagascar - Social and Economic Indicators Data Sheets
Annex II   Status of Bank-Group Operations in the Democratic
Republic of Madagascar
Annex III  Supplementary Credit Data Sheet
Annex IV   MBA Executive Program
Annex V      INSCA Projected Enrollment - 1987-1994
Annex VI   INSCA - Teaching Staff and Technical Assistance
Annex VII  Disbursement Schedule
MAP          IBRD 18951



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR AN ACCOUNTING AND MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Democratic Republic of Madagascar for SDR -
million (US$10.3 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to belp finance
an accounting and management training project. The French Government would
cofinance the project through the provision of technical assistance and
fellowships on a grant basis estimated at US$1.5 million equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled  Current Economic Situation and Prospects-
dated October 25, 1984, was distributed on November 6, 1984, to the
Executive Directors and to participants of the Madagascar Consultative
Group Meeting, and is available as document 5154-MAG. An economic mission
visited Madagascar in September 1985. Its preliminary conclusions are
given below. 4Country data sheets are provided in Annex I to this report.
3.        Madagascar, with a population of 9.7 million and a GNP per capita
of about US$270 in 1984, is among the poorest countries in the world.  It
is a sparsely settled country, with a population density of about 16
persons per square kilometer. Although the country is generally well
endowed with natural resources and a variety of soils, there are
considerable regional variations in ecology and climate. The central
plateau, the economically most advanced region, has a subtropical to
temperate climate. The South is the poorest region, with an arid climate
and infertile soils. The eastern region has a tropical climate and,
although the region is rich agriculturally, crops are frequently devastated
by cyclones. Agriculture accounts for about 40 percent of GDP; about 80
percent of the population lives in rural areas, and agricultural products
account for about 80 percent of the country's export earnings.
4.        In the decade following independence in 1960, Madagascar's gross
domestic product grew at an average rate of 3%, reflecting the country's
substantial and varied endowments. Agriculture was the source of much of
this growth, while manufacturing, temporarily benefitting from increased
protection, gained in relative importance. After 1972, the Government
embarked on an inward-looking economic strategy, based on an extension of



-2-
the public sector, decentralization to new local institutions (the
fokonolona system), and nationalization of industrial, trading and
agricultural enterprises. Agricultural production declined owing to an
overvalued exchange rate, low controlled proddcer prices, and pervasive
state intervention in agricultural marketing. Real per capita GDP fell by
more than 25 percent during the decade 1973-83.
5.        Toward the end of the 1970s, the Government attempred to
stimulate the expansion of the economy through a large public investment
program. Rapid industrialization with emphasis on capital intensity and
heavy infrastructural expenditure were accompanied by pricing and marketing
measures heavily biased in favor of consumers. The share of investment in
GDP, which had averaged around 13 percent from 1970 to 1978, increased
sharply to 25 percent in 1979-81. The financing of this massive program
contributed to a large public sector deficit (nearly 20 percent of GDP by
1980), inflation in excess of 30 percent both in 1981 and 1982, and a
sharply increased debt service burden (the debt service ratio rose sharply
to 52 percent in 1981 and to 72 percent in 1982). This debt service burden
has been largely responsible for the severe shortage of foreign exchange
which has been a critical constraint to economic activity. Also
contributing to this shortage was a drop in export earnings as the terms of
trade for agricultural exports weakened.
6.        The ongoing adjustment program.   In 1981, the Malagasy
Government began implementing stabilization measures (supported by a series
of IMF stand-by atrangements) in dialogue with the Bank and the Fund. The
most notable actions have been on the exchange rate and on consumer
subsidies. In nominal terms the average exchange rate vis-a-vis the SDR in
1985 was FMG675 compared to FMG386 in 1982, and after adjustment for
domestic and trading-partner inflation the real depreciation of the
Malagasy franc was approximately 25 percent. The Government has more than
doubled the nominal price of rice distributed through official channels and
substantially reduced the scope of official distribution; consumer
subsidies on rice have been virtually eliminated.  Madagascar's
stabilization efforts also included tax measures (e.g., increase of the
value-added tax rate, introduction of an excise levy on electricity
consumption, conversion of specific rates into ad valorem for several
excise levies and improvements in tax withholding procedures), expenditure
cuts, increases in tariffs of public enterprises and sharply curtailed
imports.
7.        As a resulc of these austerity measures, the overall public
sector deficit was reduced steadily trom 18 percent of GDP in 1980 to 5
percent  On 1985.  The current account deficit on the balance of payments
was also reduced from about 18 percent of GDP in 1980 to 10 percent in
1985. Fiscal restraint and tight money played a significant role in
reducing annual inflation to an estimated 10 percent in 1985. This



commendable performance at macroeconomic stabilization will need to be
sustained in future, and reinforced with measures to mobilize domestic and
external resources and introduce structural changes so as to permit
resumption of economic growth.
8.        As of September 1985, the Government had complied with all
performance criteria set in the fifth IMF standby agreement signed in April
1985. Most of the important program targets have been achieved and all
scheduled purchases have been effected. In the second review of the
current standby, the Government has decided to accelerate the depreciation
of the exchange rate and agreed to continue this process under the sixth
standby agreement. A mission is scheduled to visit Madagascar in early
1986 to negotiate a program supported by a sixth standby agreement. This
agreement is expected to be presented to the IMF Board of Executive
Directors in late Spring 1986. A meeting of the Consultative Group
scheduled for April 1986 will, among other objectives, attempt to reach an
agreement on how to fill the balance of payments gap for 1986, and the
Paris Club is expected to meet shortly after the standby is approved.
9.        Despite substantial reductions in the volume of imports in recent
years, Madagascar's balance of payments situation is still weak, and is
expected to remain very difficult through 1990. To a large extent, this is
due to poor export performance and heavy debt service obligations, the
latter a legacy of large commercial borrowings during 1978-80. To date,
Madagascar has obtained four debt rescheduling arrangements from external
creditors, enabling it to lower the average debt service ratio during
1981-85 from 80 percent (scheduled) to about 40 percent (actual). In all
likelihood, Madagascar will continue to need such arrangements over the
medium term, until its economic adjustment strategy aimed at accelerating
growth and exports takes effect.
10.       Medium-range strategy.  As the stabilization measures have taken
effect, the Government has focussed increasingly on defining and
implementing a medium-range strategy that to put the economy on a sound
development path. The short-run emphasis is still very much on recovery,
notably in the key agriculture, industrv and transport sectors. The first
priority is to stimulate domestic prouoiction through, inter alia, allowing
market signals to operate, and encouraging private sector investment. The
policy package to promote this includes progressive liberalization of
pricing and marketing of agricultural and industrial products, increased
reliance on the private sector for investment and management, better
management of public sector resources, including public enterprises, export
promotion, improved management of foreign debt, and better foreign exchange
allocation mechanisms. Operating in a difficult short-term setting, the
Government has taken some measures, and is considering more actions to
reestablish an economic environment conducive to efficiency. Looking to
the medium term, the Government is acting on many fronts to rebuild the
institutional capacity to manage the economy, to provide basic public



-4-
services, and to promote sound investments, particularly in areas that
promise to support diversified exports and to reduce reliance on imports of
food and manufactured goods.
11.       There are good prospects for further policy and institutional
reforms to strengthen economic incentives and infrastructure in
Madagascar. The pace of such reforms, however, is constrained very much by
scarcity of resources -- particularly foreign exchange -- and qualified
staff to help implement economic recovery measures throughout the economy.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MADAGASCAR
12.       IDA credits to Madagascar amount to US$492.6 million (including
US$29.9 million from the Special Fund) and Bank loans total US$32.6
million. Bank Group assistance to Madagascar has been concentrated in the
key areas of infrastructure (including urban and social infrastructure),
agriculture and energy. Since the start of Bank Group involvement in
Madagascar, about 34% of Bank Group lending has been for transport, 29% for
agriculture, 12% for electric power and petroleum, 12% for industry and
water, 3% for technical assistance, 4% for education, 3% for urban
development and 3% for cyclone rehabilitation. IFC has four investments in
Madagascar in textiles, footwear, and fisheries. Annex II contains a
summary statement of past loans and IDA credits as of September 30, 1985.
13.       In infrastructure, the Bank has supported nine transport projects
with IDA credits totalling USS177.78 million. Six credits (US$147.2
million) were provided for the construction, maintenance and rehabilitation
of highways. There have been one Credit (US$11.65 million) in 1970 to
improve Madagascar's main port of Toamasina and two Credits in 1974 and
1979 (US$19 million) to support the railway's modernization efforts.
Except for the fifth and sixth highway projects, all transport projects
have been completed. Urban infrastructure development has benefited in
1980 from a Water Supply and Sanitation Credit for the capital city of
Antananarivo (USS20.5 million). In addition, studies for urban development
financed by the UNDP with the Bank as Executing Agency led to an urban
development project (US$12.8 million) in FY84. In the social sectors,
education has been the major recipient of Bank assistance with two Credits
in 1967 and 1976 totalling US$11.8 million. A Credit of SDR 9.4 million
(US$11.5 million) for an accourting and audit organization and training
project which included an important training component was approved in
1981. In November 1984 a USS15 million Development Credit for cyclone
damage rehabilitation was signed with the Government. In January 1985, the
Executive Directors approved a first industrial sector credit for USS40
million, and in December 1985 a supplemental SFA credit for US$20 million
was approved.



14.       TLe Bank Group has supported 14 agricultural projects in
Madagascar. Five projects have been completed and eight are under
implementation. Lending for agriculture has included three livestock
development projects, four irrigation projects, two forestry projects, an
agricultural credit project, a rice intensification project and a cotton
project. Technical assistance support is also being provided under two
free-standing projects, one to study investment alternatives in the Plain
of Antananarivo area, and the other designed to strengthen institutional
development of key sector institutions and to support agricultural policy
reform. In April 1985, the Executive Directors approved an irrigation
rehabilitation project of US$12 million. In addition, the Bank has
appraised and is supervising the IFAD-financed Highland Rice Project
(US$30.0 million) to increase rice production by providing agricultural
inputs and by reorganizing and strengthening agricultural extension
services.
15.       Energy projects have also received growing Bank Group attention.
In 1978, IDA participated with several co-lenders in the financing of the
large Andekaleka Hydroelectric Project, which was successfully completed in
June 1982. A US$12.5 million Credit approved in 1980 for petroleum
exploration promotion is supporting the Government's efforts to develop a
domestic supply of hydrocarbons and to improve planning in the energy
sector. A heavy oil exploration Credit (Tsimirozo) in the amount of
SDR10.7 million was approved by the Executive Directors on November 16,
1982.
16.       Problems have arisen in the execution of a number of projects.
The main problems encountered include delays, cost overruns, deficiencies
in management and inadequate financial performance of project agencies.
Current problems center on difficulties linked to the country's economic
crisis, notably the acute shortage of foreign exchange and budget funds and
institutional problems related above all to the parastatal system. The
Bank approach has been to maintain intensive supervision efforts at the
project level and to address the generic problems through every instrument
available, from the Consultative Group through the Country Implementation
Review (June 1985) down to the macroeconomic, sectoral and project-level
dialogue, technical assistance and secondment staff. The Government has
been responsive and has welcomed this support.
17.       Since the start of our program in Madagascar, eight projects have
been completed and audited by the Operations Evaluation Department. The
Audit Report No. 1622 of December 1976 on the first Lac Alaotra project
concluded that the project was generally successful. However, the Impact
Evaluation Report No. 3600 of August 1981 concluded that earlier
assessments of project performance had been over-optimistic, and that the
actual rate of return was probably negative. The Audit Report No. 1143 of
April 1976 of the first education project concluded that the education and



manpower training objectives were satisfactorily achieved. The Audit
Report No. 5434 of January 29, 1984 of the first Railway Project concluded
that due to overruns and delays in implementation, the project had to be
downscaled and that the estimated rate of return was less than 10%. The
Audit Report No. 1559 of April 1977 on the Beef Cattle Development Project
concluded that the project had contributed little to Madagascar. The Audit
Report No. 2143 of July !978 concluded that the Third Highway project was
well justified and had a satisfactory rate of return despite substantial
cost overruns. Report No. 2299 of December 1978 concluded that the
physical objectives of the Tamatave Port project were satisfactorily
achieved but pointed out that the institutional objective was not
accomplished during project implementation because of inadequacies in the
staffing of the port authority. Audit Report No. 5403 of December 28, 1984
covered two agricultural projects: the Morondava Irrigation and Rural
Development Project was a profoundly disappointing operation, but the
Village Livestock and Rural Development Project contributed to laying the
groundwork for more effective services for traditional livestock owners,
with good prospects for sustainability.
18.      The program for Madagascar has been broadened to include sector
lending in support of priority recurrent imports. This process started
with the Sixth Highway project, which includes US$10 million for spare
parts for the rehabilitation of the private road transport fleet, and is
linked to significant changes in policy with regard to road tariffs and
regulations. The Industrial Assistance Credit aims at supporting
Government efforts in the rehabilitation of the industrial sector by
providing spare parts and raw materials to key industries. It also
includes a package of policy measures to liberalize prices in the
industrial sector, promote exports, reduce import restrictions, rationalize
public investment, and formulate a new investment code promoting private
initiative. Progress has been made on liberalizing prices, reducing import
restrictions and in encouraging experts. A satisfactory Public Investment
Program in industry for 1985 (US$10.6 million) was agreed with the
Government and a new iniestment code was approved in June 1985. A Credit
similar in design for the agricultural sector is being negotiated with the
Government. This program includes reform measures to imp.-ove the
efficiency of agricultural marketing, strengthen proddcer incentives,
define a food security strategy and an agricultural export program, and
improve management of public resources for agriculture, as well as
agricultural institutions and key services to farmers.
19.       The program for Madagascar in the next three or four years will
concentrate on the rehabilitation of existing infrastructure and on policy
based sectoral adjustment lending to assist the economic recovery by
providing resources to increase capacity utilization. It will be closely
linked with improvements in Government policies formulated to bring about
supply responses in industry and agriculture.



-7-
20.       Besides the program of lending for rehabilitation and sectoral
policy-based lending, the planned lending in the next two or three years
is expected to support projects in education, training, and technical
assistance. At the Government's request, the dialogue on the eduration
sector has resumed. In technical assistance the principal operation will
be a continuation of the Agriculture Services Project, which is providing
support to the two Ministries of Agriculture and public agencies involved
in agricultural research. A separate agricultural research project is also
a distinct additional possibility.
21.       Few entirely new projects are under consideration at this time,
and are in critical areas. A forestry project is under preparation as well
as an energy project and further petroleum lending is a possibility
depending on the outcome of current exploration. Another area of interest
is flood control and drainage in the Plain of Antananarivo, which are both
important to the development of this key area and linked to the previous
IDA involvement in the urban development of Antananarivo. Based on the
findings of a detailed port sector study carried out under French
financing, a second port project is being appraised and will be used as an
essential vehicle for institution building of Madagascar's main ports. All
these projects will require substantial co-financing.
22.       Bank economic and sector work aims at broadening the ongoing
policy dialogue with the Government. A major economic mission visited
Madagascar in September 1985 and its findings will be discussed at a
Consultative Group Meeting scheduled for April 1986. The mission reviewed
the current economic situation and prospects, and addressed more
specifically the issues of the balance of payments gap and the need for
concessional assistance including debt rescheduling. Substantial efforts
nave been undertaken to assist the Government to reassess and eformulate
its public investment program. A major energy assessment study has been
completed and will soon be discussed with the Government. A sector
memorandum on transport issues has been discussed with the Government in
the context of che preparation of the National Transport Plan for
1986-1990. A sector memorandum on education is under preparation; work on
a new agriculture sector memorandum is soon to begin and an analysis of
domestic resource costs in the industrial and agricultural sectors is
underway to assist the IMF on exchange rate policy. A mission to study
population, health and nutrition issues will visit Madagascar in February
1986. Consideration is being given to including Madagascar in the Bank
economic research program; a major study on equity and growth may be
undertaken.
23.       To assist Madagascar's efforts to mobilize external resources on
a coordinated basis, a Consultative Group has been established under Bank
Group auspices. The fourth meeting is scheduled for April 1986. Between
meetings, the dialogue with aid donors has been intensified through



-8-
informal meetings organized by the Bank's Resident Mission in Madagascar.
The Resident Mission has been strengthened under the Joint Program of
Action for Sub-Saharan Africa, and is expected to play an increasing role
in local aid coordination and in the policy dialogue with the authorities.
Several Bank projects have been appraised jointly with other donors.
24.       To assist Madagascar to strengthen its management and policy
formulation capacity, substantial technical assistance has been provided
through the lending program. In addition to technical assistance projects,
several ongoing projects include technical assistance and training
components in specific technical fields. A Bank economist has been
seconded to assist the Planning Directorate, and arrangements are now being
made to second a livestock specialist to the Ministry of Livestock, Water
and Forests.
PART III - ACCOUNTING AND MANAGEMENT IN MADAGASCAR
Background
25.       For a few years after independence most managerial positions in
enterprises established in Madagascar were still held by French nationals.
Subsequent changes in Government and policies affecting the enterprise
sector prompted the departure of most of these expatriates. The bulk of
those remaining in the country left in 1975 following the nationalization
of major foreign-owned enterprises. In this manner, most enterprises lost
their senior managerial and financial staff. The resulting shortage of
high-level staff has been a major factor contributing to the poor
performance of a number of enterprises. Another element which has
contributed to the poor performance of enterprises relates to the
lack of development of the accounting profession because of the outdated
nature of the legislation governing audit and financial reporting and
because it does not specify accounting and auditing standards to be met by
commercial enterprises and auditors.
26.       In its effort to address the above situation, in 1978 the
Government requested IDA assistance. During preparation and appraisal for
the project the detrimental effect of the above shortage of qualified staff
became obvious. For example, of about 500 companies which are required to
submit financial statements to the Income Tax Department and which would
have needed appropriate audits, no more than 10 percent could have been
served by local professionals of acceptable levels of competence since the
number and size of private auditing companies in the country is rather
limited. With the Government's present strategy of economic rehabilitation
and modernization, in particular regarding the industrial sector, the need
for high-level accountants, auditors and managers is increasing.



- 9 -
27.       In June 1981, a credit for an Accounting and Audit Organization
and Training Project in the amount of SDR9.4 million was approved (Cr.
1155-MAG) including the following components:
(a) Reviews of existing accounting requirements and professional
standards demanded from accountants and auditors in the country,
making proposals for improvement, including suggestions for the
revision and updating of existing legislation;
(b) Establishment and operation of an Accounting Training Center
(CFC);
(c) Strengthening of RINDRA (National Auditing Company) through the
provision of technical assistance and training to its staff; and
(d) Strengthening of the management services capability of local
management consultant firms through the provision of technical
assistance and training to their staff.
28.       After considerable delay, the review of existing accounting
requirements and professional standards for accountants and auditors is now
underway. This review had earlier met opposition from established
accounting and auditing firms. To reach a consensus, the Government
created a special working group comprised of a number of leading
members of the profession.  After long discussions, agreement was finally
reached in the working group on the need and the scope of the review,
detailed terms of reference for the study were prepared and a contract was
awarded to a consulting firm. The study began in early 1985 and is
expected to be completed soon. The working group will then review the
conclusions of the study and make recommendations to the Minister of
Finance. To prevent further delays, assurances were obtained at
the negotiations for the project proposed in this report, that the new
legislation will be enacted before the end of 1987.
29.       The CFC, the purpose of which is to train accountants and
auditors at various post-secondary levels (licence, maitrise, CPA level)
started operations in February 1983, in rented premises, with an intake of
100 selected full-time students in the first year. At present it has about
245 students (about one-third females) in day courses and over 200 in
fee-paying part-time evening courses. The rented premises will shortly
become insi-ff;cient to house all the accounting and auditing students, who
may exceed 300 day students when the three cycles are in full operation.
Thus, additional space will have to be procured. Because the CFC had to
request the services of an expatriate consulting firm to organize the
training programs, its operation has been more costly than anticipated.
Thus the CFC will exhaust its financial resources two years earlier than
scheduled under the first project. Additional resources needed to finance
technical assistance to the CFC are included in the proposed project.



- 10 -
30.       The ongoing technical assistance and staff training for RINDRA
scarted in mid-1982. RINDRA's management difficulties were resolved in
June 1984 with the appointment of a new Malagasy manager. Its financial
situation has now improved as RINDRA adopted a more market-oriented
policy. As a consequence, RINDRA has shown a hundred percent increase in
billings for services from 1983/84 to 1984/85, and for the first time a
positive cash flow in the latter year. A management consulting unit has
now been established within RINDRA and a contract for technical assistance
has been approved. In general the implementation of the project is now
progressing well and all components are expected to be completed prior to
the March 31, 1988 Ciosing Date.
Training in Accounting and Management
31.       Accounting and Auditing.  Until the creation of the CFC no high
level training institution in Madagascar provided degree courses in
accounting. Training of lower level accountants (bookkeepers, assistant
accountants) is provided by the Chambers of Commerce of Antananarivo and
Mahajanga. The latter operates the Commercial Technical School (upper
secondary level) with an enrollment of about 170 students (of which about
35 in the thiid and last year of studies). In addition both Chambers
provide evening courses in accounting at two levels, mainly for people who
are already employed. The numbers of scudents who successfully complete
their training are presently extremely limited, about 30 per year. The
few accounting courses offered in the University are of an elementary and
general nature and form part of the curricula of the economics and
management degree courses.
32.       To secure enrollment of qualified students, the CFC established
strict admission standards. First year intake is restricted to 100
students, who have undergone a lengthy process of entrance examinations and
interviews.  Notwithstanding the fact that up to now no student financial
assistance has been granted at the Center, as compared with the University
which provides such assistance to most of the students, an increasing
number of applications is being received. Thus, for the first year
(February 1983) when the CFC was little known, about 600 students applied;
the number increased to about 1,000 for the 1985 term. This increase has
been prompted by the good reputation acquired by the CFC in terms of
teaching staff, required standards and control, and employment prospects.
Furthermore, the initiation of fee paying evening courses had to be
advanced by one year, as compared with appraisal estimates, because of
strong pressure from enterprises and the public in general. Over 200
students attend these evening courses, many of them from Government
agencies and enterprises. The first group of day students graduated at the
licence  level in December 1985.  A limited number will continue to the
mattrise  level after one more year of study, and a further reduced group,



- 11 -
after two years of practice may apply to become an "expert comptable"
(CPA).  The conditions to become "expert comptable" or "comptable agrd4
will be set once new legislation, rules and regulation for the profession
have been approved (para. 28). The "Ordre des Experts Comptables et
Comptables Agrees- (Order of Accountants) has only 36 members with no new
admissions since 1971.
33.       Management.  Training in management in Madagascar is provided in
the following institutfons:
(a) University of Madagascar in Tamatave (Ecole de Gestion). The courses
are post-secondary at the undergraduate level equivalent: three-year
course for "licence" and four-year course for "maItrise-.  The results
of the studies in this school have been very disappointing and have
markedly deteriorated in recent years. The failure rate has been about
60 percent in first year, and about 50 percent in the following years.
Although, over 1,000 students enter first year, no more than 20 to 30
obtain their *maItrise" in any given year. These poor results can
mainly be attributed to: (i) deficiencies in secondary education, in
particular regarding mathematics and French (language of instruction in
the University); (ii) absence of entrance screening as all candidates
succeeding their baccalaureat may enter the University;
(iii) shortage of qualified teaching staff; and (iv) shortage of
reading and other materials. Furthermore, the instruction appears to
be overly theorecical in such a manner that it takes time for the
graduates to become operationally productive. No significant
improvements can be expected in the short term, because these would
imply major policy changes regarding higher education, which would have
strong political implications, and which can realistically be
implemented only gradually (para. 34).
(b) Institut National de Promotion-Formation (INPF). This Institute, under
the Ministry of Public Affairs, Labor and Social Legislation provides
training for low and middle level staff employed in industry and
commerce through short-term seminars organized in Antananarivo and
other provincial cities on an ad-hoc basis. These seminars cover
technical areas (electricity, mechanics) and managerial areas
(personnel management, secretarial, low-level accounting). The UNDP
has recently extended for three years its past assistance to the
Institute. The new project through the International Labour
Organisation (ILO) technical assistance is expected to help define a
national policy for technical training and establish better
coordination of training activities under the various ministries.
(c) Institut Malgache des Techniques de Planification in Antananarivo
(IMATEP). This institute is entrusted with: (i) the training and
upgrading of technicians with planning responsibilities whether within



- 12 -
the general government or in public enterprises; and (ii) carrying out
economic research. It provides training in planning through long-term
courses-(1-2-3 years. depending on the entrance level of the
participants) and short-term courses of 2 to 4 months duration. It
started operations in December 1982 with a two-year course for 19
participants with a  mattrise" degree or equivalent.                 i
(d) Centre de Formation des Cadres in Antsirabe. The Center, under the
Ministry of Commerce, started operations in 1982 with financial
assistance from the European Development Fund. The Center is entrusted
with the provision of high-level, short-term seminars (one to two
weeks) for enterprise managers in specific subjects related to
organization and management. The training has been of a very high
quality. It operates on rented premises and it has only two permanent
professional staff (the director and a trainer), while it has so far
trained 11 Malagasy trainers, who work on a part-time basis. In 1983,
156 managers participated in the seminars and in 1984, the number
increased to about 300.
Other management courses are provided at the CFC as part of the curriculum
of the full-time accounting and auditing courses and in evening courses at
the undergraduate level for people who are employed. The Chambers of
Commerce also provide some management related courses, but at a level
similar to that offered for accountants (para. 31).
34.       Conclusion.  The establishment of the CFC filled a critical gap
in the training system of Madagascar by providing very much needed high
level training in accounting and auditing. The only post-secondary
long-term management training is available at the undergraduate level in
the University and as indicated above, the results are rather poor (para.
32 (a)). Long-term training in management at the graduate level is not
available in Madagascar. The proposed project, by expanding and converting
the CFC into an institute for accounting and management, through the
addition of a management program at the level of a Master in Business
Administracion (MBA), would cover this need (para. 43). In the long run,
it is expected that INSCA, which is being developed in line with the
European *Grandes Ecoles" may become one of the schools forming part of the
future higher education complex. The study on the education sector now
under preparation by the Unesco Cooperative Program (para. 22) will pay
particular attention to higher education.
Procurement Procedures and Practices
35.       In the context of a systematic evaluation of local procurement
practices in borrowing countries, a Bank mission visited Madagascar in May
1984. Discussions with the Government and subsequent review of legal
documentation revealed serious shortcomings in all areas of procurement



- 13 -
affecting projects financed from various sources, including the Bank
Group. Delays in processing documents led to increased costs and, in
combination with unsatisfactory selection of suppliers and contractors,
tended to hamper the economic performance of the entities involved.
36.       These problems regarding procurement have been caused mainly by
the failure to update procurement procedures on the one hand, and on the
other, by the introduction of new restrictive practices intended to
encourage domestic contractors and suppliers, particularly those in the
public sector. Furthermore, staff from technical ministries responsible
for procurement matters often lack the necessary specialized training. As
a result, the preparation of bidding documents at the level of the
implementation agencies is inadequate and requires repeated lengthy
revisions.
37.       Upon return to headquarters, the May 1984 Bank mission to
Madagascar prepared a draft Procurement Assessment Report for the country.
This was discussed with the Government in December 1984. The procurement
component (para. 47) in the proposed project would assist the Government in
the implementation of recommendations included in the report.
PART IV - THE PROPOSED PROJECT
38.       The proposed project was appraised in January-February 1985.
This report is a combined President's and Appraisal report. Negotiations
of the proposed Credit in support of the project were held in Washington
from December 17 through 20, 1985. The Malagasy team was headed by
Mr. Parfait Ralamboson, Director of Programs and Control of the Ministry of
Finance. Supplementary project data are included in Annex III.
Project Background
39.       Because the resources available for the Accounting Training
Center (CFC) under IDA Credit 1155-MAG are insufficient to finance the
technical assist'nce required until the time when future Malagasy trainers
undergoing training abroad return to Madagascar, in April 1984, the
Government submitted a formal request for additional Bank Group assistance
for CFC. Because of the need to improve the higher level management of
enterprises, Government also requested the Bank Group to assist in training
managers. Based on a preliminary feasibility study, financed by Canada
(CIDA), it was proposed to create a National Institute of Accounting and
Management Sciences (INSCA) which, in addition to continuing the regular
accounting training provided earlier by CFC, would also provide a
management program at the MBA level for professionls who have worked for
several years in their profession. This new institution would complement



- 14 -
the training provided by the Centre de Formation des Cadres in Antsirabe,
which provides only short-term seminars. The proposed project also
includes a technical assistance component for the strengthening of
procurement procedures which was identified in December 1984 following a
Bank procurement assessment mission in Madagascar. There is no provision
in the proposed project for further assistance to RINDRA, which already
benefits from a high level of technical assistance under the ongoing
project until 1988.
Rationale for Bank Group Assistance
40.       The main project component, INSCA, is a follow-up and expansion
of the CFC, developed with the support of IDA Credit 1155-MAG. The success
and speed with which the CFC was put in place and started operations, make
it essential that Bank Group assistance be continued until the management
and operation of the institution can be fully transferred to appropriately
trained Malagasy staff in 1993. Based on the findings of the Bank's
Procurement Assessment Report of 1984, the proposed project would include a
procurement component comprising assistance to the Government in the
implementation of the recommendations contained in the report on
procurement regulations and procedures, and in the training of staff
responsible for procurement within public agencies.
Project Objectives
41.       The proposed project would assist Madagascar in the
implementation of plans for the improvement and modernization of the
management and operation of enterprises and other entities (public or
private). This would be accomplished by means of: continuation of
assistance in the training of accountants and auditors; assistance in the
establishment of a high level management training program; and assistance
in the establishment of a procurement unit which would provide technical
support, advice and training to the various Government departments and
enterprises which have responsibilities on procurement matters. The
availability of high level accountants, auditors and managers and staff
well trained on procurement matters is a crucial element for the success in
the implementation of policies introduced by the Government in the
industrial, agricultural and other sectors geared to the revitalization and
future expansion of the economy. In this respect, the proposed project is
complementary to other Bank financed projects such as the Industrial
Assistance Project (IDA Credit 1541-MAG).
Project Components
42.       The proposed project would include the following components,
as described below: (a) the establisbment and operation of a National
Institute for Accounting and Management (INSCA) and; (b) technical
assistance for the improvement of procurement procedures and regulations.



- 15 -
43.       Establishment of the National Institute for Accounting and
Management in Antananarivo (Institut National des Sciences Comptables et de
l'Administration - INSCA). This Institute would represent an expansion and
diversification of the Accounting Center (Centre de Formation en
Comptabilite - CFC), financed under IDA Credit 1155-MAG and would replace
it. INSCA will continue to provide training in accounting and auditing for
about 300 day students and 200 evening students. The proposed two-year MBA
program (Annex IV) would initially add 40 (20 in the first year and 20 in
the second) and later up to about 60 students (30 in the first year and 30
in the second) to full time enrollments. The number of participants for
this program was set on the basis of estimates of absorptive capacity of
the economy made by specialized UN staff in Madagascar and takes into
consideration stringent admission requirements as described in Annex III to
this report. The increase in enrollment would depend on the pace of
economic expansion and newly identified needs.
44.       Because the present rented facilities are inadequate to
accommodate projected enrollment (Annex V) additional rental facilities
have been identified and will be obtained to accommodate the accounting and
auditing training, and the MBA program --for about 350 day students and
with the possibility of accommodating up to 400 in the future. The project
would include all the necessary works for the adaptation and extension of
the rented facilities to the needs of the training programs.
45.       The proposed Credit would provide for about 28 man-years of
technical assistance, including the services of the Dean of Studies and for
about 36 man-years of fellowships abroad for future Malagasy trainers and
selected personnel of INSCA. It would also include the provision of
furniture and equipment for, inter alia, classrooms, seminar and laboratory
rooms, a library and administration and teachers offices, and vehicles, in
addition to those supplied under IDA Credit 1155-MAG. It would also
provide for a share of the operating costs of the INSCA during the
implementation period. The expenditures under this latter item would
include teachers' salaries, instruction materials, and other minor items.
46.       In addition to the above financing, the Ministry of Cooperation
and Development of France (MCD) would provide further technical assistance
in the form of about 25 man-years of expatriate teaching staff and
about 6 man-years of fellowship training abroad for future Malagasy
teachers. The expatriate teachers would be gradually replaced by Malagasy
staff undergoing training abroad. The first group of teachers for the
accounting and auditing program financed under IDA Credit 1155-MAG and by
Canada are expected to return to the country at the latest in September
1987 and the last to be sent for training for the MBA program would
assume their teaching responsibilities by 1993.



- 16 -
47.       Procurement Assistance Component.  This component would consist
of the provision of technical assistance and equipment for a unit to be
established and attached to the Central Tender Board (CCM). This unit
would be responsible for: (a) training in procurement principles and
procedures for staff of public agencies; (b) providing general and
specialized assistance to these agencies at their request on procurement
matters; (c) gathering and analyzing statistical data on procurement; and
(d) preparing recommendations for the improvement of procurement
regulations and procedures. Specifically, this component would provide for
tthree man-years of technical assistance for the services of a procurement
speciaJist, lim'ced equipment and supplies.
Cost and Financing
48.       The total project cost including the technical assistance and
fellowships for INSCA to be provided by MCD (para. 46) is estimated at
US$13.1 million, of which about US$0.05 million represents duties and taxes
and US$9.3 million (i.e., 72 percent) represents the foreign exchange
requirements. Cost estimates for civil works were made in consultation
with staff of the Ministry of Public Works and of construction and
architectural firms. Estimates for the cost of furniture, equipment and
vehicles and for the operating costs of INSCA were prepared in consultation
with the management of the CFC who have extensive experience in the
matter. The cost estimates for technical assistance (specialists and
fellowships) are based on applicable UN and MCD rates. The fulfillment of
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the participation of the
co-financier (MCD) and submission of a technical assistance program for
INSCA and its implementation schedule acceptable to the Association would
be conditions of credit effectiveness.
49.       For physical contingencies, 10 percent has been added to the base
costs. Price contingencies for imported goods and services are based on
projections of international inflation at the following rates: 7 percent
for 1986 and 1987, 7.5 percent for 1988, 7.7 percent for 1989, 7.6 percent
for 1990, and 4.5 percent for 1991. For local costs, the same rates of
inflation as for imported goods and services have been projected on the
assumption that local inflation will be offset by adjustments in the
foreign exchange rate in accordance with Government policy. On the basis
of these assumptions, price contingencies are estimated at 20 percent of
the base cost plus physical contingencies.
50.       The financing plan for the project provides for IDA assistance of
US$10.3 million equivalent (79 percent of the cost net of taxes). This
would finance US$7.8 million equivalent of the foreign exchange and about
US$2.5 million equivalent of local expenditures. The expert services and
fellowships to be provided by MCD (para. 46) have been estimated at about
US$1.5 million equivalent. The Government's contribution, net of taxes,



- 17 -
would amount to about US$1.3 million equivalent, whicn would represent
about 10 percent of the project cost net of taxes.
51.       When INSCA is in full operation and the expatriate staff has been
replaced by local staff by 1993, the operating cost of the institution is
estimated at about US$1.1 million equivalent per year (less than US$3,000
per student year including teacher salaries, administration costs and
supplies). The Government would ensure that the students enrolled in the
evening courses and in the MBA program of INSCA or their sponsors, would
pay a tuition fee adequate to cover the total cost of salaries of teachers
for these programs, exclusive of the salaries of the technical assistance
staff. Furthermore, by June 30, 1987 the Government will submit to the
Association for review a proposal on the feasibility of the introduction of
tuition fees for the day students enrolled in the accounting program.
Implementation
52.       The project would be implemented over a period of about six
years. Project completion is expected by June 30, 1992 with a Closing Date
of December 31, 1992. The implementation schedule is based upon experience
derived from recently completed projects and takes into account the stage
of project preparation. A schedule for the technical assistance and
fellowhips is provided as Annex VI. This would be refined in consultation
with the Association by the Dean of Studies when he takes office in 1986.
Terms of reference for the procurement specialist to be financed under the
proposed project were discussed during negotiations and will be completed
shortly. The staff of the CCM with the assistance of this specialist would
prepare the content and timetables for the annual training programs to be
provided to Government officials and enterprises staff responsible for
procurement matters. These annual programs would be submitted to the
Association for approval for each year of the implementation of the
project, no later than the 30th of September preceding the calendar year
for which the program is intended.
Administration
53.       The Board of Directors and the Coordinator of the CFC would be
entrusted with the implementation of the INSCA component. They have
demonstrated that they have the capacity to handle such a component by
their satisfactory performance regarding the establishment of the CFC. A
condition of Credit Effectiveness would be the legal establishment of
INSCA, the appointment of a Board of Directors and of a Pedagogical
Committee for the school in which the private sector, and the University
would be duly represented, and the structures of which would be agreed upon
with the Association. When the INSCA is legally established, replacing the
CFC, the management of INSCA would assume the responsibilities entrusted to
th'e CFC.



- 18 -
54.       The implementation of the procurement component would be the
responsibility of the management of the CCM, which has adequate capacity to
carry out this task. As is the case with IDA Credit 1155-MAG, an officer
of the Ministry of Finance would be appointed to act as a coordinator with
the Association on important matters. Communications with the Association
on routine project matters would be handled by the managements of the INSCA
or the CCM, as appropriate.
Procurement
55.       Procurement arrangements are summarized as follows:
I                       I
l                       l        Procurement Method (USS millions)
PROJECT CATEGORY
i       I l     l         |       |  MCD
ICB   LCB   IOTHER N/g_A. 2/  Proce-   TOTAL
t   j        ~~~dures 3/
i Civil Works                      020 I          l                    0.20
l  l    | (0.18)1         l       l          (0.18)
Furniture, equipment    0.96 I 0.14 1           1       i         I  1.10
& vehicles           1 (0.96)1 (0.13)1         1       |         i (1.09)
i                       I       I       I         i       I         I
Professional services1        |       I 0.02            I         I 0.02
Technical ass      e(0.02)                                          (0.02)
Technical assistance                      5.76  1           1.50      7.26
and fellowships       l       l         C(5.76)                     (5.76)
Operations & local   I                          I  4.52              4.52
transportation                                 I    (3.25)j       (3.25)
TOTAL         j 0.96 1 0.34    5.78        4.52    1.50    13.10
______ 1TOTAL            (0.96)j (0.31)i (5.78) i (3.25)           1(10.30)
1/ Selection and appointment of consultant architect firm and TA services.
2/ Operation cost (local salaries, consumable goods) and local
transportation.
3/ Provision of about 25 man-years of expert services and 6 man-years
of fellowships by the French MCD estimated at USS1.5 million equivalent.
Note:  Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts, including
contingencies, to be finance!d under the proposed credit.
56.       Contracts for furniture, equipment and vehicles would be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Bank Group Guidelines for Procurement. Contracts for civil works,
furniture, equipment and vehicles costing less than US$50,000 equivalent
after grouping into bid packages may be awarded in accordance with local
competitive bidding procedures set forth in the Government's Decree 70-089
of January 28, 1970, subject to the modifications agreed upon during



- 19 -
negotiations.4/ The total of all such contracts is not expected to exceed
US$140,000 equivalent. Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than
FMGIO million and contracts for civil works estimated to cost less than
FMG30 million may be procured by direct purchase.
57.       When ICB procedures are used qualified domestic manufactuLers of
furniture and equipment may be allowed a margin of preference of 15
percent, or the existing applicable rate of import duties, whichever is
lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing foreign suppliers.
58.       Sketch designs, draft tender documents and master lists of
furniture, equipment and vehicles, indicating proposed grouping and cost
estimates, would be reviewed by the Association. Items would be grouped to
the extent practicable to encourage competitive bidding and to permit bulk
procurement. Prior review and approval of bid and tender evaluation
documents would be required only for contracts exceeding US$50,000
equivalent. For other contracts and for expenditures for which withdrawals
from the credit are made on the basis of statements of expenditures, INSCA
and the CCM would maintain fully documented records, which would not be
submitted to the Association for review, but would be retained by the
borrower and would be available for review by Bank staff in the course of
project supervision.
59.       All specialists and consultants financed by the Credit would be
hired on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association, in accordance
with the Bank Group's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. The
curriculum vitae of feilowship recipients financed under the project,
courses of study, training institutions they would attend, and cost of the
training would be subject to review by the Association.
Disbursement
60.       Disbursement of the IDA Credit would be made as follows: (a) 90
percent of total expenditures for civil works; (b) 100 percent of foreign
expenditures for directly imported construction materials, furniture,
equipment and vehicles, or 90 percent of local expenditures if procured
locally, including transportation of such materials to its final
destination; (c) 100 percent of foreign expenditures or 90 percent of local
expenditures for proFessional services; (d) 100 percent of total
expenditures for the technical assistance and fellowships for INSCA and for
the procurement specialist for the CCM; and (e) 60 percent of operating
expenditures on a declining scale agreed upon during negotiations. The
schedule of disbursements (Annex VII) is based on, inter alia, experience
with the ongoing IDA Credit (Cr. 1155-MAG). The follow-up nature,
simplicity and limited number of components of the proposed project justify
a shorter than the standard disbursement profile for education projects in
the region.
4/ Modifications consist of:
(a) registration of bidders in the Registry of Commerce shall not
be required for the acceptance of their bids; (b) no procurement
shall be made on che basis of selected tendering or direct
contracting except in the case of rejection of all bids; (c) bids
shall be opened in public, i.e., bidders or their representatives
should be allowed to be present; and (d) no special preference
will be given to local bidders in the evaluation of bids.



- 20 -
Reporting, Evaluation and Auditing
61.       Semi-annual progress reports on implementation would be submitted
to the Bank Group by INSCA and the CCM by September 30 and March 31 of each
year following credit effectiveness. In addition, the Government would
send to the Association for comments, within six months from the Closing
Date, completion reports prepared by INSCA and the CCM assessing
achievement of 3roject objectives.
62.       The INSCA and the CCM would maintain separate accounts for all
project activities in conformity with the country's accounting practices.
These accounts would be controlled according to normal Government financial
control procedures, which are satisfactory. The INSCA and the CCM would
prepare annual reports summarizing the financial status of all project
operations. An audit report for INSCA for all expenditures financed under
the project would be performed by an independent auditor acceptable to the
Bank Group, and will be submitted to the Group within six months following
the end of the Borrower's fiscal year.
Benefits and Risks
63.       Through the training of high-level managers, accountants and
auditors and the assistance for improvement of procurement procedures and
the skills of staff responsible for procurement matters, the project is
expected to have a positive impact by increasing the efficiency of Malagasy
enterprises and agencies, and ult-mately of the economy as a whole. The
resulting effects would be particularly important for those public
enterprises which are presently operating at a loss. With better
management and financial control, and operating within the context of new
Government policies regarding prices, foreign trade, etc., it is expected
that the burden they place on the national budget and banking system could
in due course be eliminated, at which time, they should start making a
positive contribution to Government revenues.
64.       The proposed program is the icast-cost solution for training
accountants, auditors and managers. The alternative of sending students
abroad is about four times more costly (a minimum of about USS12,000
equivalent per student year abroad vs. USS3,000 in INSCA). Furthermore the
actual cost of sending students abroad is higher if it is taken into
account that a significant proportion would not return to Madagascar at the
end of their training and would be lost to the Malagasy economy, which
would have supported the full cost of their training and education.
65.       As the INSCA component is a follow-up of an effective on-going
operation, no major risks are foreseen regarding the component. Because of
the simple and straightforward nature of the procurement component, no
risks are anticipated.



- 21 -
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
articles of agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Date: January 17, 1986
Washington, D.C.



-    ANNEX  t
Page  1 of  A
6AAOASCAR               - SOCIALL IOToRS          SHEET
NAAGASCAR                             dSFrREnCEGROUPS (SEtIGHTTD AVRIAGE-S) I
'sCT                      (MOST ruCETr  srTwn TE  I b'
bo~b   4ECE%r1          L0 0t         4AR6CA    AP:0L, :NCOPM
9sq!       197Ua   r sTlv Aora  SOTHO  5SIAMA               ^tIIIC  5. lr iAAA
Mu (EUSUA SQ. ml)
TOTAL                              s14.0         318.0       187.0
AGRICULrTRAL                         11.2        3J.7        1?70.5
GNP Pri  CAPITA (Us$)                     ..          ..        113.3                155.8
musT CMDUIUTI0U PM CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OP OIL IqUtV3YL9NnT        28.0        40.0        1-.                c2.)                     58.1
popUIAIANN VITaL STAmEc
POPULATIUN.MID-YIAR (T110SAIIDS)    1342.0     6765.0       9412.0
URhajg PoPULATION (2 or  ura}        o10.s        tX.         :O                 :0.1                       32.')
POPULATION raacrbous
POPUltAYr0 LO tEAAR :eo CHILL)                              1S.2
STATIONARY POPUtAnOT   ('ILL)                               ;5.0
POPUlaTtOll !OUIIMN                                          1.9
POPULATION OsITt
PER SQ. KM.                         9.1         11.&        16.1               33.2                      65.1
Pa SQ. IN. aGRI. LAW               14.a        IS.1         n.a               112.S                      12.I
PorULATION Ac  STRMCYUI CZ)
0-14 YES                          *2.1         43.4        46.3               46.0                      43.
15-64 TU                           54.2        52.9        10.2                10.8                      11.)
S5 Al  ABOV                         3.2          3.3         3.4                2.9                       2.?
POPULATION CR0WT5 ILATE CE)
TOTAL                               1.9          7.S         2.b                2.8                        .9
uRaU                                 5.0         5.2         5.3                6.4                       5.1
fIrE BIRTH RATIE (PrE  110USD        '3.8        63.7        44.7                .7.2                      ..,.
CUIDC oDATH RATE (PER WOS)           25.0         19.7        17.4               17.3                      35.0
GROSS RPRSODUTOH RATE                 2.8         1.9          3.2                3.3                        .2
PAMILT PLAMIUI
ACCTORU. ANNEAL (TOll.S)
USERS (L oP MAIED WN)               ..          ..          ..                  3.3                       S
PM am wMazm
INDCK Of FOD PO. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                        89.0       102.0        94.0                83.3                      82.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY O?
CALOU7IS CE OF REOWIREHENTS)      109.0       11.         :&.3                 67.7                      98.5
PRTEINS (CRAMS PElR OAY)           41.0        S0.0        59.0                51.9                      55.-
or  axCm ANItML AnD PULSE         18.0        17.0        15.0 Ic             18.7                      16.5
CHlLD (CAG   1-*) DEATH RATE         20.2        15.8        10.0                23.1                      14.4
LIFE EXPECT. AT S1IR  (TEARS)        38.X        44.7        49.&               '7.8                       52.0
INFArT nSE3T. RATE (PEE T13US)      109.0        69.0        e.0                119.5                     I08.J
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER ChOP)
rOTAL                               ..         11.0        21.2 Id             27.1                      -Z.'
aIRS                                 ..         7.0        ao.o 7i             63.5                      oT 5
RUItAL                                          1.0         7.0 #d             19.1                      35.8
ACCeSS TO CXCRITA DISPOSAL
Ct or PoPuLATION)
TCTAL                               ..          ..          9.0 Id             26.5                      28.1
URI"                                ..         8.0          9.0 7a             65.                       57.
RURAL                                                       9.0 -(             20.S                     :0.'
POPULATlON PeR P*YSICIAN           8720.0    0la70.0    10220.0 /a            :7901.1                   11791 .7
POP. rPE  IURSIIC PERSON           3060.0 If   1350.0      3470D. 7si          1305.4                    259.8
POP. PER HOSPITAL ED
TOTAL                            '20:.        156.0       110.0 /a           1273.6                     981.1
URANS                             150.0 it   210.0        240.0              -28.2                      3468.8
RURAL                             400.0 77    '80.0       520.0 Ti           i:9z.5                   'i71n.
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RD                                                                                  2
mINIS
AVERAGE SIZE OF dOIUSENOL3
-3-L                                             3.
ZRSAN                                           S.)
CtLAL                                '          S.9
AvEpAGz "O. or *eRSzYS;lOom
RURAL.
PECrETNOR OF IcaLLSS t-" 0LECT.
ROTAL
UBN                                  ..         ..           .                   ..
RURL                                 ..         ..           .                   ..



-23-                                                ANN'iE:    r
CABACASCAR                SOCIAL. KNICATORs DATA SHUET
-CADA RSA                             REVERnzCE 00ou3s (wrZGwTD AvE-A-GES3r7a-
MOST                      (MOT  NCCNT  ESTATE) /b
b__       /b  RECENT          LOW tICOME .RtICa          MID0LE INCOME
0 197d1   ESTIN ATEtk     SOUTH OF SANARA      AFRICA S. OF SAHARA
JIUCA TI
AWUSTEu RLROLLNENT LIAT1OS
PRIMUA:  TOTAL                     S.0        98.-)      100.0 to            67.1                      95.7
ALE                     54.0        9.0                            77.6                     100.'
rEU4ALE                 '5.0        41.2t J                        S.9                       63.2
SECONDARY: TOTAL                    ;.0        11 0        14.0 Ic            1.I5                      17.l
MALE                     5.')       13.                            l1.9                      21.4
FE%4ALE                  3.0         9.0                            9.1                      14.8
VOCATIOtNAL (S or SeCONDARY)          9.1         8.7                           l I
PUPIL-TEACERt RATIO
YEOWtYA                            70.0        65.G O       5.0               44.9                      Cl.1
SECONDARY                          24.0        0.O        21.0 Ic            27.1                      2575
i_nurim
PASSMER, CARSJTNOUSANO rOP            4.1         6.8         7.1 /c             3.1                      20.8
RADtO RECEVIERB/UoTuSAaD POP         13.3        79.7       20b.5               55.J                     10.8
TV RZCB?VERS/THOUSAND Pop             ..          0.5         7.7                2.6                      zo.s
IEISPAR Dt AITLY CCERL
NT)ERZST) ClaCitATION
PE  TIHOUSND POPULATION              7.8         7.J         6.0                5.0                      11.6
CZNENA ABIWAL ATTENDACWCAIPITA        0.3 /t      0.7                            0-S                       0.
LNPOt  N
TOTAL Lama FORCE (THOUS)           2943.0      3570.0      402.0
FEMALE (PETCENT)                   46.2       45.          44.I               342                       36.2
AGRLICULURI  (PERCET)              93.0        90.0        57.0 /d            77.3                      54.5
IUSmTY (PERCZENT)                   2.0         3.0         4.0 7;[            9.*                      18.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              54.9        52.6 h       8.7               39.3                      36.a
MALE                               60.7        58.8        54.7 J0.9                                    47.1
FEMAL                              49.-       '6.7         42.6               28.1           2772
0coUWUC DoPEcScr RATIO                0.6         0.9         1.0                1.3                       1.3
IUlm  D11ENIIZ
PERCENT Of PRIVATE INCOM
RECIVCD 
NlCttST 52 OF HOUSEHOLDS           41.0 I
tICNCST ZOS OF HOUSVIOS           60.1 L
LOIEST 20S OF HOUSCNOLOS            5.2 2
LOWEST 40S0 o  HOUSE7OLS           13.0  j
So E TAl C31
ESTXIATED   OLUTE POVE   INtCOM
LEVEL CS  PER CAITA)
JRum                                                      150.0 /c           165.5                     590.7
RURAL                                                       6.0 7-            95.0                     275.3
ESTIMATED RELAtVE POVET  INCOM
LEVEL (USS PER CAtITA)
URI"                                                      135.0 Ic           113.1                    545.6
Am"                                                        *a 0i.o7           67.6                    201.1
ESTIMATD POP. *ZLOW A3504.W
POVERTY L0CONE LEVEL : )
URB                                                        50.0 /c            3b.6
RURAL                                                    o5o0 7.7            61.1
NOT AVALLABL
NOT APPLICAILE
N O T aS 
/a   Tbe grp averagea for each Indtcaeor are populacta bweLghted arithedtc maoad. Coverage ot couancies
monj the LndcmtCor d"pend on awaIlabillty of data and la noc untfore.
lb   UnIe.. othaguw.. noced. Data tar 1960" rat-e to any year bec.= :959 and 1961; Daca for 1970" between
1969 and 1971; and data Ear "Wnmt llcent CetcIaa between 1981 and L 43.
Ic   1977; /d 1960; /a 1973; /t 1962; t& PopulaLIon.
.UNE. 1985



-24-
ANNEX I
MADAGASCAR:  ECONOMIC INDICATORS                        Page 3 of 4
cmS Dm1IC PBRr= 1N 1984
AMnal Rate of Qrwfth
USS MsD.       Z       1970-78       1978-8
GDP at Mrket Prices                                          2,382.9      100.0      -0.1          -0.8
(x'a.nmprtx                                                  2,172.4       91.2       0.7           0.0
roMss Destic IvesCzeit                                         324.3       13.6      -4.4          -6.4
je t AmC at Ral                                               -252.2      -10.6
cpors of Gsod , NFS                                            388.7       16.3     -0.7          -8.9
ftom  ofQ0od sNFS                                              502.*4-     21.1      -6.2          -9.9
Cumir WR FRMI AND PIRVM Di 1N984
Valm akied.!/         Labor Force          VA Er Wor
IS Wn.    z 2(o                z                     uss
AgrimiltuVe                                   1,007.6    42.3        4,356  88.1                   231.3
uIdustry                                        371.1    15.6          135   2.7                 2,749.2
Services                                       929.6    39.0           40o    8.1                2,324.0
Unallocarr-1 2,                                  74.6      3.1          54   1.1                 1,381.0
Ibtal !Average                                2,382.9    100.0       4,945  100.0                  482.0
GDaE*WN FDWIE
mtral swvertum
1984    1982    1983    1984
urrent Becelpts                                                          243.0    15.2    15.2    1.7.7
0rrtent Expeidibnre                                                      197.7    16.1    14.2      14.4
Omrment Defcirt                                                          45.3    -0.9       1.0      3.3
Capital Exqp  ditures                                                    107.6     7.5      7.2      7.8
Fbreizp fiwanxc1g (net)                                                  36.6      5.1      3.8      2.7
MCUEY, CREDIT, and PRICE
1978    1979      1980     1981   1982    1983    1984
- - (BUI1i  FM   Oitstxang  at the EBd of tte Period) - -
Mtxley and Quasi Htxiey                       141.0   L73.0    206.0   250.0  276.0   271.5   321.0
BEkk Credit to Publlc Sector                  49.0    99.0    176.0   238.0  269.0   307.0   338.0
Bank Credit to State Ehterprises              101.0   [21.0    150.0   165.0  198.0   229.6   288.0
and Private Sector
-(Percentage or IrdexX %ubers)  - - - - - - -
mey ard Quasi xMey as % of &DP                 29.0    29.1      29.9    30.7   27.7    22.2    23.4
CDP Price rfLatr (1970-100)                   195.7   217.9    250.6   313.7  403.9   490.3   543.5
Annual percenrage chaiges in:
GDP Price Deflator                           6.8      11.3      15.0    25.2   28.6    21.5        10.
Bank Credic ro Puclic Sector                75.0   102.0       77.8    33.U    13.7    14.3    10.1
Bank Credit to Scate Ehterprises
and privare Sector                          5.2    19.8      24.0    10.0   20.0    16.2    25.2
vbte: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exlhavge rate prevailing duzng the
period covered.
.21At market prices.
B port duies.
December 1985



- 25 -                                ANNEX   I
Page 4 of 4
IOAML ME PAVfr *D CAFWL FRO
IM cr Bloom                         .CEN   -  (As                              Z 1!O0)
-    12   1%3     e4 I/                                        LS  W. )
135.0     38.8
oQxb&  LL-                    302aG sa 36  .3B    .    -la                                     -3.6      1.1
Izm  of   n & N.F.S          651.7    O7  XL5         COU                                       47.2     116
ft   M&r                                 19.7       5.7
Pesmm Blarce                  -271.5 -194.3 -113.8      l.9 I  u                                  7.1       2.0
_    .lIeS                               10.7      3.1
Eb=      -, N!t               99.0 -112.6 -141.8      itu1az md=                                87        2.5
Pdm   ' a, Nc                 -1.4  -1.2   3.5        Pfhv.I z  xIr                             13.5      3.9
CkIW rrimrMrion                          67.0      19.3
Uxrant ACMtt hIa-371 .9 -308.1 -25Z.                     bt1                                     347.6    Ia(.0
OjQkn] j3itad  fra's            72.3  60.8  67.8      M u. M,              31. i%  3/
r2 MT  :zud                    121.3  16.8  160.
RBJlk Deb, b ie.. g0m_tes                       2,034.0
,-sb=gmwt3                   29.9  193.6  VM)8        N1'xQamd Pw  D                                  -
AL-tltzatkP                 -181.3 -195.7 -175.4   *     L 0*scdfrg & rdsb.md                         2.Ma40
D   Pal                     92.7  1M.9  m.6
W218.9  36.5  41.5
B*-II EMdbC, 1_. "E,,td 5/                         W3
2D lb                    -8.6   14.0  -25.2
US MLh
Mis w                            1982   1913   194                                                1ED    _k
_ sxQirg &  xrgd                        27.7    30.7
t;l4D - RC                    3(9.74  431.65 576.60    thr     -                                         I.5
- lBS                  0.;    O.M   O.CD17       O       lr d-. UxWsbursi
27.7    42
I/ pwvswaul  ~                                          3/ Ps CLub acm_    W mteide ai S 12       1 mll1 in  1  190r4;
Z4 7rxhk re DFl ae.r, s     a,'d  riiave     M             laton CLLib, $15 mUDii JD     1984.
f1, axmrs ad cas l           acems, asd 4ivDbt zv1o pw3   a Z of gds ard sml.
and amdsa.s                                          -5/ AMr efmof dE!bt eci      uf          ;g Eiir'    ,ad kxIltdfrg
awl <_ a/ a~~3UB  f il E ad  W Eg



AN:NEX II
-26-                         Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1985) I/
Loan or
Credit
Number    Year   Borrower    Purvose                  Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
(US- Mill-on)-
Twelve Credits and Five Loans
have been fully disbursed                             32.57  139.93        -
CR  817-HAG  1978   Madagascar  Andekaleka
Hydroelectric                40.602/   3.03
CR  881-MAG  1979   Madagascar  Mangoky - Agriculture             12.00     2.24
CR  938-MAG  1979   Madagascar  Highways V                        24.00     0.57
CR  977-MAG  1980   Madagascar  Industrial Bank - BNI              5.00     0.92
CR 1002-HAG  1980   Madagascar  Water/Sanitation                  20.50     7.95
CR 1016-MAG  1980   Madagascar  Petroleum Exploration             12.50     1.66
CR 1064-HAG  1981   Madagascar  Agriculture Bank - BTM            11.50     5.30
CR 1086-HAG  1981   Madagascar  Plain of Antananarivo T.A.         2.30      .99
CR 1155-HMAG  1981   Madagascar  Accounting and Audit             11.50     3.63
CR 1161-HAG  1981   Madagascar  Forestry II                      20.00      8.04
CR 1211-HAG  1982   Madagascar  Village Livestock II              15.00    10.78
CR 1249-HAG  1982   Madagascar  Agriculture Institutions           5.70     1.21
CR 1298-MAG  1982   Madagascar  Tsimiroro Heavy Oil
Exploration                  11.50      4.73
CR.1337-HAG  1982   Madagascar  Lac Alaoctra                      18.00    14.54
CR.1391-MAG  1983   Madagascar  Sixth Highway                     25.00    15.93
CR.F004-HAG  1983   -------                 -                     20.00    13.18
CR.1433-MAG  1983   Madagascar Cotton Development                  7.90     6.58
CR.F008-HAG  1983                  -                               9.90     6.19
CR.F1497-MAG 1983   Madagascar Urban                              12.80    12.06
CR.1526-MAG  1984   Madagascar Cyclone Rehabilitation             15.00    10.69
CR. 1541-HAG  1985   Madagascar Industrial Assistance            40.00    38.27
CR.1589-HAG3/1985   Madagascar Irrigation Rehab.                  12.00    12.00
TOTAL                              32.57  492.63   180.49
of which has been repaid           4.88    3.46
TOTAL now outstanding               27.69  489.17
Amount sold
of which has been repaid             -     6.40
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA    27.69  489.17
TOTAL undisbursed                                      180.49
1/  The status of projects listed in Part 'A' is described in a separate report
on all Bank/IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updaced twice
yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
2/  Including a supplemental credit of USS10.0 million of 1980.
31  Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
-27-                        Pdge 2 of 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of September 30, 1985)
Loan    Equity    Total
(USS Million)
1977    Sotema - Textile Kill at Hajunga       11.00    0.29      11.29
1980    Bata - Shoe Manufacturing in
Antananarivo                          1.25     -         1.25
1983    Pecheries de Nossi-Be                   2.57    0.18       2.70
1985    Cotona, S.A. at Antisirabe              6.65    0.17       6.82
22.06
November 1, 1985



-28-
ANNEX III
MADAGASCAR
ACCOUNTING AND MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY CREDIT DATA SHEET
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a) Identification                            April 1984
(b) Project Preparation                       August 1984
(c) Appraisal Mission                         January/February 1985
(d) Negotiations                              December 1985
(e) Planned Date of Effectiveness             June 1986
If.  Special Bank Group Implementation Action: None
III. Special Conditions
(a) Conditions of credit effectiveness would be:
(i) the fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the effectiveness
of the participation of the co-financier (MCD France) and the
submission of a technical assistance program for INSCA and its
imrlementation schedule acceptable to the Association (para. 48);
and
(ii) legal establishment of INSCA, the appointment of a Board of
Directors and of a Pedagogical Committee for the school in which
the private sector and the University would be duly represented,
and the structures of which would be agreed upon with the
Association (para. 53).
(b) The content and timetables for the procurement training program for
each year during the project implementation period would be submitted
to the Association for approval no later than the 30th of September
preceding the calendar year for which the program is intended (para.
52).



-29-                       ANIIX IV
Pae If  4
MADAGASCAR
ACCOUNTING AND MANAGEMENT TRAININF, PROJECT
tlBA EYECTTIVE PROGRA4
1.        Background. The economy of ,Madagascar has been growing. at a..
rkelatlvely low pace in recent years, b6t the Government Is rakinir steps to
Improve the economic enviroment in which enterprises (public and private)
have to operaee. In addition to changes in policy mear to the
revitalization of the economy, and as an integral part of the process, the
Government has assigned a high uriority to the development and upgraiiing of
bigh level managerial capacities within the country. In this context, the
Government requested Bank-Group assistance to expand the Accounting
Training Center (CFC) to include a management training program at the MBA
level.
2. .      A feasibility study financed by CIDA (Canada) was prepared in the
second half of 1984, and completed in March 1985, after the Bank-Croun's
appraisal mission,requested by the Government to be In the field In late
January, had returned to headquarters. Both the feasibility study team and
Bank-Group mission concluded that the establishment of the MBA program was
a priority, but that its size, as explained below, should be limited in the
lnitial years with the possibility of future expansion in accordance with
economic growth. and increased needs.
3.        Although there is no precise Information on training requirements
for high level managers, the limited numher of enterprises of a size which
could employ MBA graduates gives a crude indication of the market absortive
capacity. The number of these enterprises has been estimated as follows:
40 state enterprises
110 large private enterprises (more than 200 employees)
320 medium size private enterprises (50-200 employees)
470 enterprises (productiom., trade, services)
It can not be expected, at this time, that many of these enterprises can
dispense themselves with the services of one or more of their senior
managers for a two-year period for them to enroll In the MBA program - for
short term periods, the staff can participate in the seminars provided by
the Centre de Formation des Cadres in Antsirabe. Furthermore, it is very
unlikely that the enterprises would be willing to or could replace their
present managers by young university graduates without experience in the
field. This is, therefore, the rationale for the limited size of the NUS
program proposed for the initial years.



-3C-
ANNEX IV
Page 2 oof 4
4.        Obiectives of the MBA Program.  The obiectives of the Proaram are
AS follows:
(a) Contribute to the economic development of the countrv by
improving the management capacity and ability of the staff in
the higher echelons of state and private enterprises;
(b) Maintain higb quality training standards;
(c) Prepare participants for practical decision making rather
than provide them with a great amount of theoretical
knowledge; and
(d) Focus the program to main areas relevant to efficient
management of enterprises in Madagascar.
5.        Tarzet Group.  The two-year program would start In 1987 with 20
participants in the first year and would be expanded to 30 by 1q88. Tn
terms of tareet group, the participants would he expected initially to he
distributed approximately as follows: 60% from state enterprises; 2fl from
private enterprises; 10Z from hizh or medium level civil service; and 10!
would be university students with at least a -mattrise  dekree or a
diplome d'ing6nieur-. If basic weaknesses among the candidates of the
latter group were identified, they would be required to take remedial
courses being provided within the accounting and auditing program prior to
admission in the MBA program.
6.        Strategy.  The main strategy is to provide a program of high
standards. This would be achieved through:
(a) Selection of a restricted number of participants by applying
a set of criteria (to be designed by INSCA) which through
tests and interviews would allow to detect hich quality
managers or potential manazers ihose main asset would be
their motivation and attitude towards decision making within
an acceptable level of technical knowledge;
(b) Particular ability of the teaching body to train through
exchange of ideas and experience usine Malagasv enterprises
management problems. They have also to be technically
competent in their specific fields and be willing to
collaborate with their colleagues to deliver an integrated
program;
(c) Establishment of strong links of the Institute with the
enterprises, main users or graduates, thus securing the
relevance of the training to their particular needs. It is
crucial to build a zood image of the prczram so that the
enterprises are: (i) willinz to invest in !ood managers hy
sending them for two vears to INSCA; and (ii) readv to
collaborate with the trainers hy a'lowing them to study their
specific problems a.d help them elahorate relevant training
material derived from actual cases.



-31-                        ANNEX TV
Page 3 of 4
7.        Outline of the Program.  A tentative curriculum for each of the
two years of the MBA program follows. This curriculum is expected to be
finalized durine 1986, once the diean of studies for INSCA and about five
expatriate teachers for the MBA proeram (expected to arrive In July 1986)
are in place.  This revision would he done in close consultation with the
enterprises. In the future, further revisions of the curriculum may he
required;co better fit the changing needs of the -enterprises.- The dean of
studies should insure that the needed updatinzs are timelv inmlemented.
First Year
(1) Introduction
- management and organizaCion
- quantitative decision making
- use of micro-computers (to be emoloyed in the several
topics)
(2) Accounting
- basic accounting
- accountinx statements (business and leeal)
- cost accountine
- organization of accountine devartments
(3) Production
- types of flows and organizations
- measuring/controlling production flow/quality
- inventory control, Durchasing
(4) Marketing
- product mix, price, distribution, promotion
- consumer behavior
- consumer goods/industrial goods
- organization of marketing departments
(5) Organizational Behavior
- basic concepts: communications, motivation, leadership
- personnel management: job and task description Job, and
staff evaluation, incentives, promotionfhiring/firinz,
human and legal aspects
(6) Basic Finance
- financial statement analysis
- short and long term financine needs and sources



-32-
ANNEX IV
Page 4-of 4
Second Year
(1) Management Information Systems for nonitorine and evaluating
different functions: production, marketing, accounting,
financine
.ata collection, analysis,. report writing                              . .
(2) Procurement: national, international
- organization, Procedures
(3) Industrial Relations
- organization, conflict resolution
(4) Political Economics:
- basic national economics and Policies
- roles/interaction of Government/public and private sector
- role of agriculture/industry/services in the countrv
(5) External Financing
- Project cycles
- external -donors-: types of financing
objectives, procedures
(6) Business Policy
- analysis of enviroment
enterprise strengths and weaknesses
- determination of obiective tree and log-frame at different
levels: sector, enterprise, department
- elaboration/implementation/monitorfng/evaluation of
objectives, strategies, volicies of an enterprise



-33-
ANNEX V
MADAGASCAR
ACCOUNTING AND MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
INSCA PROJECTED ENROLLMENT - 1987-19Q4
Year of Admittance .:1987   1988  .1989   1990.  1991.  1992   1993:  1994
Accounting 1,
1983                    -              10
1984                    30                    10
1985                    64     30                     10
1986                    80     64      30                    10
1987                   100     80      64     30                    10
1988                          100      80     64     30                     10
1989                                  100     80     64      30
1990                                         100     80      64     30
1991                                                100      s0     64     30
1992                                                        100     80      64
1993                                                               1no     80
1994                                                                       i0n
Present                274    274    284    284    284    284    2R4    284
NBA 2/
1987                    20     20
1988                           30     30
1989                                   30     30
1990                                          30     30
1991                                                 30      30
1992                                                         30     30
1993                                                                30     30
1994                                                                       30
-in      50      60    60      60      60    -60
Total                -'       324    34      3U     3       344   -36
1/ On the basis of recent experience dropout rates are projected at 202
between both first/second year and second/third year and it is assumed
that only 30 will follow the fourth year. The 10 students who had
initiated their studies 7 years earlier are the CPA candidates returning
to the Institute after two years of practice.
2/ Given the uncertaiaty of the absorptive cavacity of the market, the
ororran wll be developed graduallv.  The enrollment in first year will
be 20 participants in 1987 and 30 in 19R8. Training facilities are
designed to handle an intake of 40 particiDants per year. The Prowram
will start in February of each year.



ANNEX VI
-34-                               Page 1 of 2
INSCA - TEACHING STAFF AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
86    87    88    89    90    91    92    93
Students Intake Ist year
Accounting                             100    100   100   100   100   100   100   100
MBA                                     -       20    30    30    30    30    30    30
Accounting Program
1. Trainers required (man/year-
full-time equivalent) a/
Day courses                           14      14    14    15    15    15    15    15
Evening courses                        3       3     3     3      3     3      3     3
Sub-total                            17     17    17    18    18    18    18    18
2. Origin of trainers (man/year)
Malagasy
Full-time                             7      7    14    15    15    15    15    15
Part-time                             5      5      3     3      3     3      3     3
Expatriates (full-time)                5 b/   5      -     -      -     -      -     -
4BA Program
1. Trainers required (man/year-
full-time equivalent) c/
Total                                  3 d/   9 i/ 12    12    12    12    12    12
2. Origin of trainers (man-year)
Malagasy                               -      -      -     4      5     8      8    12
Expatriates                            3 d/   9 i/ 12      8      7     4      4     -
Sub-total                             3 /    9 T/  2    12    TY   T12    TY   TY
Total Expatriate Technical
Assistance for Accounting and
MBA (man-year equivalent)
Trainers                                  8 e/  14    12      8      7     4      4     -
Dean of Studv f/                          I       1     I      1     -     -      -     -
Director General g/                       1 /   1       -     -      -     -      -
Sub-total under project                  3      16    13     9      7     4      4     -
Fellowships Abroad for Malagasy
Trainers (man-year) b/
Accounting h/                             7       9     7      -     -     -      -     -
MBA i/
HBA                                      5      11    10      4     -     -      -     -
Ph.D.                                    -       -     -     -      4     4     4      -



AMNNEX VI.
Page 2 of 2
a/ tlormal teaching load: 2 trainers per group of 30-50 students.
b/ Included under ongoing project (cr. 1155-HAG). One trainer is provided
by French Cooperation and some of the fellowships by CIDA, Canada and
the Provincial Government of Ouebec.
c/ Teaching load: 135 hours per man/year (L.5 hour/session; 3
sessions/day; 5 days/week; 36vrreeks/year).. ..               . 
d/ Six expatriate trainers (half of which to start preparation of the 1987
course in July 1987).
e/ Includes 5 trainers under the ongoing project.
f/ A Malagasy Dean of Study should be appointed to overlap for one year
with the expatriate before assuming full responsibility.
/ A Malagasy Director General should be appointed to overlap for one year
with the expatriate before assuming full respo-sibility.
h/ All but two of the trainees have alread: started their courses in
Canada, the remaining two at present in the CFC, would start in
September 1986.
L/ 15 trainees would study abroad for 2 year MBA courses starting as
follows: 5 in September 1986; 6 in Septembner 1987 and 4 in September
1988. Among them, the best 4 would be selected for a 3 year Ph.D.
program. Some drop out is expected.
JJ Six full-time (first year) trainers plus six trainers (half year) to
start preparation of the second year in July 1987.



-36-                          ANNEX  VII
MADAGASCAR
ACCOUNTING AND MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
DISBURSEHENT SCREDULE
(US millions)
Country
Accumulated
Accumaulated         Disbursement
Disbursements      Disbursements          Profile
FY     Semester      Amount (Z) p.a.    Amount (Z) p.a.       Amount (X) p.8-
1987
1 1/        1.0                1.0
2           1.0    (19.4)      2.0    (19.4)       0.3      (3.0)
1988
1           1.0                3.0
2           1.0    (19.4)      4.0    (38.8)       1.5    (15.0)
1989
I           1.1                5.1
2           1.1    (21.4)      6.2    (60.2)       3.4    (33.0)
1990
1           1.0                7.2
2           1.0    (19.4)      8.2    (79.6)       5.4    (52.0)
1991
1           0.6                8.8
2           0.4      (9.7)     9.2    (89.3)       7.1    (69.0)
1992
1           0.4                9.6
2           0.4      (7.8)    10.0    (97.1)       8.4    (82.0)
1993      1            0.3               10.3 2/
2            -       (2.9)    10.3    (100)        9.5    (92.0)
1/ From date of Credit effectiveness.
2/ Equivalent to SDR 9.5 million.



I BRD 18951
oe                                                            *
.lr                            MADAGASCAR                                                                                                      ,
ACCOUNTING AND MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT                                                                          Antswanona
4_ AR_Prd *eg
-  ipmde   w_e                                                     NYI            A" .. 
Fwee.., Ip ",.1 , p.ldaaow.                                              
CA...../o   dO, 40~ MYA                                                    .kh   14 b-
Ajwa,"""' bowA.. Abw.h
*       *'7Z.  ^, r                                                         , =I  rs
R"r~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~M                                                   r {/4
Cheotf .1'l / Sb
An--Anil-I
20~~~~~~~~~
5'.. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~I..........
VhS '.re n   r  {                                                             |        Jpllb r          SW
*   -   _.~~~~~~ > ....... ~~~~bmtr                                      Vank _tso
1*    .
,~~. -.   ~, -                                                                    ZAMS/ A,/   -\
,~ .d ihS a;, m                                                     -n ..d
~~~~~ - -  - ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ A-t ---ANAI
..WSsme.      W                                                                                                    J
w                                                                      AFRICAoj oro           MADAGASCAR
SOUTHi"
/   Soownoro_<             wso_               4~~~~~~AFRIC
Fol), LboePr pbres-bnon'Ab~~~~~~~~V. lq






