Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14969
ITPLEMENTATION CONPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
ACCOUNTING AND MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1661-MAG)
SEPTEMBER 5, 1995
Central and Indian Ocean Department
Population and Human Resources Division
Mrica Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
ACCOUNTING AND MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1661-MAG)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit: Malagasy Franc (FMG)
(Period average, US $ 1 equivalent)
1986 =  FMG 676
1987 =  FMG 1,069
1988 =  FMG 1,407
1989=  FMG 1,603
1990=  FMG 1,494
1991 =  FMG 1,835
1992 =  FMG 1,864
1993 =  FMG 1,913
1994 =  FMG 3,067
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CCM            Central Tender Board (Commission Centrale des Marches)
CFC           Accounting Training Center (Centre de Formation en Comptabilit)
CIDA           Canadian International Development Agency
CPA            Certified Public Accountant
IGE            State Inspectorate - General
INPF          National Institute of Training and Development
(Institut National de Promotion et Formation)
INSCAE        National Institute for Accounting and Management (Institut National des Sciences
Comptables et de I Administration d 'Entreprises)
MCD            Ministry of Cooperation and Development of France
(Ministere de la Cooperation et du Developpement)
RINDRA        National Auditing Company
USAID          United States Agency for International Development
Certificates and Degrees
"Baccalaureat" At the end of upper secondary studies
"Licence"     After three years of university studies
"Maitrise"    After four years of university studies



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
ACCOUNTING AND MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1661-MAG)
CONTENTS
Preface .................i
Evaluation  Summary ........................................................................... ii
1. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .......................................................1
PROJECT OBJECTIVES ........................................................1
ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES ...............                                  ........................................                         2
IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT .................................................3
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ........................................................5
IDA PERFORMANCE ........................................................6
BORROWER PERFORMANCE .......................................................7
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME .......................................................7
FuTRE OPERATION .......................................................9
KEY LESSONS LEARNED ......................................................                                                                          9
2. STATISTICAL TABLES ......................................................                                                                      11
TABLE 2.1:  SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS ...................................................... I 1
TABLE 2.2: RELATED IDA  CREDITS .......................................................11
TABLE 2.3: PROJECT TIMETABLE .......................................................                                                               13
TABLE 2.4:  CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL .......................... ................ 13
TABLE 2.5:  KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  .................................                                    ..................... 14
TABLE 2.6:  KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION ...................                                       .................................... 1 3
TABLE 2.7:  STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT ......................................................                                                    1 4
TABLE 2.8: PROJECT COSTS ......................................................                                                                   16
TABLE 2.8B  : PROJECT FINANCING ...................................................... 16
TABLE 2.9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS ....................................................... 16
TABLE 2.10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS IN CREDIT AGREEMENT                                              .................................... 17
TABLE 2.1 1: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS ..................................................... 19
TABLE 2.12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS .......................................................                                                  20
TABLE 2.13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS ......................................................                                                       21
APPENDICES ..............................................                                                                                          22
| This docunent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiihout World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
ACCOUNTING AND MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1661-MAG)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Accounting and
Management Training Project in Madagascar, for which Credit 1661-MAG in the amount
of SDR 9.5 million was approved on February 25, 1986 and made effective on October 8,
1986.
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1994, two years later than the original
closing date. An amount of SDR 1.0 million was canceled on July 13, 1993. Final
disbursement took place on May 22, 1995, when the remaining balance of SDR 2.8 million
was canceled. Apart from the government's counterpart contribution, cofinancing for the
project was provided by the Ministry of Cooperation and Development of France for
US$2.5 million equivalent (more than the appraisal estimate), as well as CIDA and
USAID for about US$1.15 million and US$0.17 million, respectively.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Paul Geli (consultant) for the Population and
Human Resources Division, Central Africa and Indian Ocean Department of the Africa
Region. It was reviewed by Mr. Abdelwahed Zhiri, Acting Chief of the Population and
Human Resources Division, and Mr. P. Hari Prasad, Operations Adviser of the Central
Africa and Indian Ocean Department. Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's
final supervision/completion mission in October 1994. It is based on material in the
project file. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by providing views
reflected in the mission's aide-memoire (Appendix A), preparing its own evaluation of the
project's execution (Appendix B), and commenting on the draft ICR.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
ACCOUNTING AND MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT 1661-MAG
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction.
1.    The education sector had been a major recipient of Bank assistance with two
credits approved in 1967 and 1976. The third credit was of SDR 9.4 million (Cr. 1155-
MAG) was approved in 1981 and was for an Accounting and Audit Organization and
Training Project which included an important training component. The Accounting and
Management Training Project was a continuation and expansion of the objectives of Cr.
1155-MAG. The procurement component in the project was intended to assist the
Government in the implementation of recommendations included in the Procurement
Assessment Report of a Bank mission that visited Madagascar in May 1984.
Project Objectives
2.    The objectives of the project were to upgrade the level of expertise of accountants,
auditors and managers so as to strengthen the management planning and financial control
of enterprises in Madagascar, and to improve the procurement procedures of the
Borrower. The objectives were to be achieved through (i) the training of qualified
accountants, auditors and managers, and (ii) technical assistance and training for those
responsible for procurement. Thus the project had two components: (a) the establishment
and operation of the National Institute for Accounting and Management (Institut National
des Sciences Comptables et de l'Administration d'Entreprises, or INSCAE), and (b)
procurement assistance, i.e. technical assistance to a unit to be established and attached to
the Central Tender Board (Commission Centrale desMarches, or CCM).
3.    The credit included special covenants to promote the achievement of project
objectives. These related to: enactment of new accounting legislation; availability of
adequate premises for INSCAE; introduction and collection of tuition fees by INSCAE;
and submission to IDA for approval of annual training programs for procurement.
4.    The project's objectives were important for Madagascar and for the development
of its economy and its enterprises. The objectives were clear and realistic for the INSCAE
component, by far the more important. They responded well to Borrower circumstances
and priorities which had begun to change in the early 1980s. Although relatively simple,
the INSCAE component was demanding for the implementing agency. In order to be
successful, the component had to rely on a substantial input of technical assistance which
was included in the project design. The objectives of the procurement component
consisting of technical assistance to the Government on establishing procurement
regulations and procedures, and training of staff responsible for procurement within public



Evaluation Summary                                                          i
agencies were also clear, but less realistic than those for the INSCAE component.
Although the aim was to modernize the legislation and procedures, it was not obvious that
IDA and the Borrower would agree on the specific reforms to be made.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    Achievements have been substantial for financial and physical objectives; partial for
macro policy and sector policy improvements, institutional development, and private
sector development; and probably negligible for public sector management. Although not
necessarily as a result of the project, improvements have been made in procurement and
are not likely to be undone. Regarding the INSCAE component, a number of factors
favor the prospect of sustainability: the apparent interest of the Borrower in maintaining
achievements; participants' incentives, as demonstrated by their ability to find jobs upon
graduation, and therefore their willingness to pay sizable tuition; and the contributions of
donors. INSCAE has made substantial progress in increasing its cash generation.
However, despite annual increases in tuition and fees, for the next five years or so
INSCAE will continue to need some Government subsidies, which appear entirely
justified. On balance, the sustainability of the project can be rated as likely.
6.    The project took 2.5 years longer to complete than expected at appraisal but it met
all its development objectives.  The delay was due to the adaptation and extension of
facilties for INSCAE which was not originally planned but was included as savings were
made in other components. The actual project cost was US$12.8 million compared to the
US$13.1 million appraisal estimate. Only US$8.1 million of IDA resources were used
compared to the US$10.3 million appraisal estimate. These savings were possible because
additional grant financing   became available as MCD-France increased its grant
contribution from about US$1.5 million to US$2.5 million and two new financiers
provided grants i.e. CIDA (US$1.15 million) and USAID (US$0.17 million). These
additional grants helped Madagascar reduce its potential indebtedness by switching from
IDA to grant financing.
7.     A number of factors affected implementation of the INSCAE component. On the
positive side, these included the ownership of the project by the Malagasy accounting and
auditing profession (it was their idea and it responded to a need that they felt); the
excellent motivation of the faculty and teaching staff as well as students; and the generally
good quality of the technical assistance provided and financed by donors. Negative factors
(particularly at the beginning of project implementation) were the lack of Government
counterpart funds, a certain lack of interest by the Board of Directors, and deficiencies in
management. Regarding the procurement assistance component, its implementation was
affected mostly by the difficulty of reconciling differences in points of view between IDA
and the Borrower on the reform of procurement regulations and procedures.
8.      IDA performance on this project was highly satisfactory at the identification
stage, and satisfactory or somewhat less than satisfactory in preparation assistance,
appraisal and supervision.  The Borrower performance was satisfactory for project



iv                         ICR - Madagascar: Accounting andManagement Training Project
preparation, implementation and covenant compliance, and highly satisfactory for
operation.
9.    The outcome is highly satisfactory for the INSCAE component, and somewhat less
than satisfactory for the procurement component. The procurement component could not
succeed once the the interim Government abolished the CCM (Central Tender Board) in
1992. However, measures to reform procurement under Bank/IDA projects accompanied
the CCM abolition and the procurement component's principal objective of improving
procurement under Bank projects was reached. Thus, overall, the project's outcome
deserves a rating of "highly satisfactory".
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
10.   Apart from the procurement component, the project was designed to continue and
expand training in basic accounting principles (experts comptables or CPAs were to be
trained under the IDA-financed Financial Institutions Development Technical Assistance
Project approved in May 1993).  Implementation was in general good despite
shortcomings in certain areas. The project is an example of successful capacity building,
and the output of INSCAE since its establishment has been substantial. INSCAE is now
well established, reasonably well managed and has a competent faculty, while its courses
and seminars are very much in demand. Based on its past experience and on the demand
for its products, INSCAE has made realistic plans for an expansion of its activities and its
income generation. It can also reasonably expect to continue to receive additional support
from donors.
11.   The following lessons can be learned from this operation:
.  Projects most likely to succeed are those that are owned by the Government
and/or beneficiaries, are designed to meet widely perceived needs, and respond to
a demand.
*  Project cofinancing requires special efforts on the part of IDA in order to promote
good cooperation among cofinanciers in the best interests of the Borrower.
*  Technical assistance, whether long-term or short-term or a combination of both,
can be successful for capacity building, provided that it corresponds to needs
recognized by recipients and is carefully planned and implemented, in a spirit of
partnership and with particular emphasis on the appropriateness and quality of the
technical assistance to be provided.
*  To facilitate implementation and monitoring, it is advisable to avoid projects with a
mix of components of different kinds and with different implementing agencies
(such as accounting and management training, on the one hand, and procurement
assistance on the other). The procurement component was attached to the project
as the Bank felt that it was important at that time and this was the only project
within the foreseeable time horizon.   However, the project's experience



Evaluation Summary                                                          v
demonstrates the inadvisability of attaching unrelated components without
sufficient preparation.
*  IDA should use its leverage at all stages of the project cycle, including in
connection with any extension of the closing date of the credit, to bring about
improvements in project management, implementation and overall orientation.
* Projects should only be submitted for Board approval when fully prepared.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
ACCOUNTING AND MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT 1661-MAG
1. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTBPES
1.1   The objectives of the project were to upgrade the level of expertise of accountants,
auditors and managers so as to strengthen the management planning and financial control
of enterprises in Madagascar, and to improve the procurement procedures of the
Borrower. The objectives were to be achieved through (i) the training of highly qualified
accountants, auditors and managers, and (ii) technical assistance and training for those
responsible for procurement matters. The project consisted of two components: (a) the
establishment and operation of the National Institute for Accounting and Management
(Institut National des Sciences Comptables et de I'Administration d'Entreprises, or
INSCAE), and (b) procurement assistance, i.e. technical assistance to a unit to be
established and attached to the Central Tender Board (Commission Centrale des Marches,
or CCM).
1.2   The objectives were clear and realistic for the INSCAE component, which
represented 92 percent of total project costs. An Accounting Training Center (Centre de
Formation en Comptabilite, or CFC) had been established under the Madagascar
Accounting and Audit Organization and Training Project (approved in FY 84), whose
original objective was to support the development of the country's accounting/auditing
profession by revising the relevant legislative framework, and thereby raise the
profession's antiquated status relative to other countries at the same level. The success
and speed with which the CFC was put in place and started operations made it essential
that Bank Group assistance be continued until the management and operation of the
institution could be filly transferred to Malagasy staff with up-to-date accounting skills, in
1993. One of the aims of the new project was to ensure that INSCAE, the successor of
CFC, would continue its very useful work of training accountants/auditors, and that it
would become self-sustaining. At the same time, the Government was interested in
expanding the role of the CFC (INSCAE) to provide management training to
accommodate the needs of companies in both the private and public sectors.
1.3   The objectives of the procurement component, consisting of technical assistance to
the Government on procurement regulations and procedures as well as training of staff
responsible for procurement within public agencies, were also clear, but not as realistic as
those of the INSCAE component. On the one hand, IDA was interested in helping to
modernize the procurement regulations and procedures of Madagascar and in training staff
of Government agencies on how to follow them and to carry out procurement efficiently.



2
On the other hand, the central govemment agency responsible for procurement (CCM)
agreed on training, but it was not obvious that it would agree with IDA on the specific
reforms to correct certain shortcomings of the procurement regulations, aimed at
simplifying government approval procedures.
1.4   The objectives of the project were important for Madagascar, both for the
development of its private sector and the improved management of its public sector; they
were also important for the Bank's country assistance strategy.  Madagascar was
experiencing a shift from a centrally-controlled economy to a more market-oriented one,
and there was need for a change in mentalities as well as for training in accounting and
management.  The project was intended to assist in modernizing and improving
management and operation of public and private enterprises, thus supporting the
Government in implementing policies geared to the revitalization of the economy. Thus
the project was responsive to changes in the borrower's circumstances and priorities.
Though neither complex nor risky, the project was demanding for the implementing
agencies (particularly INSCAE), requiring a substantial input of extemal technical
assistance (reflected in the project design).
ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.5   The assessment of the project's success in achieving its major objectives should
take into account the significant differences between the two components, in terms of both
content and relative importance. One has to distinguish between review of the project as a
whole (reflected in Table 2.1 of Part II), and more qualified comments that can be made
on individual components. For the whole project, achievements were substantial for
financial and physical objectives; partial for macro policy and sector policy improvements,
institutional development, and private sector development; and negligible for public sector
management  (other  objectives  listed  in  Table  2.1  do   not  apply).
1.6   Physical objectives were almost achieved for the INSCAE component (although
not necessarily for the type of training and diplomas envisaged in the President's Report),
and basically achieved for the procurement component (through the establishment of a
procurement unit, training and updating of legislation).
1.7   Macro policy and sector policy objectives were only partially achieved.
Economic performance cannot immediately reflect the impact of better trained managers
and accountants, or of improvements in procurement, which should all have a cumulative
effect in the long term. The same reasoning applies to the impact of the project on private
sector development. Although equally difficult to measure, the impact of the project on
public sector management was most likely negligible. The lack of more specific baseline
sample data with tracking over time suggests that such technical projects should have
more monitorable objectives.



3
1.8   The achievement of financial objectives has been substantial. Although INSCAE
is not yet fully self-supporting financially, it has managed over the years to increase its
revenues by more than 50% percent for all its different activities including more than
100% of its training costs excluding TA as required in the covenants to the credit
agreement on cost-recovery.
1.9  Institutional development objectives have been achieved only partially.
INSCAE has been established and is operating satisfactorily, providing a very good
example of successful capacity building with external assistance (long as well as short-
term). INSCAE's management offers room for improvements, however, especially in
planning and programming. Government procurement has improved, but regulatory
deficiencies and procedural delays still exist.
IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
1.10  The Borrower's report in Appendix B discusses the implementation record for the
project, with some mention of the problems encountered. In summary, the INSCAE
component was implemented reasonably well despite shortcomings in certain areas,
whereas the implementation of the procurement assistance component was somewhat less
than satisfactory.
1.11  The project had a slow start, primarily because it was not fully prepared by the
time the IDA credit was approved. One of the main concerns of Government and IDA
was to avoid an interruption in the availability of financing for the continued operation of
CFC and its successor INSCAE for training in accounting and auditing. The processing of
the project had already been delayed by the need to resolve issues prior to the signing of
the IDA credit whether INSCAE should be part of the university or (as was decided)
remain under the umbrella of the Ministry of Finance, and whether the project description
should include the construction of a new building or the rehabilitation of existing buildings
(the latter was decided because of the belief that there were enough buildings to be
rehabilitated in Antananarivo). The issue of technical assistance for INSCAE (its type,
source, role and how it should fit within the organization) was debated but not solved
during project preparation, which is rather surprising for what was essentially a technical
assistance project. Thus, INSCAE's first task was to sort out the type and source of
technical assistance it needed (keeping in mind the different approaches of French and
Anglo-Saxon accounting, auditing and management systems), the respective roles of the
cofinanciers, and the problems of getting the technical assistance set up. In actual
practice, conflicts arose between the approaches proposed by Canadian and French
experts, which had to be resolved before detailed plans for the introduction of the
management courses and diplomas could be prepared and implemented with the help of
the technical assistance. The management training started only in September 1988,
reflecting a delay of one year compared to the appraisal estimate. During the first two
years of project implementation, audit reports were submitted late, which was paradoxical
for an accounting and management school. During the latter years, audit reports were
submitted in a timely fashion and were unqualified.



4
1.12  The procurement assistance component was added to the project only because this
project was the first one being processed in which the component could be included.
Otherwise, it was to be implemented by a different entity: the Central Tender Board
(CCM), which was a body reporting to the Director-General of the State Inspectorate-
General. On the IDA side, the necessary arrangements should have been but were not
made to ensure that this component was supervised by a staff member who was highly
knowledgeable on procurement issues. The implementation of the procurement assistance
component was delayed. The special procurement unit was established and attached to
CCM, and staff of public agencies were trained in procurement principles and procedures
(almost 600 persons, including 21 trainers), as envisaged at appraisal. The consulting firm
that provided one long-term expert to prepare recommendations for improving of
procurement regulations and procedures started its work only in 1989. It prepared two
manuals or reports: one on public procurement regulations, and one on the preparation of
bidding documents and contracting for government procurement. As a result, a new
procurement code (Decree No. 91-056) was issued on January 29, 1991. However, the
Government did not agree with all IDA comments on the draft new code (essentially an
updating of the old one rather than a complete revision), which still contains many
unsatisfactory regulations (particularly regarding the number of steps and signatures
required, and the low levels of clearance and approval thresholds).
1.13  The contract of the consulting firm was amended in June 1991 to include the
preparation of standard bidding documents to be used for all government procurement.
That task, however, was not carried out, for two reasons. First, in September 1991, the
cryptic Government replaced CCM (considered by IDA task managers to be excessively
involved in procurement) with a Commission ad hoc des Marches. Second, in March
1992, the Government agreed that IDA standard bidding documents should be used for
procurement in all IDA-financed projects. Because of that breakthrough, together with
the lack of responsiveness of Government to IDA comments and the fact that the
Commission ad hoc des Marches was functioning better than the old CCM (in the sense
that the processing time of contracts had been shortened, which was particularly important
for IDA task managers), IDA lost interest in pursuing a dialogue with Government on the
further improvement of regulations and procedures for all government procurement. In
doing so, IDA accepted implicitly a change in the component's objectives.  The
component was considered completed, although in late 1994 IDA approved additional
expenditures for equipment and training for the General Directorate of the General
Inspectorate of the State which is left with the task of control a posteriori of public
procurement.
1.14  In terms of physical targets (establishment of INSCAE, preparation of
recommendations on procurement, training of staff, etc.), implementation was complete.
The project took 2.5 years longer to complete than expected at appraisal but it met all its
development objectives. The delay was due to the adaptation and extension of facilities
for INSCAE which was not originally planned but was included as savings were made in
other components. The actual project cost was US$12.8 million compared to the
US$13.1 million appraisal estimate. Only US$8.1 million of IDA resources were used
compared to the US$10.3 million appraisal estimate. These savings were possible because



5
additional grant financing   became available as MCD-France increased its grant
contribution from about US$1.5 million to US$2.5 million and two new financiers
provided grants i.e. CIDA (US$1.15 million) and USALD (US$0.17 million). These
additional grants helped Madagascar reduce its potential indebtedness by switching from
IDA to grant financing.
1.15  A number of factors affected the implementation of the INSCAE component. On
the positive side, the project benefited from: the increased ownership of the project by the
Malagasy accounting profession (it was their idea and it responded to their needs); the
excellent motivation of the faculty and teaching staff as well as students; and the generally
good quality of the technical assistance provided and financed by donors. Negative factors
(particularly at the beginning of project implementation) included the lack of Government
counterpart funds, a certain lack of interest by the Board of Directors, and deficiencies in
management. INSCAE's management style has not always been participatory enough,
since certain decisions were taken by the Board of Directors and not discussed with all
concerned parties, including some at high levels. Originally, the private sector was not
sufficiently represented on the Board of Directors; this may explain some of the difficulties
experienced by INSCAE in starting the management course, obtaining recognition of the
profession of certified public accountant (expert comptable or comptable agre), or even
finding a building suitable for INSCAE's use after rehabilitation.  Regarding the
procurement assistance component, its implementation was affected mostly by the
difficulty of reconciling differences between IDA and the Borrower on the reform of
procurement regulations and procedures.
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
1.16  A number of factors favor the prospect of project sustainability, uncertainties also
exist. Improvements made in procurement, at least for IDA-financed projects (and
including those not due to the project) are not likely to be undone.  The policy
environment is generally favorable to an institution like INSCAE; the increase in recent
years in the Government's contribution is an indication of its commitment to sustaining the
achievements of this project component. The effectiveness of INSCAE's management, too
is satisfactory, notwithstanding a certain lack of dynamism. The faculty remains interested
and motivated. Participants' incentives are a highly favorable factor, as demonstrated by
the students' ability to find jobs upon graduation, and therefore, their willingness to pay
sizable tuition. Finally, although IDA has no follow-up project, other donors, particularly
France, are likely to continue to support INSCAE. On the other hand, INSCAE's
financial viability is not guaranteed, despite the significant increase in revenues from
tuition and fees and resulting improvement in cost recovery. On balance, the sustainability
of the project can be rated as likely.



6
IDA PERFORMANCE
1.17  IDA performance on this project was highly satisfactory at the identification stage,
and satisfactory or somewhat less so in preparation assistance, appraisal, and supervision.
As mentioned earlier, the project was very important for Madagascar and for IDA's
country assistance strategy, and project identification was on target. With the benefit of
hindsight, preparation assistance could have been more thorough and detailed, to facilitate
the start of the project. Also, the design of the project and its conditionalities might have
benefited from efforts at appraisal to test the seriousness of government commitment to
certain aspects of the project (revision of accounting and auditing legislation, access to the
profession of certified public accountants and auditors, and procurement reform).
1.18  IDA's supervision of the procurement assistance component was deficient. An
important problem was the failure to arrange for the contribution of a procurement
specialist. Moreover, supervision was basically neglected after the Government did not
agree with IDA's comments on the draft new code and replaced CCM with a Commission
ad hoc des Marches (para 1.11). With only two-thirds of the credit (in SDRs) disbursed,
resources were available, which could have been used in particular for training of
ministerial and public agency staff, to improve procurement capabilities in the country.
1.19 In supervising the INSCAE component, IDA played an important role, early on, to
help resolve conflicts among cofinanciers and sort out their respective functions and
technical assistance; more could have been done, however, to accelerate this process.
Moreover, subsequent supervision suffered from excessive reliance on an outside
consultant (an accounting professor), who likely lacked the authority and weight to deal
adequately with the Malagasy (or at least certain groups in Madagascar) on sensitive
subjects as the new accounting and auditing legislation, and access to the profession of
certified professional accountants and auditors. According to a credit covenant, the
Government was to enact new accounting legislation by December 31, 1987; the
legislation was finally enacted in November 1992. Even though IDA gave its formal
approval, it turned out later to have a number of unsatisfactory clauses (including
restricted access to the profession), calling for revision. The promulgation of a revised
ordinance is a condition of disbursement under the Financial Institutions Development
Technical Assistance Project (Cr.2497-MAG) approved in 1993, which included a
component for improving the accounting and audit environment; the Governrment has
reached agreement with IDA on a revised ordinance which is expected to be promulgated
very soon.
1.20  In the last years of project implementation, the INSCAE component was better
supervised by IDA. However, for a period of time INSCAE believed that part of the
undisbursed balance of the credit could be used to finance the construction of a new
building, and thus INSCAE concentrated on the search for a suitable plot of land and
preparation of architectural plans, rather than on the rehabilitation of an existing building.
There was no requirement for a mid-term review, but two in-depth evaluations of results
and prospects were undertaken at the end of 1992 and 1993, respectively, bcfore deciding



7
on an extension of the credit closing date.  Those evaluations led to a useful and
constructive dialogue with Government and INSCAE on the future of the institution and
the measures to be taken to improve its management and operations; they also provided
the basis for the conditions that were attached to the three closing date extensions (from
December 31, 1992 to December 31, 1993, then to June 30, 1994, and finally to
December 31, 1994). Those conditions covered: (i) an increase to at least FMG 275
million of the Government contribution to INSCAE's operating costs for 1994 (the actual
contribution was FMG 455 million); (ii) an amendment of INSCAE's by-laws to increase
the representation of the private sector in its Board of Directors and, therefore, in its
management; (iii) the entering into ten-year leases for the building occupied by INSCAE
and the additional one to be rehabilitated; and (iv) the preparation of a realistic financing
plan for the next five-year period (the plans that were prepared included substantial
increases in tuition and fees which have so far been implemented as planned).
BORROWER PERFORMANCE
1.21  The Borrower's performance can be rated as satisfactory for preparation,
implementation and covenant compliance, and highly satisfactory for operation. These
ratings apply basically to the dominant INSCAE component; the Borrower's performance
on the procurement assistance component was less satisfactory. The main merit of the
Borrower lay in its pursuing a project idea that was really its own and that was responsive
to widely felt needs in the country. Some of INSCAE's shortcomings at the beginning of
project implementation, particularly the management deficiencies and the fact that audit
reports were submitted late, were disturbing and paradoxical for an accounting and
management school, but the situation improved later on.  INSCAE succeeded in
establishing partnerships with outside training institutions and securing financial support
from a number of donors. INSCAE also prepared itself for the time when the proceeds of
the IDA credit would no longer be available, by controlling closely its operating
expenditures and increasing its revenues. Particularly noteworthy is the way INSCAE
handled the introduction of tuition and fees for its various activities and, in the end, more
than complied with the covenants in the credit agreement on cost recovery. Unresolved
areas relate to the failure of the Government to enact acceptable legislation on accounting
and auditing and to settle the question of access to the profession, these had to be
addressed through a follow-up on going operation (Financial Sector Development Project,
FINDEP).
ASSESSMENT OF OUTcoME
1.22 The outcome is rated as highly satisfactory for the INSCAE component and
somewhat less than satisfactory for the procurement component. Overall, the project's
outcome deserves a rating of "highly satisfactory".  Three favorable aspects of the
INSCAE component deserve to be highlighted.



8
1.23  First, the project is a good example of successful capacity building, through a
combination of long-term and short-term technical assistance to highly motivated
recipients (administrators, faculty and other teaching staff). The success of the operation
can be explained also by the partnerships that INSCAE managed to establish with outside
training institutions, care exercised by INSCAE in selecting the most appropriate
institutions, and the generally good quality of the foreign specialists. The number of long-
term expatriates was reduced from a maximum of ten to three at present, with INSCAE
personnel fully competent to carry on the activities.
1.24  Second, the output of INSCAE since its establishment has been substantial. As
shown in Table 2.6 in Part II, the number of graduates of the three-year program in
accounting was only slightly less than the appraisal estimate, although the number of
graduates of the four-year program in accounting and of the two-year program in business
administration was half or less than half the appraisal estimates. However, INSCAE
offered more diversified training programs for both full-time and evening students than
was envisaged at appraisal, so that by the end of 1994, the total number of diplomas
awarded since the beginning was 928. The demand is very strong from full-time students,
who have no difficulty in finding a satisfactory job upon graduation, as well as from
employers who search for evening courses for their employees, whom they reward upon
graduation with increased responsibilities and salaries. 75% of INSCAE graduates find
employment within 3 months of graduating while the remaining 25% find employment
within six months - this in a labor market characterized by high graduate unemployment.
These results clearly indicate that the training provided by INSCAE is very much in line
with the requirements of the labor market.
1.25  Third, as mentioned earlier, INSCAE has been very successful in collecting
increasing revenues from tuition and various fees, above and beyond levels envisaged at
appraisal. According to a covenant in the credit agreement, the Borrower was committed
to submit to IDA, by June 30, 1987, a proposal on the feasibility of the introduction of
tuition fees for the full-time accounting students. The proposal submitted in June 1987
concluded that the introduction of fees would only aggravate the precarious financial
situation of the majority of the students; the proposal was accepted by IDA as complying
with the covenant. However, starting in 1988, fees were introduced for the full-time
accounting students as well as for other students and trainees. Another covenant of the
credit agreement required 1NSCAE to ensure that the fees paid for the evening accounting
courses and the management training program would cover the total cost of salaries of
teachers for such programs during project execution and thereafter. INSCAE started
complying with that covenant in 1993. In 1994, the income from tuition and fees for all
courses (accounting and management, full-time and evening) represented 157 percent of
the cost of salaries of teachers, while total income, including seminars and other activities,
was almost half the expenses of INSCAE, excluding technical assistance. This was less
than estimated by the five-year financing plan though the slippage can be partly attributed
to rapid inflation resulting from the devaluation in spring 1994.



9
FuTuRE OPERATION
1.26 INSCAE is now well established, reasonably well managed, has a competent
faculty, and offers courses and seminars that enjoy strong demand. As discussed above,
INSCAE has done better financially than envisaged at appraisal, but needs to make further
progress to become fully self-supporting.
1.27 Based on its past experience and on the demand for its graduates, INSCAE has
made realistic plans for an expansion of its activities and its income generation. It can also
reasonably expect to continue to receive additional support from some donors, particularly
France. However, financial forecasts prepared by INSCAE show that, despite annual
increases in tuition and fees, for the next five years or so it will continue to need some
subsidies from the Government. These subsidies, however, are estimated to decline in
absolute as well as in relative terms; expressed as a percentage of INSCAE's operating
expenses (excluding technical assistance and other expenses financed by donors), the
Government contribution would decrease from about 30 percent in 1995 to about 15
percent in 1999, and would represent a relatively small amount per student. These
shortfall estimates are higher than in the five year financing plan prepared in 1993.
However, considering the contribution that INSCAE makes to the national economy,
particularly the development of the private sector, this seems justifiable particularly when
viewed in comparison to subsidies for other institutions of higher learning. The
Government recognizes INSCAE's contribution and a continuation of some form of
Government support appears likely.
KEY LESSONS LEARNED
1.28  The following lessons, which are relevant for future projects both in vocational
training/technical education and in Madagascar, can be learned from the Accounting and
Management Training Project:
* Projects most likely to succeed are those that are owned by the Government
and/or beneficiaries, are designed to meet widely perceived needs, and respond to
a demand.
* Project cofinancing requires special efforts on the part of IDA in order to promote
good cooperation among cofinanciers in the best interests of the Borrower.
* Technical assistance, whether long-term or short-term or a combination of both,
can be successful for capacity building, provided that it corresponds to needs
recognized by recipients and is carefully planned and implemented, in a spirit of
partnership and with particular emphasis on the appropriateness and quality of the
technical assistance to be provided.



10
* To facilitate implementation and monitoring, it is advisable to avoid projects with a
mix of components of different kinds and with different implementing agencies
(such as accounting and management training, on the one hand, and procurement
assistance on the other). The procurement component was attached to the project
as the Bank felt that it was important at that time and this was the only project
within the foreseeable time horizon.  However, the project's experience
demonstrates the inadvisability of attaching unrelated components without
sufficient preparation.
* IDA should use its leverage at all stages of the project cycle, including in
connection with any extension of the closing date of the credit, to bring about
improvements in project management, implementation and overall orientation.
* Projects should only be submitted for Board approval when fully prepared.



2. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 2.1: Summary of Assessments
Summary of Assessments
A. Achievements of
Objectives
Not
Obiectives                      Substantial               Partial          NeAligible           ADDlicable
Macro policies                    a                                          0                    0
Sector policies                   a                                          0                    0
Financial objectives                                        0                                     0 
Institutional development         a                                          0 O
Physical objectives                                         0                0                    0
Poverty reduction                 a                         0                0
Gender issues                     a                         a                                     0
Other social objectives           O                         0                                     RI
Envirornental objectives          0                         0                0
Public sector management          a                         O                                     0
Private sector development        a                                          0                    0
Other (specify)                   a                         0                0
B  Project sustainability                  Likely                   Unlikely         Uncertain
0                                         0
C. Bank performance                       Highly
satisfactory             Satisfactory     Deficient
Identification                                                      0                0
Preparation Assistance                     0                                         0
Appraisal                                  0                                          0
Supervision                                O                                         0
D. Borrower performance                   Highly
satisfactory             Satisfactory     Deficient
Preparation                                0                                         0
Implementation                             0                                          o
Covenant Compliance                        0                                          0
Operation                                                           0                0
E. Assessment of outcome                   Highly
satisfactorv             Satisfactory     Deficient
0~                ~ ~~  0 



12
Table 2.2: Related IDA Credits
Credit or Loan Title                            Purpose            Year of Approval                      Status
Preceding Operations
Accounting and Audit Organization and Training Project  The objective of the project was to     1981     The project was satisfactorily completed
encourage the practice of modern                       with the establishment of an accounting
(Cr. 1155)                                        accounting and auditing by upgrading the               school, and the preparation of modern
professional skills of accountants and                 accountancy legislation and of updated
auditors, and the establishment of a                   rules governing the profession, including
management consulting capability so                    accountants' qualifications.
as to help develop efficient management,
planning and financial control.
Following Operations
Education Sector Reinforcement Project            One of the components of the project is the   1990    Higher level education component is being
strengthening of higher                                implemented satisfactorily. In March 1992,
(Cr. 2094)                                       level education, and one of the covenant is            the Government established the
that the Govermnent shall                              "Delgation Generale du Gouvernement
establish, by Dec 31, 1990, an agency                  pour la Formation Technique et
responsible for coordination of                        Professionnelle "(DGFTP), whose Head is
vocational training and technical                      at present the chairman of the Board of
education activities in the education                  INSCAE. The Delegation Generale
sector.                                                became a Ministry in August, 1995.
Manpower Training Project                         The objectives of the project are to          1992     After some initial delays and problems, the
establish a technical and vocational                   project is now being implemented
(Cr. 2382)                                        education and training system                          satisfactorily.
encompassing private and public training
institutions and responsive to actual
training needs of the economy.
Financial Institutions Development Technical Assistance   The objective of one of the components of  1993  The credit became effective in June 1994,
Project                                          the project is to formulate and enforce                 and project implementation started only
audit and financial disclosure standards               recently.
(Cr. 2497)                                        based on international norms.



13
Table 2.3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle              Date planned           Date actual
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                             Apr 1984
Preparation                                                            Aug 1984
Appraisal                                                             Jan/Feb 1985
Negotiations                                                           Dec 1985
Board Presentation                                                    Feb 25, 1986
Signing                                                               Apr 16, 1986
Effectiveness                                    Jul 15, 1986         Oct 08, 1986
Midterm Review                                      N/A.                 N/A.
Project Completion                              Jun 30, 1992          Dec 31, 1994
Loan/Credit Closing                             Dec 31, 1992          Dec 31, 1994
Table 2.4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95
Appraisal    2.0     4.0      6.2      8.2     9.2    10.0    10.3
Estimate
Actual      0.1     0.3      1.0     1.6      2.3     3.1     4.3     5.3    8.1
Actual as %
of Estimate    5%     8%      16%      20%     25%      31%     42%     52%    79%
Date of final disbursement: May 22, 1995



14
Table 2.5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
1. Number of Diplomas in Accounting
3-year program for a first cycle diploma in accounting - DSSC - 4-year program for a second cycle diploma in accounting -
Dipl6me Superieur Specialise en Sciences Comptables           DESCA- DipIome d'Etudes en Sciences Comptables
Approfondies
Appraisal                       Actual                        Appraisal                      Actual
Estimate .                                                    Estimate
1987            64                              73                             30                            18
1988            64                              93                             30                            19
1989            64                              60                             40                            17
1990            64                              51                             40                            17
1991            64                              37                             40                            14
1992            64                              37                             40                            16
1993            64                              54                             40                            10
1994            64                              75                             40                            12
Total           512                            480                            300                           123
Note: The number of graduates is not equal to the total number of diplomas (DSSC plus DESCA) because the graduates with a DESCA diploma
also obtained previously a DSSC diploma.
2. Number of Graduates in Business Administration(MBA) (2-year program           Appraisal                       Actual
for a Third Cycle diploma - MAE: Master en Administration des Entreprises)        Estimate
1988                                           20
1989                                           30
1990                                           30                            17
1991                                           30                            22
1992                                           30                             18
1993                                           30                             18
1994                                           30                            26
Total                                          200                           101
Note: In addition, during the same period 1988-1994, 116 full-time students graduated with a First Cycle diploma (DSSAE - Dipl6me SupMrieur
Spkialise en Adlministration des Entreprises) and 27 full-time students graduated with a Second Cycle diploma (DHESAE - Diplome de Hautes
Etuides en Sciences de l 'Administration d'ELnlreprises). Also, 4 evening students obtained the DSSAE diploma.



15
Table 2.6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Number of Students in Accounting  Number of Students in Management       Number of Teachers Needed
Year                   Beginners       In-Service         Full-time       In-Service       Malgache           Foreign
1996                        280              700               25               20               26                 5
1997                        280              700               25               20               30                 5
1998                        280              700               25               20               30                4
1999                        280              700               25               20               30                 3
2000                        280              700                25               20               30                1
2001                        280              700                25               20               30                0
2002                        280              700                25               20               30                0
2003                        280              700                25               20               30                0



16
Table 2.7: Studies Included in Project
Study      Purpose as defined at appraisal    Status        Impact of Study
Procurement    To prepare recommendations for  Completed  A new procurement code was
Study          the improvement of procurement             issued on Jan 29, 1991
regulations and procedures.               (Decree No. 91-056).
Table 2.8: Project Costs
(US $ million)
Project Components                   Appraisal          Actual/Latest
Estimate            Estimate
INSCAE                                              9.78                11.67
Procurement Assistance                              0.49                 1.12
Total Base Costs                                   10.27                12.79
Physical Contingencies                              0.87
Price Contingencies                                 1.96
Total Project Costs                                13.10                12.79
Table 2.8B: Project Financing
(US $ million)
Source                         Appraisal          Actual/Latest
Estimate            Estimate
IDA Credit                                         10.30                8.10
Government Funds                                    1.30                 0.87
Sub-Total                                          11.60                8.97
MCD (France)                                        1.50                 2.50
CIDA (Canada)                               __1.15
USAID (USA)                                 __0.17
Total                                              13.10                12.79



17
Table 2.9: Economic Costs and Benefits
The President's Report did not include an estimate of the economic rate of return of the project,
but indicated that the INSCAE component was the least-cost solution for training accountants,
auditors and managers. The alternative of sending students abroad was estimated to be about four
times more costly (a minimum of about US$12,000 equivalent per student year abroad vs.
US$3,000 in INSCAE). The actual cost of a student per year at INSCAE was about US$1,400 in
1994, whereas the alternative of training a student abroad (varying from about US$12,000 per year
in France to about US$25,000 per year in Canada) was at least eight times more costly.



18
Table 2.10: Status of Legal Covenants in Credit Agreement
Section    Covenant    Present             Fulfillment date                    Description of Covenant
Type       Status
Original          Revised
3.01       4, 5        CP          continuous                      Borrower's commitment to project objectives;  Borrower initially provided only part of the
Borrower to carry out project wit.h due diligence  agreed upon counterpart funds, and with some
and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate  delays.  This became less of a problem as
practices, and to provide, promptly as needed, the  INSCAE own receipts increased.
funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for project.                       _
3.02        10          C          continuous                       Procedures for procurement of goods, works and
consultants' services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
3.03        10         CP       By Sep 30 of each                   By September 30 of each year of execution of the   Annual training programs have not been
year, for the                    project, Borrower to submit to IDA for approval    submitted for each year of execution of project.
following year                    an annual training program to be carried out  This improved in later years.
during the following year under Part B.2 of the
.. ________                                                 project (Procurement assistance component).
3.04        12         CD         Dec 31, 1987                      By December 31, 1987, the Borrower shall enact a  New accounting legislation was enacted in
new accounting legislation.                 November 1992. However, it contains a number
of unsatisfactory clauses which need to be
revised. A revised text has been agreed in the
context on the Financial Sector Development
Project.
3.05        10          C          continuous                       Borrower to take all necessary measures to ensure  One condition of credit effectiveness was that
that INSCAE shall, at all times, have at its  the Borrower has made available to INSCAE
disposition adequate premises for carrying out its  adequate premises. INSCAE took a ten year
responsibilities.                           lease on a rehabilitated building in 1994.
3.06       5,10         C          continuous                       Any change of the legal arrangements for INSCAE  The establishment of INSCAE under legal
shall be subject to prior approval by IDA.  arrangements satisfactory to IDA (including an
acceptable composition of the board of directors
and pedagogical committee) was a condition of
credit effectiveness. The Board was changed in
1994 to increase private sector participation.



19
Section    Covenant    Present              Fulfillment date                       Description of Covenant
Type       Status
Original           Revised
3.07 (a)      2           C       During execution                      During execution of the project and thereafter,
of the project, and                  Borrower to take all measures necessary, or to
thereafter.                          cause INSCAE to take all measures necessary, to
ensure that the students enrolled in the evening
accounting courses and the students enrolled in
the management training program, or the sponsors
of any such student, shall pay a tuition fee
adequate to cover the total cost of salaries of
teachers for any such program but exclusive of
salaries of technical assistants.
3.07 (b)      2            C         Jun 30, 1987                       By June 30, 1987, Borrower to submit to IDA for  The proposal submitted in June 1987 (and
review  a proposal on the feasibility of the  accepted  by  IDA)  concluded  that  the
introduction of tuition fees to be paid by the  introduction of fees would only aggravate the
students enrolled in the day time accounting  precarious financial situation of the majority of
program of INSCAE.                            the students. However, fees were introduced at
a later date and now more than cover teachers'
salaries.
Section    Covenant    Present              Fulfillment date                       Description of Covenant
Type       Status
Original           Revised
4.01         1          CD       by June 30 of each                    Borrower to maintain adequate project records and  In the early years of project execution, audit
year, for the                        accounts, to  have the accounts audited  by  reports  were  submitted  with  considerable
preceding year.                      independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and to  delays. Since then, they have been timely.
furnish to IDA, not later than six months after the
end of each fiscal year, the report of such audit by
said auditors.
Covenant types:
I = Accounts/audits.                     8 = Indigenous people.                    Present status:
2 = Financial performance/revenue         9 = Monitoring, review and reporting.
generation from beneficiaries.            10 = Project implementation not covered by   C  = Covenant complied with.
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds.        categories 1-9.                  CD = Complied with after delay.
4 = Counterpart funding.                  11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or   CP = Complied with partially.
5 = Management aspects of the project or  other resource allocation..              NC = Not complied with.
executing agency.                12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
6 = Environmental covenants.              policy/regulatory/ institutional action.
7 = Involuntary resettlement.             13 = Other.



20
Table 2.11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
All applicable Bank OMS were complied with.
Table 2.12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle             Planned                Revised                 Actual
Weeks        US$       Weeks        USS       Weeks        US$
Preparation to Appraisal    N/A        N/A         N/A         N/A         28.7       N/A
Appraisal / Negotiations    N/A        N/A         N/A         N/A         26.2       N/A
Negotiations through        N/A        N/A         N/A         N/A          9.3       N/A
Board Approval          _
Supervision                 N/A        N/A         N/A         N/A        - 7 1.5     N/A
Completion                  N/A        N/A         N/A         N/A          6.0      N/A
TOTAL                       N/A         N/A        N/A         N/A        141.7       N/A



21
Table 2.13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of     MontW/       Number of  Days in  Specialized staff       Perforrnance Rating         Types of Problemns
Project Cycle    Year         Persons    Field   skills represented
Implemen-      Develop-
tation Status     ment
I Objecdves
Through appraisal  Dec-84         2          7    EC, PS             _               _            _        _      _
Appraisal through   Jan/Feb-85    4         20   EC, SA, MTS, PS
Approval
Supervision I    Mar-86           3          9    EC, SED
Supervision 2    Jul-86           2          9    EC, SED
Supervision 3    May-87            1         6    PS
Supervision 4    Oct-87           2          13   EC, SED                    2             1      PMP
Supervision 5    Jan-88           1         N/A   ACMTS
Supervision 6    Sep/Oct-88        1        175   EC                         2             I      PMP
Supervision 7    Jan-89           1         17   ACMTS                       2             1      PMP
Supervision 8    Jul-89            1         9    ACMTS                      2             1      CLC, PMP AF, PP, TAP
Supervision 9    Oct-89           2          8    EC, ACMTS                N/A            N/A
Supervision 10   Jul-90     _____ 1          18   ACMTS                      2             1      CLC, PMP, AF, PP, TAP
Supervision 11     Jan-91   _       1        14   ACMTS                    N/A            N/A
Supervision 12   Jul-91            1         2    EC                         2             1      CLC, PMP, AF, PP, TAP
Supervision 13   Jul-92           2          14   TVS, AIS                   2             1      CLC, PMP, AF, PP, SP
Supervision 14   May-93           2         14   TVS, FA                     2             1      CLC, PMP, AF, PP, SP, FP
Supervision 15   Nov/Dec-93       2          16   TVS, FA                    2             1      PMP, AF, PP, SP, FP
Supervision 16   Mar/Apr-94        1         16   TVS                        2             1      PMP, AF, PP, SP, FP
Supervision 17   Oct-94            1         7    TVS                       S             HS
Completion       Apr/             2               EC, IS                     S            HS
May-95
Key to specialized staff skills
AIS = ArchitecVlmplemnentation  Specia IS = Implementation Specialist         SA  Senior Architect
EC = Economist                     MTS = Management Training Specialist       SED = Senior Educator
FA = Financial Analyst             PS = Procurement Speciaist                 TVS = Technical/ Vocational Specialist
Key to performance ratine
I = Problem Free               2 = Moderate Problems        3 = Major Problems        4 = Major Problems -
Corrective action to be taken.
HS = Highly Satisfactory                                    S = Satisfactory
Key to problems
AF  = Availability of funds                   PMP = Project management performance         SP = Studies progress.
CLC = Compliance with legal covenants          PP  = Procurement progress                  TAP= Technical Assistance Progress.
FP  = Financial performance



APPENDICES
A. MISSION'S AIDE-MtMOIRE
I     A World Bank mission, composed of Messrs. Pierre Mersier (Mission leader) and
Paul Geli (Consultant) visited Madagascar from April 16 to May 17, 1995 to, inter alia,
finalize the Completion Report of the Accounting and Management Training Project, for
which credit No. 166 1 -MAG was signed on April 16, 1986 and closed on December 31,
1994. The mission thanks in particular Mr. Richard Fienena, Director of Cabinet of the
Minister of Finance and Budget, for granting it an audience, during which the main
findings and recommendations of the completion report were presented to him. The
mission also thanks the management and staff of the "Institut National des Sciences
Comptables et de l'Administration d'Entreprises" (INSCAE) and of the Inspection
Generale de l'Etat (IGE), with whom it had working sessions in a constructive
environment.
2.    The retrospective evaluation of the Accounting and Management Training Project
made independently by the World Bank was largely based upon the reports prepared by
the beneficiaries of the IDA Credit 1661-MAG, i.e., IGE and INSCAE. These reports
include a detailed description of activities carried out and of problems encountered during
project implementation. The completion report, which will be submitted to the Board of
Directors of the World Bank, must present the points of view of both the World Bank and
the Borrower, so that they do not have to be harmonized. In any case, the mission noted
that, in spite of a few differing opinions concerning especially the procurement component
implemented by IGE, overall analysis by INSCAE and IGE on the one hand, and the
World Bank on the other, reflect convergent points of view on the project's
implementation and its outcome.
3.    The project's objectives were to improve the management and financial monitoring
of enterprises (INSCAE component), as well as the procurement procedures of
Madagascar (procurement component). The INSCAE component (the main one) had
been designed to continue and deepen the training in accounting and to add training in
business and management, through the establishment of a new institution which would
eventually become financially viable. The objectives of this component were crucial for
the development of the Malagasy economy and enterprises. In spite of difficulties,
INSCAE has been a success. The implementation of this component is a good example of
successful capacity building; INSCAE is now well established and fairly well managed; its
teaching staff is qualified and its classes and seminars are in high demand. This success is
mainly due both to a sustained effort towards the training of trainers and to INSCAE's
determination and capability to adapt its training to the needs of the labor market. The
demand is strong from full-time students who, after graduation, find a job easily. It is also
strong from employers for evening classes for their staff who, upon completion of their
INSCAE training, are usually rewarded with increased responsibilities and better salaries.



23                                                             Appendices
4.    This very strong demand for training has allowed INSCAE to increase school fees,
resulting in a satisfactory level of self-financing, well in excess of what was envisaged at
the time of appraisal. However, in spite of the annual increase of school fees, INSCAE
will not be able, in the medium term, to reach complete financial autonomy but will
continue to require subsidies from the Government. These subsidies, which would
decrease and represent a rather small amount per student, appear entirely justified in the
light of INSCAE's contribution to the national economy and particularly to the
development of the private sector. Besides, and in view of its excellent performance,
INSCAE should benefit from additional financing from donors to pursue and reinforce the
training of trainers (training or fellowships abroad will continue to be needed to upgrade
skills in accounting and management), and to renew equipment. As for the grouping of its
various facilities and classrooms in the same premises, INSCAE could, perhaps, mobilize
the necessary financing locally.
5.    As regards procurement, there was a need to bring regulations and procedures up-
to-date. Therefore, the objectives of this component were essential for Madagascar and
IDA, but it was not obvious that the Malagasy Government and IDA would share the
same point of view on the reforms to be undertaken. In accordance with the project
description, studies and recommendations were made and many were trained, so that, for
the main part, what had to be done has been done. Nevertheless, the outcome of this
component is not very satisfactory for two reasons: first, the Government and IDA could
not agree on the content of the reforms; second, the political events of 1991-1992 and
decisions taken at that time by the Government have partially "rolled back", and led to the
abandonment (at least by IDA) of the original project objective, namely to improve
regulations and procedures for all public procurement in Madagascar. When the
Government agreed (in March 1992) that IDA sample bidding documents would be used
for all projects financed by the World Bank, the latter lost interest in pursuing a dialogue
with the Government on any other procurement, and the component was considered
completed.
6.    Overall, the outcome of the Accounting and Management Training Project can be
rated "highly satisfactory".
Antananarivo, May 22, 1995



24                                                             Appendices
B.   BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
COMPLETION REPORT BY INSCAE
on the INSCAE component
Credit 1661-MAG
FOREWORD
7.    The Institut National des Sciences Comptables et de l'Administration d'Entreprises
(INSCAE), established in 1986, falls within the context of the development of the Centre
de Formation en Comptabilite (CFC) (Accounting Training Center) created in 1982:
(a)   In 1981, the granting of a development credit (115 5-MAG) made it
possible to implement in Madagascar a project for organization and training
in accounting and auditing. This was the context in which:
(b)   In 1982, the Centre de Formation en Comptabilite (CFC) was created.
(c)   In 1986, the obvious success of the project, and the development of the
Center's activities, led to:
(i)   recognition of the pertinence of its continuation,
(ii)  renewal of the confidence of all its partners;
(iii)   a new name being adopted --Institut National des Sciences
Comptables et de I'Administration d'Entreprises (INSCAE)-- to
take the place of CFC;
(iv)   new financial support from IDA in the form of Credit 1661 -MAG.
(d)   December 31, 1992 was the initial closing date set for Credit 1661-MAG.
However, in view of the importance of the project and of the Institute's
needs, IDA responded favorably to a request from the Malagasy party for
the credit to be extended to the end of 1993. Moreover, analysis of the
situation at that date led to a request for further extension to the end of
1994 which was agreed by IDA subject to certain conditions and in two
stages (end June 1994 and end December 1994).
8.    Credit 1661-MAG was finally closed on December 31, 1994 and is the subject of
this completion report consisting of four main sections: (a) evaluation of the project
objectives and of the degree of accomplishment of these objectives, (b) evaluation of the
project content, its implementation, its functioning, its cost and outcomes, and of
INSCAE's future prospects, (c) an evaluation of the World Bank's performance at each of
the different stages of the project ( preparation, appraisal and execution), and (d) a plan of



25                                                               Appendices
action for continuation of INSCAE's activities after the closing of Credit 1661 -MAG, with
a list of indicators of the project's performance and of its impact on the development of
Madagascar.
EVALUATION OF THE PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND OF THE DEGREE OF
ACCOMPLISHMENT OF THESE OBJECTIVES
INSCAE: project objectives
9.    The purposes of the Institut National des Sciences Comptables et de
l'Adrninistration d'Entreprises (National Institute for Accounting and Management -
INSCAE) are to (a) provide basic and advanced training for business management staff,
accountants, auditors and certified public accountants, and to foster research; (b)
strengthen its relations with the business world and with national and foreign organizations
operating in similar fields; (c) promote Malagasy enterprises through training for their
senior staff and managers; and (d) contribute thereby to the development of the national
economy.
INSCAE and its partners
10.   To achieve its objectives and perform its role of providing basic and advanced
training and upgrading for businesses, INSCAE has developed two main categories of
partnership:
(a)   Educational and scientific partnership. Educational and scientific partnership
with other similar institutions, including particularly:
(i)    Universite du Quebec a Trois-Rivieres (UQTR), Canada;
(ii)   Fondation Nationale pour l'Enseignement de la Gestion des
Entreprises (FNEGE) and other universities in France,
(iii)   The higher education establishments in Madagascar and Reunion.
(b)   Financial partnership
(i)    Bilateral cooperation
a.    Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA): (i)
resident and nonresident technical assistance since 1988, (ii)
training fellowships for teaching and any administrative
staff; (iii) pedagogic support (textbooks and institutional
equipment); and (iv) support for research (symposia,
seminars, courses).



26                                                                     Appendices
b.     The Mission Frangaise de Cooperation et d'Action
Culturelle - MFC: (i) resident and nonresident technical
assistance; (ii) support for trainer training (training and
research fellowships); (iii) support for documentation; and
(iv) support for Junior-Entreprise creation.
c.     USAID: Permanent missions and short-duration training
courses.
d.     AUPELF/UREF: Non-resident technical assistance, and
support for research.
(ii)    The Malagasy State
a.     The Malagasy State plays a role in the INSCAE project by
assuming responsibility for provision of the local
counterpart funds for external financing, and through the
administrative and financial supervision performed by the
Ministry of Finance and Budget and the educational and
scientific supervision by the Ministry of Higher Education.
Annual State subsidies in FMG/million
1987  1988  1989  1990  1991   1992   1993   1994
1735  100   80   180   180   162    250    455
b.     Although the State subsidies furnished to INSCAE were
very small at the start, there has been a marked increase in
these subsidies since 1993.
(iii)   Malagasy enterprises. Through their confidence in INSCAE
training.
(iv)   The World Bank As the Institute's principal financial partner
through the granting of Credit 1661 -MAG, the World Bank has
been involved in several components of the INSCAE project: (a)
support for nonresident technical assistance; (b) support to the
training for trainers and administrative personnel; (c) logistic
support for civil works, furniture, equipment, and vehicles; and (d)
computerization of various departments (library, personnel,
accounting, studies management, etc.).



27                                                               Appendices
Evaluation and degree of accomplishment of objectives
11.   Upon the closing of Credit 1661-MAG, it is clear that the pertinence of the project
was fully justified: it met and is still to this day meeting a market need.
12.   The number of INSCAE graduates is increasing every year, totaling at the end of
1994:
(a)   653 graduates from first cycle
(b)    174 graduates from second cycle (who also have the first cycle diploma)
(c)    101 graduates from third cycle Management.
13.   Placement rate: If the effectiveness of a school is measured in terms of the
placement rate of its graduates, it can be affirmed that INSCAE has fully achieved its
objectives. The placement rate of INSCAE's graduates is 100%. Seventy-five percent find
employment within three months of receiving their diplomas, and the other 25% within
three to six months, taking into account the time it takes them to make their choice, the
positions being available during the first three months.
14.   Labor market perception: The above-noted placement rate clearly demonstrates
the positive perception that employer enterprises and organizations have of INSCAE
graduates. The reasons for this success derive essentially from INSCAE's unwavering
focus on:
(a)   excellence of the training provided by high-level teachers, reaping benefits
from an aggressive trainer-training policy;
(b)   improvement of appropriate technical and instructional aids (computer
programs, audiovisual materials, library);
(c)   continuous adaptation of training to the needs of the labor market, with
emphasis on the "professional" content.
15.   Theoretical and practical instruction are provided on a joint basis (case studies,
visits to and short assignments in enterprises, effective participation in forums, seminars,
etc.). It can be stated, therefore, that, notwithstanding the few shortcomings that still
remain to be remedied (in particular in strengthening of the "communication and
expression" dimension), the competitive advantage gained by INSCAE graduates lies in
the fact that they are fully operational upon completing the training.
16.   Enrollment rates: Despite the increase in admission fees for the Initial Training
(IT) and Continuing Training (CT) management courses, it is clear that enrollment rates
have remained consistent in IT and CT management, while a progressive increase has been
witnessed in enterprise participation in the courses and seminars offered by the
Department of Advanced Business Training. One of the reasons for INSCAE's success



28                                                              Appendices
lies in its capacity to respond to labor market needs through flexibility in the training
provided:
(a)   by adapting course content;
(b)   by creating courses leading to diplomas, in which enterprises can enroll
their employees and management staff;
(c)   by combining training and work schemes in Management, which offer the
following advantages: (i) security for the enterprise that it will retain its
employee while training him; (ii) security for the employee who keeps his
job while being trained at his employer's expense; (iii) assurance for
INSCAE that the training fees will be paid;
(d)   by introducing a fourth year in Administration, and developing
short-duration (inter or intra-enterprise) training courses at the level of the
Department of Advanced Business Training, with a view to preparing for
and ensuring INSCAE's financial autonomy.
17.   Finally, the following points should be emphasized:
(a)   the development of INSCAE's relations with a network of Canadian and
French teachers, through mission members who are sent to Madagascar;
(b)   the positive impact of INSCAE graduates in the management field in
Madagascar: many of them, especially graduates of the management sub-
component, are presently employed in production or service enterprises at
various levels of management, or else are working as promoters, business
developers and owner-managers.
EVALUATION OF THE PROJECT CONTENT AND OF ITS
IMPLEMENTATION, FUNCTIONING, COST AND RESULTS - PROSPECTS
FOR INSCAE
18.   The results of the INSCAE project are clearly positive with respect to the
objectives that were set. Notwithstanding this, there are a few comments:
(a)   Content of the project, its implementation, functioning and cost: Out
of the credit of SDR 9.5 million, SDR 3.7 million was canceled. This
saving originated from several factors:
(i)   the delays in starting up the project;
(ii)   the Ordinance defining the accounting trade was not issued until
1993;



29                                                               Appendices
(iii)  unlike other projects, any training project requires a longer lifespan
than the training course provided, to allow for prior training of the
teachers;
(iv)  the assistance provided during implementation of the project by
CIDA, MFC and USAID, whose contributions were not included
at appraisal;
(v)   the tight control exercised by INSCAE over operating costs, in
anticipation of:
(vi)  the withdrawal of donors at the end of the project. This policy was
intended to put INSCAE in a better position to move into the self-
financing period, commencing in 1995;
(vii)  the construction of a single facility, an undertaking on which
INSCAE had pinned considerable hopes but which, ultimately,
proved to be impossible;
(viii)  the inadequacy of the counterpart funds up until the end of 1993,
which limited the volume of local procurement: INSCAE was
required to disburse before being able to obtain reimbursement;
(ix)  the cumbersome bidding and disbursement procedures, which
improved only toward the end of 1993;
(x)   the absence of budgetary decentralization in the Institute up until
the end of 1993; this was not without impact on the staffs
motivation as regards preparation and execution of the budget.
19.   The following comments need to be made regarding each of the disbursement
categories of the IDA credit:
(i)    Civil works: The amount initially included under this category was
insufficient to finance the rehabilitation of the new building rented
by INSCAE on the site of the Andolaho Iycee. Therefore, part of
the "contingency" funds provided by the Credit were allocated to
these works.
(ii)   Materials, Furniture, Vehicles, and Equipment: To consolidate
what had been accomplished and ensure the sustainability of its
activities, in 1994 the Institute purchased:
a.    new data-processing equipment (microcomputers, inverters,
software). This equipment was used to implement the
various computerization projects involving the different
administrative services (accounting, teaching, personnel,



30                                                               Appendices
stores, library) and improve computer use practice for the
students and business higher level staff
b.    modem educational equipment (video projectors,
camcorders, language laboratories) to enhance the quality
and effectiveness of the different programs provided;
c.    reprographic equipment, essential for the activities of the
Studies and Advanced Business training departments;
In light of these acquisitions, combined with the renewal of the vehicle fleet, the reason for
the discrepancy between the original allocations under this category and expenditures will
be readily apparent.
(iii)   Consultants-Fellowships-Training: The saving realized under
this category corresponds approximately to the assistance
provided, during the project implementation, by CIDA, MFC and
USAID. Moreover, because there was no guarantee of long-term
World Bank financing, the Institute has not been sending fellows
since 1992. Only short-duration courses have been organized.
(iv)   Professional services: Under this category credit funds have been
fully utilized, as expected.
(v)   Operating costs: The saving shown is essentially due to a certain
"austerity policy" applied in view of the construction of a single
facility and to provide for the period when INSCAE would become
self-sufficient.
(b)   Future prospects of INSCAE.
INSCAE's accomplishments and outputs are significant, in terms of
a.    academic results (graduates, placement rate, enrollments
rate);
b.    qualified teaching staff,
c.    improved administrative management (computerization);
d.    procurement of efficient instructional equipment (computer
center, audiovisuals, language laboratory, textbooks);
e.    the appreciation of INSCAE training by enterprises as
demonsti ated through:
- promotions plus salary increases for graduates;



31                                                              Appendices
- requests to INSCAE for training;
- offers of training courses and employment directly addressed to
INSCAE.
As a result, INSCAE is now in a position to:
f.    maintain its status as a leading management school thanks to
the consistent excellence of its training, at national and
international levels;
g.    ensure its financial independence by increasing its own
resources;
h.    promote national and regional enterprises through the
training of management-level staff;
i.    contribute thereby to the development of the national and
regional economy.
EVALUATION OF THE BORROWER'S AND OF THE WORLD BANK'S
PERFORMANCE
20.   It can be stated that overall the INSCAE project was a success in term of both its
identification and preparation as well as implementation, in spite of some weaknesses
regarding:
21.   Disbursements: The problems were due to: (a) savings effected at management
level (cf. II); (b) administrative procedures linked to competitive bidding and to the non-
continuity of the credit after 1992; and (c) the lack of systematic monitoring of the
project by the World Bank Resident mission, except after the end of 1994.
22.   Regrouping of INSCAE sites: A project for the financing of a new construction
was set up in 1992 with the World Bank following the purchase of a site by INSCAE (the
site was located at Nanisana and architectural plans were completed in 1992).
Unfortunately, this project was abandoned by the World Bank in spite of some
recommendations made in its aide-memoires.
THE INSCAE PROJECT AFTER THE CLOSING OF CREDIT 1661-MAG
23.   After the final closing of Credit 1661-MAG on December 31, 1994, INSCAE,
concerned with development and sustainability, is submitting this year (1995), under a
four-year financing plan, a balanced budget --taking account of reasonable State-
supported subsidies and of steady support from donors other than the World Bank-- and a



32                                                                Appendices
program of instnictional activities, maintained at their level of excellence. The financing
table indicates: (a) projections of expenditures to be committed by the Institute in the
context of its activities; (b) the projected revenues it expects from its activities; (c) a
surplus or a financing need for each coming year; and (d) the external financing sources
that the Institute could explore to cover its expenses.
24.   The comparative figures of 1994 have been used for this plan, which has been
developed under the following assumptions: (a) PREFTEC will finance the technical
assistance for the Centre de Preparation a l'Expertise Comptable from 1996 to 1997; (b)
the Mission Francaise de Cooperation et d'Action Culturelle will fund annually, up to
1 999, four annual individual teaching missions and two fellowships; (c) regarding fees, a
10% increase every two years is envisaged up to 1999; (d) the rate of revenue increase is
10% per year for the Advanced Business Training Department and 20% for the various
centers.
25.   If the State and donors would subsidize its activities according to the projected
financing plan, the sustainability of INSCAE would be assured. This action plan for the
Institute's activities is justified by the steadily growing confidence of Malagasy enterprises
and of the State in INSCAE training, reflected in: (a) its high enrollment rate; (b) high
demand for training; (c) employment offers for graduates; (d) appreciation of INSCAE
training as evidenced by promotions and salary increases for graduates; (e) the confidence
of INSCAE's donors (PREFTEC, COI, USAID, CIDA) in light of its results; (f)
INSCAE's self-confidence; and (g) the trust of the Malagasy State in INSCAE s
enterprises and for the development of the national economy.
GENERAL CONCLUSION
26.   Following closing of IDA Credit 1661 -MAG and with the assistance of its other
partners, INSCAE will therefore continue to play its role of providing training and
advanced training in business management and accounting in order to promote the
development of national enterprises and the Malagasy economy.
27.   It will, however, have to deploy even greater efforts in order to retain the
confidence of its partners and of the users of its outputs, with a view to managing more
efficiently its activities and thus ensuring their sustainability.
Such efforts should include:
(i)    maintaining the excellence of its training:
(ii)   constant upgrading of the knowledge of its teaching staff (short and
long-duration training courses),
(iii)   maintenance and renewal of its equipment and facilities;
(iv)   strengthening of its research activities;



33                                                                      Appendices
(v)    adapting the content of its training to market needs (creation of
adapted training modules, e.g. business creation); and
(vi)   finalizing the accounting expertise;



34                                                             Appendices
COMPLETION REPORT
by the Direction Generale de l'Inspection Generale de l'Etat
on the procurement component
28.   The document focuses only on the two sub-components for which the Direction
Generale de l'Inspection Generale de l'Etat was responsible, identified hereinafter as: (a)
Sub-component I, relating to improving contract award and procedures; (b) Sub-
component n, relating to the improvement of monitoring procedures for contract award
and procedures.
EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES AND EXTENT OF THEIR IMPLEMENTATION
Sub-component I
29.   The main objectives of Sub-Component I were: on the one hand, to improve
procurement procedures; on the other hand, the training and/or improvement of the
performance of ministries and public entities and their staff for procurement.
30.   Concerning the first objective, the studies carried out led to the elaboration of new
procedures (decree no.91-056) developed within the framework of a consultancy dialogue
between the Association and Malagasy officials. However, the respective views of the
parties were not convergent on a few points, mainly: preselection procedure,
presentation of submission envelopes, procedure of bid opening, mode of intervention by
the Commission Centrale des Marches, visa and approval procedure, preparation of
standard documents.
31.   As for the second objective, the training sessions and/or advanced training included
respectively: (a) 21 participants for 2 sessions concerning the training of trainers; (b) 567
participants for 28 sessions of training in contract awards.
Sub-component I
32.   The sub-component II aimed at improving control over contract award and
execution.
33.   The expected results are likely to be reached thanks to:
(a)   the experience gained by the 3 employees of CCM of a fellowship abroad
and by the 28 others trained locally by a foreign expert;
(b)   the use of a manual of control procedure prepared with the assistance of
another foreign expert.



35                                                             Appendices
CONTENT EVALUATION OF SUB-COMPONENTS I AND 1I
Sub-component I
34.   This sub-component I included: (a) technical assistance for the organization, a
study of procedures and training; (b) study trips abroad, and (c) various purchases of
equipment.
35.   It is unfortunate that the Cellule des Marches, beneficiary of assistance in
organization, has been operational only for a short time due to the political events of
1991/1992, at least at the central level.
Sub-component II
36.   This sub-component II included: (a) technical assistance in organization and
training; (b) a study trip abroad, and (c) various purchases of equipment.
37.   There are no comments on the implementation of this sub-component.
EVALUATION OF THE BORROWER AND OF THE WORLD BANK PERFORMANCE
Sub-component I38. Although the new procedure finally adopted was not entirely
satisfactory to the World Bank, the Borrower fully completed its task.
39.   The political events of 1991/1992 and government's decisions made at that time
have unfortunately ruined the efforts undertaken due to the replacement of the
Commission Centrale des Marches with the Commission ad hoc des Marches (which was
to be temporary but managed to stay in place for almost 3 years), and the interruption of
training and advanced training.
40.   From the Borrower's point of view, the World Bank seemed to have applied the
law of "everything or nothing", resenting that some of its recommendations had not been
followed.
Sub-component II
41.   All tasks assigned to the Borrower have been completed.
42.   On the World Bank side, some changes in procedures have somewhat disconcerted
the Borrower (i.e. a single contract award for procurement of all services related to sub-
component I; separate contracts for technical assistance on the one hand and for
equipment purchases on the other hand in the case of sub-component II).



36                                                             Appendices
ACTION PLAN FOR THE FOLLOW-UP OF THE BENEFICIARY SERVICE'S ACTIVITIES
AFTER CLOSING THE CREDIT 166 1-MAG.
43.   Apart from the achievements realized with the World Bank financing, the action
plan of the beneficiary service should take into account a recent amendment to the
procedure decided by the Government (decree no.94-624 of September 28, 1994
published in the Journal Officiel of February 20, 1995).
44.   Deprived of any role within the Commission Centrale des Marchds, the Direction
G6nerale de l'Inspection Generale de l'Etat will focus from now on, on the one hand, on
the operation of the Cellule des Marches; on the other hand, on the control aposteriori of
contract awards and their execution (which could be made systematic if affordable).
45.   The benefits gained from the Project financed by Credit 166 1-MAG will enable the
Direction Generale de l'Inspection Generale de l'Etat to comply easily with these tasks.
46.   Concerning the procurement award procedures, the Direction Generale intends to
propose an overhaul in the light of the experience gained by the three most recent
fellowships organized abroad.






:



