CREDIT NUMBER 1661 HAG
OFFICIAL
DOCUMENT9
Development Credit Agreement
(Accounting and Management Training Project)
between
DEMDCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                  L    \        1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1661 MAG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                           , 1986, between
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR (the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from the French
Republic a contribution (the French Contribution) to assist in
financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (the French Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Republic of France; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Ak :eement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association dated January 1, 1985
with the second sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise -equires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following terms have the
following meanings:
(a) "INSCA" means the Institut National des Sciences,
de la Comptabilitt et de l'Administration d'Entreprises to be
established by the Borrower pursuant to Section 6.01 (a) of this
Agreement; and
(b) "CCM" means the Commission Centrale des March6s of the
Borrower.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to nine million five hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 9,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule I to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1992 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without re-
strictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.


﻿-3-
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each Tear.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 1
and October 1 commencing April 1, 1996, and ending October 1,
2035. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on October 1, 2005 shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out, through INSCA
under the tutelle of the ministry responsible for finance,
Part A of   the Project and, through CCM, Part B of the Project;
both with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, educational, financial, accounting
and auditing practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. By September 30 of each year of execution of
the Project, the Borrower shall submit to the Association for
approval an annual training program to be carried out during the
following year under Part B.2 of the Project.
Section 3.04. By December 31, 1987, the Borrower shall enact
a new accounting legislation.


﻿-4-
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures
to ensure that INSCA shall, at all times, have at its disposition
adequate premises for carrying out of its responsibilities.
Section 3.06. Any change of the legal arrangements for INSCA
referred to in Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement shall be sub-
ject to prior approval by the Association.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall, during execution of
the Project and thereafter, take all measures necessary, or shall
cause INSCA to take all measures necessary, to ensure that the
students enrolled in the evening accounting courses and the
students enrolled in the management training program, or the
sponsors of any such student, shall pay a tuition fee adequate to
cover the total cost of salaries of teachers for any such program
but exclusive of the salaries of technical assistants.
(b) By June 30, 1987 the Borrower shall submit to the Asso-
ciation for review a proposal on the feasibility of the introduc-
tion of tuition fees to be paid by the students enrolled in the
day time accounting program of INSCA.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain through INSCA
and CCM separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the accounts of INSCA referred to in para-
graph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and


﻿5 -
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said accounts and the audit thereof
and said records as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
(c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph   (a) of    this  Se:tion, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the comple-
tion of the audit for the fiscal year in which the
last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii) enable    the   Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that the accounts of INSCA are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such accounts, a separate opinion by
said auditors as to whether the proceeds of the
Credit withdrawn in respect of such expenditures
were used for the purposes for which they were
provided.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. (a) Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
namely, that subject to paragraph (b) of this Section, the right
of the Borrower to benefit from the French Contribution made to
the Borrower for the financing of part of the Project shall have
been suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the French Agreement.


﻿-6-
(b) Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(1) such suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by
the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement; and (2) adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and condi-
tions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) INSCA has been established by the Borrower under legal
arrangements satisfactory to the Association, a board of direc-
tors and a pedagogical committee have been appointed for INSCA,
the composition of both to be acceptable to the Association;
(b) the Borrower has made available to INSCA adequate
premises for the carrying ou# of Part A of the Project.
(c) the Borrower has submitted to the Association a techni-
cal assistance program for INSCA and an implementation schedule
therefor, both to be acceptable to the Association; and
(d) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
French  Contribution, other    than  the  effectiveness  of  this
agreement, have been fullfilled.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date
of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Sec-
tion 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister responsible for Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿-7-
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere aupres de la Presidence
de la Republique Charge des
Finances et de l'Economie
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINFINPLAN                          22339
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
By
Athorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Isl          "
Regional Vice President
Eastern and Southern Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Civil works               165,000          90%
(2)  Construction              920,000           100% of foreign
materials;                                  expenditures or
furniture,                                  90% of local ex-
equipment and                              penditures for
vehicles                                    items procured
locally
(3) Consultants'             4,860,000          100%
services,
fellowships
and training
(4) Professional                20,000          100% of foreign
services                                   expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(5)  Operating               2,290,000          80% up to an
costs                                       aggregate amount
of SDR 760,000
60% up to an
aggregate amount
of SDR 1,520,000
and 40% there-
after
(6) Unallocated              1,245,000
TOTAL              9,500,000


﻿- 10 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to upgrade the level of
expertise of accountants, auditors and managers so as to improve
the management planning and financial control of enterprises in
Madagascar and to improve the procurement procedures of the
Borrower.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
1.   Establishment and operation of an accounting and management
training institution (INSCA) in Antananarivo which shall
absorb the activities of the Centre de Formation en Comp-
tabilit6.
2.   Adaptation and extension of facilities for INSCA and equip-
ping of, inter alia, classrooms, seminar and laboratory
rooms, a library and administration and teachers' offices;
acquisition of furniture, equipment and vehicles therefor.
3.   Staffing of INSCA and training of, including provision of
fellowships for, teachers and selected personnel.
Part B
1.   Provision of technical assistance and equipment for the
establishment of a unit attached to CCM.
2.   Training of staff of public agencies in procurement proce-
dures.
3.   Assistance of public agencies in procurement.
4.   Gathering of statistical data on procurement and analysis
thereof.


﻿- 12 -
5.   Preparation of recommendations for the improvement of pro-
curement regulations and procedures.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1992.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the pro-
cedures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in
Madagascar may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56
of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for furniture, equipment and vehicles, estimated
to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 after grouping into
bid packages, and contracts for civil works, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of the Borrower's competi-
tive bidding procedures set forth in the Borrower's Decree 70-089
of January 28, 1970, provided, however, that:
(a) registration of bidders in the Registry of Commerce
shall not be required for the acceptance of their bids;
(b) no procurement shall be made on the basis of selected
tendering or direct contracting except in the case of rejection
of all bids;
(c) bids shall be opened in public, i.e., bidders or their
representatives should be allowed to be present; and
(d) no special preference will be given to local bidders in
the evaluation of bids.


﻿- 14 -
2.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than 10 million
Malagasy francs and contracts for civil works estimated to cost
less than 30 million Malagasy francs may be procured directly.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants and experts in procurement
and accounting and management training whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Con-
sultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Execut-
ing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   I    L   day of
198 L.
FOR SECRETARY


